-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/starwarsgalaxiesaned/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 3,161 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Sony Online Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Jul 9, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A short while after the game's release, there's a lot of breadth to Star Wars Galaxies, but there 
 isn't a lot of depth. 

  Though massively multiplayer online role-playing games have been around for years, none to date 
 have been as highly anticipated as Star Wars Galaxies. The excitement over the game was for fairly 
 obvious reasons: The Star Wars universe seemed like it would be the perfect setting for such a 
 game, and Star Wars Galaxies promised to be more than just EverQuest in space -- it wouldn't be yet 
 another online RPG where the gameplay revolved almost exclusively around killing monsters and gaining 
 levels, but would instead offer numerous interesting non-combat-oriented player professions. At 
 any rate, Galaxies is finally here, and it's not the life-changing event that some prospective 
 players convinced themselves it would be. It actually fits squarely into the mold of numerous other 
 games of this type, only it looks better, features authentic Star Wars creatures and characters, 
 and has a number of interface enhancements not found in previous online RPGs. In the wake of the 
 game's release, a number of key features are still in development (namely, player-driven cities, 
 mounts, and vehicles) , and the existing game content isn't all that much different or better than 
 what's available in other, similar games. Then again, Star Wars Galaxies does have Star Wars going 
 for it.  

          The best thing about Star Wars Galaxies is that it features instantly recognizable characters 
 and places from the Star Wars universe.     

  Star Wars Galaxies lets you create a character by choosing from male or female versions of eight 
 different Star Wars races, including humans and wookiees, as well as the fish-faced mon calamari, 
 the bug-eyed rodians, and more. Typically, your choice of race affects your character's proficiencies -- for 
 example, wookiees are very strong, while mon calamari are smarter than average -- but in practice, 
 your choice of race is mostly superficial. When creating your character, you have a lot of control 
 over the shape of his or her face, and you can also adjust his or her body type, so you can make 
 a rather distinctive-looking character -- and that's a big part of Star Wars Galaxies' appeal. The 
 game prevents you from naming your character after anyone from the Star Wars canon, though you 
 should still expect to see many in-game wookiees with names played off Chewbacca and in-game rodians 
 with names played off Greedo, and so forth.  

  The most important part of the character creation process is choosing your starting profession, 
 which is basically your character class. The selection includes the artisan, the brawler, the entertainer, 
 the marksman, the medic, and the scout. The brawler and the marksman are traditional combat-oriented 
 classes, focusing on melee and ranged combat, respectively. The medic and the entertainer are functionally 
 equivalent to healers. The artisan's job revolves around crafting various objects, from weapons 
 to furniture, and the scout is a sort of adventurer/explorer capable of building traps, setting 
 up camp, and extracting resources from slain creatures.  

  These initial professions determine the core skills you'll have at your disposal (though you may 
 opt to learn other professions' novice skills as well, if you wish) . You then grow your character 
 not by gaining generic experience points like in other games, but primarily by gaining experience 
 in whichever skills are most important to your character by using those specific skills repeatedly. 
 For example, if a brawler fights unarmed, he or she will gain experience in unarmed combat. The 
 starting professions actually branch off into more than 20 different advanced professions, which 
 become available after you master any of the skill paths of the starting profession. So, when that 
 brawler gains four ranks in unarmed combat, he or she may then qualify to become a Ters Ksi 
 artist -- the Star Wars equivalent of a martial artist. Theoretically, then, there are multiple viable 
 paths for every starting profession. However, while the early going is relatively brisk for all 
 the professions, as you gain skill ranks, your advancement will slow to a crawl. You can expect 
 to spend many dozens of hours repeating the same types of actions over and over before you can 
 reach the advanced classes, especially the advanced hybrid classes, which require mastery of several 
 professions' core skills.  

          At first it can be amusing to see things like a mon calamari playing a slitherhorn, but 
 Galaxies is a very time-consuming game, so the novelty does fade.     

  Star Wars Galaxies was designed to make all the starting professions essential to the game, basically 
 because brawlers, marksmen, and scouts -- the obvious starting choices for many players -- need medics, 
 entertainers, and artisans to heal them and make them better weapons and armor. None of the professions 
 is entirely self-sufficient, so this forces players to interact. The system of gaining experience 
 in the specific skill you're using also makes a lot of sense -- in other games, a character who wishes 
 to become a master craftsman might still need to go out of his or her way to kill a bunch of monsters, 
 whereas here, artisans, entertainers, and medics can ply their trades and improve their skills 
 far from danger.  

  The problem is these non-combat-oriented classes can be really quite boring to play, particularly 
 the entertainer and the medic. For example, an entertainer's purpose in Star Wars Galaxies is to 
 cure fighting classes of their battle fatigue and their mental weariness, which are essentially 
 gameplay contrivances that force characters to head back to town after they've been out fighting 
 for a while. Entertainers do this literally by breaking into song or dance at a cantina or a theater. 
 The character begins dancing or playing a musical instrument, and the player may perform various 
 flourishes that cost stamina but give you a bit more experience. The entertainer gains experience 
 faster if more people are actively watching or listening to him or her.     

  It's certainly possible that someone could really get into role-playing as an entertainer, and 
 maybe try to start a band with other like-minded players. Star Wars Galaxies tries hard to bring 
 you face-to-face with other players, and it includes a system that helps you find players with 
 similar interests. But the gameplay itself -- not just for entertainers but for most of the professions -- is 
 repetitive, time-consuming, and often simply unexciting. That's partly because, even though a character 
 can theoretically have skills from other professions, improving your character in just one set 
 of skills is so time-consuming that you'll likely feel confined to focusing your character's development 
 on one area at a time.  

          As with most online RPGs, your best bet to have a good time playing Galaxies is to make 
 some friends.     

  In most online RPGs, characters have hit points that represent how much damage they can soak up 
 before they die, magic points that represent how many spells they can cast before they have to 
 recharge their batteries, and maybe stamina points that represent how long they can sprint or use 
 other special physical abilities. Galaxies complicates the formula by expanding each of these conventional 
 metrics into three separate meters, for a grand total of nine different meters you need to worry 
 about.  

  The three sets of meters do roughly correspond to your health, your mental ability, and your stamina -- only, 
 for each category, you have a statistic for how quickly you regenerate your energy in that category 
 and a statistic for how rapidly you drain points from that category when you use certain special 
 abilities. Galaxies ultimately ties all this into your physical condition by including a location-based 
 damage system, whereby strikes to your head affect your mental pool, strikes to your legs affect 
 your stamina (or "action," as it's called here) , and strikes to your arms or body affect your health. 
 If any of the pools is depleted, you'll be knocked unconscious and will be vulnerable to being 
 killed (though not permanently) . Experienced fighters may therefore attack their enemies' most 
 vulnerable parts to bring them down as quickly as possible.  

  The catch is that using special abilities also drains these pools. So, if a marksman wants to use 
 a special shot of some sort, it will drain his or her action pool, in much the same way as a womp 
 rat bite to the leg would. Therefore, each time you use your character's special abilities in Star 
 Wars Galaxies, you get closer to death's door. Furthermore, you can sometimes sustain semi-permanent 
 wounds to one of your nine attributes, slightly reducing your maximum point total for that category. 
 Over time, such wounds can noticeably impact your character's abilities, so you'll often need to 
 find a medic to heal your wounds, much like how you'd look for an entertainer to cure your battle 
 fatigue. When you die in Galaxies, you sustain heavy wounds to all your attributes, which basically 
 forces you to sit tight in an infirmary for a while while medics heal you back up. You aren't punished 
 with an experience loss, but you end up losing a bunch of valuable time, and will probably need 
 to trudge back to your corpse unless you paid to have your belongings insured. All this stuff about 
 the nine attributes, which the manual calls the HAM system (health, action, mind) , is convoluted 
 and doesn't really improve on the conventions of the genre, and instead simply forces fighting 
 characters -- and medics -- to worry about three different types of hit point meters instead of just 
 one.  

          There are six starting professions, but 30 different professions in all.     

  It's 
 easy to get into the combat in Star Wars Galaxies. Fighting characters need only venture a few 
 meters out of any of the numerous starting locations on the various starting planets before they'll 
 come across all sorts of critters that can be killed for experience points. Transitions from towns 
 into wilderness are handled seamlessly -- loading times occur only between major areas, such as if 
 you take a shuttle to another planet. The combat looks more action-packed than the combat of most 
 other online RPGs, which is great. Melee characters dance about in fighting stances and perform 
 a few different types of attacks, rather than just one attack animation over and over. Marksmen 
 let loose with a flurry of Star Wars energy bolts each time they attack, and they can keep firing 
 away while an opponent is giving chase. Marksmen can also fire while crouching or prone, which 
 improves their accuracy, though terrain features such as shooting from behind cover or from a raised 
 position unfortunately have no effect.  

  As in Dark Age of Camelot, Galaxies' fighting characters have access to various special abilities 
 that deal more damage or hinder their enemies' abilities in some way, and they gain new abilities 
 as they improve their skills. Individual characters or groups can take on randomized, cookie-cutter 
 missions that involve either delivering an item or destroying a monster-generating object of some 
 sort. These missions, repetitive as they are, are the best way to earn money, and can make for 
 some relatively entertaining hack-and-slash adventures. But ultimately, the game's combat isn't 
 really any better than what's been seen in numerous other games of this nature. So the gameplay 
 of the fighting professions can be just as repetitive and uneventful as that of the non-fighting 
 professions, though there's inherently more excitement to be found in slugging it out with Jabba 
 the Hutt's goons, for example, than in dancing at the cantina or making your hundredth survival 
 knife. Then again, in Galaxies, skilled artisans can make objects of superior quality and then 
 name their creations, so this type of work is more appealing in Galaxies -- and more complex, since 
 you need to survey for and dig up the resources that you need -- than in many other online RPGs. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (322 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jedi_Jettson_21
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This is game still fun. It may have a lack of quest, but it is multiplayer online game. If you 
 like star Wars Galaxies, play it all you want. It is not that bad of Multiplayer online game! There 
 are many items you get to have in this game. Sure the character graphics don't completely look 
 like realistic characters, but it is good to make your own story in your own multiplayer game. 
 Star Wars is really awesome. How can all of you critics despise this game? Seriously, it is not 
 that bad. You get to make your own characters and learn new stuff of Star Wars that are referenced 
 from the movies, and other Star Wars games and it gets really fun. The game is also cool. Besides, 
 this movie gets alot of money and is very popular. If you don't like this game, you can disagree 
 with me, but listen to the good reviews. If you like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fully customizable character creation, Choose from a whole verity of careers, easy learning 
 curve, space stations, space battles, exploration.
  
  The Bad: No story, very repetitive, poor quest/mission design, choppy graphics.
  
  If your 
 a huge Star Wars fan there is a great chance you'll enjoy it but otherwise there's not really much 
 to Star Wars: Galaxies. When I first played I was having fun with the Prologue but when that ended 
 and I first landed on Tatooine through the airlock the fun went. They were on a role at the beginning 
 of Galaxies why did they stop there? I'm surprised they didn't do a graphical overhaul yet because 
 this is the most choppiest looking graphics I've ever scene in a MMO. Just because I gave Galaxies 
 a 5.5 doesn't mean it's all bad, I love the fully customizable character creation there are a lot 
 of options to choose from to make your Star Wars character unique, I have a lot of fun playing 
 in space. What do they expect you to be a rocket scientist when it comes to Quests and missions? 
 The quests and or missions are just simply to complicated to complete but are completable. A must 
 for Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaship
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is a MMO where you recognize everything and everyone no matter who you are. 
 You may not recognize all the species and places if your not a huge star wars fan but you'll definitely 
 get used to everything. In the beginning you'll go through tutorials of how to go through the basics, 
 then when you finally land down to the real galaxy you'll find that there is lots to do. Although 
 there isn't much to do besides leveling in the beginning, most of the good stuff happens when you 
 reach the maximium level of 90. You can group with players to do stuff like killing bosses that 
 you see in the movies or help another player with a hard quest. This game has both space combat 
 and ground combat. It also has unique features that not a lot of other MMO's have. Some of them 
 is player housing and cities. There is also a storyteller system where you can create your own 
 events. You can make your pet and the crafting system is great. Okay even though there has been 
 lots of changes like the Pre-CU and NGE. The game has gotten A LOT better if your one of those 
 old veterans that quit. Many new things have been added and it's a lot more fun. The combat is 
 real-time action so you can press buttons and attack instead of waiting your turn to attack or 
 just watch your character attack and wait a while. There are a lot of different unique professions 
 that have there own advantages and disadvantages ( Except Jedi, there a complete different story 
 ) The game has more than enough quests to level a character to it's max level. There are collections, 
 events, and cool items so that there is always something to do. It's also fun to talk since there 
 is a search feature to look for players and you can add people to the friends list ( Or ignore 
 list )
  
  Overall the game is pretty fun but theres pretty much limited things to do if not a lot of people 
 online : (
  
  I can honestly say the game has gotten better than 3 years ago.
  
  So SOE, messed up. The game is still good and the game has been fixed in a way. The new heroic 
 instances and events like Life Day and Hoth are still amazing. There are these things called chapters 
 that SOE puts into the game about every 4 months. The chapters are like mini-expansions, even though 
 a expansion has never been released for a while. Paying $15 a month for the game isn't that bad 
 and there even is a Trading Card game for SWG. This is Star Wars and there is no other Star Wars 
 MMO out there. Plus the graphics still look good after all these years :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Starwars Galaxies is one of the most addictive MMO's out there. What other game (besides WOW) makes 
 you wanna hybernate in doors in favor of rearranging your house. That's one of the best parts of 
 the game. Displaying all your hard work in the form of rare collectables such as a holograhm Boba 
 Fett, or a rare decoration rug in the symbol of your chosen side (Rebels, Imperials) . All of your 
 stuff can be deisplayed in your own personal house, and you can upgrade to different houses with 
 differant floor plans. This aspect of the game is almost a game in itself with all the possibilities, 
 and I wish more MMO's would include the personal aspect of a game like this. 
  
  The gameplay is deep, but not too chalenging. The tuitorial helps noobs with a moderatley difficult 
 learning curve. 
  
  Space offers other adventures where ships become upgradable as well. The differant professions 
 are fun to explore, and there isn't really a domminant one above all as there was previously (Jedi) . 
 If you decide to try SWG then prepare to spend alot of time on the computer and kiss your personal 
 life goodbye. Great game and cure for that painfull relationship breakup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twikee86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I, personally was quite excited about this game coming out, and I was not at all disappointed when 
 I finally played it. It is a solid MMORPG, but with less RPG and more MMO.
  For people who are not fans of Star Wars, this game will most likely not tickle your fancy. But 
 for those fans out there, this is one game thats worth all the money to play. Just to be able to 
 experience the entire Star Wars galaxy as its whole is worth the money.
  Star Wars Galaxies has many things going for it. Its a massive game, with tons of stuff to see 
 and do. The world is shaped by the players- You can create towns, houses, and outposts. Join either 
 the rebels or the imperials in a never ending battle. Experience famous characters from the movie 
 and do an immense amount of quests. 
  As good of a game it is, there are some cons. There isn't much depth to it, the quests are broken 
 and do not string together too much. Its up to you, pretty much to make your own entertainment. 
 Once the update came out, the leveling system was not as good, and a lot of people stopped playing.
 
  Nevertheless though, SWG is still a great game, even now. And i dunno about you, but I'm looking 
 forward to that KOTOR MMO :D. But for now SWG will have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patchy09
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I have no doubt in my mind that Star Wars Galaxies was the best game EVER made. It was definately 
 the best MMO-RPG. From the fact that you could be anything you wanted, like a karate pistol dude, 
 or a polearms and musician, or even a doctor, it was great at the start. Tj=here were so many varieties 
 of things to be, You could have a pet rancor or like what I did, get little wamp rats and sell 
 them to noobs so they had a pet. THe pet system was ten times better then WoW because you could 
 mount almost every pet. THe combat was cool because you could do cool moves and if you had a gun 
 you could go prone and sneak uyp on your target. Once Jump To Lightspeed came out it only got better. 
 Now you could fly around in a Tie Fighter or cruise in your space yacht, which you could decorate 
 with things. THe housing system was cool to. Even the guilds were cooler than WoW because guilds 
 could make there own town! With all this positive thing about the game it is hard to believe it 
 has such a bad score right? THat is because of the bastards at Sony. They added in something called 
 the combat mod which ruined it all. It made you choose your class at the very beginning, it made 
 everything harder to do, it added in levels. It made it just like every other piece of crap MMO-RPG 
 out there. In the end, it just isn't worth the $20 to buy the new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halowinter91
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive, innovative, immersive, just plain fun, worth playing (for hours on end) , Underappreciated, 
 Rocks, masterpiece, amazing. Just a few ways to describe this game.
  
  I downloaded the 14 day trial, not too long ago. But, I have played this game before, a few years 
 ago, at my friends house. It took a little time to get used to the controls, and for my computer 
 to get used to the game considering it was in the shop for a few weeks.
  I was a little nervous as I was about to play the game, after hearing all of the flaming in other 
 reviews and comments, saying that after SONY ONLINE took over, the game just flat out sucked.
 
  I grabbed my mouse in anticapation, almost falling out of my seat when I saw the title STAR WARS 
 fill up my screen with that classic intro soundtrack.
  
  I played the game for the longest I had ever played any game in one sitting. I stayed up all night 
 long, and did not go to sleep.
  I chose the bounty hunter profession, being me I like my moneys. You want a job done. How much 
 does it pay?
  
  As I continued to play them game, I began to wonder... Why do so many people say that this game 
 sucks, or that it's dead?
  I ran through Mos Eisly Space Port seeing alot of people wondering around, doing whatever they 
 were doing. So, the game couldnt have been dead. And the gameplay was perfect. It was epic. My 
 soul was being funneld into my computer screen. I started the game at 10 p. m. and didnt look away 
 until 4 in the morning.
  
  The only thing I do not like though, is that everyone, their mothers and their pet Gold fish are 
 running around as Jedi's or Sith. I have seen a few commando's though and entertainers. But, I 
 think I am the only trader (on my other character) in the entire galaxy. ? I'm guessing the economy 
 realy sucks in that galaxy, considering there is no one to run the business'.
  
  
  Anyways, what I am trying to say, is that the game is just wonderful. Alot of fun. I really think 
 this game just gets a bunch of grief from alot of people, for stupid little reasons. If your mad 
 that everyone is a jedi like you, then there is something wrong with you. It is only a game. Go 
 try something different. Go get some fresh air. :P
  But, to all of the new people who have been looking into this game, but are too afraid of playing 
 it, dont be. Download the trial from here, Gamespot, and see if it is really the game for you.
 
  
  It is alot of fun, and all that you would expect from a galaxy far far away... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakeatmind
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  now i have been playing this game for a while. and i love it, however i started as a star wars 
 a=fan already, so i was bound to like pretty no matter what. none the less i do find the pros and 
 cons of this game (mostly pros) 
  
  Before i start, in order to fully appreciate this game it would help to be a star was fan to begin 
 with, like me. but could be enjoyed by all parties.
  
  Pros: 
  -fun to be what ever profession there is in star wars.
  -makes you feel like a star wars character.
 
  -fun leveling up.
  -get to see all the characters you know and love.
  -big gigantic places to explore.
  -fun with a friend.
  
  Cons: 
  -some missions are repetitive, 
 Kill this guy (s) and collect this item (s)
  -sometimes hard and frustrating leveling up.
  -not the funnest game to get into when not a star wars fan or know nothing about "star wars"
 
  
  If you really get into it it gets really fun, however time consuming, its very fun non the less.
 
  
  a good mmo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  So, MMORPG's. You've got World Of Warcraft. Imagine the whole of World Of Warcraft, times it by 
 about 11 or 12 and that is how much LAND you can explore in Galaxies. Then you have Space, with 
 over 30 custimisable ships including X-Wings and TIE Fighters. THEN you have the different races 
 icluding Wookies, Trandoshans and Zabrak (The best races) and the different prfessions including 
 Jedi, Bounty Hunter, Commando and Spy (The Best Professions) . Now, SWG is not completely combat-oriented 
 like other MMORPG's. There are 3 non-combat professions:
  Entertainer: 
  Dance to earn money and experience. Very fun. Best non-combat prof.
  
  Trader:
  Choose from 
 4 different types of trader which determines what you can build including structures and domestics (food 
 and clothing etc.)
  
  Medic:
  Probably the least fun prof., but one of the most useful. Heal your allies and give them buffs 
 (which increase their combat, defence, etc.)
  
  So finally I would like to say that I wrote this review and I only have a trial account. So I do 
 not even know the possiblities which are described as endless on this brilliant, brilliant game. 
 This is my favourite game in the history of video games (Thief: Deadly Shadows is 2nd) I would 
 love to recommend this game to anyone!
  
  PS If you play on the Flurry Galaxy, message me. My character is called Achaca Monnert (Lvl 13 
 Jedi) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AltimitKnives
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  -This rating is my opinion-
  
  A game that if developed further could have perhaps rivaled WoW, That is, If they didn't scrap 
 the good build and try to make new ones, worse ones.
  
  - Empire Divided   Jump to Light speed. (9.2)
  When the game was in its prime, in my opinion. 
 More class combinations and class customizing options then any other MMO out there, And I'd take 
 Dizzy Knockdown spammers to the current pool of TPS players.
  
  - Rage of the Wookies   "NGE." (New Game Experience) (7.6)
  Here I'm counting Rage of the Wookies 
 as the first revamp of the game they produced, When most of the game began its descent into suck. 
 But this build was indeed Bearable and I may have kept playing personally. It still had potential.
 
  
  - NGE   Current. (4.8)
  The game has become a horrid TPS at this point, and not the game I originally began playing, and 
 enjoyed as much as I did. I would not recommend this game to any of my friends in its current state, 
 due to most of the good Devs abandoning it, and the lack variety and 'Originality' that an MMO 
 should have; instead of trying to rely on the origin of its creation to hold it up.
  
  
  Terms:
  TPS: Third Person Shooter
  MMO: Massively Multi-Player Online (Game)
  Devs: Developers
 
  WoW: World of Warcraft
  
  
  - Altimit//: Knives 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi-wanna-be
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  its a great blend of MMO with star wars, you can play as 9 different proffesions: jedi, bounty 
 hunter, entertainer, commando, spy , smuggler, medic, officer, and trader. I personaly like jedi 
 best though. you can fight in space, you can talk to other players, and say what you want, ( but 
 there is a profanity cuttoff, unless you go to options and take it off) . legacy is a little annoying, 
 but once you finish it the game gets less boring, the time you start to have a little fun is at 
 lv50, about the time you finish legacy. (according to the lv difficulty on your last mission) . when 
 you finish legacy you can do instances and missions on mustafar and kasyyyk, but you need to do 
 terminal missions to level up quicker. if you are a trader, you can make different stuff, but when 
 you make a trader, you chose between 4 types of specialties in the items you craft, i cant realy 
 remember all of them though, so, moving on, as an entertainer you can dance, play music, buff people 
 (including yourself) , and do Image designs, image designs is where you change a persons hair, tatoos, 
 weight, face, chin, cheeks, jaw, muscle, skin color, eyes, basicly EVERYTHING. so, no matter what 
 proffesion you chose, you will have fun playing star wars galaxies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitasV
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is the best online game there is. It has more than any other online game and 
 is the best, better than WOW. Want proof. In WOW the entire size of the World of Warcraft is the 
 exact size of one planet in Galaxies and let me tell you there's more than one planet, you can 
 build your own house, have your own town, you can play with ten different species both male and 
 female and yes wookie, no matter what class you are you can play any mission though if you play 
 a jedi mission and your not a jedi it's gonna be hard, you can mod your ships with equipment and 
 put collours like flame decails, on land you can ride both vehicles and creatures and of course 
 go on foot but be careful, in WOW what ever species you pick you're already assigned to a faction 
 but in Galaxies you can choose to be Rebels, Imperials or just be neutral. This is the best game 
 there is. Everyone who plays WOW stop, your waisting your time. If you don't agree with me, play 
 the game and see. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebender
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game pretty much sucks. It's addictive, pointless, and it takes forever.
  Plus (for those of you who don't know) the combat, quests, and just about everything else is repetitive, 
 and leveling takes freaking forever!
  I'm a pretty big Star Wars fan, but this game is not one I recommend.
  My advice is to stay away!
 
  SWG is one of the biggest wastes of life out there. In fact, it starts wasting your life as soon 
 as you install it! It took around six freaking hours to update all it's crap, and then it wouldn't 
 even run because of the updates! That's right! I can't even play my copy, but I've played at friends 
 houses.
  
  Gameplay: 5, Tedious, check. Time-consuming, check. Addicting (not a good thing) , check. A form 
 of psychological alien warfare, check. Nah, just kidding, I'm not one of THOSE kind of Star wars 
 fanatics :)
  
  Sound: 6, pretty good sound and music. Nothing bad, nothing spectacular.
  
  Graphics: 7, It gives WOW and it's early ps2/xbox graphics a run for it's money, but in the 
 end Blizzard won the battle for gameplay.
  
  STAY AWAY! GO BUY OFFLINE GAMES! Spend more time outside!
  Anyway, that's my take on it.
  
 
  Peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Sony and lucas have made massive upgrades to the game since the mistakes they made after the CU. 
 FOr one thing they brought back the beast master skill, Smugglers are finally balanced into the 
 equation and the only part of the game that was left alone from the begininng ( and the only part 
 left playing after the CU for a while) is the space combat. They have awesome new gunships and 
 2 new space only areas that are just amazing to play ( and the Star Destroyer run is a blast everytime) 
 combine this with the player owned houses ( they cleared out the old ones so there fairly open 
 again for peoples houses) and cities with ( if you go to a server with large amounts of Roleplayers) 
 very in depth gameplay or if your not into that fun p. v. p battle and the grpahics and character 
 control this game is superb. Oh yeah and you post CU haters you gotta give it this- it was still 
 better than WoW by ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was extremely upset when SOE went through with the "NGE" (New Game Enhancements 
 update) on November 15th 2005 that completely redesigned Star Wars Galaxies. 
  
  However, in the 2+ years that have past, the game has come along way and is on the way to being 
 a good game again. Right now it's merely decent for veterans but for veterans who've been away 
 for a long time and new players, there's a lot of new stuff that's pretty good and old stuff that's 
 been revised. I wish I could list them all here, but it would take up a lot of text and time. 
 
  
  Currently there's a 14 day free trial out so I would give it chance. It's quite different than 
 a lot of other MMO's out there (like WoW) while also retaining some familiar attributes so people 
 who come from other MMO's don't have to make any drastic adjustments. 
  
  So give it a try, it's not the best MMO out there but it's certainly not the worst. Also it's doesn't 
 have the most "Star Warsy" feel to it. Don't expect to be luke or han (though you can be a jedi 
 or smuggler) and your contact with these heroes is very limited. Think of it more as living out 
 as your OWN person in the star wars universe... that's is after all the original purpose of the 
 game. 
  
  If you get stuck, simply use the official forums to find answers to any question you have about 
 quests, loot, guilds, etc (just type SWG official forums in google/yahoo.... not sure how GS feels 
 about posting links in reviews) . 
  
  Also the best and most populated servers in Galaxies atm are: Ahazi, Bria, Bloodfin, and Chimaera. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  I fought for this one for so long. I grew up dreaming of a game like this. What happened?
  
  Simply put, they tried to push the envelope too far. They tried to let you be literally ANYTHING 
 you wanted to be. And the real problem is that everyone came in this wanting to be only a few things. 
 
  
  Jedi
  Sith
  Stormtrooper
  Pilot
  Smuggler
  Bounty Hunter
  Commander
  Wookie
  Ewok
  
  Some of those things you could do. Others you had to dedicate your whole 
 life in order to do them. And still others weren't even on the menu. Pilot was the really big one, 
 and you couldn't even do this until the expansion pack which took wayyyy too long to come out. 
 The combat system was broken from the ground up, and the building system while really interesting 
 and innovative, never really came together the way one would hope.
  
  The result was a very sad game that had SOOOO much potential. Hopefully the game development heroes 
 who made KOTR will make a better one this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralCaesar25
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  I first started this game using a 14 day trial. I literally installed the game activated the trial 
 created a character and ran around on this space station for maybe 30 minutes and then turned the 
 game off and never touched it again.
  
  The first most noticeable problem is the postion of the character. See I have been playing Wold 
 of Warcraft for nearly two years now. I initial received WOW as a Christmas gift in 2005. I was 
 expecting a similar interface in Star Wars Galaxies. The character was positioned about 1/4 of 
 the screen in from the left. What the heck? Maybe you can change the characters position in the 
 options or maybe you cannot but the fact that the default was that way really bothered me. Even 
 how to equip different types of armor took me a few moments.
  
  I would not recommend this game to anyone. First, your character starts off helping Han Solo repair 
 his ship. I am sorry but that is too closely related to the original movies that I feel I cannot 
 enjoy it because it never happened in the movie. They should have based the Star Wars MMORPG on 
 KOTOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonahzg
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  oh geez, where to begin?? glitchy, boring, repetitive, and ugh- the NGE. I'll admit i once liked 
 this game, when it was pre-cu, and the cu isn't even what did it for me, it wasn't that bad, but 
 then- the NGE (New Game Enhancements) changed the playing style to a console game basically, took 
 the many many classes and dumbed em down to 9 classes, why in the world would any buisiness think 
 LESS IS BETTER!?!? this was once a great game, now it's utter glitch garbage, i hope you die slowly 
 SWG and SOE. SOE and LUCASARTS you ruined my once favorite online game, and this game has gone 
 so far downhill, notice there haven't been any expansions since the NGE came out? that's because 
 no one would buy them :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxer99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by providing a brief history, if you only want to see what I think of the game NOW, 
 skip down to the last paragraph. Having played Star Wars galaxies years ago, starting with the 
 beta, I know all about the various transitional stages the game has been through. Most people enjoyed 
 the original game when it was first released, although some promised content was lacking. This 
 content was introduced in a semi-monthly basis in the form of updates, like vehicles, dungeons, 
 and the space part of the game. The first two years of the game's release were usually considered 
 the best. Freedom of choice to mix and match a large selection of professions was very appealing 
 to a number of players. Creatures could be trained and traded freely, camps were an ever present 
 part of the landscape and exploring was more difficult, and much more rewarding. The economy was 
 in a fledgling state, which led the master level items to be very valuable commodities. This all 
 provided a level of freedom not seen by other MMORPGS. Now, you are most likely asking why this 
 history is necessary. It is crucial to know what the game was like before the developers initiated 
 the combat upgrade and NGE. The first major game change, the combat upgrade, vastly changed combat, 
 making it a bit more"twitchy" and introduced many profession and weapons changes. These changes 
 combined with the NGE, overly simplified the game. The stat bars were completely revamped, moves 
 were changed, a large portion of the professions were completely wiped away or integrated into 
 new professions and the feel of the game was much different.
  
  Scouts, creature handlers, and doctors were gone. Automated entertainers became a more present 
 sight. Many players left, and because of this cities became barren and crafted goods and resources 
 were much more difficult to acquire. The negative changes far outweighed the positive, and this 
 has led many people to view the game and SOE in a very critical way, and rightly so. Having cancelled 
 my account a few months after the NGE, I decided to give the game a second chance, see what has 
 changed. The game still feels slightly awkward due to it's NGE control scheme, though you can tweak 
 this in the UI settings to get a more old-school Galaxies feel. A vast amount of new quests, weapons, 
 armor, and faction related changes have been added, though crafted goods are still hit and miss. 
 Most quest related weapons and armor are very much superior to their crafted counterparts, making 
 some crafting professions rather useless. Jedi are a dime a dozen, and not at all in line with 
 Star Wars lore. The NGE added the Jedi as a profession, so they are a very popular choice for obvious 
 reasons. If that bothers you, I suggest you get used to it, because you'll see a lightsaber igniting 
 every few hundred feet. Creature handling has been re-implemented, though in a half-ass kind of 
 way. Everyone has access to the profession now, though you'll sacrifice other talents if you really 
 want the ability to have you own pets. The new creature handling system is a mix of bio engineering 
 and the old creature handling profession, and is very costly. Equipment to raise and feed your 
 pets is expensive, and you have to kill wild creatures to find DNA material to enhance your own 
 pet.
  
  Coming from a veteran who knows a thing or two about MMO's, this game is certainly dying. The player 
 base is rather small. Some servers are incredibly under-populated and barren. Entertaining and 
 exploring get old fast, and aren't the sociable experiences they were in the past. The graphics 
 engine is still beautiful, though it is starting to show it's age. Most of the new quests the developers 
 have introduced over the past few years are boring, and not very Star Warsy at all. The control 
 system, stat bars, and skill system all seem like they belong on a console game. My final word? 
 Take away the Star Wars name, make the game a miscellaneous sci-fi MMO with Galaxies mechanics. 
 No one would play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocko5820
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  (First I don't know what the Time Spent Playing, to date means so i chose the first option) You 
 start on a Imperial Space Station and you got captured its the tutorial etc. etc. etc. ... You 
 get to Tatooine and your doing the Legacy Missions (lvl 1-some where in the 40s) and then your 
 pretty much stuck...
  So just try the game and have fun! Bad thing is you have to pay for it but its gonna be worth it! 
 Especially if you love Star Wars. And other Star Wars games are fun 8) . And you'll make friends 
 because its a multiplayer game!
  Have fun playing it.... Rocko5820 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I loved SWG Pre CU down to the depth of the game and it was sooo ahead of it's time, it didn't 
 really copy any mmorpg on the market, more so UO but still it was unique and refreshing. What SWG 
 did was put 32 or so professions you could mix and match with 250SP to use (2.5 professions) so 
 everyone was making their own unique class in a way. Also towards to end of 2003 you could unlock 
 Jedi which took alot of months of dedication with permadeath which balanced them. However they 
 eventually got toned down to be easy to get and no permadeath and then eventually a starter class.
 
  
  What made this game so great was the fact that you had no levels and no classes and it was totally 
 skill based. Also there was things like vehicles and mounts and player cities, you'd PVP in other 
 peoples players cities aswel. It was Rebel vs Imperials and that made each fight even more important 
 because your playing for a faction you grew up with and care about.
  
  Also SWG had a full player economy where all materials were harvested from the ground using harvestors 
 and sometimes by certain professions like scout who harvested the dead animals to get all the hides 
 and stuff. The schematics to create all the goods were in a crafters skills but sometimes schematics 
 were loot. Some rare items required special ways of crafting them liek the jetpack having to craft 
 it in a dungeon with a group to protect you. Jedi also had to craft their lightsabers so they had 
 abit of crafting too, not just all for crafters. You could start up your own Mall with lots of 
 vendors from your crafted good, so it was a full player economy where no one auction house sold 
 all your stuff you looted. Everything was crafted by th eplayers and sold by the players in their 
 own homes. Onto Homes you could fully decorate them with allt he crafted furniture and items you've 
 collected over the years. Like i said you can place vendors in them and even use them as hideouts 
 or for private dueling so noone from the outside could kill you like if you were Jedi and then 
 Bounty Hunters (player profession) would be looking for you. There was player cities aswel which 
 were created by guilds as a sorta base for every players home and protection, also there was PVP 
 bases to pump out NPCs and to have fun ofcorse.
  
  The game had lots of vehicles to use for travel round the planets but there was also mounts which 
 were tamed by Creature Handlers. What a wonderful profession to have making money by going out 
 and taming creatures and making commands for the creature and mounting him and telling em to other 
 players. On top of this you had the Star Ports to travel from Planet to Planet and then shuttle 
 ports to travel from City to City.
  
  The Entertainer class was to help out players to reduce fatigue after combat and also to heal mind 
 but they were also for fun. They could play music and dance and image design players. Mainly girls 
 played this profession but it was really fun to walk into a cantina where they hung out and chated 
 and it really brought the community together.
  
  The death penalty for the game was item decay on stuff that wasn't insure in your inventory and 
 also wounds on your HAM bar, which doctors and Entertainers ahd to heal. This was a great death 
 penalty because decay meant money for crafters and a items death so your items wern't floating 
 about forever like other mmorpgs. Also it was a very social death and brought the community together.
 
  
  Jedi were a new class added at the end of 2003 for plaeyrs to unlock. However they started off 
 really hard to get and had permadeath but just ended up eing very easy to get and no permadeath, 
 so it really unbalanced them an they got made as weak as everyother profession. This eventually 
 led to seeing Jedi everywhere and everyone just used their jedi and no other profession but entertainers 
 doctors and crafter. I found this very sad because it ruined the economy and ruined PVP. I would 
 have prefered permadeath to be in and make them hard to get again so you rarely see any.
  
  The game shipped without space which many said was stupid seeing as Star Wars is about space. however 
 they added the JTLS expansion which added space but for me it was really crap and pointless, no 
 death stars or star destroyers or anything Star Wars. Also it ruined the ground game by allowing 
 you to travel from Planet to Planet really fast without the 10 min wait. You may be saying i'm 
 crazy but i loved the community and chatting to them and dueling while waiting it was part of the 
 fun.
  
  So i'll end my review here and i want to say SWG was the best and most unique mmorpg that ever 
 existed. I really wish for LA and SOE to stop being stupid and make classic servers for the game. 
 The NGE which ruined SWG was a patch that removed everything good from the game and just made it 
 really bad really buggy and just sooo poor to play. The CU was a patch before hand that added levels 
 into the game and really ruined it because it stopped you from mixing crafter with a combat profession.
 
  
  
  Please bring back pre cu SOE... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Thay made the first mistake by making this game be about jedi's, wich made a lot of players grind, 
 and stuff Jedi just sould have stayed whit perma death and no future development of jedi or the 
 path of jedi. It realy turend the game intro a grind fest instead of a real game.
  Afther that it was mostly downwards whit this game, whit the CU as its main faulth.
  
  What 
 began as the most groundbreaking MMO to hit the net in years has become one of the most despised 
 in the history of the industry. It just breaks my heart that something that was so promising from 
 the beginning has been warped and distorted into something less than average even. Of course, all 
 of this making the very utterance of the word SOE result in siezures from anyone hwo knows what 
 horrible acts they've committed against their own community of subscribers. Someone else will come 
 along and give us back what SWG took from us. They will reap the benefits that SOE starved itself 
 of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerrman
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I remember back in 2003 when this game came out, back when my parents didn't want to pay a monthly 
 fee. It took days, maybe even weeks of convincing to finally get this game. I finally got it, and 
 entered the game. It is to date, the absolute best MMO I have played. And then Sony made the worst 
 decision of their lives.
  
  This is not Star Wars: Galaxies. What ever Sony did to this once brilliant game is disgusting. 
 Don't even waste your time on this, unless 4 years ago you weren't a fan of SW and now you are.. 
 then yeah, give it a try.. but don't buy too big of a subscription just yet.
  
  Why Sony? Why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I got the game after the NGE update, So when I started it was still in the transition period. When 
 you start the game, you think that you will be wisped away into the endless adventure of starwars. 
 But after you get sstarted you find out that there are limited paths to take. proboley you will 
 end up trying to get items that are cooler than everyone else's. But the items arent as random 
 as they should be. Such as many people will get the best armor possille before they are half way 
 leveled up. And the crafters of the game will almost always make armor and weapons that are good 
 but not orignal EVERYTHING IS THE SAME!!! You will be walking down the streets of Mos eisely and 
 see maybe like 20-30 people (The most you will ever see in any one place) Now out of those people 
 the Pre-NGE people will have cool items that you cant get any more and Post-NGE people will have 
 items like everyone else. The game was fun when I first got it because I was still figuring out 
 what I could and couldn't do. I lasted for like 6 months and got 2 charcters leveled up half way. 
 Ps. There arent enough players to make it feel like a true Massive Online game, It just feels like 
 a huge empty Single player world with enless sand in all directions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game when it first came out it was amazing Ill admit, better than World of Warcraft, 
 but it's the way Sont tried to make the game a copy off of World of Warcraft that ruined it. The 
 NGE made the game terrile. You might as well throw this game in the trash because there is no way 
 it is worth $15 a month now like it once was. The Bounty Hunting before was amazing and the path 
 to becoming a jedi was good. But once they made the new update they just ruined that completely, 
 now you have a bunch of noobs running around as jedi and you can't do player bounties anymore. 
 Overall it was once an amazing Star Wars Universe, but now it just seems like your average World 
 of Warcraft copy off, only buy this game if the monthly fees are gone, it might last you a month 
 or two, but this is a perfect example of Sont destroying a game and updates destroying a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pupaluppa
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies, a Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game developed by SOE, debuted 
 in 2004 to much anticipation, and for the most part it delivered, it seems. But, apparently, Galaxies 
 is a mere shell of its former self... and I can believe it. I never played SWG pre-NGE (New Game 
 Enhancements) -or-CU (Combat Upgrade) , but supposedly the game was brilliant. The idea of having 
 to truly work to become a Jedi was so appealing, so right. Well, now you can be a Jedi as easy 
 as 1, 2, 3 with the new character creation system, making the class trivial, and messing up the 
 Star Wars canon in the process. Gameplay:
  SWG is a gameplay-design disaster. Its entirety consists of the most basic of basics. Point and 
 click combat with no inspiration whatsoever is what you'll find here. The combat is boring and 
 repetitive, all of the enemies looking like cookie-cutter cut-outs of the others with very little 
 variation throughout. In fact, variation is hard to find all over SWG. Armor, weapons, and characters 
 all look either identical or exceedingly similar in one way or another. The quests are ridiculous, 
 to be frank. They are all identical in every way except for the text that appears on the screen. 
 Here's a run-down of every quest in the game: Go here, Kill these guys, Go there, Kill those guys, 
 Come back and get some obscure buff item that you don't need. Along with broken combat and quests 
 (the lifeblood of an MMORPG) , the crafting skills and other non-combat oriented features of SWG 
 is confusing and underdeveloped. The game goes through no pains in explaining how things work, 
 and you'll find yourself fiddling with eye-sore-menus and horribly-crafted chat logs to figure 
 out some of the basic features. All in all, the game feels like a mod for another, better game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are really the one decent thing in Galaxies. Considering it's an MMORPG, a genre in 
 which graphics often have to be sacrificed for the sake of processing stability, the graphics are 
 very good. The character models are high-poly and gifted with some nice bump-mapping effects, and 
 the cities have some good technical features, as well. However, pure polygons does not a good-looking 
 game make. Art direction is almost no where to be found. All of the planets are essentially just 
 a patch of grass, dirt, snow, sand, etc. riddled with ugly foliage and buildings. The art is as 
 basic as it can get, especially with such games as Lord of the Rings Online and World of WarCraft 
 with some exceptional art direction on the market. The game looks realistic, to a point, but it's 
 very boring. You'll find yourself looking at miles of the same thing over and over again.
  
  Sound:
  Considering it's a Lucasarts game, and has access to Skywalker sound, you'd think 
 SWG would have an amazing soundtrack. Well, sorry folks, but it's not so. There are probably 3 
 or 4 tracks of music in the ENTIRE GAME, and they hardly ever play. You only hear some music when 
 initiating combat or entering a city, and other than that all you hear is the rolling wind on the 
 hills of Tatooine, or the rolling wind on the hills of Naboo... or the rolling wind on the hills 
 of Coreillia. And even when the music does cue in, it sounds like it was spliced by a five year-old 
 with downs, because it cracks and squeaks into the game at odd intervals. There are 2 or 3 different 
 blaster noises, and you'd better get used to them, because you're going to hear them... A LOT. 
 The voice-acting on the NPCs is sub-par, as well.
  
  Value:
  Considering you can get the original, all 3 expansions, bonus content, and a free AT-RT in-game 
 mount for $17.99, it actually is a value, but it's still not worth playing.
  
  Conclusion:
  Star Wars Galaxies is just a bad game. Plain and simple. It's tedious, boring, and 
 just plain un-fun. The game feels like a froob-MMO from Korea, not a huge, commercial, Lucasarts, 
 $15-buck-a-month bonanza. Don't get it unless you're rich and can waste the money. Let's face it, 
 no matter how much it may hurt to even think it, this game is no WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbodrive
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Windows Vista is poor on game selection to date. Few developers have got up to standard. I wanted 
 to use the trial version of Star Wars Galaxies. I tried various ways to get started. I chose this 
 module/expansion. I used the help files and went to this site and one or two others. My initial 
 download was from another site that didn't even get loaded to my computer. I did get the download 
 from this site to unzip. I have played other games and don't recall many being this difficult to 
 get started. I presumed with lucasarts that this would be a cinch to get going. I am guessing Sony 
 just wants us to buy the stuff needed and start up that way. Well, unless I hear something within 
 a few days of this post, I believe that I can hold out a year before trying again. This shouldn't 
 be that difficult to load and get started. The ratings will be skewed, because I haven't yet played. 
 I rated 5 for things I couldn't leave blank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgj
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 27, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  What a great game. Trying to become a Jedi working towards it. 33 proffs and different skill charts. 
 Greatest grinding/leveling system in any game. Greatest community of any MMORPG ever. Never ending 
 fun and excitment. WHAT HAPPENED! Sony online entertainment brought down the furrys of hell of 
 this game and ruinned it for everyone. Only people who play this game have nothing be do (Lots 
 of better games out there) or there noobs who never knew what this game once was! Pre-Combat upgrade 
 Star Wars galaxies can never be replaced again until now. Join www. SWGEmu. com to help a great game 
 that it once was. I'm a part in working on the Emulation server and I can tell you it will be a 
 success once released so far the progress has been great for us. Stress test have been great and 
 thousands of people have logged on and were in shock of how well this game has been worked on so 
 far. So whats is going to be? Play or don't play this crap ass @@@@ load of %$^&amp; or play a 
 great game that will never be changed? www. SWGEmu. com Don't give up on Star Wars galaxies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terial1901
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  November, 2005. This was the Month of Absolute Doom for Star Wars Galaxies. The NGE was Launched 
 by SOE, and the game became a complete F***ing Letdown. Today still they are attempting to bring 
 the game back, in fact some rumors have spread they might re-make the NGE if Lucas-arts Regains 
 control. But Think People. The game is still Appealing. In a way its the game we used to know and 
 love. I cant say I loved the NGE, because im an Elder Jedi Myself of the Tarquinas Server. But 
 the new chapters might open a dawn of hope.
  Today I give this once Fantastic game an 8/10, but if all goes well it may truly be Star Wars Galaxies 
 again :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LevarisHawk
Rating: 5
Date: May 9, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Since June 26th 2003, Star Wars Galaxies has been drastically altered two times. First with the 
 Combat Upgrade, in April of 2005. The game shifted from being an entirely player driven and dependant 
 game with a rich and thriving economy, to a game with a stagnating economy and servers that bled 
 out more players each day.
  
  This Combat Upgrade still featured all the original 34 Professions one could be in SWG, including 
 Jedi, which had to be earned through a long process. SOE delivered patch after patch improving 
 on the CU, and things seemed to start to get to be great again. It was getting there.
  
  Lucasarts on the other hand couldnt stand seeing their profit bottom line off of the game drop 
 so drastically. They saw the CU as a huge mistake and again saught to change the game. To give 
 the players a Star Warsy, Iconic Experience.
  
  Thus, The New Game Enhancements were born.
  
  With it, the ability for a player to be a combination 
 of any of the professions ended, the ability to choose what you wanted to be from a great variety, 
 dwindled down to 9 Iconic Professions.
  
  The players who worked tirelessly for months aspiring to be Jedi, saw with these changes that new 
 Players were simply allowed to start as Jedi, as it was one of the Iconic Professions.
  
  A Classic MMO Style combat system Similar in some ways to WoW, and other Popular MMO's was replaced 
 with a poorly designed First Person Shooting System. Flowing and Intuitive Controls were replaced 
 with Sloppy, awkward controls that at some points leave you begging for a Second Pair of Hands 
 just to effectively control your character.
  
  The Game Engine, being an Early build of the Everquest II engine, has been altered. World Textures 
 have been given such graphical enhancements that do nothing to enhance the appearance, such as 
 specular terrain lighting which only make grass appear like its covered in a oil slick at night.
 
  
  Simple, and attractive visual effects that were not taxing on even an older 64mb video card were 
 replaced by massively lagging particle effects. In example, the Commando Class in the game now 
 specializes with Heavy Weapons such as the Lava Cannon its animation is simply a Lava Eruption 
 that was borrowed from the environment of the Mustafar from the Trials of Obi-Wan expansion. These 
 effects all tend to make use of the massive overdraw features of Pixelshading 2.0 capable video 
 cards. Which sounds nice, but when 20, 30 people are all using these massive overdraw effects you 
 get performance issues even on a Top of the Line Machine with a 256mb or better PCI-E video card. 
 frame rates as stunning as 5-6fps.
  
  The server side lag created by all of these clients lagged by these video effects causes the Game 
 Servers themselves to slow to such a crawl in major pvp scenarios. Being in this day and time in 
 the game, around 30-40 people. The server would play a literal game of Red Light, Green Light. 
 Everything would move for 3 seconds, stop for 5 seconds, and so on. (at the games peak even as 
 many as 300 people fighting in the same area wouldnt lag the server to this extent) .
  
  Crafting itself has become a relatively useless endeavor in this game, while it is still the most 
 in depth crafting system any MMO has to offer, it has no reward to it as nearly any High Level 
 Quest item can beat out anything crafted by its stats easily.
  
  This is only the tip of the iceberg of the problems of Star Wars Galaxies to this day. Though the 
 Developers are bringing positive changes to the game over time, and though it may shape into something 
 good again in time, it simply does not deliver the experience you would expect from Star Wars. 
 The game feels empty, because at many times the servers are empty.
  
  The new quest based leveling system is long, dull and extremely boring.
  
  PvP is a joke with 
 the new PvP Battlegrounds implemented to the game. It has become a never ending story of one faction 
 standing inside the zone along its border, the other standing just outside, gathering numbers and 
 attempting to kill the other side.
  
  Unlike World of Warcraft, Star Wars Galaxies has never had dedicated PvP, RP, PvE servers. So there 
 is no distinction and alot of confusion when it comes to attempting to PvP in the game. However 
 it still has one unique quality to it. You are able to trashtalk the noob you killed as much as 
 you want. Something not found in many other MMOs That being the ability to communicate with the 
 opposite faction, and the ability to switch factions for that matter.
  
  Space Flight in the game is good quality, a long grind to become an Ace Pilot in any of the 9 different 
 Pilot Squadrons you can join, at times requiring multiple people to assist you in missions. It 
 remains the only portion of the game that the developers have hardly touched at all since it was 
 first introduced into the game. I guess that was the only thing they got right to start off with. 
 Your able to use a joystick, or you can pilot with a mouse rather easily as well similarly to games 
 like Freelancer.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  If your a giant star wars nerd, its still worth your time despite all its major flaws. But if you 
 are looking for a quality MMO experience, look elsewhere for the time being. Issues that if fixed 
 would fix the game:
  - Particle Effects
  - Server Side MAJOR Lag issues
  - Crafting
  - More customization abilities with your character's skills. It just is not broad enough anymore.
 
  - Some Epic Loot drops couldnt hurt either, there is very few incentives to PvE for any reason 
 any longer. Most loot only gets you on par with everyone else. Barely. Thats my Two Cents as I 
 have played Since Launch, Still play it, will play it until it dies. But I will not recommend it 
 to the wary. It takes alot of dedication to keep playing this game longer than a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barne1dr
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game was once one of the greatest hopefuls to grace the pc world. It was new - really, truly 
 new. They tried new systems, opened new doors, changed the way you played mmos and some were turned 
 off by the difference (as is always the case with something truly revolutionary) but others were 
 irrevocably drawn in and held rapt to the limitless opportunities this game provided. It wasn't 
 a video game, it was another world - another life all its own. But as all good things will, it 
 came crashing down and is little more than a memory... and for many, a painful one. Sony, the greatest 
 wielder of evils, made attempt after attempt to conform. Little by little this title slipped into 
 mediocrity and became an uninspired clone of the big franchises. Sony tried to cut out the risk 
 of making something different by becoming what everyone else was and they ruined everything their 
 players had come to love and cast us out turning blind eyes and deaf ears to our pleas. Look to 
 the community and keep posted on the status of the emulators that will return the glory we all 
 knew for a short time. Further, don't trust anything with the word Sony on it - they don't care 
 about you and they would just as soon throw their feces in your face as bend to a player majority 
 concern. They've shown they have no scrotum and no love for their player base - these folks just 
 want money and they're not beyond tricks and lies. Ask any former Galaxies player about the cheap 
 tricks they pulled to milk every penny from us before kicking us to the curb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  When i started playing in beta it was clear SOE/LA didn't lsiten to what we wanted, i'm not sure 
 if they have strict orders via LA telling them what to do but it felt like why were we in beta? 
 It got released a buggy mess so we wern't needed tbh. The game got completly changed in beta from 
 something closer to UO to what SWG was after launch.
  
  The game's release was a shambles and people only give a game one chance so SWG would never recover. 
 However it was improving with the aditions of player housing and EU servers, i met ALOT of nice 
 people.
  
  One great thing i can say about SWG was the community was fantastic, the ebst i've seen out of 
 any game. However the community soon became bitter and hateful and turned into one of the worst 
 i've seen, all because of SOE and LA ****ing everyone off.
  
  They game started going downhill really after Ralph Koster left, as the game was his vision. The 
 developers started to make changes that would ruin the game and he wouldn't dream of making and 
 all along said no to. The input of Jedi IMO was the first real big hit the game took. Everyone 
 wanted to be Jedi so the game all turned into everyone Grinding out Jedi : ( It stayed like this 
 throughout the game and it's a shame. I wanted it to just be about the existing professions and 
 instead the game got ruined.
  
  After JTLS and TEF being removed and all these game breaking changes i left, even before the CU 
 or NGE. The game was just pure crap then and couldn't be saved by the horrible people in charge. 
 Why did JTLS ruin the game? Well it ruined the social aspects of the game and thats what many of 
 us played it for. No more queues for at starport and having nice chats for instance.
  
  So after JTLS it got ruined by Publish 9 making Jedi easier to get......... Then ROTW expansion 
 which basically changed the whole way the game worked. The the CU came not long after that and 
 changed the game compeltly again! Added levels and crap when there was no need for it. Then the 
 final blow came which was the NGE : (
  
  The NGE really just turned the game to something original to trying to be a bad evrsion of WOW. 
 It was sooo bad.... and they took everything out of the game. Now they're adding it all back in 
 like it's a new feature or something.
  Anyways the game will never be saved and it'll always be crap from now on unless they make classic 
 servers pre Jedi.
  
  The only good thing about it now is the Sound and the value isn't worth a game in alpha lol. Theres 
 just tooo many bugs in the game today to be worth playing at all and the reduction of 32 or so 
 professions down to 9 classes is also a big downgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Wow. Reviewing Star Wars Galaxies. Talk about your tough assignments. How do you review a childhood 
 fantasy? For that matter, how do you review the Living in the Star Wars universe fantasy that currently 
 lives inside the head of every gamer worth their salt? Indeed, peruse any message board and what 
 you come across is passionate argument on both sides. One half of the gaming community would have 
 you believe that Star Wars Galaxies is the greatest betrayal since a guy named Judas picked up 
 30 silver coins and the other half is currently too busy trying to get into Jabba's Palace or crafting 
 Armorweave to do mundane things like talk or eat or go to the bathroom. So where does the truth 
 lie? As in most cases, somewhere in the middle. It must be acknowledged that, as a gaming experience 
 and as a commercial product, Star Wars Galaxies is a huge, bug-infested mess. It suffers from the 
 kinds of issues that plague nearly every MMO around launch time - broken servers, broken quests, 
 buggy gameplay, lack of content - and adds to it some unique Galaxies issues such as infrequent 
 patching and truly poor customer service all, at a premium price. Yet for all that, why do I think 
 about the game all the time? Why, even in the middle of writing this review, did I sneak into the 
 game to see whether or not that cool coat I put a bid on in the bazaar has finally come through? 
 Why am I so proud that my Twi'lek scout has finally managed to get enough Imperial faction points 
 to become a Lance Corporal in Palpatine's New Order? Why am I having so much fun in a game that 
 frequently drives me insane? I Can Take You as Far as Anchorhead If there's one thing that can't 
 be faulted in the game, it's the visuals. The instant you finish creating your character and work 
 your way through the comprehensive tutorial, you will never have a doubt that you are truly in 
 the Star Wars universe. In fact, even if you discount the Star Wars appeal of the game, the landscapes 
 and cityscapes in the game are simply beautiful. While they start with the architecture and color 
 schemes of the movies, they expand and vary so much as you travel that I can easily believe that 
 these are viable, living cultures. In just one example, while on Naboo, I visited 2 different cities. 
 The capital, Theed, looks very much like it does in the movie, in fact, I even managed to find 
 the steps of Amidala's palace at the front of a long parade route of arches from Episode I. Moenia, 
 on the other hand, is a backwater town in the middle of a swamp. It's a combination of Theed buildings 
 and the ruins of Gungan above-ground buildings - remnants of the Gungan retreat to the deep waters 
 of the swamp after humans arrived on the planet. This attention to detail is repeated wherever 
 you go, and there's always something new from the movies or the books to discover. Don't underestimate 
 the thrill you get the first time you're standing in the celebration hall in the Rebel base on 
 Yavin IV or when you walk into the Mos Eisley Cantina. Unfortunately, all of this graphic beauty 
 can come at a steep price - system lag. This actually comes in two types, server side lag from 
 slow connections and system lag from overloaded graphics cards. I didn't experience much of the 
 first, not enough to distract me, anyway. However, it must be pointed out that I played the game 
 on a fat pipe connection here at GameSpy, and even here, I experienced occasional delays in acknowledging 
 commands. For players with a less-than-monstrous Internet connection, I'd imagine the problems 
 could be much worse and I don't even want to think what this game would be like on a dial-up. The 
 second problem is most severe in the cities, especially the largest one in the game, Coronet on 
 Corellia. While Coronet is beautiful and well worth a visit, even my system experienced some graphic 
 chugging when the place was particularly crowded. Once you've booted up the game, you're going 
 to have to decide who and what you're going to be. The process starts with character creation and 
 the selection of your race and appearance. This system is one of the game's highlights. Selecting 
 who you're going to play is fun and quite easy. Indeed, there are enough appearance variables in 
 any race you select that that it's doubtful you'll ever see two people who look the same in the 
 game. Even better, there aren't so many options at the beginning of the game that it's confusing 
 for a new player. Setting up a truly distinctive appearance is left for in-game activities, where 
 it should be. Even in the doubtful scenario that two people pick the exact same appearance, the 
 game is loaded with opportunities to customize yourself through the selection of clothing. Then 
 there's the choice of which career you'll elect to pursue. Unlike other MMOs, players in Star Wars 
 Galaxies aren't restricted to the choices that they make at the beginning of the game. Every player 
 has a set number of skill points they can use to acquire a variety of skill points in any number 
 of classes. Even if you start off as one class, there's nothing to prevent you from learning the 
 skills from three or four others (although moving to higher levels requires concentration on one 
 career track) . If you elect to change your career later in the game, you can sell back the skills 
 you've acquired and move into another job. One of Galaxies' best features is that, unlike most 
 MMOs, this is the first one that's actually managed to make non-combat classes a viable and interesting 
 way of playing the game. Artisans, medics, entertainers and others can all have interesting play 
 experiences while the limitations on classes force a great deal of interaction between them. Combat 
 classes such as scouts and marksmen can only be healed by doctors and entertainers while classes 
 like Artisans and Cooks need the raw materials acquired by Scouts and Surveyors. That having been 
 said, the game's current version suffers from quite a few broken and imbalanced classes. As of 
 this writing, certain classes such as Cook and Droid Builder are completely busted. Cooks gain 
 no experience from having anyone eat their food and droids seem to be useless. Even being an Architect 
 isn't as much fun as it could be thanks to a nasty habit of player houses appearing and and disappearing 
 over 24 hour periods. Another element of a player's personality is the decision to join or avoid 
 the game's faction system. There are two main factions in the game, the Empire and the Rebels. 
 Along with these possibilities, there are plenty of local factions the player can join. For example, 
 Mos Eisley on Tatooine has a running battle between 2 crime lords, Jabba the Hutt and Valarian. 
 Taking missions for a faction or killing members of the opposition will give you positive or negative 
 points that you can use in joining a particular faction. Get enough faction points and you can 
 gain access to special equipment or pets and be allowed into special Theme Park areas such as the 
 Emperor's Retreat on Naboo or Jabba's Palace. This is where you get to meet some of the Big Kahunas 
 from the Star Wars universe like Darth Vader and Jabba himself. While the faction system and joining 
 factions won't be for everybody, I found it remarkably fun and entertaining. Joining one of the 
 two main factions - Empire or Rebels, opens the game up a lot and there's plenty to do as either. 
 I frequently found myself walking through town doing a solo mission when I would run across other 
 Empire members who were forming parties to go out and hunt Rebel scum. Inevitably, I dropped what 
 I was doing and joined them. Not only did I meet quite a few good players that were fun to go hunting 
 with, just trying to save up enough points for a Stormtrooper or an AT-ST (please!) allowed me 
 to set my own definition of winning the game. It's too bad that becoming a Jedi doesn't seem to 
 be among these options, though. While SOE has stated that it will be quite some time before anyone 
 even opens that second Force-sensitive character slot in the game, it'd be nice to know that the 
 option was in the game and not waiting for yet another patch. Have a Jedi make an appearance at 
 least, so those of us who are trying for it know it's possible. Given how broken the rest of the 
 game is, I'm just not willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. Unfortunately, joining a faction 
 once again points out just how Not-Ready-For-Prime-Time this game is. Plenty of factional quests 
 are broken or their goals disappear before you arrive (Fix Captain Pellaeon!) -- particularly for 
 the Empire. Indeed, I wasted quite a bit of time trying to get into the Emperor's Retreat only 
 to find out that the entire region was completely busted. There's also quite a lack of deep content. 
 The game has yet to start any kind of storyline or offer any story-based missions. The universe 
 also seems pretty static. All the missions available are either one shot extermination missions 
 or meaningless FedEx runs that, after a while, just get boring. Still, when it comes to avoiding 
 buggy or broken aspects of the game, I suppose I should count myself lucky. None of the bugs I've 
 run into so far have cost me much more than lost time. SOE's message boards are filled with horror 
 stories of characters getting trapped in the world's geography and player association buildings 
 have up and disappeared without much response from SOE customer service. Ah, if only I could bullseye 
 womp rats in my T-16. That little Star Wars quote illustrates two of my other beefs with the game, 
 one major, one minor. The major one has to do with vehicles in the game - or rather a lack of them. 
 While I always knew that space vehicles wouldn't be included with the first version of Galaxies, 
 imagine my surprise when I fired up the game and found that apparently the mainframe at the Imperial 
 DMV must have crashed since there aren't any vehicles anywhere. That's right, if you want to get 
 anywhere in Galaxies you're gonna have to walk. Oh, there are inter-planet shuttles that will take 
 you between major cities and Star Ports to travel to different worlds, but let's be honest here, 
 I'm not paying $15 a month to ride an intergalactic bus. Anything that's interesting in the game 
 is going to be found in the wilderness, and to get to it you're going to be doing a lot of boring 
 walking. And when I say walking, I mean walking. While the game does have an autorun button, the 
 player's actual movement speed isn't that fast when compared with the size of the world. Even worse, 
 there's no equivalent of EverQuest's Spirit of Wolf to get you around faster (I guess that would 
 be the function of vehicles) It's also really easy to get lost while traipsing around the wilderness. 
 The North arrow is very tough to distinguish on the game's compass and there are no real landmarks 
 in the wilderness. The game's map screen is way too small, there's no way to color categorize waypoint 
 markers or turn their representative icons on and off in the planetary map and the mini-map inside 
 your compass is useless. While the map that overlays the screen is incredibly useful, it would 
 have been nice to be able to shrink it into one corner of the screen. Since I'm playing a Scout/Marksman, 
 though, I have no choice but to head out into the wilderness if I want to progress in my chosen 
 class. That's where my minor beef comes in. Basically, the game's experience point and mission 
 system for animals is completely out of whack. Low-paying, low-level extermination targets are 
 often surrounded by high-level monsters that make it impossible for you to clear. The pay offered 
 for many of these missions often isn't commensurate with the difficulty and the skill points and 
 harvested resources gained for killing targets often seems the same regardless of how tough (or 
 easy) the creature is to kill. While the game provides a handy circle in the creature information 
 tag that tells you how tough an animal is in relation to you, it'd also be nice to have some sort 
 of marker on animals to let you know whether they'll kill you or just knock you out. If I don't 
 have my clone location properly set or some of my items insured, there are just certain creatures 
 I don't want to tackle. This criticism, however, is separate from the combat system itself. Combat 
 is quite enjoyable and while the system still has a few kinks to work out, I really like the basic 
 concept. It feels much more like actual combat than many other MMOs by giving you stuff to do and 
 decisions to make during combat, rather than just clicking on a fight key and waiting for the battle 
 to conclude. We'll Give You 2,000 Now, Another 15 When We Get to Alderaan One of the game's more 
 pleasant surprises is how it handles money and trade. Basically, there are no NPC merchants in 
 the game; all commerce is done between players. While I was at first a little bit leery of having 
 a player-driven economy, it seems to be working. It has been an interesting process to watch the 
 player economy mature as people learn the relative value of items and open their own retail establishments 
 - kind of like an intergalactic lesson in capitalism. At this writing, items have just begun to 
 find their price levels as people become more familiar with what's good equipment and what's useless. 
 There's also an interesting dynamic at work as people begin to level up and craft new items. When 
 I was last in the game, Armorweave had begun to replace Bone Armor as the must have item. Unfortunately, 
 not having NPC merchants means that there's no economic baseline that can be used to judge items 
 - which makes the whole process harder than it has to be. Computer merchants serve the same function 
 in an MMO that the Wall Street Journal does in the real world. Without a general market value for 
 commodities, prices are all over the map. This is something that definitely needs to be put into 
 the game somewhere - probably in the Bazaar terminals. The eBay-like Bazaar interface also needs 
 to have a provision to compare and contrast the prices and qualities of 2 different items at the 
 same time and change prices once an auction or sale begins. As it stands now, you have to go through 
 an entire list making notes to get the best deals. It'd also be nice to know whether there are 
 rare or valuable items. For example, I've got a camouflage Spec-Ops duster in a color that I've 
 never seen anybody else wearing -- is it rare and should I try to get something for it? Then's 
 there's the issue of real-world dollars. In addition to the cost of the box, Sony and LucasArts 
 are charging gamers a $14.99 per month subscription fee. That's a wee bit beyond premium pricing. 
 If Star Wars Galaxies had been everything promised right out of the gate - everything it eventually 
 promises to be, I'd say pay the fee and have fun. As it stands now, with a bug-infested title, 
 poor customer service, no vehicles and busted quests, there's just no justification for charging 
 gamers for beta testing that should have been done before the title was released. So, what's the 
 bottom line, then? When it came time to score Galaxies, I initially thought of all the bugs and 
 broken areas, the steep subscription fee and poor customer service, the often slow-paced gameplay 
 and as-yet unrealized potential of the game. And yet, even with all these drawbacks, I find myself 
 hooked -- there's fun to be had, if you're willing to dig through the frustrations. There's a large 
 contingent of Galaxies players here at GameSpy (read our first impressions and pile-on features) 
 and it's all we've spoken about at lunch for the last three weeks. In perhaps six months Galaxies 
 will be everything its developers promised it would be, and if you're not willing to play an avoid 
 the bug meta game, you'll definitely want to wait. It's a mark of how much potential it has, though, 
 that even in its broken, buggy state, it's the most fun I've ever had with an MMO.  The Lowdown: 
 The Force is not with this game  yet. Pros: Star Wars feel; solid graphics; good faction system; 
 non-combat classes; enjoyable combat system. Cons: Bugs, bugs, and more bugs; poor customer service; 
 premium price; bad controls; lack of content; imbalanced classes; creatures and quests 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Everyone in the MMO community has heard about Star Wars Galaxies , even many MMO companies compare 
 themselves to SWG and SOE and say they will not become like that. Star Wars Galaxies... It was 
 once a great game, perhaps one of the best when it first launched. Back when SWG was new you could 
 truely be anything your heart desired -- be it a Smuggler with a bit of Commando skills, an Entertrainer 
 with a streak of medial healing abilities, or a crafter by day and Bounty Hunter by night. If you 
 wanted you could even play as a moisture farmer , the possibilities for your play was endless and 
 customization was endless. The game was a vast sandbox of possibilities and endless fun. Sure, 
 there were many bugs but that didn't ruin the game. Then the Combat Upgrade hit, which changed 
 combat a bit to make it more tactical . Some people didn't like the CU, but really I didn't mind 
 it all that much. Sure, I prefered pre-CU SWG but the CU wasn't so bad at all and it didn't really 
 affect my enjoyment of the game. The only downside at the time was lack of worthwhile content. 
 Once you mastered your profession (s) there really wasn't much left to do. About a year later the 
 Developers/SOE decided it was once again time to change the game and they released the New Game 
 Enhancements , which completely changed SWG right from under the players that had been loyal to 
 SWG for the past two plus years. The NGE changed everything from weapons and armor to how combat 
 worked and even removed most of the professions and changed the remaining nine so that everyone 
 within the same profession would be exactly the same. All professions were pretty much the same 
 as well, despite a few different weapons that they used. The NGE was released with countless bugs, 
 exploits and glitches that made the game frustraiting and sometimes unplayable. As usual SOE was 
 slow to fix any of the bugs and let the stack up; in fact there are still a number of bugs that 
 have been around since the game launched over three years ago.
  SOE changed the game to a first-person shooter-like system where you had to hold your mouse over 
 your target and hold the left mouse button to fire. If your cursor left the target your character 
 would stop firing. There was no longer any target lock, and gameplay was extremely frustraiting. 
 SOE added flashy new particle effects that looked cartoony and didn't fit with the game and they 
 even changed the target audience to children (at one point the target auidence were older teens 
 and adults, back when SWG launched) .
  A later Chapter , which was once known as a Publish back pre-NGE, added a target-lock and auto-fire 
 feature back into SWG but it did little to help the poorly thought combat system and extremely 
 painful and boring gameplay. Crafters were made completely useless in the NGE because you could 
 loot better items then crafters could make, meaning players could aquire better items for free. 
 Sure you'd look like a clown running around in a bright blue Shirt of the Bantha , dark red Hat 
 of the Fat Hutt , neon yellow Pants of Strength , bright green Sandles of the Damned and light 
 purple Gloves of the Insane but all those items would have stats on them and you'd be stronger... 
 right?
  Battle Fatigue was removed during the NGE as well, making Entertainers completely useless as well. 
 Before the NGE the only real reason a combat player would have to visit an Entertainer was to have 
 their Battle Fatigue healed and without it Entertainers quickly died away. Wounds were removed 
 as well, meaning Medics no longer had any reason to go to medical centers and be paid to heal players. 
 Smugglers lost their ability to slice weapons and armor, they also lost many of their unique combat 
 abilities, making them simply another cookie-cutter combat profession.
  
  Later SOE introduced the profession Expertise system, which allowed professions to select different 
 expertise skills to customize their profession to their liking. Unforunately the Expertise failed 
 to add anything useful to the game and most skills were either useless or were too similiar to 
 other skills, and there weren't enough to choose from. The Expertise really didn't affect a profession 
 in any way, other then giving them a few new skills.
  
  Smugglers, a profession that had been ignored for the past three plus years, finally got some content 
 added to the profession a couple months back. Unfortunately the attempt to add profession content, 
 again, failed miserabely. It was obvious SOE didn't listen to what the players wanted and added 
 in a horrible, boring Smugging system that was simple a glorified delivery mission, and each mission 
 was exactly the same as the one before it. The missions were mind-numbingly boring and really had 
 no point at all. Once you completed the final mission and reached Master Underworld Smuggler you 
 had no reason to continue with smuglging at all; not that you'd want to continue, the missions 
 were just too painful.
  Yes, smuggling is truely the matter of taking one item from point A to point B without getting 
 caught. However, there were many ways in SWG to spice up smuggling and make it fun. SOE didn't 
 do this, though, and the missions were simply this: go to an NPC, a static NPC that's always in 
 the same location, pay him money and he'll give you a container simply marked contraband . You 
 then have a set time limit to take that container to an NPC in another city. You cannot use shuttles 
 or starports, so you have to use your vehicle. You will be attacks along the way by two to four 
 NPCs during your missions usually once, sometimes twice, but you will always be attacked. The NPC 
 you must give the item to is always in the same position and is always surrounded by NPCs that 
 will attack you on sight (and there are usually law enforcement NPCs nearby as well for some reason) . 
 If you manage to get to the NPC you click on them, the item disappears and you recieve some money 
 and some Underworld faction. If you fail you lose Underworld faction.
  You need Underworld faction to climb through the ranks of the Underworld Smuggler. But there's 
 no real point to climbing the ranks, other then getting some crappy rewards that are pretty useless 
 in almost every aspect. The rewards don't even look good.
  The Smuggler quests are simply another failed attempt, and a rushed effort on SOE's part yet again.
 
  
  The Galactic Civil War was also something that was completely pointless in SWG. When walking the 
 streets of Theed you'd never know there was a war going on. A couple months ago SOE attempted to 
 change that by adding a new GCW rank system in. Not surprisingly, though, they failed to do anything 
 smart or fun and simply tossed together something easy and simple, and copied it from the MMORPG 
 World of Warcraft . The added ranks into the GCW and to gain ranks you need to kill NPCs. The thing 
 is ranks require you to have thousands of GCW points, and the higher ranks need millions. NPCs, 
 however, only grant you 1-6 GCW points, roughly, and PvP kills grant you about 8, which means you 
 have to stay online and grind constantly to gain a level. Oh, but that's not all... at the higher 
 ranks your GCW points will actually decay, meaning you have to constantly grind so you wont lose 
 your rank. There are no quests to help you, there are no missons to help you, just mindless NPC 
 grinding or broken PvP. It's about as much fun as licking a cactus.
  Another bad move was that at the rank of General, the highest GCW rank a player can achieve, there 
 are items better then any other item in SWG. Rings that greatly increase all your stats, weapons 
 that have extremely high damage and DPS, armor that has very high defences... This means that only 
 those who can stay on SWG and mindlessly grind 24/7 will get these items, and anyone without these 
 items and anyone without a life will never stand a chance against these people in PvP. If you actually 
 have a life you will mostlikely never reach the rank of General.
  Don't get me wrong, I have no problem with having to earn your rewards but this is insane. Sadly 
 SWG is nothing like it used to be. It's been dumbed-down as many have put it and has been changed 
 not for the better. Sure, it still has some really great features like player housing and the graphics 
 are great, but that's all it has going for it anymore. Every MMO on the market has something about 
 it that makes it unique, but the only thing unique about SWG is that it now gets all its ideas 
 from existing MMOs and doesn't even do a good job of copying those ideas. SWG fails in every way 
 possible.
  
  It's sad, really. SWG was a wonderful game when it first launched, it really was. I loved the game 
 back then. The servers were full and bustling with people; always busy and lively. Once the NGE 
 came out the servers died away and 90% of the population stopped playing. Now almost all the servers 
 are completely void of life. It still makes me sad walking through Theed and Coront, which were 
 two of the busiest cities pre-NGE and were always filled with people talking, selling and buffing; 
 and to now see those cities without a single player in them. It's very, very sad.
  
  If you're thinking of getting a good MMORPG don't waste your time with Star Wars Galaxies. It's 
 a disappointment through and through. Believe me, I've played this game since it launched, and 
 yet I can't figure out why. The game is horrible. Before the NGE I would give this game a full 
 10.0 for a score. After the NGE, well you can see the score I gave it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesehunter
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this was a total screw up, Star Wars Galaxies turned itself from a great multiplayer online 
 experiance, to a over-the-shoulder mess of Jedis and lightsaber fests going on every where you 
 turn!
  
  One thing is, they got rid of the professions, WTF. I mean there's no skill tree any more, just 
 stages and levels, and certifications. I mean I used to have a Bounty Hunter specializing in LLG's, 
 (Light Lightning Cannons) and used to be able to pwn Dantooine! Now I'm like stuck, I dunno Corellia?
 
  
  Another, Social status, uhh in Corellia, I remember the good ol' days when there used to be buff 
 lines an a lot of people to talk to, same with Dantooine. But Corellia was way more populated. 
 Corellia is now a GHOST TOWN, think of what that makes of Dantooine.
  
  The Jedis, okay there are just too many jedis. Every corner you turn, there is a jedi slashing 
 up some smuggler on the side of the street with a lightsaber! Next thing you know, there's a whole 
 army of them in the cantina! I remember when only like two jedi exsisted on the server at once 
 on Naboo, seeing them duel was fun, NOT ANYMORE.
  
  So now this is some sort of impersonation of Diablo now even failing the click to shoot option 
 seeing that you have to target them to shoot them.
  
  Overall, the game's graphics are still okay, and the sound can get repetitive, so agree or disagree 
 and a word for Gamespot. Edit this game's score, because if you play and review it again, it just 
 SUCKS. The 40 to 100 hours was before NGE's by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessSpawn
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for 3 years since it's open beta release... Back then i would have rated 
 this game a 9 out of 10. But the developers didn't listen to all the players and went into Cu then 
 into the gay NGE... now 1 million people left and barely anyone plays.. If your gonna play this game 
 then play a private server!! Before you had to earn jedi.. now you can just choose it along with 
 80% of all the players.
  
  On google type star wars galaxies private server and join one of them... Those servers have the 
 real thing!!! the old pre-cu game which everyone loved.. if u like starwars get it.. just dont play 
 the sony version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The NGE of SWG can basically be sumed up in two words: Dumb*** Move. The NGE system imployed by 
 SOE in a way to improve SWG is a prime example in what NOT to do to an already flawed (but still 
 really fun) MMORPG. Here's how they really screwed up:
  
  The Jedi System - Guess what? Now everyone can be a Jedi. That's right folks. All you SWG players 
 who slaved away at either Holocrons or The Village can now bash your head againist a wall. Now 
 everyone gets the class you worked so hard for.
  
  The Classes - Remember the cool Teras Kasi Master profession? Gone! Remember the original and nifty 
 Creature Handler and Bio-Engineer fun you used to have? Gone! Basically, SOE removed most of the 
 classes and now you get a generic range of professions that didn't get the axe.
  
  The BH System - Ah Bounty Hunters, all the fun they used to have gunning down the player Jedi. 
 Not only did it help keep down the Jedi population, it was really fun. Now, thats removed. Mix 
 this in with the fact that everyone can be Jedi and you got a real dumb*** move.
  
  Ultimately, SWG's greatest days are gone and now forever buried under the crapfest that is NGE. 
 I would give Pre-CU/NGE SWG an 8.2 rating while NGE gets what you see before you. SWG used to be 
 a lot of fun but now thanks to the NGE, it is one of those MMORPGs to stay far, far away from. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob669
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  if you are going to get this game its a pretty good game .But after a while when ur a high level 
 it just gets boring. you would need a pretty good computer to play this. Even know it looks like 
 ur comps good enough the game has too many people to not lag. i would say you should download this 
 game and only buy like 2 months membership, just to see if you like it :)
  .also the graphics on this game are very good though the gameplay not so good. i dont really have 
 any more to say but i need more words so ill just talk.
  This game is Much like guildwars or WOW aka world of warcraft but i think u know that)
  
  hope 
 my review helps :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debusentel
Rating: 3.9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game when it first came out was one of the most original games even still today but it did 
 not stay that way. The first year of the game was buggy , sure but it was probably the best game 
 around even by todays standards.
  
  Your character was not determined by level but instead a very original Idea which was skill based. 
 Levels didnt even exist at this point in the game. So it was possible to be a Great crafter and 
 fighter at the same time.
  
  The Crafting system was also extremely original and complex. Great crafters and so-so crafters 
 were quite noticeably different just in thier work. So if you were good at what you did it showed. 
 It was not just generic crafting were everyone could make the same quality of item. Also , everything 
 in the game was Player made! Nothing was NPC generated , NOTHING. This is no longer the case. They 
 ruinned all of this with the CU (combat upgrade) then completely destroyed the game when NGE came 
 out.
  
  Im not going even to get into the rest of the game that was destroyed because it makes me sick. 
 This might sound like a strong statement but I really feel sorry for anyone who did not try this 
 game its first 20 months out , they really missed a great expierience and a Truelly one of a kind 
 game.
  
  I will never play another SOE (Sony) Online game ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beebs
Rating: 2.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  When purchasing this game, it was advertised that you could be anyone you wanted to be in the Starwars 
 Universe.
  
  (Pre CU) 7.5
  
  Literally you could... I was so hooked on this game I got burned out playing it. Im sure there 
 is many more like me that fell in the same pattern.. it was unique in its own right.. bugs yes, 
 but it made you want to come back for more. There was always something to do. Servers were decently 
 busy. Sense of community was there. Somewhat balanced.
  You actually thought it was cool sitting around camp fires.. lol.
  
  (JTL) 7.4
  
  Cool.. 
 not perfect.. but it did its job. (CU) 7.0
  
  I wasnt bothered to much by the CU as some were, group xp was messed up, not to much i noticed 
 interferred with game play. Only Gripe was not fixing the current problems existing, but instead 
 more emphasis on changing things.
  
  (NGE) -0.001.. if it could go lower.
  
  Joke
  
  9 Iconic (idiotic) characters. .. to make it starwarsy.
  
  This is not the same game that 
 was advertised in 2003 at all. Yet it still has the same advertising for it... Isnt that false 
 advertising?
  So disgusted I think it only took me under a week to cancel all accounts.
  I dont get SOE on the business model of dumbing it down to maket a quick buck. But it does not 
 do so long term etc. Steady buck is better then a quick buck then a dying out buck. Way to go SOE.
 
  
  Community erased.
  Economy erased.
  Balanced erased. (unless you like running around in circles shooting/slahinging)
  Players erased.
 
  Sounds like a cheesy FPS to me. :)
  
  May the Farce find you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hama666
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I can safely call myself a Star Wars Veteran, I picked up the game a month after its European release 
 (I am a United Kingdom resident) and since then I have played this game and have experienced all 
 the updates.
  
  Now the idea of a MMO Star was universe is just fantastic, the thought of being someone in the 
 star wars universe and living the star wars life just makes your hairs go on end, so obvious to 
 say many people were highly anticipating the release of this game in Summer 2003.
  
  However when it was released it was a dissapointment, not because the game was a bad one, but because 
 it didnt have that star wars feel, on the other hand it was an enjoyable game and quickly became 
 the biggest MMO in the market and players such as I quickly grew addicted to this game.
  
  However update after update saw the games status deteriorate in quality and now we are left with 
 nothing but a disaster, and a waste to an idea which could of shaped the future of online gaming.
 
  
  So would I reccommend it? absolutely not, if this had been 3 years back then I would of easily 
 reccommended it, not because of it's star wars feel, but simply because it was a MMORPG with alot 
 of depth, exploration and enjoyment.
  
  If you are dying to play in a star wars universe then heres my suggestions:
  
  1) Give the 
 free trial a go, I warn you the game is in a terrible state and has pretty much died, but a free 
 trial is a free trial so go ahead and see what you think.
  
  2) Like most of us who have quit SWG, we can only hope for another developing team to start a star 
 wars MMORPG from scratch and really feed our expectations for such an ambitous idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. If you've read my WoW review you know I also love WoW. But this game is better!!! 
 The graphics are more realistic, Star Wars characters are all there, many people living in the 
 world, and you can own a house. Many classes also. My only downfall is that my computer (Which 
 is horrible) can't support it. But that doesn't matter, it only lags a little in big cities. Although 
 I was forced, after awhile, to quit because of the lag. I just couldn't stand it anymore and left 
 SWG. but it gave me many hours of fun. It's the perfect for a Star Wars geek like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumpstertom
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Man I was excited when I heard the there was going to be a Star Wars MMO. I'm a huge Star Wars 
 junkie... so as soon as I could I pre-ordered the Limited edition version. I played the game from 
 day 1 and I honestly can say for the first 6 months the game was cool, after that it just when 
 right down the tubes. I stopped playing the game in December '05. Thing's that ruined the game 
 for me....
  
  1. They changed the combat system more than once.
  2. They made being a jedi WAY to easy.
  3. They were more focused on releasing Prequel content... but 
 yet the game is based in the time period after "A New Hope".
  4. Bounty Hunter's didn't hunt player bountys (until now) and smugglers didn't smuggle anything.
 
  6. Killing a high level mob and when you looted it you got junk or nothing.
  7. Not being able to get into my house because something spawned in the doorway.
  8. I didn't 
 like how the same type of crafting reasource could have way different stats.
  9. There was no real war going on between the rebels and the empire.
  10. Player citys ruined 
 the landscape of the plants. As did harvester farms.
  11. The game just didn't have that Star Wars feel to it.... and still doesn't.
  
  I could keep 
 going but you get the point. This game is just one big train wreak and another.
  
  This game could have been great.... I hope a different company makes the next Star Wars MMO. I also 
 hope it's nothing like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survey77
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  yuck. This game was good when released, but needed polishing. After a million "fixes" there are 
 more bugs and less good content. Please do not pay the monthly fee anymore. Word has it that sony 
 really messed up this game. I don't know who messed it up, but its really bad now.
  
  If it went back to teh way it was .. then they would have something solid again. They just as well 
 scrap it and come up with something better now.
  
  So, if you haven't purchased this game ... please don't. World of warcraft is much better. SWG and 
 SOE have lost my business FOREVER AND EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis_x2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  If you really like Star Wars & i mean Really like Star Wars, this game is for you LOL. I mean that 
 the reason i brought it and for one thing, to be a Jedi. Now i mean sure i had my up & down with 
 this game but i still accepted as it is but these past few month with these new Dev.. team, their 
 somewhat bringing this game down to the ground..: (. Everything they throw in the game, i done it 
  done it all heh and now im an Elder Jedi and 
 kick a$$ on Ahazi sever LOL. Now if you new to the game or if you wanna play it, try to get a really 
 good video card because if you dont have one your gonna be lagy, ruberbanding i can go on & on, lol. Another 
 thing, their alot of kids be playing online and they be too cocky if you play any online game, you 
 understand but if you dont, dont take their crap and report them, i look at it as, what good for them 
 lol. The mission are pretty fun, long and somewhat borading but their fun..: P. You can meet all type 
 of Star Wars legend such as Jabba the Hutt, Darth Vader, Luke & all other Star Wars Expanded Universe 
 Characters. Well that mostly it, i can go on but i got other games to type up so..: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpgannon
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  People in the business have said that the only sci-fi MMO that could ever upset WoW's reign over 
 the MMO market is a Star Wars MMO. SWG fails terribly, not only as a game, but as a concept.
  
  SWG had a great premise. Set players in the Star Wars Universe, have an Empire and a Rebellion, 
 and let the players do whatever. Sadly, the developers hijacked the game and made it into what 
 focus groups wanted, not the actual players. Back before the first major upgrade, the CU, the game 
 had depth, and felt just like Star Wars. It really did. I remember once I was in a cantina and 
 some players in stormtrooper armor walked in. I hear the fight start, and see a JEDI! "Wow!" Everyone 
 in town rushed to come see the fight. Seeing a Jedi was a sight back then, since there were only 
 like three confirmed people that had made it that far. 
  
  Now, if I were to see an entertainer anywhere in the game, let alone in a cantina, I would be as 
 excited as that time I saw my first Jedi three years or so ago. The game has become a lesser clone 
 of World of Warcraft, and it's so clearly SOE trying to emulate Blizzard's success, I'd be surprised 
 if they denied it. WoW's system works terribly with SWG's. The NGE destroyed what was left of the 
 game. 
  
  I quit in May, which was hard to do. But once I started playing other games, I realized how in 
 bad shape SWG really is. I play EVE Online now, which I encourage anyone looking for a truly great 
 sci-fi MMO to try out. And anyone that still wants to play a sci-fi MMO that isn't purely in space 
 and more like the SWG Golden Era (the time right after Jump To Lightspeed came out) , I'd wait for 
 Tabula Rasa. SWG is just not worth investing time into now, unless you like feeling dissapointed 
 after 2-4 months. 
  
  PLEASE! NEW PLAYERS! If you plan to play the free trial, talk to veterans. The first two days are 
 cool, but after you hit level 30 or so you have nothing to do except grind to 80, and then buy 
 Mustafar and hit 90. DO not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobila99
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I had this game few weeks after it was out, it was my first MMORPG.
  
  This game used to be the most compicated MMORPG ever made,
  you could play for years and still 
 have lots to find out, not to mention to constant updates of events weapons and so on...
  
  After i passed through almost all the proffesions in the game, that each and every one were hard 
 to achive and could be used and make so much fun with them, i had gotten a jedi character and enjoyed 
 him very much since there weren't too many jedis around.
  
  Some more about the special and complexity of SWG before NGE is
  the crafting system , each proffesion 
 could place their own "Harvester" 
  they had to find perfect spots of high quality meterials and place an harvester there to get it 
 with time, and combining all these materials togather , and with the right skills, and the right 
 machinery they could create the finest weapons\foods\armor\droids and many many more things,
  not to forget there are always special items that can enhance .
  and there were also many "schematics" 
 of special rare weapons whice could be crafted after working hard to get their schamatics. - well 
 this is only one of so many and i know i missed alot from it.
  
  Well and what can i say about NGE? It destroyed an amazing game 
  and replaced it with terrible 
 game , hard to find the words to describe 
  this horror 
  
  NGE-
  - Well for first lets see... the interface - it looks like a kid from the 70's has been hired for 
 designing them.
  -the combat - have never seen such a terrible stupid decision, you need to targey the monster and 
 just mess click on your mouse it can shot billion bullets a second depends on how fast you can 
 click, this is just pathtic.
  
  well thats about all that should be interesting abot NGE, and if you wonder if its fun to be jedi 
 there and run like you never ran before , if you like clicking on the mouse like loonies while 
 looking at monster and getting killed in seconds thats bad... also this is pathtic that it is a 
 start proffesion whice you can start as a "Noob" so the game is full of newbie jedis that dont 
 know what the hell they are doing, not to mention how sad it looks when you attack something , 
 try to imgine yourself dusting a carpet but 100X faster, thats how it looks (but with lighting 
 stick) .
  
  Summery : Dont buy it if your new to this, the tutorial is a rip off and dosent reflect anything 
 from the full game, If they return the game to the time before NGE it would be the best MMORPG 
 out there thanks to its complexity that no other MMORPG ever got to achive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houtx1836
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing at launch, SWG was pretty cool. It had tons of bugs as they all do 
 but offered an experience no other game was. For it's time at THAT time it was cool. Then came 
 the Combat Upgrade - which over half the players hated. To add insult to injury the New Game Ehancement 
 made it a whole other game. Some player had spend 100's of hours playing as one class or more just 
 to have those classes and professions zapped away with the NGE. It was a really low blow. I am 
 surprised to see the game around despite it's updated wanna be FPS combat interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cskinner
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This was my favorite game of all time and I spent hours every day playing this for nearly three 
 years... but then SOE took a dump on it. I vow never to purchase another SOE item (you should too) . 
 Don't waste your money on this pile. It's a has-been... believe the old hype... keep the memories, 
 drop the game.
  
  they changed the controls, the classes, the skills, the ranks, the combat..... and they even went 
 as low as to dupe their entire subscriber base into purchasing an expansion while keeping quiet... until 
 the sales came in... that they were rehalling the entire game. They knew many would be unhappy... they 
 pushed it through anyway and cheated players out of one last chunk of $45 . SOE.... I hate you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGillies
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  I played the ten day trial of this game. I was happy to be finally entering the Star Wars universe. 
 From the moment I picked the jedi I was ready for action... Well I didn't get much action except 
 C3-PO doing a very lame tutorial. Then I had to escape from a prison with Han which is fine and 
 dandy till you hear him speak. The voice acting of all your favourite characters is gone down the 
 drain. Keeping with the audio, you got hear some of the classic Star Wars themes. After awhile 
 hearing the cantina music for the 20th time gets on your nerves. The controls of the game are pretty 
 simple. Only different thing from this game and other mmorpgs is that you have free aim. The land 
 combat is great till the camera goes all wonky. Then there was space combat which is a pain. Its 
 fun, but controlling the ship when going at high speeds is really hard. They really should either 
 let you go with the free mouse flying or like in freelancer the click and hold flight. Another 
 big problem is the lag. At any moment, bam you lag up and have to wait a few seconds. I know this 
 happens in all MMO's but this happened on a light populated server. All and all, the people at 
 LucasArts had great ideas with places to go, people to see, ships to fly and jedi's to become. 
 They laid those ideas down and let them bite the dust. If LucasArts tries this again I hope they 
 change the way they did things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralWhicks
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  I got this game about 1 month after it was released. It was really enjoyable and every month they 
 would have updates with something new to the game, this made it so exiting. I played it for 2 years 
 then I just didnt have time to play anymore the next time I played it was 1 year later and I 
 was hoping to see new things to do in the game, but I immediately realized this was not the same 
 game I had played before. 
  
  Before players had so much freedom, that to me its was truly like living the star wars experience. 
 I played for hours daily and I never ran out of things to do in game. This New Game Enhancements 
 ruined the whole experience narrowing it down to 9 professions where everybody wanted to be Jedi. 
 All of the cool abilities like Creature handling, mounts, group hunts, hiring soldiers from your 
 factions and more were gone. All you had to do was stupid quests were you fight bots. Paying 15 
 dollars a month to play a game that to me was like playing a crappy single player game, not worth 
 it. 
  The only way I will play this game is if everything goes back to how it was before the NGE, or 
 better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocanuta
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Iv been thinking of getting this game for some time now. I grabbed the demo last year and didnt 
 think much of it. My friend stayed on after the demo and is now highest level you can get on the 
 game. So after he kept nagging me to get the game i downloaded the demo again, then got myself 
 a subscription.
  
  I played for roughtly 4 hours as a crafter and hated it. I got so bored, so i created a new charictor, 
 a jedi. altho you dont get a light saber till level 26, the game is still amazing. You cant just 
 walk round doing nothing, you have to do missions, or run a house, or a city. Yes for you guys 
 who havent played, you can build citys, actualy most the citys i nthe game are player run. NEarly 
 every guild in the game has a city. I joined my friends guild and got a house in it.
  
  Iv been playing for a week now i have a light saber now, and im loving the game, i got Rage of 
 the Wookies after 3 days of playing.
  
  Its worth the cash monthly, and allot better than i expected.
  
  All i can say is, give ti 
 a chanse, dont give up on it instantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This game used to be really well planned out. It was a true RPG with much freedom to make your 
 character truly yours. You had the option of what to specialize in, weather that be a single skill 
 tree or a mixture from many different unrelated skill trees. Your race was unique and meant something 
 other then what you look like. Unfortunantly that all changed and went out the window with the 
 NGE, which compleatly changed this game into something totally different. It is no longer an RPG 
 in any sense. You pick your profession and that is it, you are in that one single profession with 
 no ability to mix anything. You wanted to be a rifleman with enough crafting ability to make some 
 basic powerups or just to make batteries for your droid? too bad, that isn't possible any longer. 
 You want to be a big strong Wookiee, sure you can choose that for how you look but your strength 
 is equal to a Human or Twe'lik. Combat, which used to depend on your characters skills and abilities 
 not consists of who has the better gun, and push the movement keys faster and can hold the fire 
 button down. The graphics and sounds are very nice, but that is the only things going for it. After 
 years with it and being one of the testers for this game, it is without a doubt no longer the same 
 game and not worth the time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmartin169
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game when it first came out and clearly, in it's original state, it is still 
 my favorite online game, yes better than WoW. However, when they changed over with this NGE (New 
 Game Enhancement) , they destroyed the unique core of this game, which happened to be a player driven 
 economy. 
  
  There was so much to this game in what you wanted to do and mixing talents made for diverse players, 
 the PvP needed some working, but it wasn't all that bad. But, SOE felt the need to eliminate it's 
 much more mature market and target a "gimmie" crowd. No longer do you see the vast amounts of crafters, 
 entertainers, and other non combat groups in large amounts at one of the many cities nor the groups 
 of combatants waiting in areas socializing then heading out on a big hunt, but you now see quick 
 and easy jedi running around a few other stragglers trying out the other professions or maintaining, 
 as close as possible, the profession they used to have, before the make me more like CoH or WoW. 
 
  
  They dumbed down the massive amount of different talents/classes you could have to a simple 9 major 
 professions with a few variations in those, not the what seemed endless amounts of hybrids you 
 could form. There still are many loyal Star Wars fans holding onto what's left, but I have yet 
 to here any of the old vets of the original SWG saying anything good. Player cities now empty, 
 Coronet used to be filled with people and now has a few afk players selling some goods. So, in 
 my opinion, let the game die, let someone else create a new version, but of course that won't happen, 
 it's just what I'd like to see, and yes I'm bitter, and yes I have to admit I did leave the game 
 after playing for 2 years, but the game's uniqueness drove me back after playing WoW for a few 
 months, hitting level 60, then feeling like the only thing left was continuous, long hour, instances. 
 It is at this time, where I opened my SWG account back up, but was shocked at the massacre that 
 had been done to it, I immediately closed my account within a week and a half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxspritexX
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty much fun being able to make your own star wars character was cool! The game 
 story is basicly the same as the star wars movies 4,5,6 you either choose the reblion or the empire 
 and once you choose you stick with the decion. Being able to become a jedi is a loong process so 
 get a large slurpy. Grinding is pretty much easy... and the fact they changed the game to a FPS is 
 pretty much not fun anymore so if you like FPS RPGS you could buy the game but its not going to 
 be fun... I enjoyed thios game when it was an rpg but now thats a FPS its pretty much the same. The 
 only possitive side to the FPS change is that the grunding is much easier and the PvP is more fun. Well 
 even though they made the game into a FPS its okay.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raukoEmon
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought SWG the first day it came out which was actually June 26th, 2003 not July 9th as it shown.
 
  
  The game was everything I had been planning for when I first heard of the game years previously. 
 
  
  The first 2 years were just about some of the most memorative moments I've ever had playing an 
 online game as this was also my first. The bonds made in game between the community were also a 
 huge part of the success of the game.
  
  Then came the Jedi.
  
  The first disastrous mistake by SOE which would eventually cause the destruction of the game. As 
 more and more people became Jedi they wanted more and more rights to becoming the alpha-class of 
 the game. As any seasoned MMO veteran would tell you an alpha-class is a very bad idea for any 
 game. SOE gave the Jedi more advantages over non-Jedi in every way possible. The game had now become 
 unbalanced and what more the game was averting from it's timeline of after A New Hope which most 
 people know you dont see thousands of Jedi running around in the movies. 
  
  So the non-Jedi started complaining and thousands were threatening to quit as the game was no longer 
 playable or fun.
  
  Months later SOE responded. Of course by this time we had all gotten used to SOE never giving the 
 community news of their current plans until 2 weeks before they published it.
  
  They created the Combat Update which would address the problems created over the couple of years 
 the game was made.
  
  Everyone thought, "Good, finally something. Now we might be able to play our non-Jedi for a change."
 
  
  Nothing had changed, the Combat Update only created even more problems and the Jedi seemed to grow 
 even more powerful.
  
  Did SOE ever play their game?
  
  As the game grew more unstable which each passing month SOE again pushed for yet ANOTHER combat 
 update. Yet this was even more outrageous and even more absurd.
  
  The New Game Enhancement
  
  Or as I like to call it the final nail-in-the-coffin. The deciding 
 point which would determine whether SWG would ever be fixed.
  
  To make an even longer story short the answer was no. The game's original 36 professions were scrapped 
 and shortened down to 9 PERMANENT classes (minus respec) . The beauty of SWG Pre-NGE was that if 
 you did not like your character's build you could surrender the skills and learn new ones. That 
 was gone and instead you had these 9 professions.
  
  And dont even bother trying to unlock Jedi. That was now made a starting profession.
  
  Their 
 was no more individuality in the game. You could no longer be a Master Teras Kasi with some Sword 
 and Fencer thrown in for kicks. No longer be a Ranger with a Bounty Hunter build. Everyone is the 
 same.
  
  The message boards were literally on fire. Thousands cancelled. SOE had become the embarrassment 
 of the MMO companies. The bonds that were made between players was gone and a great game was killed.
 
  
  The first couple of years in SWG can never be recreated again. The experience was unique and I 
 pity those who were not able to enjoy them or will ever be able to but mostly I pity SOE for their 
 laziness and web of lies they created. I hope someday a new SWG is made by a different company 
 and I hope it puts SOE to shame and out of business.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavien3
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  star wars galaxies: an Empire divided is a gret online star wars game. If your looking for a better 
 graphical, better story, and better, fighting, runescape (but star wars) , then you should definately 
 get this game on PC. but if you aren't going to connect online, then you are NOT getting the full 
 game, you could just get the demo, personally you should use the the full game in other words the 
 online version. the best part of star wars galaxies is you can be almost any species in the star 
 wars saga, and you can also be the kinds of people, like a merc, jedi, civilians, or rebels, or 
 Empire. ALL IN ALL you should get this game, if you like RPG games, and online games and star wars 
 games. see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaBooM57
Rating: 1
Date: May 26, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  ... Im lost to words - its horrible in all aspects!!! rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip 
 off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip 
 off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip 
 off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip 
 off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip off rip 
 off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fliip
Rating: 1.1
Date: May 13, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  SWG used to be my favorite game. I had 2 accounts on the same sever, and i absolutely loved the 
 game. I couldnt wait to get home from work and play play play.
  Then i was robbed. They took the game that i loved and threw it out of the window, and replaced 
 it with some kind of **** that made me want to cry. Everyone complained, for what good it did us, 
 we only got blocked from the forums. For what SOE did to a game like this i hate them and will 
 never play a SOE game again in my life. Lucas arts better not choose SOE to make SWG 2, because 
 alot of people think the same as myself. 
  As for the game now... its not even worth writing a review on it, other than to say stay the hell 
 away from it!!
  I used to enjoy exploring the worlds and PVP but now that all sucks. 
  When i tried the game in the NGE state i couldnt even find anyone on the server to say hello to. 
 Cities were empty, where before they used to be packed. 
  
  Anyway to sum it up atm SWG sucks. The reveiw should be re-revied in sight of the NGE and i think 
 people should be told about how poor it is. 
  
  There are good MMORPG's out there like EVE online and Guild Wars. As for SOE they are a joke, and 
 they are giving sony a bad name. I dont even want to buy a PS3 anymore because the thought of Sony 
 makes me feel sick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay; this game was pretty fun at first. I mean it was alright... but it wasn't going anywhere... for 
 the most part. I mean; my only goal was to become a jedi.... that was it... there was nothing else 
 to do but that... so I worked for it and worked for it... then never got it. The game didn't really 
 go "in depth"
  if you know what im hinting at... .yeah. It just isn't worth paying that much. It was a well thought 
 out game though; they just ... could've gone farther. Yeah; and then they made some stupid update 
 that ruined the whole game; I just quit; no more for me... This game gives you about a month of 
 fun and then its gone; the magic is sapped from playing it; time to go back to the xbox... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hkarinoryu
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  well it is tryue the game is fun and interresting though unfortunately SOE did turn it to a FPS 
 like game wich is really bad if we consider that the game is MMORPG. new player have to know that 
 the game they want, will or are playing now was really destroyed on 15th of november 2005. the 
 game was before providing 34 professions you could choosed in which you had the creature handler 
 wich is THE profession that was not kept at all and also was the originality of SWG, and have a 
 personal skill tree. the combat system was RPG like with a lot of special hit. in 2004 the game 
 allowed to have large group of 20 player and you had to get those group to interract with people 
 to manage something, every profession were needed. now unfortunately a jedi or a BH or a commando 
 (3 profession upon 9) can do the whole game solo. 2 other profession are non combat. the trader 
 have nothing to sell as SOE gave all free to loot . so they have nothing to craft and cannot play 
 anymore. Entertainers are still needed but unfortunately the communauty is now less than respectful 
 and mostly composed of young teenagers that should remain on FPS game or start to act a bit more 
 respectful.
  
  does SWG still give fun.. well yes some player are still friendly and resisting to the general 
 cahnge but just for a few number. the week after the 15th novermber 2005 80% of the population 
 left. the game is now 80% composed of veteran and 18% of the new player are under 15. among the 
 veteran 50% are under 15, wich means the game has now poor rp poor communauty outside few guilds.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hossier
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that you haven't heard?
  
  The graphics are mildly okay. Not the best, not the worst.
  
  The gameplay was fun, but, got 
 very repetitive having to click so many times, only coming up w/ the same attack.
  
  The sound was.... I'm not sure. Can't remember it.
  
  You play it, you don't wanna play it again.
 
  
  I thought it sucked overall, I don't know why I bought it. :\
  
  If you plan on buying this now, go buy WoW or Battlefield. They actually have people playing them, 
 unlike this game that just has a bunch of wierd bots and crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - This really is the funnest mmorpg i have ever played - combat wise, there are tons of 
 cool things you can do. There are annoying things about quests though , you have to travel extremly 
 distant places , and it takes forever. Most of the time playing the game you are traveling , i 
 even put on auto-drive and left for 10 minutes and it was still driving toward the goal. Also , 
 my computer has 512 ram , which should be enough for this game. But due to technical problems this 
 game requires 1 GB of ram , so it makes the load times extremly long , and even more boring waiting 
 , with laggy gameplay in big areas. 
  
  Graphics - Above the bar for most mmorpgs , the game has pretty good visuals. Nothing much to say 
 about it than that.
  
  Sound - All the classic star wars songs are included , and all the classic sounds as well. 
  
 
  Value - You can play this games for more than 100 hours , there are tons and tons of things to 
 do. 
  
  Bad Tilt - you have to pay 15 dollars a month for it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zwaard_Axe
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The game was pretty average before Rage of the Wookies, then it just sucked. They introduced a 
 horrible new combat system, and made so many item regulations that I couldn't even wear my armor 
 anymore. Now the have only a few classes because of ANOTHER update they did, that made it worse. 
 
  The game was not that great before, but I still played it, now however it is abysmal and you must 
 spend so long on the three starter planets with all basically the same terrain for the whole planet 
 (naboo is just grass studded with trees) and tatooine is just a desert with the occasional formations 
 (however they did get the dune sea right and the spires of rock around it) . Before they messed 
 up the game it was okay, nothing really special but good, and now it isn't worth your time. 
  
  And it is sad because I absolutely love star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakW99
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I first begun playing star wars galaxies about a month and a half before the nge, a friend 
 who has played since launch reccomended it to me, i tried it out for the free month and looooved 
 it. Although lvling up was pretty weird to get used to, i managed to reach lvl 10 in about a month, 
 Ok i was a n00b.
  
  You could pretty much do absoulutely anything you would expect to do in a star wars universe. At 
 first you choose your race and your name, then you get to customize your charecters appearance 
 from scratch. Next your transported into this space stationand tought the controls, then two jedi 
 fight and i was like OOOOOoooh jedi. Anyway, so basically the game was great, back then i would 
 give this game 8.5.
  
  But then they announce a major revamp, that will change the combat system dramatically, and turn 
 the game into a mmofps, they described it more "Star Warsy" and "Iconic".
  
  After only ONE WEEK OF TESTING they decide to push nge into live.
  It changed the user interface 
 completely, gave you crappy 5 second PVP battles, took away all meaning of most objects in the 
 game, and took away 23!!! yes you heard me, 23 proffesions, scrapped them and left us with 9 broken 
 proffesions. 
  
  With all that in mind, This game has excellent potential, however in the hands of SOE, we will 
 never really see its potential, i give this game 4.9 : (
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Vast array of options; excellent skill tree system as opposed to level advancement; good 
 character creation system; great community and universe; massive worlds (and there's 10 of them!)
 
  BAD: Rough around the edges; repetitive grinding combat; becomes a chore to advance to next skill 
 later on; bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs, and more bugs; performance so terrible that the game is essentially 
 umplayable; patches failed to fix performance issues; graphics became outdated fast
  
  Star Wars Galaxies has many, many problems, and although there is lots of content to the game, 
 these problems make all the rest of the game worse, and many, many patches failed to resolve these 
 problems despite continued fan complaints.
  
  So, let's get down to the basics. You start by choosing from one of ten races (bothan, twi'lek, 
 wookiee, human, trandoshan, rodian, zabrak, mon calamari, sullustan, ithorian) , and six classes 
 (artisan, marksman, brawler, entertainer, medic, scout) . There are slight bonuses for each race, 
 but for the most part it's superficial. The game does, however, feature an impressive character 
 creation system, and most characters do look very distinct from each other. The classes are a far 
 more important choice, as once you master a certain branch in each class you can advance into a 
 more advanced and specialized class (such as teras kasi artist, pistoleer, combat medic, bounty 
 hunter, creature handler, etc) . Instead of being based on levels it's based on an extensive and 
 complex skill tree, and there are noticeable differences between even one level on the skill tree 
 as you gain abilities and hone previous abilities. Obviously, what you can earn is capped by skill 
 points, but you may drop one of your previous abilities to focus on a new area at any time you 
 want, and you may train abilities from any class. This skill system is amazingly flexible and very 
 effective, and I wish that more RPGs would replicate it. However, advancing takes longer and longer 
 as you move up, and can become frustratingly difficult and repetitive at times. Only two characters 
 are allowed per server per account, but I prefer it this way, as it's easier to keep track of friends 
 and you can explore many different options for one single character due to the advanced and effective 
 skill tree system.
  
  Also when you start out, you may select one of 5 starting worlds (Talus, Corellia (my personal 
 favorite) , Tatooine, Naboo, and Rori) , as well as 5 more experienced worlds (Dantooine, Lok, Dathomir, 
 Endor, and Yavin 4) you can travel to at any time. The core planets have many major cities you 
 can do just about anything you want to in, while the "advanced" planets feature much harder creatures 
 and a few scattered outposts. 
  
  The game is interconnected in ways others only wish they were, and features a massive variety of 
 options. You can deposit and pick up cash or objects at "bank terminals" scattered throughout each 
 city, and may pick up anything you deposit at any bank terminal. Mission terminals in each city 
 give you missions, which mostly feature taking out a den of wild animals or a band of marauders 
 or outlaws, and give you a cash reward once finished. The worlds are scattered with a vast and 
 impressive array of creatures which range from easy for beginners to massive beasts that can only 
 be taken out in groups. The game offers a great opportunity for solo players and group players 
 alike, as there are many quests that can be done as a group or solo (although as you get more advanced, 
 you need to focus more on getting into adventuring groups) . The item system is completely player-driven, 
 with artisans crafting and selling their wares over the market, where other players buy and use 
 their merchandise. 
  
  One of my favorite aspects of the game is the community involvement. For whatever reason, people 
 seem to be friendlier and more accepting on this game than just about any other MMORPG. Joining 
 a guild is an awesome experience, and I experience nostalgia for the game from time to time just 
 so I can chat and hang out with mu guild again. Guilds can set up massive player-built cities, 
 and as yout guild gains more members you gain the ability to construct more things (such as your 
 own shuttleport so you can travel there instantly) , and some of the player-built cities are truly 
 impressive. It really give you a sense of guild involvement and attachment. Any player may also 
 purchase, maintain, decorate, and build a house at any time and just about anywhere. You can even 
 have more than one, so you can maintain one in your guild city and another private retreat in the 
 wilds of the countryside. 
  
  Also, guilds are generally alignment-based (rebel or imperial) . You have the option to choose of 
 either being rebel or imperial, although many players choose to remain neutral. You can also either 
 be overt (meaning your allegiance is bared for all to see) or covert (your allegiance remains hidden) . 
 The PvP system, while hardly the focus of the game, is well-implemented, involving friendly (and 
 sometimes not-so-friendly) duels and also occassional skirmishes between imperials (imps) and rebels 
 and assaults on player-built cities. Advanced guild cities can develop their own personal defense 
 systems, and I can recall several particularly immersive and impressive assaults on my guild cities. 
 Guild cities also give you a special attachment not seen in other games. I felt nostalgia for my 
 old city after my guild moved their guild city from one location to another.
  
  One of the most impressive aspects of the game is the massive scale. Each of the 10 planets is 
 truly massive and 100% explorable (you can walk up nearly 90-degree mountainsides) . The environments 
 are massive and fun to explore and there are a variety of vehicles and animal mounts to make travel 
 faster and easier. And while creatures are scattered everywhere, there's an easy-to-use system 
 in which you can tell how powerful they are and animals are clearly marked on the mini-map as either 
 aggressive or non-aggressive. The interface, while daunting at first, provides a variety of options, 
 including a simple waypoint system to guide you to your mission location or to mark a location 
 for your friends to find.
  
  Now that we've talked about the massive variety of options to be found in the game (and I really 
 only scratched the surface) and how ambitious they are, let's talk about the many downsides to 
 the game. First off, while the game is generally great for soloers, missions tend to become grind-fests 
 similar to many other RPGs, and combat is repetitive, dull, and downright boring at times. Luckily, 
 dying is no big deal, as you can insure your stuff to make sure it is lightly damaged, and you 
 simply respawn at a cloning facility and keep going. Since combat will be the major part of this 
 game for many people, this is a significant drawback. Also, as I mentioned earlier, advancing up 
 the skill tree can become difficult, repetitive, and time-consuming as you go on.
  
  Now we come to the major, major issue of this game: performance. The performance of this game is 
 terrible. The frame rate bogs down even on fast systems, especially in the large cities (and especially 
 Theed and Mos Eisley) , to the point of becoming unplayable. I found myself hating going into large 
 cities, simply because it would take, literally, hours to walk from one end to the other and get 
 to the starport to catch a shuttle, and I would even get kicked out from time to time. In addition, 
 I had a major connection problem (other people I know had this problem as well) , where sometimes 
 I would have to attempt to log in multiple times when travelling between planets just to actually 
 log on, as it would go through an exhaustive ten minute loading period just to kick me back to 
 the login screen. Usually I can handle performance issues and bugs, but it became ridiculous to 
 the point of me just giving up playing after a while. There are an excessively ridiculous number 
 of bugs that reduce performance. The worst bugs were never fixed while I was playing, and each 
 new patch introduced new bugs. Sometimes a patch would eliminate an annoying bug just to have it 
 come up in a later update. Also, each new update made my performance worse, even as I updated my 
 computer to help it run this game better.
  
  So, this game had many great ideas and positive traits, including a flexible, revolutionary, and 
 effective character development system (although I heard they replaced that with level-based characters 
 in a recent update) , a massive number of worlds to explore (and lots of content for each one) , 
 a great community, lots of great ideas, an excellent online community, with memorable and nostalgia-producing 
 guilds, and a useful and generally easy-to-use interface. However, this is counteracted by the 
 many problems this game had. A large variety of bugs, some of which were newly introduced in patches 
 and some of which were never corrected, repetitive hack-and-slash grind combat (and combat is the 
 focus of the game) , and terrible performance issues which just continued to get worse and eventually 
 made the game ultimately unplayable. And so now I come to the end of this excessively and unnecessarily 
 long review, with these final thoughts: Star Wars Galaxies could have been a great, revolutionary 
 game, but the potential was squandered. I hope they don't repeat their mistakes if and when they 
 make a Star Wars Galaxies 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammo-ReD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  I just LOVE SWG! I didn't play it for a long time (started June 27th - quit a few day after "CU 
 2") . The worst thing about SWG is SOE. Now, I'm not able to subscribe anymore, for some reason 
 (DAMN SOE!) . I was very pleased when I heard that BioWare buying SOE out. SWG is my favorite game 
 ever (along-side the Elder Scrolls-games) ! You can do almost everything; choose your appearance 
 to make yourself unique, choose profession and improve in it, build your own house (you can have 
 more than one!) and talk to people! It will actually seem like an alternative life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok I found this game utterly pointless and disgusting. Theres no classifaction to describe how 
 much it sucks. Thanks to getting this game like three weeks before City of Villains shipped out, 
 I had to wait to get CoV at Christmas Eve. Even if that wasn't the case this game still sucks. 
 The fact I had to wait fo CoV with the worlds crappist MMORPG staring me in the face DIDN'T help 
 me out though. I played this for about a total of I'm guessing ten-twelevish hours before having 
 to drop a Nuke on it. Well actually my friend bought it back for the full $60 as he liked it for 
 the roleplaying aspect, and wanted a second account. The dufus.
  
  Here are a few pros sort of..... Its Star Wars made incredibly suckie! Besides being Star Wars 
 which this game is a shame to, it sucks. Unless you like to pay I believe the standard $15 this 
 game asks a month to roleplay though you can join a website for free tor roleplay, stay far away! 
 FAR AWAY! Though you can talk to your buddys that you will be roleplaying with like your instant 
 messaging oppsed to Private messaging one on say gaiaonline. com (only role playing place I know 
 of myself) . You get litte houses that aren't nearly the hassle decorating as your going to take 
 twenty minutes traveling from one planet to another to reach it, to only decorate it with horrible 
 choices of furnature. If your going to buy a game based on choices of decorating things buy City 
 of Heroes or Villains. In it you get a very nice large selection of clothing to mak unlimited costumes. 
 Your Supergroup bases you can build are like there chracter creator or Star Wars house buildingX100000. 
 Ya saddly enough it's that much not any fun!! I'd rather go play with Barbie and Ken on there honeymoon, 
 for the 50th time.
  
  Bleh what else can I nag on. Oh ya the fighting system! Though I would hardly call it a "fighting 
 system." It was more like click on one or two moves are your charcter attempts to aim his gun with 
 the worlds worst animations (Heck Sega did better then these animations!!) , and shoot it's enemy. 
 Same goes witha light saber and w/e else u may use. In order to save myself from typing a novel 
 the fighting system IS COMPLETE WORTHESS WASTE FROM A COW'S BEHIND! Once again if you buy a MMORPG 
 for it's fighting system you got one of three choices for a good game here.
  
  Going off track for a second in a second here :) 
  
  Not Stars Wars, not Star Wars, and not 
 Star Wars lol. Though seriously if you want a superb fighting system check out City of Villains 
 and Heroes for this again. It features THE best Player Vs Enviroment (PvE) action you will find 
 in todays realm of MMORPG's. World of WarCraft isn't bad with there fighting system either really. You 
 will notice when you team with say a fellow Hunter or Shaman they have the same exact moves/spells. 
 Even though it features intense fun battles inside a Instance, CoH/V offers unlimited capability 
 with charcter indivuidality (sic) . WoW has none of it, and lots of it. But this isn't about CoX 
 games or WoW now is it? Correct! It's about how Star Wars sucks! Oh almost forgot Guild Wars has 
 a very evoled fighting system too that really nails down your focus on mastering your skills.
 
  
  A few more key ideas why SWG sucks th.... I won't continue as this may get me in trouble haha. 
 With the Star Wars universe crawling with SOOOO MANY UNQUIE DIFFERENT LIFE FORMS!!! Why is it you 
 get a selection of like what was it erm eight spiecies you could choose from? Sad folks, very very 
 sad. The worlds are primarly flat, barren (just not deserts but the world barren itself) , and crawling 
 with lots of nothingness. 
  
  On a plus side to the barrenness though, your sure to get a pretty bad lead poisoning infection 
 playing in all the sand, or Tatowine or however you spell that planet's name assuming I remember 
 the right one :D!!! All that dust, and dirt, and lead, yum...... 
  
  *Sigh* This game only disgusted me in so many ways. From a breif glance at the game it looks to 
 be fairly good, but don't be fooled by it's shinty lusty pictures that come from the Star Wars 
 MOVIES!!! and not the GAME! Or the video clipfootage of the movies!!! I tell you it's pure lies 
 and fasl advertisment! Theres no way a game on a video clip can look so cool, yet simply suck so 
 horribly bad when you play it. I guess that saying you probarly heard as a kid going like "It's 
 not whats on the outside (the cool looking pictures, videos and such) but whats on the inside (the 
 gut busting, tear dropping game it truely is) that counts."
  
  With that I'm off. I've been wasting enough time on my newly formed union and PM'ing random folks 
 and my officiers trying to get them to join/help out. I still got a few hours worth of homework 
 to do for my Mythology class icks. Ya I get up at 6am it's 9:30 so I gots to hurry and go back 
 to Gamespot and kill another hour or two before I actually do my work. 
  
  Bottom Line of Star Wars Galaxeies, SUCKS! It really really truely does!!! Oh my lord it sucks!!!!! 
 Its the sucks worse then the suckiest suck that ever sucked (Yes I ripped off the one shirt from 
 Hot Topic and screwed it up horribly bad) . I'd rather have myself quatered aftering being crucified 
 for two days as three is the day you die supposdly, then have to go through say six hours straghit 
 of playing it non stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revan7382
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  SOE's Star Wars Galaxies is everything you could ever ask for in a Star Wars Game! Everything from 
 working the black market as a Smuggler, to hunting unsuspecting Jedi as a Bounty Hunter. Getting 
 a group of friends together to grind a few womp rats never gets old.
  
  Plus you can take your fight into space. With a huge variety of fighters and cruisers to choose 
 from, the action never stops!
  
  A lot of people take the game too seriously and complain about the physics and stuff, but since 
 when do people care if a Star Wars game looks real? If you just want to have fun in the Star Wars 
 universe and meet a lot of new people, then here is a perfect addition to your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lateralus01
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  I had been playing Star Wars Galaxies for over 2 years. When I started playing, I loved it! It 
 was star wars and i was having a great time. After about a year I decided to start on the path 
 to become a Jedi. This is a process that took about 18 weeks if you keep up with your grind. As 
 the Jedi population grew, the devs made adjustments to the game that were probably necessary to 
 make the game fair to non-jedi (even tho this pissed us jedi off terribly) . Not long ago they created 
 the CU, or combat upgrade. Although this was an annoyance, it did make it a better game in some 
 ways. 
  
  Now, the game is in what is called the NGE, or New Game Enhancement. This is ABYSMAL. The entire 
 interface is changed. The camera view has become this over the shoulder view and the combat is 
 that of a FPS; although, it is a crappy FPS at that. Before, it felt like you were really in the 
 star wars universe. Now, walking around in your house, trying to decorate, feels very awkward. 
 Worst of all, 32 professions has been changed into like 9 starting professions! And Jedi is one 
 of them!!! Everywhere you look you see some tard running around with a lightsaber. This does not 
 deserve to carry the name of Star Wars. One of the character classes is trader.. another is officer. 
 What's a person gonna pick when they start the game.. hmm trader or jedi... decisions decisions. 
 I would have rather them just take Jedi out of the game completely. At least then it would hold 
 true to the star wars movies. Overall, stay away from this game at the moment. I have hope they 
 will some day change the game again, but it isn't likely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcatvmp
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  they ruined a potentially exellent game whilst trying to stop nerfs dont buy it now its rubbish 
 my 5 year old can play it. So u looking at a guy who got the 2nd visit from the old man the day 
 before the combat upgrade 2.. i hated them for that. so now u better of trying the other mmorpg's 
 out there before u resort to this game.. Soe u blew it big time. terrible shame ..
  
  mmm graphics and stuff is ok gameplay is ok but so simple compared to the good old days. aaarrr 
 i remember back in the day standing on the bridge at anchorhead shouting for a group to go to the 
 squill caves.. And remember creature handlers with a couple of baby mounts following em around 
 shouting for sale... owww happy days so like game is mashed people try something else first.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firejeff
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  A review of this game from someone else. I did not do this and the guy who did (cjhrules) gets 
 full credit:
  
  Read the review on the starter-kit to get the TRUTH! This game is finished. They destroyed it all 
 with the NGE. Don't believe all thees guys writing good review for som $OE money. There is no more 
 crafting and no more hard times to become a Jedi since you can start with a jedi. It's nowa game 
 for retard and children, so go read the reviews on the Star Wars galaxies Starter Kit here on Gamespot 
 to get the truth about this game tha Lucasarts and $OE destroyed. Don't wait your money on an easy 
 game with no substance and no content. And don't expekt war between reb and imp, caus ethey haven't 
 even implemented the galactic civil war. (end quote)
  
  1. We dont get payed by sony to write good reviews for there games. We pay THEM to play their enjoyable 
 mmorpgs.
  
  2. There is still crafting. This is false infromation.
  
  3. Just because the game is now meant for a broader audience dosent mean the game becomes instantly 
 retarded and for children. It means however that there will be an improvement in profit for sony 
 and the more people playing the game the better for the community.
  
  Ok I am done with that so now we are going to get to some more actual points about the game.
 
  
  Many of the veterans complain it is now much too easy to become a jedi and it spoils the game experience. 
 This is a smart business move by sony.
  Most people want to be jedi. Not just random people wandering around.
  You also say that people 
 lost years of work when they got rid of classes like creature handling. Guys I DO feel sorry for 
 you. Its horrible when it happens but there were a very small amount of you guys and it was the 
 best thing sony could do. They tried not to get rid of that much of the stuff people already have 
 mastered. Another thing people seem to be unhappy with is the fact that the game has made it "way 
 too easy" to level up. Personally this is a good thing because in the old star wars galaxies it 
 too forever to level up and the rewards were even smaller for doing so. Now we can get to the whole 
 review
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay isn't fantastic nor revolutionary. But it is an improvement from the slow boring 
 stuff that you got in the old game engine.
  What we have now is more of a shooter which is fine with me.
  
  Graphic: Alright this is really 
 surprising me. The graphics in this game are beautiful. Absolutely beautiful. But people still 
 give it ones? I have a feeling they havent even played the game. Maybe they are blind? Or on the 
 other hand maybe they are just desperate to give this game a 1 or a 2 for no reason whatsoever.
 
  
  Sound: Sadly people are putting in wrong info yet again. The sound is utterly fantastic in galaxies. 
 From the good ol' star wars tunes to the lightsaber and blaster sound effects the game is well 
 rounded in the sound category.
  
  Value: It really depends on how much you are going to play this game. Is it worth the 15 bucks 
 a month to play? For me it is but for other people it may not be. I suggest trying it out for FREE 
 by downloading the trial located at this very site.
  
  Tilt: I can tell you that I love this game. Always have and always will. I loved both game engines 
 very much but honestly I think that what Sony has done is a great improvement.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CiscoJP
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I started playing SWG since the day it was released. While it's true that it had some bugs, the 
 game was vastly different from all other MMORPG's. It had tremendous depth and customizability. 
 No longer were you stuck in one or 2 classes. You could be a Ranger, with some medical skills, 
 who also played in the cantina's at night. And you could also have a store on the outskirts of 
 town. Lots of things needed to be fixed. The professions were a bit unbalanced. The speeders were 
 way too slow to be true to SW canon. Space combat in JTL was atrocious. But the core game was a 
 lot of fun.
  
  Now, with the NGE, they're taken all the fun, complexity, and customizability out of it. You can 
 only be 1 profession. Anyone can start as a Jedi. No more crafting. The game is now a (poor) WoW 
 clone. The real players of this game loved the complexity, the depth. Now it's just another bad 
 online game that they have the nerve to charge monthly fees for. If I wanted to be a Jedi, not 
 be able to craft anything, and not be able to have any other skills, I would have played another 
 little game by LA called Jedi Academy.
  
  Skip this game. When it was first released, it had the potential to be the biggest, most complex 
 and immersive online game ever, and it would have had the Star Wars name to boot, Now, it's not 
 even a shadow of it's former self. They have ruined it forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I played galaxies for over a year and to see it suddenly be destroyed has made me so angry at soe. 
 But its not like im surprised it has been going down hill and its all soe fault. First off the 
 original professions had problems that were continuously promised to be fixed and instead they 
 cut them out and replaced them with 11 from over 30 and some have gone from bad to worse my prof 
 Smuggler couldnt smuggle anything thing from day 1 but rather than putting it into the game they 
 removed the only other good thing they could do.
  
  Trust me this game should be killed and Lucas arts should get some more competent people to remake 
 this disaster. this game is almost as bad as jar jar binks and that should describe it all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0le
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  In SWG there are tons of things to do. The game is only really fun if you are good at it and put 
 a lot of time into it. I have basically completed everything there is to do in the game except 
 for the space portion, which can be very adventurous, especially with the POB (multi passenger) 
 ships such as the millenium falcon. There have been many CU's (Combat Upgrade) and updates which 
 have made many people upset. I have had my character for 720 days or something around that and 
 I have loved every day of it. Just try the game and I promise you will like it and get into it. 
 Only down side is that they took 32 professions and combined them into 9. PvP is great, Imperials 
 vs. Rebels. Raiding towns, using tactics, etc. 
  
  Try it for a week or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Read the review on the starter-kit to get the TRUTH! This game is finished. They destroyed it all 
 with the NGE. Don't believe all thees guys writing good review for som $OE money. There is no more 
 crafting and no more hard times to become a Jedi since you can start with a jedi. It's nowa game 
 for retard and children, so go read the reviews on the Star Wars galaxies Starter Kit here on Gamespot 
 to get the truth about this game tha Lucasarts and $OE destroyed. Don't wait your money on an easy 
 game with no substance and no content. And don't expekt war between reb and imp, caus ethey haven't 
 even implemented the galactic civil war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I played this when it first came out, and it had a lot of great ideas. I stopped playing for a 
 while because it was buggy, as did manyu people I know, but always planned on coming back. Well, 
 upon coming back I found the game to really stink. They basically took every good idea of the game 
 out and made it a lame version of EQ (or WoW) . You used to be able to customize your toon by picking 
 exactly what professions you wanted to learn. You could be a bounty hunter and have some skills 
 as a doctor to help heal minor stuff in a pinch. Or you could learn to use differant weapons, wear 
 differant armors, ect. You could become a hybrid profession or elite professions, just about every 
 toon was differant, which was really cool. Now you just pick one profession and you level just 
 like every other game out there. This game was at least a 8.5 with the bugs, and all they needed 
 to do was fix the bugs and it would have been 9.5. Now its a solid 1. There is nothing left of 
 the original ideas that made this game so cool, it is one of the biggest disappointments I have 
 ever had gaming wise. It makes no sense what so ever. WHY??? Oh, they added space combat, which 
 is aweful, and the graphics and sound are nothing compared to other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Crusader
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is a full on experience of feeling like you were in the world of Star Wars. This release 
 really changed how people get to feel around the world of the game.
  
  Although there was a downside with all the bugs there was an extremely amount of places to explore. 
 I mean come on, whats better than fighting a rancor in 1-st person other than seeing it on Episode 
 6!
  
  The game has a level of maturity starting higher than most MMORPG's other than EVE Online's releases, 
 but once you get the hang of this game, it really has its likes.
  
  I have played this game for awhile, but i found myself switching to EQ2, because i started out 
 to be a big fan of EQ1. After not playing the EQ2, i had went to WOW.
  
  After not playing galaxies for about 1.5 years, i had found a 10-day trial on the so called "NGE." 
 Im like, well ill give it a go. When going into the world of it, it was like playing wow just with 
 star wars like environment. It really sucked badly. There was a numerous amount of people who quit, 
 and minors started to explore this one throughout the 9 professions using jedi as a main one. I 
 found this a waste of 10-days of playing time, and i hope i will not be finding myself going back 
 ever agian.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was a let down. At first it was pretty good but soon after it started to die. The game 
 has rebels and imperials which the player can join. The game also has quests and skills such as 
 being a jedi and using the lightsaber.
  
  But the game went down during their combat revamps. They had alot of professions at first ranging 
 from bounty hunter to medics to doctors to creature handles but now they reduced to a few small 
 professions. The game also has jedi as one to be picked as before it had to be unlock by doing 
 quests. The story was destroyed due to this because jedis were no suppose to be running around 
 freely with vader around. But also its because jedis are the most strongest class making it more 
 used then other professions.
  
  The game has some good things such as large landmasse and allowing space travel and planet travel. 
 It also has the characters from starwars series luke, leia, vader and the rest. The game also has 
 landmarks allowing the player to visit and see places like theed and mos esiley to see it and feel 
 the city and locations. 
  
  Overall not the best online game and could be been better but for now have to deal with it if your 
 starwars fan. Try the trial before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is a tremendously fun MMO experience. The Graphics are first rate and have a 
 much more realistic feel than nearly any other game on the market. Character customization is exceptionally 
 deep, and nearly any race will make for an interesting looking and enjoyable playing experience. 
 The new class system has received a lot of negative reviews, but unless you are into the hardcore 
 grind that many MMOs fall into, the classes are pretty well balanced with the exception of the 
 entertainer. Gone are the days of spending hours crawling over the same small section of land grinding 
 kills. Galaxies' inclusion of space combat, land speeders (or equivalent) travel options for beginning 
 characters, and a death system that is almost to kind make this a casual gaming experience unlike 
 anything else on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game started off as brilliant. I got introduced by a friend who didn't even play it. It was 
 very good. As the days went by, I got friends, joined guilds, advanced in professions and was very 
 happy. I got to uber-happiness when I got a guild of my own. But, whenever I went to bed at night, 
 I felt so sadly hollow. It was loveable and hateable. Then NGE walked in and killed my enthusiasm. 
 It ate away my life and my soul. I hate it. I may return. But not soon probably.
  
  If anyone has the game, what I need you to do is talk to weno, or sunrunner. weno. Please. Tell 
 him Styur Voln, musclassia, has gone. Please.
  
  If anyone does this for me, please mail me. or whatever. I just need to know that this one person 
 knows I've gone. He prob won't mind so much, but I'll be a little sad until I know he knows I've 
 gone.
  
  This game has killed me. I may return, and it is good, but, when you say goodbye to a friend, or 
 just turn off the computer, you may too possibly feel just how I do. Shame, but it's ruined any 
 online experience forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordCorbanus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Starwars Galaxies the best online game today i think. The fact that you can create your own character 
 choose from over a wide variety of professions make friends with anyone in the world and just have 
 fun. I had so much fun playing this game, i had a char on ahazi, tempest and intrepid. it kicked 
 ass. it was so much fun. But sadly, my computer got a virus which shutdown my whole computer and 
 delted all of my files. so C-Net sent me a disc that had all of my origonal files that came with 
 the comp, nothing downloaded, and so i had to download all of it back onto it, but now since my 
 i would have to redownload it my dad won't let me because he thinks its a waste of money. WASTE 
 OF MONEY MY ASS! He doesn't know how much time we spend playin this game and how far we get to 
 just lose it all at once i mean ITS VERY ADDICTIVE, its so addictive i stay up for 2 days or more 
 straight playing it making my eyes so red and bloodshot it hurts to look at even an ounce of light. 
 Thats how addictive this game is. Its addictive because it is good. But i will get back online to 
 play this game, I SWEAR THIS TO YOU I WILL! just so boring without talkin to my friends. WELL THESE 
 ARE MY LAST WORDS, STARWARS GALAXIES ROCKS MY SOCKS OFF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloveaqt
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I've played SWG since Nov 2003 and watch it go through all the incarnations of pre-CU, then CU 
 and finally NGE. Well, some of the reasons that the game was so interesting to me anyway was it's 
 difficulty. So, many ways to build a personal template to meet your particular playing style. Each 
 time they came out with a new release there was something that nerfed my current template, well 
 I managed to change my template accordingly. Now that template was so nerfed by the SIMPLISTIC 
 method of 9 iconic (choke right!) professions. There is now path but one..... Especially if previously 
 you were a crafter and combantant. What is even worse is it seems I picked all the wrong professions, 
 all gone, TKA, Ranger, Scout, Creature Hander, Rifleman. All the professions that I was interested 
 in. What replaced them - nothing. What other issues - bugs bugs bugs.
  
  Why do I still play - I love the concept of the game and hope that SOE finally gets their act together 
 and find balance in the FORCE one for the gamer that likes the difficulty of stategizing a template 
 with those casual players that just want shoot-em-up --- like WoW. I switched to WoW and I'm bored 
 of quests. 
  
  I remember the days when I'd take my creatures and just run and explore the planets to see what 
 was there for hours. Since, there are no artifical boundries except for being at the end of the 
 map it was fun exploring and finding new creatures and such. That would still be fun but without 
 my creatures to help me - well not a wise thing to do on some of the tougher planets.
  
  Till they get all the bugs fixed and bring more complexity back to the game I'll just hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jostark
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  hi all 
  
  don't buy this game they lie about the 30 free days that (the free month) come with the game and 
 will draw money from your creditcard the second you create a account. this is no jest it hapend 
 to me and I am in a mail war with the SWG people right this minute
  
  so..
  it all started with me being bored and I decided to try the SWG 10 day free trail, that whent somewhat 
 good a bit buggy but nothing game breaking (ore so I thouth) i whent down town and got SWG the 
 total experience from my lokal game store, when I installed the game thats when all hell broake 
 lose, it was not posible to logg in, the game demanded that I update my account information with 
 walid creditcard information (I still had a few days left on the free trail) the remaining traile 
 days disepered, ok I can live with that but then they billed my creditcard the moment I pressed 
 send, no free month that came with the game I just got still in plastic and nice n shiny, it took 
 me about a week to realise this.
  
  this is all bad but it do not compere to how broaken the game is, about 40% of the quests in game 
 are inposible to complete, it is simply to mucth to go in to, this game is simply broaken and i 
 have to add I have tried beta versions that have less buggs
  
  ps.
  dont flame me for spelling please (swedish and dyslectik)
  ds. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This once good MMORPG is now a shell of itself. The graphics are decent but not playable if they 
 are maxed out. A good connection and computer won't help you either- I have both. The sound in 
 the game is fine. nothing special but not terrible either. You can hear entertainers play some 
 classic SW songs in the cantinas. The content is what really has been lost. They took away over 
 twenty mix and match professions making you be one of 9. The game play content is lacking as well. 
 They are slowly fixing bugs that plagued missions and quests every publish. Unfortunately, they 
 aren't greating too many free mission/quests. If you don't mind spending $20 for the game, $15 
 per month for subscription, $29 for Obi Wan expansion, and $25 for the Kashyyyk/wookie expansion 
 then feel free a game with lag and bugs. Sony needs to fix up many aspects of this game before 
 ayone should pick it up. Give them until the fall of 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcatxzx
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  .... this isn't even the same player review graph that was up a month ago lol. The old, I mean REAL 
 one, was all red with no green, displaying the fact that the overwhelming majority of reviews considered 
 the game "Bad" to "Abysmal". Nice belated-Christmas gift for SOE, Gamespot, redoing the review 
 graph to show the game more favorably. Do you guys really think no one would notice that? I mean 
 the real graph was posted on the SWG forums repeatedly and put into many upset player's self-made 
 videos.
  
  ROFL, what a joke.
  
  (before revamping of the game into a live beta this review would have been totally the opposite 
 of what it is..... possibly if they had even waited another year to implement the changes in a 
 smooth, polished form.... but that's just not how SOE operates)
  
  There is a reason why this game has made Yahoo! Games, The New York Times, The Washington Post, 
 etc., since they revamped the game in November 2005 - each time about how the players feel totally 
 screwed by SOE. 
  
  Yahoo! Games may have summed it up best with their recent article title, "Star Wars Galaxies: An 
 Empire Imploded".
  
  By the way.... check out the latest Producers Letter reaction to this game and you'll get an idea 
 of how the players feel about how SOE runs this once great game...... (who knows how long it will 
 be there, and how many more posts they'll delete considering they have already removed 2 full pages 
 of player responses..... and I think, by my count, I've seen 3 positive reactions out of 300 responses 
 to one producer and over 400 to the other's letter haha!)
  
  http://forums. station. sony. com/swg/board/message? board. id=DevDiscussion&message. id=23051#M23051 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesomighty
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting this to be really of coolness because on the commercials it just looked so cool, 
 but then playing it for days was boredom. Entire boredom. Yeah I was entertained for a while, but 
 then after a while it just got to the point where it was just no fun anymore. It just got too repetitive 
 and the quests are just too boring. There is no music and poor sound quality which makes this game 
 even worse than it is. Game play is well boring, sure you have some abilities but well I dunno 
 what to say but its boring. Graphics are not too great compared to other games. It looks like it 
 was made for the Sony Play station. Well I just have to say one thing. Don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERCHIEFUSMA
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  ive played SWG on Pre-CU and Pre NGE, i have even played SWG after both were intiated. Sure the 
 NGE Ruined the original Experience. But it didnt Ruin the game like others say. The PvP is still 
 good, but since so many veterans left its hard to find the usual guild battles we used to see before 
 the CU. But there is still alot to this game. But it suffers from alot of games and bad reveiws 
 from veterans that say the game is ruined beyond repair. i am also a veteran and i do miss the 
 pre-cu days but we cannot dwell on the past (Unless SOE Wants to have a rollback) SWG is still 
 fun and has alot of potential. i really hope this game doesnt go down because of some mistakes, 
 i hope it comes back in the next couple months with a rollback to bring veterans back with some 
 SMALL changes to bring new players. If this happens the SWG experience will hopefully be returned 
 to the ones that loved it back in the day and i remain hopefull till SOE Says SWG is dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionwingcroff
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty good , if you like games with lots of sit down and craft or hunt the poo out of every 
 thing just to get xps then you'd like it before the revamp, now its all weird its still real fun 
 but it has draw backs, its good cause u can own a house, business, car, ship, and if your real 
 hardcore with it your own rebal or imperial base. the facttions are cool cause you can own all 
 the equiptment from the movies. you can also own pets. Unfortunatly they got rid of most of the 
 classes. and if you were playing before you got preatty agrivated because all that time you spent 
 in all your classes whent poof, now its all team this and team that so it has alot more player 
 interaction, but it still lost something in the transferance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaar_Asri
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars galaxies begain as a online world trying to mimic a star wars universe. Unfortuatly it 
 has massively declined do to the enourmous amout of bugs. It is very common to experiance bugs 
 that can literally take away your movement of the character. Also to run this game you need a powerful 
 computer. Quite a investment for some. I suggust that you have at least 750 megs of memory and 
 a AMD 1600+ or 1.6 GHZ + to run this game. Ideally I would suggest 1.5 gig of ram if your using 
 a operating system like XP that requires lots of ram. The game world is not maintained very well. 
 The astonishing number of bugs, (including Voids) is to the point of unbearable. Online help is 
 no-existant. No gamemasters are avalible. The game was designed by Julio Torres based off of the 
 Star Wars universe. Unfortuantly Torres had no experiance with online games and as a result turned 
 the game from a online experance to a 1 person shoot-a-thon much like Battlefront. The game isn't 
 worth playing. The community is too spread out and bitter. Few vets remain and the ones that are 
 there can't help much because the game interface keeps changing. Skip It for the time being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mullanman
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  After the patch, the entire gameplay of the game has changed, and I'm afraid it's for the worst. 
 Players who played for months on end to become a jedi will be dissapointed at least. The intro 
 to the game displays a nice real time fighting system, but after you pass and enter the game, it 
 goes downhill.
  
  From d&d style combat to a glitchy third person shooting game, It's sad to see such a thing happen 
 to a game that had so much potential. Attacking groups of enemies can be frustrating, and fleeing 
 from a battle is now almost impossible, as enemies can shoot through walls and ground.
  
  If you're looking for a good online mmo, stay away from SWG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidr0ck6964
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  i played dis game for a year four times a week, and ever since bout november time it has been destoryed 
 and is for simpltons that cant work out the stats bla bla. i wud of given this game 10/10 before 
 but not its pushin for a 1/10. devlopers of this game neva listened to the protests gven to them 
 and do wat they want and not wat the players want your playin a game made by a bunch of retards 
 who act liek that want to ruin this game., dont waste your money on this!! for your benfit go and 
 get world of warcraft, im bout to start on that and has great ratings.
  also uk servers go down the same time has american servers which is durin the uk day time. so unless 
 u want to be up til 5 in the morning playing on this game u wil neva get a good value for ur money 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted this game to be good, I really did. I love the Star Wars stories and apart from 
 KOTR, was still waiting for that killer Star Wars game.
  
  So it was with great anticipation that I bought the game, took it home, installed it and then waited 
 for all the updates to come down.
  
  My first impressions...... What on earth is going on, where do I go, what do I do. Absolutely awful 
 and not worthy of a monthyl fee.
  
  But I wanted to give it a good try so I agreed that I could carry on, un-monitored and have a proper 
 go at the game.
  
  The developers could have done so much more with this game, they really could have. Everything 
 seemed just so confusing and difficult and it was impossible to know where you were and were you 
 needed to be.
  
  So give it a try if you really must, but don't expect too much, that was you won't be too disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  SWG: ED is an great MMORPG! You can choose your profession such as bounty hunter, jedi, artiasn, 
 shipwright, and much more!! Theres tons of weapon's from the critically acclaimed Star Wars movies 
 and more never before seen! There also several planets you can go to, and tons of vehciles available 
 to you! Get a job from the local marketeer and earn some extra cash or get a mission and earn cash 
 and skill! Buy your house and customize it the exact way you want! Create a mine and get material 
 used to build your crafting work and go to the local Bazaar (Ebay for SWG) and put it up for sale! 
 Or kill a musk rat and sell the hide, bones, and meat. Or use them to create posts and guns. Do 
 practically whatever you want in this unbelieveable game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sekak
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  The "New Game Enhancements" has dumbed down the game and SOE has resorted to false advertisements. 
 What SOE did to this game with its "NGE" patch was a mockery to all gamers, you literally do not 
 have to think at all when playing this game (How great does that sound? Never having to use your 
 brain. Not even once?) . Furthermore what used to be an extraordinarily unique game of its own genre, 
 is now a sit, "point" and "click" game that you pay a $15 monthly fee toward. In my opinion, I 
 can get 100x the enjoyment out of first person shooters like counterstrike or battlefront 2 for 
 free.
  I played this game for three years, and I quit a week after the "NGE" was installed into game. 
 For 3 years, I worked my way up to find the "secrets" to unlocking Jedi. After 3 months of finally 
 unlocking it, SOE robs me of my glory and all others that were to come. The experience I received 
 from unlocking Jedi and the quests that were involved before I was actually given a saber was in 
 no comparison with any other. And I feel terribly sorry for those that did not get that chance. 
 The "NGE" they installed, deletes all 32 but 9 of the professions in the game. 1 of the 9 starter 
 professions is now Jedi. With the game prior to "NGE," players who had achieved Jedi were taught 
 to hide in secrecy, never able to flaunt their sabers in front of other players or else you would 
 fall victim to a player Bounty Hunter. But now.... Jedi has been turned from an elite, high respected 
 class into a Free Jedi Bribe to buy the game. And to add on to this, Player Bounties have been 
 deleted.
  Also Previously you were capable of dropping and changing your desired gameplay, but now your restricted 
 with only one unless you decide to delete your character. 
  The aftermath of the "NGE" is beyond disastrous. The game also contains more bugs and glitches 
 than a computer would with the AIM buddy pic Virus. And for these glitches, the Dev Team of SWG 
 seems to hold no interest in repairing any known bugs. All they ever do is keep adding and expanding 
 to the game to the point that no player has to walk or ride to explore any new terrain within the 
 game. 
  The New Starter Kit, allows any new player to be able to travel to any desired location, any given 
 spot/coordinate in the game with the pressing of a single button..... The entire integrity of this 
 game has been deleted with the introduction of this "NGE" patch, and despite the veteran-gamer 
 community for the demand of the gameplay prior to it, SOE does nothing.
  This game is completely worthless, like I stated in the topic link, I would rather play Sesame 
 Street than to "PAY" to play this Mockery of a game that literally makes you dumber, just by looking 
 at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinganuthin
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game at one time was had infanite possabilities and choices at many differant stages. 
  At one time you could mix and combine the skills of 32 profesions but now you must pick one of 
 six and your path will be no differant than anyone else who is the same class as you.
  
  Before major changes to the game, you had the choise of being a pistoleer for combat pve and pvp 
 action as well as being a weaponsmith for to keep your bank filled with credits. 
  Nothing like haveing a guild member who could make you some unique, powerful weapons using special 
 loot you found. Now with the changes, crafters are an endangerd species on the brink of extinction.
 
  If you wanted to be a Bounty Hunter, you could decide if you wanted to gear more towards carbines, 
 pistols, or a mix of both AND you could seek out contracts to hunt player Jedi's that the Empire 
 didnt want around... now? Well, lets just say you get to hunt NPC (non-player characters) for a 
 mere 300 credits when you were making 100's of thousands off of real Players who would welcome 
 the sport of being tracked.
  
  And not to mention the long hard work of becoming force sensative and the rewards of being a Jedi.
 
  
  The game went from a unique, highly vercatial, and social MMORPG to a second rate shooter style 
 with very little to non-existant end game satisfaction. No skill is nessastary, just point and 
 click, and if you are a higher level than your target you will win, if not... You can still decorate 
 your house with useless loot though!
  
  It's a shame to treat all of those who spent years to become something great when now you can be 
 at the same level when you install the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Z-man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Jeez! there are ALOT of bad reviews on here! Im guessing thats because there is alot of people 
 that were soo use to the way the game was.. They cant handle it changing , even if its for the better, 
 and to bring in better and more people!
  
  SWG was and has always been a great game. But it was VERY complex, and so time consuming just to 
 do a simple mission, it really lost its luster for alot of people. The producers decided to make 
 some sweeping changes, that would make the game alot more simple and easy to get involved with, 
 rather than having to spend a month or more just to get a decent gun or armor.
  
  Now, anyone can just log in and have fun any time they want to. You can play as a Bounty Hunter, 
 a spy, a commando, a medic, officer, smuggler, Crafter, Entertainer, or even the fabled Jedi!
 
  
  Its sad to see so many people obviously affected by the changes, but they seem to be very shortsighted, 
 selfish ambitions, as the changes, have made the game accessible to ALOT more people!
  
  While I did have tons of fun playing in the old style of SWG, I as many others did not enjoy the 
 fact that in order to be remotely competetive you were forced to spend months and countless hours 
 trying to obtain a skill or a piece of equipment. Apparently, those who HAD gone through this are 
 soo jaded, they dont enjoy the fact the developers decided to remove that, and make the game fun 
 from the start. Well screw them!
  
  if you like Star Wars, and want to develop a character to have an impact on the persistent world 
 of Star Wars galaxies, then by all means check this game out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarcon94
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Originally, me and my friend played it together, and it was extremely fun. There was a lot of depth 
 (you could choose a profession then mold it as you saw fit) , and you could tame creatures, even 
 making them mounts. But then the NGE came. Ahhh, the NGE. After they released the first 1 or 2 
 expansions, they decided to update it. to corporate bull. Look at us, Sony wants you to buy the 
 Playstation 3, but to do that, we have to make Star Wars Galaxies a crappy game! How do we do that? 
 we take everything good about the game, and completely destroy it! YAY!! well guess what Sony? 
 Look at me, I played Star Wars Galaxies (the 14 day free trial) , and thought it was so crappy that 
 I got an Xbox 360! not really but still. Stop feeding us such bull, and make a good game. You'll 
 make more money off of it then the PS3. before... It was good, a rival to WoW. but then, what? 
 did Blizzard pay you to make it crappy? why did you listen to them? Power to the people man! You 
 screwed it up sony. big time. hopefully you won't screw up Tabula Rasa the same way. Just, bring 
 back the old one. please. One that was worth playing, where it was actually a challenge to become 
 a Jedi (I know I didn't become one, but I did become a creature handler) . I am done now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt this is the worst RIP-OFF of a game I have ever played.
  I can not recommend any game that has a buy now and pay later DEMAND
  built into the game. The 
 greedy demeanor of the corporation and the whole design team comes through here with flying colors 
 .
  The game play is awkward and poorly crafted. This game game should be classified as a new genre 
 "RIGHT SIDE ONLY THIRD PERSON SOMETIMES SHOOTERS"This game will only appeal to the crazed Star 
 Wars fan who must have a inferiority complex and by direct mind control of "THE FORCE" or as I 
 like to call it "THE FARCE" spends their money on
  this awful effort. Why shuck out 30 bucks now and 30 bucks later?
  If this game was a car I would 
 compare it technically to a 74 YUGO.
  Even at that it still is an inult to YUGO.
  BAD GAME SONY   NO BUSCUIT     Get your new CEO to look at this effort and fire the entire project 
 team. waste of money, and time for a USED TO BE respected company. The only place for this game is 
 HARI KARI
  domo oregato. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMan120
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Star wars Galaxies had a pretty big Community before the NGE (New game enhancements) . If you have 
 not played it yet, your probaly going to enjoy it. But if your coming back to check it out, youll 
 have mixed reactions. Don't be afraid to buy this game from everyone elses bad reviews. If your a 
 big Star Wars fan your most likley going to like it. I highly recommend the 10 day trial. You get 
 SWG, and its first expansion. Like other MMORPG's its a very big game with lots of places to explore. It 
 consists of 9 classes based on 9 different characters in the Star Wars universe. Any class is fit 
 for any race. Two of the classes are the Light saber wielding Jedi, to a dancing Entertainer in the 
 cantina. Don't be afraid to try this game out from the bad ratings, its worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  When i first started SWG i played for almost 2 years. It was soooo much fun. I worked my way up 
 to getting my jedi unlocked and everything. The first big screw-up for the game was the patch that 
 nerfed doctors, and thier buffs. the second was the one where they changed how you get jedi when 
 i was so close. But even after that i didn't give up. So i grinded and grinded so i could get jedi 
 the new way. The then release a patch to make everyone jedi just by going to a trainer. Now don't 
 get me wrong. This game would still be a blast to play if you weren't already a jedi, just beware 
 the patches.... you might get nerfed :-) . Never hurts to give it a try though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstrbdchld1328
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing I thought Commando was going to be the best profession ever. I had 
 a house, was married, had a ton of money from an auction, things were going great. Then Trials 
 of Obi-Wan came out and i bought that too. The expansion was good until they decided to change 
 the game play and destroy 22 professions. I still had commando right? yes but they had disabled 
 every single one of my commando weapons making me nothing more than a regular soldier. Also all 
 my attack icons looked the same now. I had no idea what attacks I was actually using anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidrocks
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time there was a thing called Pre-CU and the game rocked.. it really did and it had 
 a healthy player base and great system. It was the best game I have ever played. In April 2005 
 the game was given a combat upgrade which was hated by most and we lost ALOT of players. I stayed 
 on however with the OK amount of players we still had. And it was still pretty fun. But the Development 
 team running the game had no care for anything other than money. We all begged and cried for changes 
 but no answer.. they only ever answered when a terrible change to xp/grinding came and over 100k 
 people cancelled, they responded immediately.
  
  In November of 2005, the same year we got notice of an NGE right after buying the latest expansion 
 the day before. And the NGE was the death of the game, the system was out of control buggy and 
 unplayable. There are no more than 5 players on at a time now. PLEASE do not touch the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  After playing this for a year and still playing it. There is always things to do almost everytime 
 I log in. 
  The Gameplay is like any other Massive multiplayer game were you have to go on Quests and do them. 
 You can be one of many classes like the Jedi but you will be Hunted by another class which are 
 the bounty hunters. There are Dancers, Medics, Storekeepers, soldiers and so on. 
  
  The Graphics of the game are i found to be pretty good. There is not much to talk about besides 
 that the grafics are good. They are smooth and detailed.
  
  Value: You have to pay to play this game so if you don't have time or have the money this game.
 
  
  In the end this is a great Massive multiplayer game but if you don't have the time to get your 
 money's or just have the money you should not get this until you have time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi91
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  "Star Wars Galaxies" ( and all of its expansions) , is a MMORPG that takes place within the star 
 wars universe. Originally in the release, "Galaxies" was a really great game to play. However, 
 in later patches, and updates, the game was stripped to your basic MMO, and lost its individual 
 . From a long time MMO gamer, this is a game worth checking out, but not for $15.00 a month.
  Your game play is in "quest" similar to the ones in "World of Warcraft" but the quest are hard, 
 because at first was built for gaining xp through group hunting parties, or raids. Some of the 
 quest dont even tell you what the objectives are. The game was built on a good foundation, but 
 then topped off with bad gameplay, a conversion to a different style of MMO, to your basic MMO, 
 with tons of bugs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaco666
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is horrible and i mean horrible. This game has so many bugs in it that you couldnt even 
 imagine. Not only is there horrible lag even for the people with the best computers like mine, 
 the gameplay is just not as fun as the other MMOs ive played. This has to be the worst MMO i have 
 ever played in my life and ive played alot, WoW AC, AC2, DAOC, FFXI, EQ, EQ 2 GW and its a disgrace 
 to the star wars name. Trust me i love the star wars series more then the LOTRs trilogy. I think 
 its one of the most classic series ever to come to film and its just a disgrace that SOE had to 
 make this terrible game. If you want to play an MMORPG play WoW because thats the best MMO out 
 there. There is so many people and its the most populated MMO ever to come out and its got the 
 best reviews and the gameplay is just so fun and its fair and there is hardly any bugs and everything 
 about it is awsome. Even though in SWG you can own a city and a house and be an entertainer and 
 fly to differnt planets and and have space wars doesnt mean anything, most MMOs dont have that 
 and they dont need that. One day in school some SWG fan dissed WoW and i said to him if WoW is 
 so bad then why is there over 5,000,000 people playing it, why is it the most populated MMO ever, 
 why did it get the best reviews, i guess horrible games get all of those things... NOT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromyr31
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  The consideration is this, why pay the monthly fee to play a muddled up version of battlefront 
 or Jedi Academy? Essentially that is what this game has become. I could go on and on about all 
 the things wrong with this game but the truth is in the game forums. 
  
  If you plan to play this game get the starter kit, and go from there. You may not be able to visit 
 all the other aspects of the game but... if you don't like it you'll only be out the $20 you spent 
 on the kit. Rather than buying the Experience or buying Empire divided and all the expansions.... then 
 after the 30 day free trial have to start paying the $15 monthly fee. Oh yeah.... there is a minimum 
 of a 1 hour download once the game is first logged in. 
  
  If you really want to know what is up with this game, visit the forum at Station. sony. com and just 
 read some of the posts. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davyeddywaxy
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  Lucas Arts had a real opportunity to capture Star Wars and let players feel like they're leading 
 their own adventure in the long-loved setting. It seems that this was the exact opposite result 
 as the game focuses on boring gameplay and complicated profession/job skills to try and hook you. 
 While noticing this flaw you realize that you will have to spend hours upon hours with this game 
 to see any change in your character. One of the things that Galaxies gets right is the character 
 maker though, which has many little details that are customisable and lots of races to choose from. 
 Talking, finding, and going on missions with friends and other players is fairly easy and fun. 
 While these features make the game ok, you will be sick with that feeling in your stomach saying 
 "$15 a month for this???" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legoloco
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! The only problems you will encounter is probably the lag and some quest glitches. 
 But the glitches are fixed when Star Wars Galaxies discover it because there are constant updates 
 that fix glitches and enhance gamplay. People only complain because they think the lag is really 
 bad and that every update that happends is gay which is real sad. I have played this alot and i 
 don't complain! This game is great! You can be a jedi, Bounty Hunter, Commando and all sorts of 
 things! There are many things to keep u occupied. You can just hunt all day at all the different 
 planets or you can do quests on all the different planets. You can basicly do anything u want! 
 There are commands u can use to interact with other people. At $15 a month, this is a game to pick 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies started out with bugs, bugs, bugs, and more bugs.
  dispite its lack of pest control. SWG: ED was a nice game. That is until their creators got their 
 hands on it.
  
  This game has seriously been let down by the people who created it and managed the game. During 
 its newers days the Users and the Support staff was at logger heads. Sony's Left hand wasn't talking 
 to its right hand (as in Gamemasters.) 
  
  This turned into a heated debate and rilvary until it resorted in mass carnage. When player cities 
 first came out there was this option to evict people by hostile force. But the Developers didn't 
 make their support staff immune to it. So after 3rd day of player cities on Shadowfire server, 
 at least 5 or more got killed by players.
  
  This kinds of tells the story from the off. The game masters Closed off their forums so you had 
 to be a paying customer to even see them. Why? because on the generals board every single user 
 was complaining so oftern that it became a sport. 
  
  The Users were fed-up of not being listened to, treated like people with out brains from the support 
 staff and the Developers attitude of "Its our game we do what we want and you like it." 
  
  6 months later they started to bring out ideas "they said they came up with" dispite that we had 
 been asking for them sinse day one." 
  
  The game would be actualy nice if they didn't spoil their own game.
  Expansion after expansion 
 and even with the trials coming back to SWG: ED after 6 month break it is still messed up. 
  
  The only difference is they created the Server forums so you don't see so many people complaining 
 at once. 
  
  Star Wars Galaxies :ED would be fun if the game worked, if it was a true account of Star wars and 
 actually worked and if the license was in some one elses hands.
  
  Who ever gave Sony the Rights for the Star wars name for this MMORPG. I hope they've lost their 
 job.
  
  SWG: ED = 100% hassle 5% fun. 210% making you wish you never bothered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  I really had thought that game was going to be a good one when I first started I didnt last long 
 tho. It was Like EQ when it first started buggy and more buggy. I just got tired of it. We lost 
 alot of factories and they would not re imberse us it was no play amd all work to get these factories 
 up and runnin and sony didnt care 1 bit about the player base. The other day I finally took it 
 off. Even the Xpansion weren't enough for me to stay with but I gave them my money and won't do 
 it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minime78362
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  To be honest and fair, I barely play this game..
  I wanted to be impressed by this game, but I'm not. I'll tell you why I'm not.
  The graphics, are 
 ok. Nothing revolutionary but they're good.
  Controls are alright, but the games to easy for noobs, they can just become jedi so easily, that I 
 feel bad for all the people that have played this game for so long to get their jedi class, but 
 then the update made almost every noob easily become a jedi.
  Sound... yeah. It's alright.
  Gameplay, sucks. Drive around, get missions drive/walk around. Repeat.
  Also, I get a lot of lag on 
 this game. I'm the only one using our internet connection (Cable) and get major lag. I thought it 
 was because the computer has so many viruses that it was lowering the speed. So I got rid of all 
 the viruses.. tried to play, and still. LAG.
  Now, for my suggestion, go buy world of warcraft. I thought that game sucked but I loved it so much 
 the first time I played it. Play it, you wont be dissapointed.
  :NOTE: This game was very good without the update, I could enjoy the game even though I lagged bad. It's 
 very easy with the new update they have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramileous
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing the game in March 2005 I was amazed at how beautiful and huge the SWG world 
 was. Many other players were so helpful and fun to play with. You could literally imagine yourself 
 living in this star wars world, creating a character, profession and choosing your side in the 
 civil war. Plenty of RP players , plenty of options for game play including housing, items, clothing, 
 professions and many more. Space combat was fairly good too, I had tons of fun in my Tie fighters. 
 There are many great guilds also that help introduce you to missions and friends.
  
  It seems players either love this game or hate it. I loved it from the start but after four solid 
 months of play it became boring and monotonous without a game master to make things unpredictable. 
 Also what ruined it for me was the numerous changes Developers made to the game and combat system. 
 Once you got use to one way they would change it, usually for the worse. I spent hours building 
 my char up to be a master bounty hunter and hunted jedi, but pvp combat was very time consuming 
 and just rediculous, battles against jedi took 30 minutes long sometimes it was laughable. The 
 graphics and RP options can only take a game so far before lack of options and having seen enough 
 takes its toll. I recommend the game without question, you will get addicted for awhile. Just go 
 in with an open mind, have fun then get out when you are ready to move on, dont linger in the game 
 and get a bad attitude like so many players who are bitter because the Dev's ruined the game they 
 use to love.
  
  I left in August 2005
  
  *flash* October 2006 I returned to try the game again. I fell in love again because i have played 
 so many other games in the past year (WOW, GW, EVE, Oblivion, COH/COV) all of those games are fun, 
 but not one of them (well maybe Oblivion) has the immersion level that SWG has. Plus, SWG has many 
 people to play with, while Oblivion is solo and lonely after awhile. The DEvs have made many changes, 
 some are good, some not so good. But i have to admit, this game beats them all, that does not mean 
 it is the best in every catagory, but overall, it is a world of its own with so many addictive 
 options. If you left before or after NGE, come back and try it, you will love it if you dont stay 
 bitter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjjt
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Wont go back until the NGE goes away wouldn't recommend to anyone. Game is now made for 10 year 
 olds. Its all about the clicky. Combat makes for index finger hurt from clicking constantly. Game 
 is still bugged and has been ignored by SOE. SOE doesnt listen to or communicate with its community. 
 Has lost most of the veteren players since the NGE. The only player its focusing on now is being 
 a jedi. Made it so everyone can be one. No real thought need for game. No real challanges left 
 in game. Go buy a first person shooter and keep your $15 a month. If you purchase this game good 
 luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyworrka
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the game since it launched in 2003. I am still playing the game for a very 
 simple reason, it's fun. 
  
  There is a lot of bad rep being thrown around about the changes that have hit the game with the 
 implementation of the NGE. But this game is still the best MMOG I have played... and I have played 
 EQ2, WoW, CoH, CoV, DAoC and GW. 
  
  Are there problems... yes. 
  Are those problems being corrected... yes. 
  Have people left the game... yes. 
  Is the game 
 dieing.. NO. 
  
  The two Role Playing communities within the game that I belong to are going strong. I have no problem 
 finding players to interact with no matter what time I log on. I can personally say for a fact 
 that many of the old time vets that I use to play with back in 2003 who left are starting to return 
 to the game and many of them say that they will stay because of the direction that the NGE is taking 
 the game.
  
  If you are a Star Wars fan and are looking for a fun SW game then I truely recommend getting Galaxies. 
 Come on in and join us :) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the game you once played is now totally different. But this is also a game I quit playing 
 long ago due to its inferior game play. With the likes of World of Warcraft on the market, and 
 the upcoming D&D Online, Lucasarts and SOE HAD to do something to save this ship that sank a long 
 time ago in a galaxy far away.
  
  So what did they do? They threw out the garbage and gave gamers what they wanted. I no longer have 
 to be a hard core 24/7 player to become a Jedi. I can pick the class from the beginning! Granted, 
 you start out weak, and haven't completed the training to form your own lightsaber, but at least 
 you can FINALLY play as a Jedi. Personally, I think the new character classes work. 
  
  Also, EVERYTHING is sped up, whether it be running, combat, you name it. No longer are you stuck 
 in a jar of molasses, but you're free to roam and actually fight instead of clicking attack and 
 eating a sandwich while you watch the game fight for you.
  
  I don't care what anybody says, this game has made a SIGNIFICANT step forward. It got me to quit 
 playing WoW and come back. So, either I have really poor taste in gaming or SOE is finally doing 
 something right for a change. I'm gonna take a wild stab in the dark and say it's SOE. They aren't 
 afraid to change to adapt to the market despite what the "old timers" rant and rave about.
  
  This is Star Wars Galaxies AS IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN UPON RELEASE. Are there bugs? Of course, 
 but name one MMORPG without bugs on the "To Do" list. I haven't encountered anything myself upon 
 my return to SWG. I truly am grateful that I gave the new revamp a shot, because I'm liking it 
 a million times better than the old classic SWG.
  
  I guess I do feel sorry for the people that loved the old classic SWG.... perhaps they should have 
 reserved one server that played the old way, I don't know, but SOE had two options: A) . Adapt to 
 the market, or B) . Close up shop and cancel SWG altogether.
  
  My advice, give it a shot. Don't listen to the BS ranting on the boards, just play the dang game 
 for what it's worth. You might just find that you actually LIKE SWG now instead of hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkieay
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  Lucasarts have done it again. Another disastrously buggy game. A continual game of bugs bugs bugs. 
 Please Lucasarts get someone else to develop your games. Oh the game. Is this as exciting as the 
 Star Wars Galaxies are! Highly disappointed!!!!!!!!!!!!! I wish I could say something good but 
 sorry I can't. DEVELOPERS: please look at other online games for the standard, this is well below. 
 Got nothing else to say about this game just filling up the 100 word minimum. From a massive Star 
 Wars fan but losing heart with Lucasarts game developers. My arm going to have to be hugely twisted 
 before buying any more of these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellisbill
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  To some people, change and updates are a bad thing, to others it is a blessing. I guess it all 
 just depends on who you are. There are times when the game gets a new patch or something and everything 
 is totally wiped out. You can still play, but it is like playing single player, because there are 
 no other people. You may have to restart the entire game over again, regardless of what level you 
 are or whatever else.
  
  But if you can deal with that stuff, I believe that you should buy this game. It is not too much 
 of a game to get into too well because there are more changes to this game that to ever keep up 
 with. If you buy this game, chances are that you will not get to be the highest level and everything 
 for too long. 
  
  I like this game pretty well, but the odds are I will never beat it. I have yet to buy the jump 
 to light-speed expansion, so I think that it would be a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edge9977
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:11 am PT
Review:  I wouldent play this game with the new game enhancements ever. Since I myself am a 3 year veteran 
 of SWG first they ruined it , than about a year later the ruined it some more , than just recently 
 with these new game enhancements BLEW MY MIND it was so insanely rediculus. Player movment is like 
 mario brothers , combat is so ill that it makes me sick , its is never a balenced game. Some one 
 needs to check the DEVS involved in making this game very very sickening. But at least you made 
 my girl-friend happy cause i agree i used to be addicted. I labeld it very hard to play , not cause 
 of the difficulty involved , but it is indeed that for myself .... VERY HARD TO PLAY!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxby852
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies used to be a fun game, until "New Game Enhancements" rolled around on November 
 15, 2005. Once that happened, the Star Wars adventures were officially over.
  
  PROS:
  1 Excellent Graphics 
  2 Exciting Music
  
  CONS:
  1 Broken gameplay, everything that was 
 intended turns for the worst.
  2 Bugs bugs bugs and more bugs, things from over-powered enemies to being able to jump while dead.
 
  3 Extremely odd profession classes, one could begin the game as a Jedi when they are supposed 
 to be a rare and mysterious profession.
  4 Extreme reduction in available classes, from over 30 classes to only nine "cookie cutter" classes, 
 which are very limited in the amount of freedom with the given profession.
  5 Once you tire of of a choses profession you CANNOT take it back, you must live with it or start 
 from scratch with a new character.
  6 Last class first person shooter feel which just does not work well with the gameplay.
  
  
 All in all, Star Wars Galaxies is a completely horrible game, even if you are a diehard Star Wars 
 fan. With all the bugs, extremely poor gameplay and very distrustful company, I recommend that 
 you stay away from this game at all costs if you wish to enjoy anything else relating to Star Wars 
 ever again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingn0t3
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  When this game 1st came out it. was great. Now it just sucks I selected these for good reasons.
 
  Difficulty: Very Hard! Why? becuase just when you think you have it down they change it again.
 
  Time Spent. From Release to NGE. canceled after NGE 
  Learning Curve: Options only go to 4 hours.
  
  Why Does this Game Suck?
  1. No Customer base. 
 "Since CU and NGE" sonyonline has lost their base
  
  2 Reward. People like to have a sence of honor reward etc. knowning they have done certain things 
 goals accomplished. With two Major overhuals in this game. the reward factor is out the Door.
 
  
  3. Social. SO LA, Killed off All Social Professions. Dancer, Musican, Doctor Or nerfed them to a 
 degree that no one will play them anymore. More people grouped planed things to do while getting 
 buffed by Doc and Enterainers. 
  
  4. Content. Most of people on forums complain out Not being "StarWars" Bu LA and SO seem to think 
 that Combat and profession Nerfing is the answer.
  
  5. SO Lies. Sorry I hate to say that. But SO is known for stating one fact in their chat interviews 
 and forums and then on release.
  
  6 Poor game design. SWG using TRE files that pack. all files needed for the Client side to run. 
 This is a poor system and makes the game to much un-needed files loaded into memory. 
  
  7. Lighting. SWG has a mayor problem with lighting. the fact that your lighting hardly works. always 
 lights up wrong
  
  8. Standard SWG Per CU / NGE over rating 9
  9. Jump to LightSpeed rating 10
  10. CU rating 6 the being of killing off Social gamming.
  
 11. NGE rating 0 Killing off the player base.
  4:30 pm 12-3-05 Average people per server 20 to 45.
  Average people per sever 600 to 3000 depending 
 on Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aseni
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since March of 2005. Although far from perfect, the game showed enormous 
 potential by offering a great number of options in choosing your character and the path he/she 
 was to follow. The number of professions your avatar could follow exceeded 30 and each came with 
 its own special abilities and character. Fighting professions had to learn how to fight to their 
 strengths and crafting professions had to master their trades by going after the best resources 
 and securing the services of fighters for the best enhancers. In order to become Jedi, you had 
 to spend months completing quests and grinding. There was a level of complexity that came with 
 this diversity and because of the work you had to put in to master a profession you wore your Master 
 tag proudly. I sincerely thought that I was going to be playing this game for years.
  
  The potential this game showed and the opportunities it offered to meet friends and play the game 
 with them overshadowed the problems that existed. A number of bugs kept you from completing missions 
 and quests and lag was always a problem. Also each profession always shouted for attention in fixing 
 its problems. Patch after patch seemed to break as many things as each fixed and SOE kept promising 
 revamps of each profession to balance the game.
  
  Then came the New Game Enhancements (NGE) . This was a massive re-design that effectively introduced 
 a totally new game. The starting professions were replaced by 9 iconic ones. Once you picked your 
 profession you were locked in it. No more respec'ing. Item no-decay was introduced. This effectively 
 killed the economy as decay was the only reason for any player to seek a crafter. The complexity 
 of crafting was removed as the different types of weapons, armor, etc, were all merge to the same 
 range of stats easily achieved with even average resources.
  
  What made the changes hard to digest was the fact that no details were provided until 2 weeks before 
 establishing the NGE with little or no input from the players' community. The uproar is still evident 
 by checking the SWG forums. Furthermore, the changes were announced shortly after the new expansion 
 Trials of Obi-Wan was offered, thus raising questions on SOE's ethical conduct. SOE has since offered 
 a refund to those who wanted to cancel but the timing was surely interesting.
  
  Here is a short list of what the NGE brought:
  Removal of any diversity between characters by 
 forcing everyone to follow 1 of 9 paths. 
  Removal of item decay which destroyed the economy and crafting in general.
  Removal of item diversity 
 (see weapons) resulting in cookie-cutter designs resulting in loss of interest in crafting 
  Removal of crafter's ability to produce an item that is better than a loot item 
  Removal of 
 choice in playing a combat / crafting hybrid 
  Removal of choice in crafting sub-trees (4 merged sub-professions only) 
  Removal of choice in 
 respec'ing your character 
  Removal of real challenge in achieving Jedi (simply chosen at Start)
  Removal of a UI that made 
 it possible for all gamers to compete (including the handicapped)
  
  all of which boil down to one reason only:
  
  Removal of any iota of thought process and planning 
 that was necessary (for non-crafters especially) to be able to set goals and achieve them, thus 
 removing any fun and/or challenge from the game.
  
  It seems that what SOE tried to accomplish with the NGE was to attract new subscribers by giving 
 it a more console-like feel (see the new UI and the simplified profession selection) , and to make 
 it easier to establish themselves by removing the inherent complexity. SOE tried to make it possible 
 for the new player to acquire in days what a seasoned player accomplished or acquired in months. 
 By doing that, they demonstrated that a new subscriber is valued more than a loyal subscriber.
 
  
  I truly believe that if SOE had given the players ample warning (instead of conflicting promises) 
 about the upcoming changes, a great number of players would have had time to digest them and at 
 least try to explore the new mechanics. However, SOE's message seems clear. Only time will tell 
 whether it was the right one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bviper47
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  What once was a very promising game is now broken and shattered. I being a 2 year vet never really 
 cared about combat in the game being a crafter. However, the new targeting system, crafting, and 
 the lack of support from the developers have been more than enough to push me over the edge to 
 the cancel button. This game has never been outstanding, nor has it been a waste of time, but now 
 with the developers total lack of concern for the players it has led majority of players to leave. 
 While this game is very much entertaining at the first 30 levels beyond that is a joke. The leveling 
 process may only be done by quests now, in which the only quests that give out XP are on Mustafar 
 (another 30 dollars for the Trials of Obi Wan expansion) some of these quests are broken and most 
 are non repeatable resulting in little chance to level up. The crafting system now no longer matters, 
 no decay, and no chance to make an item better than another person. Overall it was a great game, 
 but now its simplicity has ruined this game. I try to be as fair as I can, but this game is now 
 an utter disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aikes
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  It seems SOE doesnt want you to know that you can contact them if you are a customer. I was banned 
 from their forums for posting this info... 
  
  The personal Sony Online Entertainment office number for 
  John Smedley
  858-577-3100
  When 
 the machine answers choose option 2 for the company directory then at the next prompt you will 
 be asked to enter the three digits or letter for the person you wish to speak to instead enter 
 the numbers 7633 from your phone and you will be connected directly to John Smedleys office.
 
  
  Now if that wasnt enough if you want to make absolutely sure you are heard then the next step 
 is the personal e-mail address for the Customer Relations Manager with SOE and that would be 
 
  
  Satao
  
  sminami@soe. sony. com
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poveglia
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  Aweful game. New player here and I figured I'd check this out for a month or two. I couldnt play 
 the game for over 2 days. Waste of money and I wouldnt play this game for free.
  
  I guess they made some changes to the game recently, but I wasnt there to see the game before.
 
  
  But all I can say is, its terrible. I dont know how to explain this game. It SAYS its a MMORPG, 
 but its really not. Its like a first person/ third person shooter game, but a REALLY bad one. I 
 would recommend buying a Nintendo and playing Super Mario Brothers 3 over this game.
  
  I really wish I could get my money back = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jray14
Rating: 1.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, you can disregard all reviews posted before November 15, 2005. On that day, the game 
 completely morphed into a boring first-person shooter (FPS) . Even on a brand new top-of-the-line 
 computer with a fast cable internet connection, server lag is so bad that it's impossible to get 
 any satistifaction out of it. SWG has always had horrible server lag. It was acceptable in the 
 previous turn-based combat system, but now it's game-breaking.
  
  The new interface and controls are ugly, awkward, and NOT CUSTOMIZABLE except in a few trivial 
 cosmetic ways. Controlling your character is now a chore, and the combination of lag and the poor 
 interface results in more than half of your actions disappearing into the ether instead of showing 
 up on your screen.
  
  The whole character-building component of SWG has been destroyed. Items that players have earned 
 through time and energy over many months are now completely worthless in the new system. And to 
 make it worse, the items still exist in the game and provide no clue as to their broken status. 
 You pretty much have to read the online forums to find out from other players how to make use of 
 all the items. For example, armor with "Defense Vs. Knockdown +25" does absolutely nothing, and 
 armor with "Ranged Defense +5" increases your armor while WIELDING a ranged weapon (despite the 
 in-game description saying "improves defense AGAINST ranged weapons") . Mounts that I used to ride 
 around all the time now give the error message "You are not qualified to control this pet."
  
  Actually, SWG has changed a few times in this way before... about every 6 months since its 
 inception in 2003. So you can definitely expect all the items you acquire and become accustomed 
 to in the next few months to suddenly disappear at some unexpected time in the near future, and 
 you will need to re-learn a completely new game at that point in time. For example, I spent all 
 my money in-game buying Anti-Decay Kits to make some of my weapons and armor indestructible. But 
 on 11-15-05, these Kits were suddenly removed from the game and replaced with worthless "profession 
 re-start kits" that demote you to LEVEL 1 in a new profession and make you start over completely 
 from scratch. And guess what? There's no warning that you will get demoted to level 1, and no way 
 back, even through customer service.
  
  The sounds used to be awesome, with various clanking sounds for melee weapons and realistic phaser 
 sounds straight out of the movies. But now they're a joke, like they were produced for the Atari 
 2600 or something. Whenever you strike with a melee weapon, you hear a dull "thud" like someone 
 dropping a box on a carpet. More than half of the lightsaber moves for Jedi were not even implemented, 
 and all you see is large damage numbers appear over your enemy's head as you're standing there 
 holding your saber nice and still.
  
  Last but not least, the game is absolutely full of horrid bugs and crashes. SWG has a long history 
 of failing to address bugs, and it shows no sign of improvement. Basically what this means is that 
 if you buy the game, you will be paying $15/month to ALPHA TEST it for them. It's too much of a 
 mess to even be called a beta. Just a small sample of current bugs: All weapons hit for the same 
 damage now, regardless of stats. You will probably think "Oh, that's silly, they'll be fixing that 
 in a patch in the next day or two." Nope, haven't fixed it in 2 weeks now, and given past history, 
 it's likely not to be fixed at all. Players will probably go on assuming their weapons are actually 
 better when they say "Damage 200-250" instead of "Damage 150-200." But dedicated players have done 
 tests (that apparently didn't occur to the developers) that prove otherwise. This has been the 
 case constantly since 2003, and there is no sign of improvement... rather, there are plenty of 
 signs of further decline. Save your money and please stay far, far away from this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawajawa6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  this game is the greatest star wars game because it puts you in the star wars universe and the 
 whole expieriance is overwelming to me at least.
  other people who say that this game is bad, they just dont like star wars at all. i think that 
 this game could be the best game ever made. it is better than anything ever. just because you can 
 be a smuggler. which i am. like han solo. before he joined the gay rebel alliance. the gamelplay 
 is great and the story is awsome as well. but most of all the expirience is based on the fact that 
 you are on an online game with other star wars fans that will kick your ass if u try to fight them. 
 so try being friendly. you can make friends and it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hothumanoid
Rating: 1.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:20 am PT
Review:  Online boredom... nothing to do past the training missions.. buggy.. slow .. and just not fun.. 
 nice to see Han Solo.. but nothing to do after : ( Apparently it used to be better as little as 
 a month back.. Really surpprised at how unpolished it is considering this is not a new game. 
 
  
  You start off with 9 proffession choices.. and from what i've seen upto level 30, all the proffesions 
 will end up with the same specials. Constantly having to target while you select a special, which 
 didn't fire more than half the time, is frustrating. 
  
  Tried getting better rifle.. but guess what? they all hit for the same damage it looks like. 
 
  
  All in all, a boring experiance.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phiker
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I wouldent play this game with the new game enhancements ever. Since I myself am a 3 year veteran 
 of SWG first they ruined it , than about a year later the ruined it some more , than just recently 
 with these new game enhancements BLEW MY MIND it was so insanely rediculus. Player movment is like 
 mario brothers , combat is so ill that it makes me sick , its is never a balenced game. Some one 
 needs to check the DEVS involved in making this game very very sickening. But at least you made 
 my girl-friend happy cause i agree i used to be addicted. I labeld it very hard to play , not cause 
 of the difficulty involved , but it is indeed that for myself .... VERY HARD TO PLAY!!!!!!!
  Cause its soooo F%$&*% BAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehosiphat1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies has been ruined. Do your homework and look to other sites to confirm the vast 
 condemnation of the NGE (new game enhancements) . SWG-NGE is a totally different game than it was 
 prior to 11/14/05. The game is awful and unplayable after level 30. The first 30 lvls are pretty 
 linear and all characters are exactly the same now. No profession variations now. The new content 
 promised is actually less content since most of the old quests no longer offer xp (experience points) . 
 You must buy the expansion to have any hope of xp but you have to be CL65+ (combat level) to suceed 
 there. Anyone between CL30 and CL65 is lost. Anyone CL80 has only the expansion to play and only 
 if they didnot play it before the NGE. If so then they are out of luck. Dont waste your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameso123
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  SW: G used to be great. Back in 2003 and Early 2004, Since then SW: G has rapidly deteriated.
  
  #1. The end of the holo-grind and introduction of the village system
  This made jedi the 
 new FOTM class bring pretty much a death of mass PvP.
  
  #2. The release of WoW / eq2 saw better MMO's being produced, leaving SWG with empty servers, and 
 lacking the fun which other games provided. 
  
  #3. April 2005, Saw the much awaited "Combat Upgrade", the community was very exiteced about this, 
 but was not what we expected, It was basicaly a much water'ed down, Easier, Childish version of 
 SW: G, It was executed poorly, and not finished, Loosing the fundemental unquie style of combat 
 and game play that was once SW: G.
  This caused a huge player backlash, With 60% of core veterans on the server i played on leave. 
 This was the begining of SWG mass exodus.
  
  #4. November 2005, brought the NGE, this completly ruind the game, and will be the death of SWG, 
 like CU, but more watered down, more childish and just basicaly a complete disgrace to MMORPGS. 
 I do not know why is behind SoE's motive toward all this.
  
  Save your money, go and buy a solid mmo such as WoW, Eq1 / 2 etc.
  And look out for future releases 
 - Vanguard SoH (www. vanguardsoh. com) and NavisAer (www. navisaer. com) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdealer
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  Been playing this game for over 3 years now and I am sad to say I am still playing it. About 3 
 years ago the game used to be really good it was unbalanced in combat in some respect but still 
 a very much loved game. After a year or so SOE decided to change the combat, and virtually everything 
 else that goes with it, not taking into consideration to the dislike of most of the community around 
 that time.
  Although this was forced onto us around that time, the game actually over a long period of time 
 got better with the new combat system once most but not all the bugs were sorted.
  What I don't understand is why SOE didn't learn by there mistakes and decided to screw the game 
 over again from the previous combat system, and totaly change the combat system to something that 
 isn't what it should be. 
  SOE also totally stabbed all the Jedi in the game who spent hours devoted to getting to be a Jedi 
 and even more days to get a full Jedi template thus giving the player the chance to feel he has 
 acheived something by becoming a Jedi. 
  Now Jedi is a starting profession and Jedi now is currently the weakest proffession in the game. 
 (strange but true) .
  To cut a long review short , you take a good game, screw it over and don't think about the people 
 playing it. Basicly in a nut shell SOE seem to only care about the money and not the customer.
 
  I will give my account 2 more months to see if it gets better but from past experiences playing 
 the game i wont be holding my breath. If i was reviewing this game before the latest update i would 
 of given it a good score but as it stands now it is really poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejia13fernando
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everybody hates this game. I really think this game rocks. It is pretty good. 
 I find everything to be all put together very well. The game's story has many possibilities and 
 is really expansive. I play very often and find only one thing to be disappointing. That would 
 be that there are a share of glitches and some bugs. It also crashed on me a few times but nothing 
 really terrible. To tell you the truth I find this game to be pretty good. Another bad elemt of 
 this game is that you have to pay monthly. The price isn't much but I still like to save my money 
 to buy upcoming games. That seems to be the downfalls of this game. But all in all it's pretty 
 awesome to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryii
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I've played SWG for about 15 months now. Most of the time I had fun hunting, questing, just hanging 
 out. Now, everything has changed.
  The game is no longer fun to play. The fighting is too distracting. Before the change I was combat 
 level 80 and could easily take out a group of CL75 creatures. Now, I am up to CL83 and have a hard 
 time with 2 CL73 creatures. The special attacks don't work all the time, healing takes too long, 
 and switching between special attacks (numbers 1 through 0 on the keyboard) while running (w, a, s, d 
 keys) and keeping the enemy in focus with the mouse is just impossible. If you happen to accidentally 
 shoot another NPC that happens to get between you and the mark, then you've got that creature coming 
 after you, too.
  
  Also, the game feels like a Beta. The quests don't work as expected. Creatures get stuck in building 
 and rocks, so you can't attack them. The NPCs that give out quests are bugged. There is a cut scene 
 when you travel to Mustafar, which was cool to see once, but now it just takes another 20 seconds 
 to load the planet (also it has crashed the client on my a number of times) . The options don't 
 stay set. Inventory and chat windows don't always work as expected. I am sure there are others 
 I can't recall at this moment.
  
  Finally, the development team just sprang this huge change on the entire community. Folks that 
 have been playing a long time, and have dedicated many hours to playing and having a good time. 
 To me, this shows lack of care and responsibility to the people who have been supporting the game 
 for so long. Some people may find the changes to their liking, but from my judgement most, including 
 myself, do not like these "New Game Enhancements" and feel like we've just been slapped in the 
 face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlaagnir
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game was changed from a diverse PC MMORPG to a console-esque MMO combat game. Disregard all 
 reviews predating 15 NOV 05, when the darkness fell. What was once an immersive and skill based 
 character advancement system that allowed a high level of indivuality has been changed to simple 
 linear track professions that are actually not that different from each other. Combat has been 
 reduced from a preparation, strategy, and experience-matters engagement to pure mouse button mashing 
 and first person shooter exercise. Unlike the old Diablo 2, you cannot even choose any skills. 
 Jedi don't block blaster bolts, and are actually more effective with a DXR6 carbine... heck, all 
 weapons are mostly the same now except this one, that just about everyone uses. A challenging weapons 
 crafting system has been dumbed-down to a cookie cutter similarity between weapons. There's only 
 two stats for every weapon now anyways, range and damage.... oh, and some have elemental damage. 
 The biggest insult was to the current player base, who were not informed of this radical game breaking 
 change until one week after they all forked out $30 for a new, flashy expension. And although you 
 can get a refund or play without it, it's almost impossible to level up without Trials of Obi-Wan. 
 Countless investments of time and energy that the players had made were destroyed with a wave of 
 Sony Entertainment Online / Luca Arts developer wand. Jedi, the special, magical component of Star 
 Wars, are cheap parlor trick magicians now. Those that had reached the previously elusive jedi 
 level were crushed to see that their achievement now meant nothing. Strategic stockpiles of special 
 weapons materials were either altered to plain vanilla parts or deleted from the servers completely. 
 The new game may be playable, and does have a star wars theme, but is riddled with more bugs than 
 swiss cheese has holes. If you want to test out a Star Wars BETA product and pay a monthly fee 
 for it, this is your chance. Ever desire a job in video game testing? This will look good on your 
 resume. Personally, I'm looking for a better MMORPG and putting my dreams of dominating the Star 
 Wars Galaxy on hold until they pull their heads out. If you have a REAL GOOD IMAGINATION, you might 
 be able to decieve yourself into thinking this is the Star Wars Online Role-Playing holy grail 
 it could've been. I should have never paid my accout a year up front. 
  -----------Jasrion, TwilightWolf, Corbantis ----------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwinDragonslady
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing for 2 years plus. Many meny hours and game changes. The NGE (new Game Enhancements) 
 Really is not for either new players or veterans. Do to the (lack or Poor planning) on SOE/ LA 
 part. And they dont mention to get your levels you have to have the NEW expansion Mustafar expansion 
 to even level. Little thing they for got to tell you. There is a demo out try it the first part 
 is cool. 
  
  Leveling: 
  
  New tutorials and such but really bad group exp. for instance you need 300k for level lets just 
 use this 70-71 now just times that 3000000 for just that 10 levels and you only get solo 500 exp 
 or so off ea kill. Next set from just 80 -90 example 80-81 you need 600k 6000000 exp. like I said 
 you can do quests the repeatable tiring boring same quest on mustafar killing lava flees to get 
 35k exp for killing 15 of them.
  
  Combat/UI
  
  1. Its now first person shooter where you click and shoot your targets. 
  2. Hard to control 
 you toon. The UI is only 70 percent customizable. :- (
  3. The damage your weapon says and the damage you do is 2 different numbers. Example your hammers 
 max damage is 500 you hit something your same client level you only do 40 points. (Not shure If 
 its Intended to change?)
  4. No mater the level you fight does about the same about of damage as higher ones do. (Depends 
 on the planet I guess)
  5. You have to click to type to you friends and such making a quick cry for help in combat very 
 hard.
  6. You have a healing timer that heals your ham at cl 90 4500 and a cool down timer of 30 seconds 
 or less. But you get hit for 6k so you tell me when fighting a cl 90. (Your ham at 90 ranges on 
 proof clothing 12k-11
  
  Professions: Ill list the ones i've tested and the cl level
  
  90-Curently Jedi: have no armor stats Die Easy nothing special. 
  
  90-Bounty Hunter: Well 
 rounded can stand your own for a bit.
  
  80-smugler: Cool you can steal credits from npc's but you still pull agro might as well kill them.
 
  
  1-armorsmith / wepon smith: Armor crafting is the same. Weapon crafting its new such as the guns 
 that use to be 1k max is now 80max. And armor is limited to proofs not to big of selection.
  
  80-0fficer very funs for grouping give group buffs ant such
  
  Support:
  
  LOL scale 
 of 1-10 id give -1000 their top answer is file a ticket.
  New people its c+h and figure it out he he.
  PS the game is always broken. Quests and such!
 
  
  Well not too much else to say! Well may be but you dont want to hear about it just read our forum 
 boards and test the game youll c for your self.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper91
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  wow wow wow wow wow wow wow hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi sorry for that had nothing 
 else to say I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I i i i i i i i ii i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii 
 ii ii i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  It's sad when a game that was first released get's put down so hard by the developers.
  
  StarWars Galaxies.. an Empire Divided was a game was viewed by most "An excellent Starwars Experience" 
 
  
  But.. with the recent introduction of the Next Generation Enhancement, those four words have gone 
 down the entire hole of despare
  
  It's unfortant, really, because this game used to be pretty good
  
  Gone are the days that 
 Bounty Hunters could hunt Jedi
  Gone are the days that Creature Handlers could perform tricks
  Gone are the days that Melee's 
 could actually find ranged professions
  Gone are the days of balanced combat
  
  Melee's have taken a huge hit by this upgrade, some might be saying "So? Who cares?"
  
  The 
 fact is, melee professions often make or brake a game; as a game has two different type's of player 
 basis "Ranged" or "Melee" 
  
  You can't have a game with just ranged people, there's no since in that. The same apply's for Melee
 
  
  You can't have a swordsmen and not an archer either.
  
  Thats the premise now. This game no longer has any life left, as the number of people leaving are 
 outweighing the number of people subscribing 
  
  With the NGE there are only nine professions, vs the 20+ that used to be availible, making me a 
 truely unique way of building your character. Uniqueness isn't around anymore though, as you can 
 either be a Jedi, Commander and what not, and still not be unique as you have the same skills are 
 the person you might fight
  
  Where as in the original SWG, you could be a Fencer, but also a Riflemen, a deadly combo indeed 
 if only Riflemen had been fixed in time 
  
  So, in total, I must NOT recommend this game anymore. It's sad really, but with the current state 
 of things it's just not worth the money anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caligulug
Rating: 1.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what I bought 2 years ago. I was actualy looking forward to this change till it 
 happened. I was one of those poor poor holo grinders you saw about 1-1.5 years ago macroing them 
 selves to an early grave. I never got my force sensitive slot to open and finaly gave up. NGE hits 
 and I go and resub. Turn my master smuggler into a jedi and wham the problems start. None and I 
 mean NOT EVEN ONE of the new quests work for crap. They send you to waypoints that lead nowhere 
 but to emty or camped spawns. I played for several hours a day for 6 days strait and could not 
 reach level 57 from 56. The only place in the game that you CAN get experiance in on Mustafar, 
 ofcourse you have to pay $30 for the Trials of Obi Waan to get to that planet. SOE has tryed in 
 my opinion to ruin this game and succeded. This game has been out for 2 years and there are still 
 more bugged missions than there are ones that work! BUGS BUGS BUGS! I have unsubbed after only 
 2 weeks of play and will never go back. The game in UNPLAYABLE period. Do not let these fan boys 
 fool you into getting ripped off by SOE. 
  
  Cal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kohaeg
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  With the release of the NGE only days after the trials of obi-won was released the game has taken 
 a new direction as well as a new style of play. Dropping from 30+ professions to 9 most of which 
 have to many bugs to even be playable. To the veteran player base the game is now broken and if 
 the number of players who say they are canceling do so it will be a game of very open spaces and 
 very few player to interact with. Controls are akward at best and they the interaction with the 
 NPC now has little or no real feel to it. The Graphics have even lost some of there appeal in that 
 the special attacks no longer are specials. If someone were concidering rentering the game for 
 past versions save your money until atleast this beta has had the bugs fixed. They seem to be relasing 
 daily hot fixes and patches to over come the poor planing by the developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naois78
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the game for two years. After this last patch I have canceled my 3 accounts.
 
  
  The game once had many many professions to choose from to customize your character, you even had 
 the ability to unlearn skills you have learned in the past to relearn new things. This allows for 
 great community recognition. This old system has been replaced by only a handful of professions, 
 and you can only be one, with linear progression there is no way to customize your character. It 
 was bad enough 6 months ago when they added a level system instead of the skill based system, and 
 now its even worse.
  
  The combat in the game is said to be fast paced. This combat system has you target enemies the 
 same way you would in an FPS game, yet the AI doesn't miss and you can't pull a single target, 
 or target a single target as there is no collision and the enemies all stand inside eachother while 
 in melee combat.
  
  They have removed all thinking from the game, even the once complex crafting system has been dumbed 
 down to where the resources do not matter.
  
  The customer support has never been very good, but since the cummunity has been helpful, support 
 from SOE was not needed much. Each time support from SOE was needed, we would recieve a prewritten 
 statement such as "It is working as intended" or "This is a known issue." Followed by an email 
 letting you know your problem ticket has been resolved. Not once was anything done to correct my 
 issue.
  
  The compant has no respect for the long term players, and most of us have left with this new patch. 
 Good luck to anyone who tried this game. I hope it doesn't let you down as much as it has my friends 
 and I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootiegs
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This game used to be a real superstar in an industry of mediocre MMOs. It was a masterful piece 
 of work, allowing full customization of characters, intuitive interfaces and exciting gameplay. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, without warning just ONE DAY after the release of an expansion that THOUSANDS of 
 users had pre-ordered and paid for, Sony Online Entertainment made an egregious mistake in introducing 
 their so-called "New Game Enhancements" (the NGE.) They cut out all but NINE of the 30+ professions 
 that there once were. They made horrendous changes to the user interfaces that make the game confusing 
 and irritating, as well as practically impossible to play if you are handicapped in a way that 
 decreases your manual dexterity. They made combat nothing more than a way to test your skills with 
 clicking a mouse button as quickly as possible until your carpal tunnel syndrome makes you wish 
 you had a robotic arm. 
  
  In short, this game is NOTHING like the game that we paid for. We purchased a game that had character 
 customizations, many profession choices, an excellent user interface and enjoyable combat. We are 
 now left with a game that is hardly recognizable as ANYTHING like the game we paid good money for, 
 and we are incredibly upset. Hundreds if not thousands of players have claimed to have already 
 cancelled their accounts on the SWG forums at SOE'S SWG website. We are upset, angry, and we are 
 not being heard. 
  
  Please, do not purchase this game. Sony is NOT interested in providing their players with the type 
 of game they enjoy. They do NOT care about your gaming experience. They do NOT wish to provide 
 you with the value that you deserve for the money you pay. They do NOT listen to their players. 
 If you take a look at some of the review sites and SWG fan sites, you will see that polls on those 
 sites show that over 85% of players do NOT like these changes and Sony does not care.
  
  If you buy this game, you are wasting your money. PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladimaximus
Rating: 2.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Sony Online Entertainment threw its loyal Star Wars Galaxies subscribers to the wolves with a grossly 
 distorted "upgrade" in the form of a new gameplay experience. This undertested upgrade, hurredly 
 rushed to market is lackluster in everysense of the word. Veterans are quitting in droves, newbies 
 are confused, and what had been a fairly balanced game for 2+ years imploded amidst a symphony 
 of screams. 
  
  Kinda like Alderaan.
  
  This game does have a few redeeming features. Its Starwars sounds continue to provide an immersing 
 experience when you are not concentrating on the gamebugs. The graphics are sharp although the 
 animations are a little stodgy.
  
  Your gaming dollars should stay far, far away from this galaxy.
  
  -VMX
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyriesunset
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  SOE and LA changed the game completely. Buyer beware! When you see these boxes still on the stores 
 shelves, DO NOT BUY. You are not getting a MMORPG. Instead you are getting a game more like Battlefield 
 1942 or even planetside. 
  
  The new game is a click-fest and lacks all the elements that made SWG the social sandbox it once 
 was. 
  
  The new version of the game is also riddled with bugs and many of the old armor, weapons, etc. 
 do not work. 
  
  However, as a new player, they have a great tutorial that walks you through the first 10 levels. 
 After that, they dump you into the same old game it was before the conversion. The quest lines 
 hold out to level 30. After that, the game stops because the developers have yet to complete the 
 content. 
  
  Don't buy this for your loved one for christmas. While they might like the game for a few days, 
 it grows very old after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chlaos
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  What Sony and Lucas Arts has done to this game should be criminal. In no way would I ever consider 
 buying a game from either of these companies again. The very principle that ongoing MMO's are based 
 on is that of a consistent world where your progress is kept up with and you are rewarded for continued 
 playing. They have broken all trust and betrayed the loyalty of their customers with this bastardized 
 version of the game. Drunk monkey pounding on the keyboard could have come up with better code. 
 Im left with no alternative but to believe that their intention was to destroy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrakD
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  They keep dumbing it down, hacking away at the fun and totally ignoring the gamers enmass about 
 this. They have a select focus group of fanboys who just gush how good anything SOE does to the 
 game. 
  
  "When Sony and Lucas set out, we said, 'How can we do this and not make another EQ?' We didn't 
 want it to be all about Luke, or combat, or lock our players into a class. So we created a system 
 that would allow players to switch professions during the game, and there would be a lot of gameplay 
 around making that change. If you want to go from architect to scout we've created a system to 
 make that happen."
  - Julio Torres 
  What they did is totally opposite of what Julio Torres from Lucas Arts Enterainment said earlier. 
 SOE denies the dumbing down is to allow this game to be ported over to the console, but with as 
 many lies as we have gotten from them, this is just another waiting to be crammed down the players 
 throats.
  
  SOE had to release the news after the release of Trials of Obi-Wan which at best was suspect, at 
 worst it was a violation of Texas law. I love Star Wars, but SOE is sucking the ability to love 
 SW right out of the game.....
  Be very aware of this BEFORE you buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sshazzam
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  This is a sinking ship. Play some other game, this one won't be around much longer.
  
  I have played this game since launch 2 years ago (approx) and have really enjoyed it untill november 
 15th of 2005. 
  SOE release what they have termed the "New Game Enhancements" .
  
  Untill November 15th Getting the title of jedi was an honor. It ws something to strive for. A reward. 
 YOu mastered one or more of 32 possible professionsand while doing so explored the game. Once you 
 did a certain number of things like master professions or visit the right locations, do the right 
 quests you were allowed to start on the path to become jedi. (which took about 8 months)
  
  NOW Jedi is a starting profession. Everything that we worked to get is gone,
  the professions 
 are horribly weak now, Most of the jedi powers don't work, game play has been changed to a first 
 person shooter type, the controls are very clumsy, and there is absolutely no skill involved. You 
 point and click click click till YOU'RE dead. 
  
  ... A lightsaber is now basically a glowing bat whose damage is less than most rifles and can be 
 negated by all armor. It is ridiculous. All characters are the same now. 
  
  One thing to keep in mind about this game... its like paying money to be in a beta test... It is 
 full of bugs and gets worse with every patch, customer service and the developers don't listen 
 to the community, or seem to care for that matter. 
  
  If your'e looking for a fun MMORPG this IS NOT it. Put your money some place else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIKE75a
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  Note all the below reviews, yes this game was good, but sadly those days have come to an end.
 
  
  The newest version of the game now Starwars Starterkit, has destoryed most of the best features. 
 (check out the reviews for this before you consider buying - you will be dissapointed if you don't)
 
  
  The diverse starwars universe has been compressed from 35 charaters to just 9 (three of which are 
 almost worthless - these being the crafters, entertainers & Jedi)
  
  Yes even the Jedi, once the envy of the other players now no more than cannon fodder for the other 
 6 charaters. 
  
  There have been some slight improvements to the game but these have all been overshadowed by the 
 change to the professions set up, no more do you get a sense of achievement form your working up 
 to the next skill level.
  
  This once great game has done a u-turn and is now flighing in the wrong direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhunter1976
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  I started playing this a year ago and loved every minute I spent in it. This game had so much potential 
 and the player base was awesome. SOE/LA have made changes to this game twice in 6 months, completely 
 changing the whole game seemingly in the interest of bringing in new subscribers instead of listening 
 to those of us who have been playing and loving this game. Not to mention the countless bugs and 
 total lack of respect and customer service from SOE/LA. There arent enough lifeboats for all of 
 us trying to get off this sinking ship!! Dont bother. Pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcbluefire
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has gone from the only MMORPG I was ever willing to play to being cancelled. 
  
  I've been in game since the second week after it's release. The newest patch 27, also known as 
 the NGE, has destroyed the ability for the user to configure how they play the game. Not to mention 
 the complete dumbing down of the environment.
  
  During "realtime" combat the user is required to use left-click to do a basic hit while targeting 
 the NPC or player they are fighting. Honestly, that's not too bad. But, it get's worse. If you 
 want to heal yourself or use a special attack or defense you must press a button [1] through [=] 
 across the number bar to select the special *and* then right-click to use it. During real time 
 combat clicking two buttons is just awesome.
  
  Creature levels versus player levels is a joke now. A jedi level 80 versus two level 54 creatures 
 is certain death. Jedi are now the weakest profession, oh... ahem, excuse me...."class" in the 
 game.
  
  It is time to let this game rest in peace.
  
  As my signature now says on the forums....
  "So this is how an MMORPG dies... to thunderous applause. 
 (... in the SOE boardroom while the customers quit) .
  SWG, you are going down a path I cannot follow!
  Lucas Arts, you are breaking my heart!
  
 
  Spend your money on something worthy of it. SWG is a thing of the past.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean7550
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I use to have faith in SOE and LA, however the NGE has porven to be all flash and no substance 
 as SOE and LA make it out to be more than it really is.
  
  When I first started playing SWG it appealed to me because the game broke all of the rules. It 
 was truely a masterpiece in design where every aspect of the game was skill based as opposed to 
 level based. And like the old saying goes all good things must come to an end. as will SWG after 
 the implementation of NGE.
  
  Graphics associated with the landscape and environment are excellent and very detailed, however 
 the player combat animations and other such graphics have become redundant and bland not very creative.
 
  
  Combat has gone from a strategy based concept that made you think before you act to a mundane boring 
 point and click (who ever is faster on the button wins the fight in most cases)
  
  Here is what i found to be major problems with the NGE after testing it out
  
  Severely Unbalanced
 
  PvP 
  PVE 
  Combat Levels 
  Professions 
  
  Gameplay issues 
  Class lock (you are stuck in one profession with no lateral movement or ability to change that 
 profession without recreating your character)
  Diversity reduction (with the elimination of a majority of the 32 other professions that made the 
 SWG community rich in diversity has been replaced with the 9 preset iconic figures that discriminate 
 against player individuality)
  No content and attention to Traders and Entertainers (the crafters and entertainers are feeling 
 as though they are being phased out of the SWG community due to the fact that without battle fatigue 
 there is no real demand for entertainers and without weapons and equipment decay there is no need 
 for crafters which in turn leaves SWG economics in a severe depression)
  NonCombatants can exploit NoAggro 
  Trials of Obiwon was designed for old system and now with 
 degraded rewards its less attractive for players 
  No XP quests for High level players in basic world 
  High level quest with XP rewards only at 
 Mustafar (requires purchase) 
  Rich buff food, clothing and items system eliminated
  
  In-game economy issues 
  No decay weakens and destroys player runned economy 
  Lack of sinks 
 for money supply 
  Weapon and armor production becoming unnecesary
  
  Other in game issues 
  Jedi are second weakest class in game 
  Jedi class has lost it's prestige
 
  Iconic professions concept partly incoherent with Star Wars Universe 
  
  Bugs 
  JTL giveout for free just to fix bug 
  Broken unusable user interface 
  Combat bugs 
  World 
 bugs 
  Many ToOW quests become broken 
  Some professions still have specials disabled
  Controls issues 
  Controls are not correspond with usability principles 
  Some controls are 
 locked and not rebindable 
  Controls are not friendly for handicaped players 
  New controls and UI issues produce battle fatigue (real life one)
  
  Communication issues 
 
  No real communication between devs and playerbase since CU1 
  Removing of Correspondents system 
  Eliminating any influence of playerbase on development process 
 
  Limited dev responce only after forums start burning with rage 
  Switching to focus groups oriented feedback gathering, which causes errors and misunderstanding 
 
  Elimination of veteran playerbase
  
  Social issues 
  Community partly destructed 
  Class lock requires recreation of character and this destorys social links
  Comminity differentiation 
 on elders and newbies may produce hate 
  Level Unbalances now produce more noticeable community differentiation by level then even after 
 CU 
  Default chat system is not oriented on intensive communication
  
  In conclusion the SWG that the veteran players have grown to love over the years has been decimated 
 by an idea that was not properly thought through to conclusion. 
  
  Easy games are not much fun and have no replayable factor, they get boring really fast. Unless 
 the NGE removed from the live servers and SOE and LA take this concept back to the drawing boards 
 and come up with something better that SOE, LA, and the playerbase can all agree upon that is in 
 the best interest of the game.
  
  In order for an online gaming community to evolve and grow I believe that it is imperative that 
 SOE and LA include the playerbase in the developement process because without the players there 
 is no game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmcdowell
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I played this game almost religiously for almost 2 years. The game was quite good, and the player 
 community was fantastic. We particpated in massive PVP battles and had a great time building up 
 our player city and exploring the vast worlds that were offered. The game had it's faults and promises 
 went unfulfilled but it was still a good game. 
  
  However with their most recent changes, everything that was good about it has now been ruined and 
 SOE has ostracized the community that has supported it for years. The game's environment is not 
 suitable as a First Person Shooter and the MMORPG aspects at best are an extremely poor knockoff 
 of other new games on the market. All of which are a better use of time and money than SWG at this 
 point.
  
  If SOE really believes that these are the changes their community has been asking for, they must 
 have extremely selective hearing or should clean the wax out of their ears.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocknso
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 Waist of time and money. SOE has changed the game 3 x's now with each one getting worse and worse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfriedrick
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  I have spent countless hours immersed in the wonderful game this once was. Gained many friends, 
 looked forward to new adventures and felt a sense of community .
  Unforturnately Nov 15 SOE and LA changed all of that. I now log into almost empty servers, fortunate 
 to spend a few moments with friends before they become bored or disgusted and log back off.
  Perhaps it wouldnt be so sad if I had not experienced the wonderful game that this once was.
 
  A galaxy full of adventure, surprise, goals and accomplisments. The ability to customize all aspects 
 of your character, including 30 professions you could mix and match to create a unique fighter, 
 entertainer, crafter or doctor. 
  The extensive and amazingly immersive crafting and trading system had many people running 2, 3 
 and 4 accounts to be able to enjoy even more of the diversity in the game.
  With the NGE they have given us an almost unusable interface, a very cumbersome combat system that 
 when you do finally figure it out is very fast grante, but very boring after about 5 minutes. They 
 have nerfed the trader professions to the point it is obvious that they are headed toward a kill 
 and loot based system, thus eliminating all members that so loved the crafting system.
  I have stuck it out with SOE on this one for 2 yrs, through thick and thin, but this time they 
 have truly ruined an awesom game, Whatever the reasons, for realease on console, ease of coding, 
 marketing geared toward a younger less stable audience, they have finally nailed the last nail 
 in SWGs coffin. Fairwell to a good and wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaraphel
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  I have played Star Wars: Galaxies for 782 days according to the /getvet command. I have purchased 
 all of the expansions out to date. I was considering creating a second account. As of 11-17-05 
 my account is cancelled. The New Game, also known as the Starter Kit, is the third version of SWG 
 and it is riddled with bugs and incomplete. It is a far inferior product to its previous versions 
 as well. The NG was released after being kept secret for an unknown period of time and allowing 
 players only a two week notice of it being published. Even less time was devoted to it being tested 
 by sources outside of SOE. Trials of Obi Wan and the NG were released in such a manner as to call 
 into question SOE's and LA's ethics. As represented by the employees who post to the forums SOE 
 and LA are uncarring, glib, and/or vastly out of touch with the player community.
  
  Most of these are not new complaints. However, with the release of the NG these problems have escalted 
 to such a degree that the game is no longer playable. While some are content to merely switch games 
 I am not. Simply changing the direction of the flow of money to SOE and LA will not get their attention. 
 I am boycotting all products created by Sony Online Entertainment and Lucas Arts. I encourage others 
 to do the same.
  
  I do not think my actions alone with effect SOE or LA one iota. In fact, I doubt anything will 
 change their policies. The fan base for Star Wars and other properties is sufficiently numerous 
 to mitigate any discontent portion. While some have predicted that the NG will cause the collapse 
 of SWG I believe otherwise. It will lose many current players but those will be replaced by SOE's 
 and LA's new target market. SOE and LA will later use the negative comments and future subscriptions 
 numbers to prove that they were right all along and to dismiss anyone who opposes them as being 
 knee jerk reactionaries who are against change just because they don't like change. Because most 
 likely the next expansion will also bring a new version of SWG as SOE and LA attempt to copy whichever 
 game is doing better then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4DDY-O
Rating: 1.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Do you like the following...?
  
  - A laggy, bug-infested game environment?
  - A formerly turn-based combat system crammed into a pseudo-FPS system?
  - A computer game that 
 was once rich and diverse, stripped down for an ill-concealed reincarnation as a console game? 
 And paying the publisher to essentially function as beta testers for said console-game release?
 
  - Quality control that depends on the good name of a famous franchise to make up for it's many 
 deficiencies?
  - A volatile history of major alterations to the core of the game, leaving you with the nagging 
 fear that one day your favorite in-game profession will be fundamentally altered for the worse 
 (think Jedi, a pale shadow of what we think of when we think "Jedi") , or even eliminated entirely 
 (as in Creature Handler, the profession GameSpy refers to as "possibly the most-shafted profession 
 in the history of MMORPG's") ?
  - And now, with an air of seeming desperation on the part of the game's developers, the thought 
 that the game might well be on it's last hurrah?
  
  Why, then you'll love "Star Wars: Galaxies: The Starter Kit." Just bear in mind that what you wind 
 up playing is fundamentally different from the game you bought.
  
  As I am writing this review, the SWG Starter Kit's ad is playing in the panel next to my text. 
 The ad is unintentionally ironic in the extreme. It touts itself as "the game that changes as you 
 play!"
  
  No freaking kidding!
  
  Just so you know, the "changes" you would experience as this game continues to devolve are NOT 
 for the good.
  
  So, go ahead... sign up if all the above appeals to you. For the rest of us, who do NOT like being 
 treated like virtual lab rats and punching-bag clowns, we have only one choice: Run away. Run far, 
 FAR away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alasdairsfraser
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  Game has been ruined by a new update, combat is terrible, no game depth rubbish for kids and adults.
 
  
  What was a pretty good game now ruined, no depth now to gameplay, no involvement or interest for 
 more than a couple of hours, used to have a great economic side to dabble in, good combat with 
 varied tatics, great cahratcter progression with loads of skills and talents to learn and you could 
 retrain and vary character enormously.
  
  Now just rubbish combat is terrible, caharcter progreesion and development is rotten, interaction 
 and tatics with other players is poor, tatics generally in combat are pointless, missions are now 
 pretty boring as it was tatics and interaction with other players that made it interesting. 
  
  Very poor need to roll back changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyeler
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely terrible user interface. The game has been changed to be more like a FPS, but has an 
 outdated graphics engine and horrible server response time. SOE continually disappoints its players 
 with each publish. Save the money, and if you must be a Jedi, pick another game. SOE changes development 
 crews on a whim, and have no idea what to do with this game. This game is no longer a MMORPG, but 
 a horrible hybrid which allows the npc's and critters to attack you at all angles, through buildings, 
 and out of sight because SOE has no idea what they are doing with an FPS. Save yourself even $20 
 and not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  See the title. I have played this game for over 2 years. I started in Beta and now I am leaving 
 because with the recent overhaul the game is completely different.
  
  Let the DEV team know that I have no desire re-learn what amounts to an entirely new game with 
 an entirely new interface. 
  
  I hope more people who are leaving make bad reviews here and tank the score of this game. 
  
 
  Naritus the server I was on is likely to be a ghost town after all the cancellations I have seen 
 on the official forums. Very few if any of the over 100 player guild I belonged to are sticking 
 around. 
  
  In all honesty I hope the game buckles and the DEVs learn a valuable lesson. If you wish to make 
 a sequel, do so.... don't reinvent a game that has been played by die-hard fans for more than 2 
 years!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodneythered
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I am very disappointed in SOE and Lucas Arts for putting out the NGE. I have been playing SWG for 
 a couple of years, but now I have cancelled my accounts. 
  
  The pre-NGE (New Game Enhancement) SWG was awesome. However, this new game is the worst game I 
 have ever played. The pre-NGE had complexity, depth, and gameplay that kept players going for years. 
 NOW it a dumbed down first person shooter that any 8 year old can play... at least for 10 minutes 
 or so until they get bored.
  
  DON'T waste your money on this game. SOE and LA have trashed a once awesome game.
  
  R. I. P. 
 SWG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokair
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Yepp This gamehas become the joke of the gaming world, One update counters anouther, The Devs are 
 going in three different directions. One Group is makeing PVP events that the game engine cannot 
 handle (real lag when 10 or more players are in one area) . The second group is working on bugs 
 (some of wich have been in game since launch, these coders are out of the development loop) and 
 do not effectively accoplish any thing. The last set are working on new game mechanics when the 
 impement any thing group 2 needs to start over again. The game engine is still from the original 
 game (wich is not a First Person Shooter) . The only way to save this mess is to implement classic 
 servers with publish 9 being the bases for it. 
  If they had just fixxed the original system this game would be out selling any other MMO out there, 
 But SOE and Lucas went for the easy way out and tried to copy WOW, and did a poor job at it at 
 that. 
  Had fun when the game was good , but its over now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gold1jul
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite good but for that you can read the official review.
  
  The point is that the publisher Sony Online Entertainment (SOE) does not respect the paying costumers. 
 With the new update they destroyed everything the community had; 2 years of work down the drain. 
 Items that people worked their whole ingame life for are now nothing more than crap. They removed 
 item decay and made the best items quest-rewards so crafting is useless. From 35 Professions to 
 9 is not what i would call an enhancement. Furthermore they removed the possibility to change the 
 profession. By doing this they removed everything what made the game special in comparison to other 
 mmorpgs.
  The controls are good for an action-adventure but not for a mmorpg for example there is no target-lock 
 so you have to target the other player with the cross-hairs to interact and you can not chat while 
 fighting, thats not a rpg anymore.
  Moreover they released the update full of bugs only half of the new content works properly.
  
 The 2 thing that are most annoying are that there was a similar update 6 month ago and they revealed 
 the new update after launching the "Trials of Obi-Wan" addon and released it 2 weeks after that. 
 In fact this big update had to be in development for more than 2 month. All players who paid their 
 subscriptions in advance cant leave the game now. Thats a nice relation between publisher and costumer. 
 
  Everyone who was more than one month playing when the update launched is not happy with it, because 
 its only fun for new players who are not frustrated by the way SOE treats the veteran players.
 
  This is an update the existing community does not like but they just ignore them.
  Buy this game if you like surprises and changes that affect gameplay and destroy everything you 
 worked for.
  If you do so they will piss you off soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xidic
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The NGE has completely destroyed this game, SOE and the development team could care less about 
 the players, the bottom line is they are only interested in taking your money.
  I have played SWG since launch and I can tell you this game is a shadow of its former self, They 
 have completly removed over 20 proffesions some of which they claimed to be revamping.
  The Trials of Obi Wan expansion was sold by digital download only and just one day after SOEs refund 
 deadline they announced they were changing the game.
  One proffesion "Creature Handler" was prominsed so much with the expansion only to find out they 
 were being canned a day after the refund deadline. 
  Sony did however decide to allow refunds until Dec 1 2005 but only after the community threatened 
 a class action suit against them. 
  Is this the kind of company you want to give you money to? Of course not, your gaming experience 
 should be relaxing. 
  Don't waste your time or money on this one .... MHO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scipio77
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game at launch was truely awesome however its since gone down hill and its not worth playing 
 anymore. SOE does not care about its veteran player base. 
  
  I loved this game but they treat their paying customers like we are children, they seek no input 
 and launched MAJOR changes without informing their player correspondants.
  
  They moved from 32 professions to just 9 and dumbed down all aspects of the game.
  
  Move along 
 this is not the game you are looking for....
  
  I enjoyed the game for 2 years and now with the changes we are playing a less fun version that 
 is more of a beta except you get to PAY FOR A BUG FILLED BETA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taterfish
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Its true.
  Was there from the start and now Im gone. It is rubbish.
  People are leaving en masse.
  
  They changed the game so much it is no longer the same game. 
 The combat is clicky and dull, the NPCs run so much you cant shoot them. Jedi are just fodder and 
 die in a flash. Most of teh interesting parts of the game have been removed. The game was good. 
 This change has made it a cheap poor quality version of a console game. Not even worth looking 
 at.
  Dont waste your time.
  
  This needs to have 100 words but Im not sure what else I can say. I played the game right from 
 day one and I have been pretty resilent to the chanegs but this one is just too much. All the things 
 that made SWG the one MMO that was a little different are gone and its become a rubbish version 
 of SWBF 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aadyeniel
Rating: 1.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, due to the NGE I am changing how I rate this game.. Why? Because it is no longer 
 the game that I purchased over two years ago, it is no longer the game that I pay for monthly, 
 basically, this new game, is dumbed down, boring, and full of bugs. 
  I cannot see a reason to pay for this game any longer, or any other SOE product mind you. The dismissal 
 of the loyal playerbase by Smedley and Torres is a slap in the face, just as the blatant lies, 
 spin, and complete disregard to their customer base. It is now obvious to me, that SOE is more 
 concerned with the almighty dollar than a quality, unique, immersive gaming experience for their 
 customers. 
  
  If I wanted to go play WoW or Battlefront 2, I would have bloody well purchased them... 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  You're going to hear a lot of angry dismissal of the New Game Enhancements being introduced into 
 Star Wars Galaxies, but let's "tell the truth and shame the devil", as Shakespeare wrote -- love 
 it or hate it, the new planetside game feels and plays much more like Star Wars now than it ever 
 has before.
  
  I've noticed that the people who hate the new changes generally love the **game mechanics** of 
 the original SWG more than they care whether or not that game was a true Star Wars experience. 
 They're angry at the loss of a familiar gameplay style they were comfortable with, and the Star 
 Wars-ness of the game matters far less to them.
  
  I have a couple of established characters in SWG and (as of this writing on 11/17/05) there are 
 bugs in the new game which make the conversion of existing characters less than perfect (i. e. they 
 don't currently get the level-related weapon and item rewards they're supposed to getting) . This 
 IS SOE, after all, and they're somewhat notorious for rushing things to live servers without sufficient 
 beta testing.
  
  BUT SOE is already aware of the conversion problem and is working on a hotfix patch as I write 
 this. Unlike many, I don't expect perfection-on-release from any online game, nor do I believe 
 that 15 bucks a month buys me my own personal dev team.
  
  All this said, any NEW characters you create seem to work very well. The new tutorial zone is excellent, 
 and again, it all (finally) feels more like Star Wars when you play planetside (space play always 
 had that Star Wars feel) .
  
  Faster action, linked quests, a more streamlined interface -- there's much to recommend here if 
 you actually want to play a *Star Wars* game.
  
  Some purists complain about the inclusion of Force-sensitive (pre-Jedi/Dark Jedi) characters as 
 a basic class in a game which is supposed to be set somewhere between the end of the original Star 
 Wars and the beginning of The Empire Strikes Back. The truth is, there have *always* been "too 
 many" Jedi in the game, ever since the path to Jedi-hood was first discovered and posted all over 
 the internet.
  
  SOE tried to make Jedi a rare profession in a couple of ways, but it didn't work. Players who want 
 their lightsaber will grind to get it, no matter what.
  
  So now, SOE has mainstreamed Force sensitives and doesn't "hide" from the issue. It will still 
 be many, many levels before a Force-sensitive sees his or her first lightsaber -- but now the character 
 class is balanced to be a part of the game as a whole, rather than some rare uber-1337 profession.
 
  
  I'm sure that those who hate the changes have already paid assassins to kill me for daring to challenge 
 their views, but I'm telling you my honest, personal opinion: this is not the old SWG, but if you 
 want a game that's closer to Star Wars than SWG has ever been, you might want to pick up a timecard 
 and the SWG Starter Kit and give it a try. It's not Knights of the Old Republic, nor Battlefront 
 II, but Star Wars Galaxies is now more truly Star Wars than it's ever been before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamelessone
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Once a game with tremendous potential to dominate the market. Unfortunately SOE/LA's bad management, 
 lack of foresight and apathy for its community have plagued this game more than any in-game bug 
 or flawed combat system could ever dream of.
  The game has become an MMORPG/FPS hybrid yet fails miserably at both. Bugs that should have been 
 squashed years ago still exist. Hasty publishes and hotfixes that usually create more problems 
 than they solve. Huge major game overhauls that go beyond simply modifying the game, but making 
 an entire new game altogether have left many to question the sanity of those who made such changes. 
 
  I cannot, in good conscious, recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradgruner
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  NGE is No Good for Everyone... very bad choice. I think SOE misused their customer feedback... they 
 tried to give players who left what they wanted, but IGNORED players who were already playing.... a 
 mynok in the hand is worth two in the bush!! I signed on and stayed on for the SWG that started 
 it all... I tolerated the CU. I loved the diversity of professions because I could be whatever I 
 wanted to be in the Star Wars Universe. Now, I have to be just like everyone else - and everyone 
 else has to be just like Luke? Lando? Han? It's just such a dumb-down and, despite their denial, 
 SOE is pretty clearly aiming toward the console market for this game. Let the console players have 
 this NGE garbage and give the PC players back the game they want and have loved for 2.5 years. 
 Respect your customers, SOE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ymerejbeck
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Please try the nge and upgrade your review Greg. You will see Why there is so much negativity. Your 
 original reviews were right on and I think you should be the one to do the re-revisited post nge 
 revamps that puplish 25
  have unleashed on what was a very tried but loyal base of players.
  Your Ideas and opinions on 
 the matter would be respected im sure.
  There may be hope for swg if they incorporate some new changes with some old combat styles. The 
 people who spent time becoming the best 
  crafters thru patience and and a little iq power are now replaced by any one who has some spare 
 resources and a coupel minutes.
  the thievery of millions of game credits worth of items bought under the guise of being useful 
 and were then completely wiped from the game.
  High end weapons bought from smiths who spent time and resources making the best. for nothing because 
 it ws all nerfed. It is much harsher on the invested player then noobies. So lets hear a review from 
 someone who has played it, but maybe not extensively, just to get a fair review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMZAHL
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is horible now that this NGE has come out. there is nothing to do in the game and they 
 made every profession weak. they made them so weak you cant even do quests now. Theres to many bugs 
 the first person thing is weird and jerky and the controls way to confusing. Its almost impossible 
 to grind now cuzz you get hardly any xp. And the quests i have to say in this game are really lame 
 boring and almost all the same, basicly you just run around.
  
  Every quest is the same in this game its a rip off and a total waist of money. Not only that SOE 
 has horrible servis and doesnt care about the customer and dont care about the comunity. And plus 
 they change the game like ever few months and usualy mess it up and add bugs. Save you self money 
 or buy a diffrent game cuzz gettin this game would be throwing cash away. $15 dollers a month so 
 not worth it. also since the NGE every one been standing around mad about NGE. The comunity is 
 pissed and you can tell this game gunna go down in flames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonycrash
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  When SWG first came out, it was like nothing else in the MMO world. Despite broken content from 
 day one, it was an entertaining and unique experience... that is until after 2 years of promising 
 to fix the game the dev's decided to completely destroy it by dumbing down the game.
  
  For YEARS this game was skill based, not leveled based like most every other MMO. With over 35 
 professions, in swg you could create a very complex character... now since this last update LA's 
 and SOE have dumb it down to 9 professions, and its level based... not the game we all purchased 
 over 2 and half years ago.
  
  Whats even worse, now that they've turned it into a semi-FPS, it still has the terribly outdated 
 game engine... YOU CANT EVEN JUMP OVER A 1 INCH STEP!
  Even when the game was released back in 2003 it was outdated, now its REALLY feeling its age... Pass 
 on this title, SOE devs have showed a nak for seperating thier customers from thier money while 
 doing jack all to improve this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuocs_Aiewoon
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  They have turned a wonderful game into a lackluster FPS. Not Recommanded for Adults
  
  Those of you that disagree, thats cool because I live in America and thats one of the things that 
 makes this country great. After playing again last night for several hours on TC, I came to the 
 conclusion that , maybe it was time for SWG to move on to the younger crowd, I accept that and 
 heck maybe its time for me to move on. 
  
  This morning while my 9 year old son was getting ready for school, I gave him the Username/password 
 for my last open account and gave him direction on how to get on to the Test Server. I don't normaly 
 allow him to play SWG because as they say "Game Experience my change during Online Play" and I 
 think 9 is a a bit young for SWG, sorry personal preference. I asked that after homework he get 
 on, create a character and told him to pretty much stay on the Spaceport until Levle 8, doing quest 
 and such.
  
  When I got home from work this evening, he was playing BattleFront II and I asked him how it went 
 with SWG, he said he had alot of fun creating the toon and the movies were pretty cool, and the 
 quest were easy enough. He liked that he collected some pretty cool stuff while on the station. 
 He had decided to go on to Tatooine because he wanted to see Jabbas Palace. He said he did the 
 Quest on Tatooine for awhile and got bored. His exact words wereIt was fun for awhile but it 
 got kinda boring, so I quit" 
  
  ARGH, if SWG is boring for a 9 year old kid, who the heck is their target audience? Evidently not 
 us 40 somethings. I didnt think he would lose interest so fast because hes been playing KOTOR 2 
 for a good while and I dont think he has put the gamepad down since he got Battlefront2. If you 
 read my previous post I have really tried to keep SWG as my game of choice, but after today..... dambit...... 
 Well Ive got until January on this account so Ill continue to keep trying, cause I do like this 
 game of ours alot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elidhgon
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I've played Star Wars Galaxies since its launch, I've been through the bugs, the lies of SoE, all 
 the crap they've pulled - and yet still continued playing. Why? Because of the community in the 
 game - because of the people playing. After a year of playing, there was one thing I did in-game 
 - PvP - and one thing that kept me PvPing, my guild. We survived the CU, and made it through. We 
 were one of the only PvPing guilds to continue through the CU and be dominate. When I finally start 
 liking the CU, BAM - NGE. Did we ask for an FPS? Show me who asked for an FPS, please. SoE has 
 lied to this gaming community since launch, and they've finally just burned all their bridges. 
 Entire guilds that have been around since launch are dying and moving to a different game - SoE 
 continues to claim the player base loves it. Smedly has the balls to say he has posted many threads 
 and answered questions - Smedly's stats on the forums: 1 post since registration. Wow, very involved, 
 Smedly. They lie to everybody, they destroy the entire game, and they're going down with the ship. 
 However, I'm jumping off the Titanic thank you very much. Two accounts cancelled.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: motorhead85021
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by this high rating on this game. Go look at the review for SWG: The Starter Kit. 
 The ratings you see here pertain to the old SWG, which has been written away. It is no more.
  
  The new SWG has been turned into a dumbed-down version of the old to appease the console crowd. 
 And know this, you will pay THE highest price in the MMORPG market right now to play this online-FPS.
 
  
  If you want fun Star Wars, stick with KOTOR or Battlefields. If you want to find out your profession 
 has been cancelled after paying for it for over two years because SOE wants to make an extra dollar, 
 then enjoy....
  
  You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downertool
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  this game is an abomination of what it once was. do not purchase this piece of crap and those thinking 
 of coming back... DONT.
  
  i cant believe what they have done to this game ... twice now. its like a mmo crossed with a fps 
 and it just doenst work together. SOE the mad scientist splicing together 2 games to make a retarded 
 version of itself.
  
  
  
  this game 
 is an abomination of what it once was. do not purchase this piece of crap and those thinking of 
 coming back... DONT.
  
  i cant believe what they have done to this game ... twice now. its like a mmo crossed with a fps 
 and it just doenst work together. SOE the mad scientist splicing together 2 games to make a retarded 
 version of itself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xriot
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:13 am PT
Review:  Don't be fooled, this game has been around for 2+ years and recently had 75% of the work people 
 have put in over the 2 years trashed for the introduction of what the company calls 'New Game Enhancements'. 
 The announcement of these introductions took place days people were baited with a new expansion 
 that offerred the original (sought-after) gameplay.
  
  In reality these new game enhancements are a weak attempt to turn the game into something it was 
 never intended to be; FPS-like. On all levels, the game now fails. Building this new mechanism 
 introduced onto an old system that was never intended to be used in this manner lead to several 
 bugs and crude gameplay that soon gets irritating.
  
  The new player introduction to the game will introduce you to hours upon hours of bugged and often 
 undirected content that will likely prevent you from ever stepping into the actual game. 
  
  If you do make it into the actual game now, by time you pass all the introductory quests you'll 
 find that there is nothing else to do. You'll be level 30 with an endgoal of 90 that is now rendered 
 unnatainable and virtually worthless.
  
  In summary,
  Don't waste your time, or money on this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnobby
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  they totally screwed it up since the new game enhancements, there are more bugs at this period 
 of time then i care to mention and the game dynamics totally suck. dont buy!
  
  i selected te game difficulty as hard because its virutally impossible to play it as it is. see 
 its a rpg system with new psudeo twitch based combat thrown in on top of it. in and of itself that 
 isnt a bad idea but the implimentation of it is just plain horible and very uninspiring.. 
  
  the game in its present state is a mess, i would pass it up in a second nfact at this junction 
 i would rather play pong.. 
  
  jesusisinme wrote:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Star Wars Galaxies is a great game for online players and put you right in the action of the ever 
 growing Star Wars saga. The game involves a customizable character that you create and form in 
 your will. You could choose a profession for your character and mold your profession to become 
 the ultimate player. Star Wars Galaxies is always being updated to fix any bugs and to improve 
 gameplay. Expansion pack are always adding new styles of gameplay. They provide new vehicles to 
 drive and also new planets to explore using new weapons and items that you could always buy in 
 the Bazzar. A truly amazing game. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  are we playing the same game? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyscoJuggalo
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Customer Opinions:
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=1029731
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=966799#M966799 
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=961478#M961478
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=946217#M946217
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=924650#M924650
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=917664#M917664
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=917647#M917647
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=917292#M917292
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=917074&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=916328&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=911911#M911911
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=903851#M903851
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=903655#M903655
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=903312&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=898769&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=897919&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=892367#M892367
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=892172#M892172
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=891892&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=891786&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=883528#M883528
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=883473&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=867942#M867942
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=872425#M872425
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=Wanderhome&message. id=443139#M443139
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=863270#M863270
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=863103#M863103
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=860068#M860068
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=860007&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=851476&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=852193&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=841605#M841605
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=837331#M837331
  
 
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=836887&view=by_date_ascending&page=1 
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=1026034#M1026034
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=1006873#M1006873
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=924923&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=914605&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=567605&query. id=0#M567605
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=568332&query. id=0#M568332
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=568650&query. id=0#M568650
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=568985&query. id=0#M568985
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=569101&query. id=0#M569101
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=ngepilot&message. id=45629&query. id=0#M45629
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=570082&query. id=0#M570082
 
  
  http://soe. lithium. com/swg/board/message? board. id=swggpdiscussion&message. id=574852&query. id=0#M574852
 
  
  
  
  And there you have a small sampling of opinion. 
  
  SWG is a bad game:
  
  Gameplay is a joke.
  
  Their new graphics upgrade makes your toon look like a "Crossdressing 
 Heroine addict zombie."
  
  Sound, meh.
  
  Value? There is nothing of value in this game.
  
  SOE/LA have created an abomination. They 
 took an average game and totally destroyed it by thinking a bunch of Warcraft MMORPG N00B's were 
 gonna leave Warcraft, the only MMORPG the n00bs ever played, for SWG NGE. Boy were they wrong.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belorda
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, there was a game full of deapth and possibilities, full of fun and freedom. Then 
 an company decided, that the players arent able to enjoy this freedom and to stupid to understand 
 and use the possibiltys.
  
  This comapny decided, to wipeout 27 of the 36 professions, wipeout the possibilty to mix some of 
 this professions and the ability to change the skills the player had.
  
  This Company decided, that is to complcated for the player to choose any skills, and that he is 
 to stupid to find a trainer or an other player for teaching. So they wiped out this.
  
  Then the company decided that there are no longer crafters and entertainers needed, but the company 
 knows, that potential customers would think, only 7 professions are to less, so they lat the trader 
 and the entertainer stay, but to make them very unatractive, so noone would play them so, at a 
 later day they can remove them with the words, the players dont like this professions..... and so 
 the story goes on.
  
  In fact, SOE or Lucasarts decided that the Playerbase dont want freedom, dont want 36 professions, 
 dont want the possibility to mix and change professions at any time, then she say all the players 
 want is 9 professions and no freedom of choice. the forum speak an other speach, and now, some 
 days before this "enhancement" the servers looks empty like the sahara.
  
  All Crafter professions are gatjhered in one them trader, which has to specialice in one of 4 trees, 
 but at the same time the remove item decay from the game and makes loot better than any craftable 
 item. And the remove the ability of the Crafter to participaty in the gameplay. Earlier an Crafter 
 could Mix, he could be an master armorsmith and an master Rifleman at the same time, this is now 
 gone, also if you decide to be an crafter or an entertainer, be aware that cou wont be able to 
 participate in the game like before. And be aware that you wont be have any customers, the new 
 loot is better than the item you craft.
  
  The New UI looks bad, cheap, like the UI of an 10 years old shooter, and the game now plays so. 
 from hundreds of skills only some are left, you will only need your left mousebutton for fire. 
 But be aware, if an other Player cross your line of sight the fire stops, but only for you not 
 for the enemy, enemys also fires thrue walls with ease.
  
  Nothing from this great game is left, only peces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesusisinme
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is a great game for online players and put you right in the action of the ever 
 growing Star Wars saga. The game involves a customizable character that you create and form in 
 your will. You could choose a profession for your character and mold your profession to become 
 the ultimate player. Star Wars Galaxies is always being updated to fix any bugs and to improve 
 gameplay. Expansion pack are always adding new styles of gameplay. They provide new vehicles to 
 drive and also new planets to explore using new weapons and items that you could always buy in 
 the Bazzar. A truly amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e3ApeXX
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:36 am PT
Review:  Right now, SOE has made the game go through its second "Combat Upgrade." They are preparing it 
 for the console release, and have turned it into a FPS. No longer is it designed for computer. 
 Be warned: They may annouce termination of PC accounts at any time now. Not to also mention that 
 all of the servers are laggy, technical support is non-existant, and we are constantly forced to 
 buy their expansions. Also, their expansions are usually voided after just two weeks because of 
 some "Upgrade" that completely removes some classes from the game. So stay away, and if you HAVE 
 you buy this game, do it for Console! Remember folks, SOE doesn't care so why should you?
  
  As a veteran, I've cancelled my account and so should you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is almost twice the game WoW, Guild Wars, and especially FF XI. It is highly addictive and 
 highly under-rated. Give this game a try...
  
  This is almost twice the game WoW, Guild Wars, and especially FF XI. It is highly addictive and 
 highly under-rated. Give this game a try...
  
  This is almost twice the game WoW, Guild Wars, and especially FF XI. It is highly addictive and 
 highly under-rated. Give this game a try...
  
  This is almost twice the game WoW, Guild Wars, and especially FF XI. It is highly addictive and 
 highly under-rated. Give this game a try...
  
  This is almost twice the game WoW, Guild Wars, and especially FF XI. It is highly addictive and 
 highly under-rated. Give this game a try... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:31 am PT
Review:  When I first read about SOEs new MMORPG two years ago, i was ecstatic. I couldn't wait to get my 
 hands on it. A few months later i got it and as it didn't exactly live up to my expectations, it 
 was damned close and even surpased it in some ways. For about a year i was never disappointed with 
 the game once, it was almost seamlessly perfect. Excellent graphics, considering you have a good 
 graphics card make this game unique for an MMORPG. Sounds are pretty well done, although the music 
 can get boring if you've been playing for over a day. The economic standpoint of the game is almost 
 flawless, ever evoling and encompassing every aspect of ever profession it will keep you guessing 
 like you're on wall street. the game has only really disappointed me once, with the controversial 
 "Combat Upgrade", which actually made me cancel my account after well over a year of playing the 
 game. And as a verteran SWG player I'm pleased to say I'm welcoming the new, just as contoversial 
 update that will completely change the face of the game. don't listen to the picky, sour, bitter, 
 and overall whiney currently SWG players who are just mad cause they took too much time out their 
 live to make an uber l33t j3di and now anyone can be one, which im excited about, because i never 
 wanted to take the time to spend hours and hours to make something as silly as that. But if you're 
 just out and want to have a very, very good time, kill a few days just grab a few friends, sit 
 down and enjoy this game for what it offers, please do yourself a favour and consider this MMORPG 
 when it comes time for you to chose one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FukMnky
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:19 am PT
Review:  Well - they've done it again. SOE/LA has decided to 'revamp' the game again. and in doing so - 
 condensing 32 rich (albeit lacking in content) professions into 9 (apparently identical) professions. 
 
  
  The new Expansion that was released on November 1 was only live 24 hours before the announcement 
 was made to scrap the core game. 
  
  Numerous profession perks advertised in the expansion are now rendered useless as the professions 
 no longer exist.
  
  This sounds like a case of 'Intent to Deceive' .
  
  Save your money - play WoW or Guildwars. Or wait for the Gen3 games to be released. Avoid this 
 stinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjesse85
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  the graphic are really out of place, action scenarios are patetic compared to the real movie. any 
 way the story line is terrific, bordering on fubulous. try it ,lets here from u soon. this game 
 is good fun for first time begginers. the difficulty is not so hard once you figure out a few tips 
 on how to naigate yourself while in an action spot. the plot is marvelous with all the added extras. 
 talking about game making, and writng reviews are to different things, but one in the same. you 
 must be passionate about the game, fill the adrenalin pump through to the point of no return, while 
 most companies just make games for the sake of it. Being a starwars fanatic, i think the game is 
 a good way to chewaway time, but we expect much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I tried out several professions in an attempt to get a clear perspective of what the game offers. 
 In EVERY profession, I found a very limited and static amount of what many players call "Grinding", 
 where a character must perform a mundane and repetitive task in order to advance. At some point, 
 your character just plateaus, and then must jump through some very boring hoops. Eventually you 
 get through to bigger and better things. Overall, it is an experience that brings you back to the 
 game for more. There are many places to see, static quests to accomplish, creatures to fight. Many 
 try to become a Jedi of some kind, unlocking the elusive Force-Sensitive character. More grinding.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but the polygon count can get quite high. Invest in a nice pixel shader 
 card if you want to play this for very long. Your swap file will get punished unless you have at 
 least a gig of ram. There are great video settings, tho, that let you control MANY aspects of the 
 detail in the game, right down to which pixel shader version you will use.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeyedan75
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Boring!! Dull!! Not what you want from a MMORPG!!
  I was probably expecting to much from this, But what I got was boredom!! Spent 2 hours looking 
 for Metal and Fighting Tuskens, Then went into space started to enjoy it a bit more.. But that soon 
 ended when it took me 30minutes to figure out how to land.
  Ok maybe Im stupid, But it should be easier to pick up then what it is, It just dosent grab you 
 by the crotch ands say "PLAY ME" like the other great MMORPGs do. 
  If I was to give anyone any advice Id say stay well clear of this, and go and buy Everquest, WoW 
 or City of Heroes instead.
  Far more enjoyable and quicker to get into then SWG 
  Yet another star wars licenced game gone to waste : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinkan
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  The diversity of professions was one of the reason i joined star wars galaxy. You could do almost 
 anything you wanted, and why should all profession have to be popular. And i liked that you could 
 combine skills from sevral professions and change to another profession if you got tired of being 
 a dancer, now you will have to decide on one profession only.
  
  And the new combat system, mmofps on those laggy servers give me a break.
  
  - based on community 
 feedback, this is what they want
  
  What planet (or should i say galaxy) are they (soe/lucasarts) living on, it has no more support than 
 there is bio-engineers (not a bad word about bio-engineers) in the game.
  
  I'll give it a try, but i fear it will be the end for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riptorn
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  I played the game about a year and a half ago and it was slow and laggy but the new changes look 
 really good, instead of sleeping through the game at least is sounds pro active like Jump to light 
 speed I for one can hardly wait. this sounds like a Rpg with elements of Fps , I hope they have 
 taken ques from WOW who is light years ahead of everyone else in the mmorpg dept.
  the biggest problem with SWG right now is there are too many worlds and not enought people to play 
 them, Sony thought that by makeing these enormas worlds people would love the game unfortunately 
 they for got to build a funa and engaging game , this changed a little with Jump to light speed 
 and the Wookie expansion, people want a game that is somewhat linier but does not constrict you 
 to much, a game like Morrow wind is fun for awhile but becomes confusing and scattered. SONY you 
 are on the right track 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngrySOECustome
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is run by Sony Online Enterainment, they have poor customer service, the game is bug 
 riddled and these bugs will never get fixed.
  
  SOE will at a wim change the entire game play overnight, with changes that are not what the established 
 player base want. They are planning to change the game on Nov 15th from an MMORPG to an MMOFPS 
 style game. This is not an RPG style game any more it is set to be a FPS style game.
  
  The playerbase is outraged at the changes. The main reason, ONE DAY after they release an expansion 
 that SOE charged 30 US Dollars for they announce the change from MMORPG to MMOFPS which in turn 
 renders more than half of the content in the expansion useless.
  
  In the old game many players spent months attaining Jedi status, now with the proposed changes 
 you can be Jedi from the moment you logon. If you want to play jedi go play something like KOTOR 
 or one of the other Jedi games as this is crap. If you wants to play an FPS Star Wars game play 
 something like Battlefront 2 or any of the others they are way better than this. You will be charges 
 15 US Dollars a month for something you can pay for once in the store and get far more enjoyment 
 out of. The one thing that made the original great was the community this just got trashed by SOE 
 and Lucasarts. In short do not get this game, it is a rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KroutZaGerman
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is one of those games that you spend hours on learning and exploring trying 
 to better your character and you wake up a month later and say: Wait... what the hell am I doing, 
 this game sucks.
  
  In its defense the game probably doesn't deserve to be rated as bad as it has been, but the build 
 up and following was so huge that it just totally dissapointed everybody; And being trashed by 
 reviewers is an unfortunate off shoot of not delivering on massive hype.
  
  The game had a lot of bugs at launch but that wasn't the dissapointing thing. The devs tried (and 
 failed) to create a world in which everybody was dependent on everyone else. They also tried to 
 give each skill an ability that was going to be useful in the game. The result is one big cluster 
 *%^#. You end up sitting around for hours at a time waiting for docters to heal you/prepare you 
 for fighting, buying spices to boost your ratings (necessary if you want to fight anything in the 
 game worth fighting) , and watching musicians to heal battle fatigue/prepare you for battle. And 
 once this fiasco is complete it takes another 30 minutes to get to where you want to go in the 
 universe and then you often get killed quickly and easily and have to do the whole thing over again. 
 And if you want your character to be any good at all then you have to perform boring and repetitive 
 tasks for weeks each day going through the mind numbing task of preparing for battle. WHAT A WASTE 
 OF TIME.
  
  The only redeaming quality of the game is the graphics. The different worlds that were created 
 are as breathtaking as they are vast- it literally takes hours to walk from one end of a world 
 to another, and there were like 7 worlds at launch with more to be added later.
  
  Sadly the graphics don't even begin to make up for the horrible flaws in the combat system and 
 the player interaction. Take my word for it: Stay away from this one, its no good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  (sigh) ...
  
  I had high hopes for this game, as did many other fans of Star Wars. But, An Empire Divided let 
 us down. And many of us, down for the count...
  
  An Empire Divided is a Massive Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game... or in short, MMORPG... the 
 game is mainly played online, in which you can interact with thousands of players over the internet. 
 
  
  There is one setback: a fee for playing the game each month!...
  
  Yeah... I know what some of you adults are thinking: Who pays $15 or $20 each month for playing 
 a video game you've just spent $49.99 on in the local Wal-Mart. 
  
  It's absurd, I know. But you gotta think: Is it worth it?
  
  Well, is it? i had to ask myself 
 that question every time I even thought of playing it. And I still havent come to a conclusion! 
 
  
  It's a great game for some... and for others a dismal game... For me, a disappointment...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitKitty
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:55 am PT
Review:  This was a fun game, the graphics were good, the music was wonderful, I really liked the charicter 
 editor and emotes. But in a MMORPG I want an addiction. I want somthing as addictive as Crack (dont 
 do drugs) Somthing that will totally take me down into an awsome world that I will be stuck in 
 for months, if not years. For those of you who want a truly special Exp of an online game, buy 
 a game like world of warcraft. Not SWG. Its fun, but not THAT fun. It has a cool world, but not 
 THAT cool. There are better games out there. The monsters where not much of a challenge to a group 
 of people, with a group around the third or forth day playing I actually fought and killed THE 
 strongest monster in the entire game. Thats not good for a MMORPG, not good at all. If you are 
 a really major starwars fan, you will probably love this game, Otherwise, buy WoW and get more 
 fun for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Coming from a Star Wars fan, you would expect that I'd be giving SWG a decent review. I bought 
 the game June 26th, the very day it was released. Up until January, the game was quite fun and 
 immersive. In January, I cancelled my account to go to World of Warcraft (Which in my opinion, 
 was a more fun experience) . A month ago, I decided to reactivate my account and purchase the two 
 recent expansion packs. Boy, was I disappointed. The overall game is just now plain boring. 
  
  The latest combat revamp has made the game worse! Now things are by combat level. If you're 
 looking to buy SWG, don't! It will take forever for you to have any signicant character. Without 
 a vehicle, it seems to take hours to reach your destination. To earn a decent amount of money, 
 you must do millions upon millions of poorly presented, uninteresting "missions". 
  
  In conclusion, even if you are a die-hard Star Wars nerd, you should avoid this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casan02
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  I started playing SWG since January 1st of 2005. So I will filter of what players where saying 
 and what I beleive:
  
  They Say: "There's been many bugs that where not fixed since it went live"
  I Say: "Sure, it 
 has some bugs, but they should've fixed it by now right?"
  One monthe later: "I can't beleive it! It's still not fixed?"
  
  They Say: "The missions and 
 quests that you get are not fixed properly"
  I Say: "How many times do I have to do this mission? I am doing everything correctly!"
  
  They 
 Say: "SOE is a lousy customer service support"
  I Say: "Ditto"
  
  They Say: "SWG has some great graphics, plus I like how every player is totaly different"
  I 
 Say: "SWG does have some great graphics, and everyone's facial efatures are totally different"
 
  
  They Say: "The stupid Combat Upgrade really messed up everyone and it just shattered SWG"
  I 
 Say: "Indeed it has"
  
  They Say "After the CU, there has been a number of Jedis showing up everywhere, and they are now 
 like the uber players here."
  I Say "What!? I thought this game took place between Episode IV and V where the Jedis are rarely 
 seen! What the heck is going on!?"
  
  They Say: "I quit my account cus my friends where leaving SWG and I hope someday SOE learns it's 
 lesson"
  I Say "Same reason why I quit my account, and I hope to see my friends someday agian in another 
 MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbartl00
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I loved the universe... and the graphics were very good when this game first game out. I enjoyed 
 the crafting and skill system.. and the enviroment, locations, and size of the universe were all 
 well done.
  
  However, given the time frame this game takes place.. the Jedi were all but wiped out... but in 
 this game... EVERYONE is a Jedi. It just makes absolutely no sense, and ruins the combat balance 
 of the game. Because there's almost no point in pursuing any other profession.
  
  Another problem was at the time I played.. the rebels outnumbered the empire almost 3:1. In the 
 timeframe of this universe.. the empire ruled the galaxy and were feared. Not so much here. That 
 struggle has been all but fogotten now behind the light vs. dark side Jedi.
  
  It reminds me alot of what has happened in the Matrix Online. A great universe and struggle... 
 pretty much ruined by the MMORPG mechanics and over-zealous developers trying to make money.
  
  If you are a star-wars fan, I recommend just to go see all of the movie locations, and just 
 breathe it in, but long term this game really dissapointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antinate
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  At the start of the summer, I decided "Hmm, you know what? I think I'll get a MMORPG." I hadn't 
 played any true MMORPGs since Dark Age of Camelot, which was so great, so I decided that MMORPGs 
 are pretty fun and that I should be playing the newer generation of MMORPGs. I was a pretty big 
 fan of Warcraft, but also a big fan of Star Wars. While Googling information about Star Wars Galaxies 
 (because apparently SOE has too much time on their hands to make the navigation on their SWG website 
 make any sense) I came across a forum post asking exactly what I wanted to know: Star Wars Galaxies 
 vs World of Warcraft. I only read half of the first page of about 7, and Star Wars Galaxies was 
 mostly in favor.
  So, I went out and bought Star Wars Galaxies, came back, installed it, and stared at an error message 
 that didn't let me load SWG for about four days. SOE had absolutely no information regarding this 
 error, so for four days it was just a bunch of tinkering with the computer until it finally worked. 
 At last, finally about to play the game! After the patching, I watched the neat introduction and 
 was taken to character creation.
  
  Neat, facial construction like The Sims 2! My human couldn't look anything but ugly, no matter 
 how hard I tried, so I made a Zabrak instead. The hair selection choices for all races are lacking 
 somewhat, and even though it doesn't have much variety either, Knights of the Old Republic is even 
 better at that. Okay, created the character, then it was time to play the little "noob zone." After 
 that, I was taken to Tatooine, and boy was I in for a surprise there.
  
  It started with the lag.
  I was greeted with sounds of a ship soaring overhead, and I started 
 rotating the camera. It was choppy and horrible. I decided to follow the ugly, ugly yellow line 
 that was bulging at me, which was in the direction of the person that did the newbie quests. I 
 prepared to move in that direction when I started lagging some more. The camera was clearly in 
 the direction that I wanted to go to, but my character started running in the wrong direction, 
 crashing right into a wall and running deeper and deeper into it. I stopped, turned around SLOWLY, 
 and walked on again. I finally completed the difficult task/quest (one of the ONLY quests you will 
 find in this game, I might add) to follow the yellow line.
  I saw someone at the end of the line... an NPC. Hoho, if this extremely long, thick, fat, and horrendously 
 ugly line leads to you, then you must be important to set me on my role of the Star Wars Universe! 
 Right. Time to talk to you. FedEx service, you say? Why, I'd be delighted to deliver your packages 
 for you. In fact, why don't you deliver all the packages to me NOW so I don't have to keep running 
 back and forth? No? Well, suit yourself then.
  I got my lovely speeder (which apparently wasn't available when the game was first released, which 
 was a very stupid idea to not include it) and turned on my map. WOW! That has to be the UGLIEST 
 thing I've ever seen! HUGE, HUGE GREEN BLOCKS PLASTERED ALL OVER MY MONITOR! Resisting the urge 
 to call the Exterminator, I calmed myself down and simply turned it off. When I was emotionally 
 stable enough to turn it back on again, I saw names of the NPCs all over the map. Some NPCs had 
 names like:
   or something like that.
  Which leads me to the statement that this game is, in fact, incomplete.
  Next, the poor speed. 
 It's rather odd how a game with so little to show (hardly any detail, and when there is, you can 
 only see it when it's very up-close) runs so badly.
  
  After all my beginning quests, the rest of my time devoted to the game was grinding and finding 
 Places of Interest, which is the only interesting thing about the game. At the end of the month 
 I realized that I would be doing the same thing for the rest of my time devoted to Star Wars Galaxies, 
 so I simply cancelled my account and bought World of Warcraft, and punished myself for not doing 
 so in the first place.
  
  Now, after the fact that it got two expansion packs, and even after the whole package, The Total 
 Experience, it still isn't done with pleading for your money, not with all the advertisements for 
 the Trials of Obi Wan. This game also focuses too much on cameos It makes absolutely no sense 
 that General Grevious is in this game (or an exact replica, as those lovely people that created 
 this game want us to believe) and especially HK-47, who had absolutely no relation to any of the 
 movies in any manner whatsoever.
  
  All in all, this game just simply neglected the great, amazing potential that this game had; I 
 find its lack of depth disturbing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I am a lifelong Star Wars fan. So when I heard about this game, that supposedly allowed you to 
 work through the ranks of a smuggler or space pilot just like the characters that I had grown up 
 with, I was naturally ecstatic. 
  
  For a couple of months, the game occupied almost all of my free time. The leveling-system and other 
 confusing attributes seemed like they would be worth it in the long haul...
  
  So finally, I became level 80 (max level) and was ready to begin training to become a Jedi. How 
 exciting, right?
  
  Wrong. Turns out my months of non-stop effort was rewarded with an even MORE tedious system of 
 leveling, gaining skills, etc. 
  
  Within a month I was out, left disgusted and upset at how a game with such potential was reduced 
 to a senseless series of random tasks and endless leveling. 
  
  How LucaArts dropped the ball on this one I'm not entirely sure. Never before have I been so disappointed 
 with the company that's released some of my all time favorite games. How could LucaArts take a 
 game based on it's brainchild and screw it up so?
  
  Essentially, it didn't. 
  
  It is my personal belief that the "changing of the horses" so to speak between Sony Online Entertainment 
 and LucaArts has created all the problems that this game is experiencing right now. 
  
  The biggest thing to remember about Galaxies is that no one plays it as a neutral observer, at 
 least not to my knowledge. We were all loyal (sometimes rabid) Star Wars fanatics that disparaged 
 every flaw, every anachronism, every continuity error in the game. 
  
  SOE didn't understand this. It seems to me that they had little or no interest in the culture (yes, 
 culture) of the people that were playing this game, and hence they approached it like any other 
 game.
  
  Well, it ISN'T any other game. What might be acceptable in some other MMORPG is NOT OKAY in Galaxies. 
 We want our Star Wars and we want it certified and accredited by LUCAS HIMSELF! 
  
  I could go on and go stating other problems I find with having SOE in the reigns of power, but 
 that would be pointless, and that's also why I'm not a subscriber anymore. 
  
  I will close with this statement:
  
  The concept of a Star Wars MMO remains a truly great idea. 
 In order for it's greatness to reach fruition, I believe the entire project needs to be scrapped 
 and revamped with heavy input (and possibly some sort of vote) from players, ex-players like myself, 
 and other devout Star Wars fans. 
  
  Never before has a Star Wars game survived with the input and steady solicitation of Star Wars 
 fans, and I believe that if Galaxies continues down this path, it will be doing a great disservice 
 to all that the game still could be. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I think the main carrying factor is the Star Wars Concept itself... If this game did not carry the 
 Juggernaut marketing power and emotional connection the people of America have been bombarded with 
 regarding the Star Wars Universe. I think people would rate this game much lower than it actually 
 was.
  
  Face it. An entire generation of little boys and girls was raised on Vader, Luke, Tie Fighters 
 nad X-wings. How many kids out there spent their allowance as soon as they got it on the action 
 figures and playsets? 
  
  The game I feel has been more driven by this passion more than strong gameplay.
  
  Love the 
 star wars concept.... needs to completely rethink its gameplay. I'm Certain SoE and SWG is hurting 
 after WoW took over the MMORPG world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mako
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The game has gone through many changes since its initial release  some more drastic than others. 
 To say the game feels completely different now than when it started, would be an understatement.
 
  
  The latest change, dubbed the Combat Upgrade, was a nearly 180 degree change from the previous 
 combat and leveling system. The Combat Upgrade or CU was a marketing name given for the Combat 
 Revamp. Over 1 year after release the game needed a complete combat revamp. This does not speak 
 well to the thought and testing prior to its release. Nearly 3 years later, and the combat system, 
 character professions, and skills are still undergoing significant tweaking. While any MMORPG requires 
 constant bug fixes, game tweaks, and general updates, we are seeing what could easily be classified 
 as Sony Online Entertainments (SOE) rush to get an unfinished product out to market.
  
  While the game certainly has some addictive elements, once those elements are explored, and there 
 are not a huge variety of them, you often wonder why you continue playing the game. For me, it 
 is the friends I have made in the game, which means SWG has devolved into a pretty chat program. 
 The largest contribution to the game was the Jump to Light Speed expansion, which honestly, was 
 not really an expansion. It was a component of the game that was meant to be released at launch 
 but because of time constraints, was released sometime later. Sonys customer base had the privilege 
 of paying for a game component that should have been included from the start and a game that was 
 released to early.
  
  The next expansion, Rage of The Wookies was released at the same time as the Episode III movie 
 hit the theaters. In this expansion, they introduced some new loot, a new planet to adventure on, 
 and new quests. This is the closest thing to an actual expansion that was released so far. This 
 addition to the gaming universe was not entirely bad, but it followed on the heels of the Combat 
 Upgrade which was a sore spot with many subscribers. Many folks quit after the CU. It is uncertain 
 how many new subscribers the Sony/Lucasarts marketing juggernaut was able to recoup with the timed 
 release of the expansion. While a much needed infusion of content was introduced into the game 
 from this expansion, the loot turned out to be better than the player crafted items for the most 
 part, which alienated another segment of the games customer base, the crafters.
  
  The next expansion on the horizon is the Trials of Obi-Wan. Again, a marketing tie in with the 
 release of the Episode III release on DVD, geared toward pulling more an unsuspecting fan into 
 the depths of money siphoning darkness that has become SWG. Again, this is hardly an expansion 
 measuring maybe only a 10% increase in new content. In most other subscription based MMORPGs, the 
 monthly fee covers not only patches, upkeep, and customer service, but also covers incremental 
 additional content. Forcing the player base to purchase yet another expansion after the body of 
 the CU/Pre-CU is not even cold, stinks of greed. The expansion will be released on or about November 
 1st. Time will tell if the extra cost is worth the content it provides. 
  
  Sony and Lucasarts chose the lava planet of Mustafar for the next chapter in the SWG saga. Fans 
 of the film will recall this planet from Episode III where Obi-Wan had his final duel with Anikin 
 Skywalker before he turned into Darth Vadar. Aside from the obvious tie in with the DVD release, 
 I see no reason for this world to be added. While an interesting planet in its own right, the fan 
 base has been begging for Hoth or the Cloud City of Bespin. There is reportedly a reason for all 
 professions to take part in this new expansion. However, with the addition of Obi-Wans blue glowing 
 spirit, the expansion feels like it is geared more toward Jedi.
  
  Jedi have undergone huge sweeping changes in the last couple years as well. SOE cannot seem to 
 make up its mind what part subscribers are to play in this part of the Star Wars mythos. Over a 
 year ago, it was thought that it was taking far too long for a Jedi to appear in game. The original 
 organic system that was put in place to allow for a few players to unlock a Jedi character was 
 just taking to long. After the release of some clues in the form of Jedi and Sith holocorns that 
 directed players to master x profession, the system was known. It was not some intricate set 
 of missions combined with milestones and various levels of randomness it was simply a task of 
 mastering a certain number of professions. The game quickly became known as the hologrind, named 
 for the grinding of professions, one after the other in pursuit of the next holocron revealed profession.
 
  
  Soon there were dozens of Jedi or characters running around the individual servers. Since game 
 play effectively stopped as everyone was grinding profession, it was decided to change the way 
 Jedi was unlocked to something more quest and story based. Hurray for SOE, they were starting to 
 get it or so we thought. They came up with a rather interesting way to unlock those highly sought 
 after Jedi characters. The Village of Aurillia was born. After meeting some pre-determined criteria, 
 you would be visited by an old man who would send you off to the village to be trained in the 
 ways of the force. The missions for the most part are actually not bad. Some are deeper than others, 
 consisting of intricate objectives or even mini-games. This unlocks a branch of force sensitive 
 skill. There are 24 of these braches and 6 of them must be completed in order to continue on to 
 the Padawan trials and start your Jedi. While the missions themselves are in some cases quite fun, 
 the subsequent task of earning the XP necessary to fill 6 trees of these force sensitive skills 
 is daunting. The game has turned into players mastering every profession to players grinding one 
 of several professions effectively over and over again to trade them in for the force sensitive 
 experience necessary to complete the skill branches. Even after all that, Jedi are no more powerful 
 than most full combat characters.
  
  The Force Ranking system, a system designed to provide for the Knight and higher ranks of Jedi, 
 has been absent since it was abused to death by the earlier Jedi characters. A new system is nowhere 
 in sight and this is driving that community to much debate and anger on the SWG forums. The current 
 system of Jedi vs Bounty Hunters is also a huge detriment to the community and the game as a whole. 
 No other game pits two player bases against each other with so much hate. One has to really wonder 
 how the game arrived to this state. Jedi are hunted by Bounty Hunters in an effort to dissuade 
 the subscribers from playing Jedi and to attempt to keep visible Jedi to a minimum to fit the timeline 
 of the game, such as it is. As it stands, there is little reason for a Jedi to face a Bounty Hunter 
 rather than flee. In most cases, they are relatively evenly matched (a fully fleshed out Jedi vs. 
 a fully fleshed out Bounty Hunter) . The Bounty Hunter player has everything to gain by killing 
 the Jedi, but nothing to loose. Conversely, the Jedi will loose a huge amount of experience, even 
 go into negatives, if he or she looses the confrontation but gets nothing if he or she wins. For 
 many the easiest course of action is for a Full Template Jedi to flee. This also causes a huge 
 division among the players. Perhaps this is Sonys intent, in an effort to direct the customers 
 anger and frustration away from Sony and onto the other players.
  
  This brings me to the last item to cover  customer service. With all the bugs, exploits, scams, 
 and other things that distract from the customer experience, the customer service is the worst 
 in the industry. From what I have read from other SOE games, this is about par for the course. 
 On every occasion that I have personally asked for assistance, I have been met with the same canned 
 response Sorry we are not able to help you. Thanks for playing Star Wars Galaxies. After opening 
 countless tickets for one reason or another, I have been met by the same response over and over 
 again. Often, the reply only resembles the problem I was writing about. I could have a problem 
 about items disappearing, and would get some response about deleted items cannot be recovered. 
 Thanks for playing. Then they would close the ticket, not letting me respond to the erroneous response 
 to my issue. There is nothing more irritating than not listening to you, and then tell you Sorry, 
 thanks for playing. I have played and beta tested many a MMORPG and SOE has by far the poorest 
 customer service in the business. It is no wonder they are suffering at the hands of newcomers 
 like Blizzard who not only make a great game experience, but back it up with good service.
  
  The current subscribers like myself, who are still naive enough to have hope that the game 
 will somehow miraculously turn around, can only hope that Lucasarts pulls the license from SOE 
 and gives it over to Blizzard for a much needed overhaul.
  
  If I ever play another MMORPG, you better believe it will not be one Sony Online Entertainment 
 creates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The game itself was difficult for me to place at first, but it did grow on me. However, the game 
 requires so much constant attention in order to grow your characters in different classes as well 
 as time devoted to constant playing in order to make money to keep buildings and collectors from 
 decaying that the games turns out to run you and won't allow you enough freedom to play your own 
 way. If you have to be gone for the better part of a week then you might as well kiss away your 
 house and other buildings. You might as well quite your job, drop out of school, and permanently 
 plug into the game if you really want to excel. While I did enjoy the game I also got tired of 
 running around to a ton of planets on missions and draining my bank account just trying to follow 
 my missions. 
  
  I have spent the last month playing this game again after the recent NGE changes. I admit, there 
 are a lot of bugs in the game, but I have had a fun time playing it and will probably continue 
 to do so for at least the next couple of months. I would suggest anybody who did not like the game 
 before to give it a shot now and see if you agree with the changes which have been introduced. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game had sooo much going for it in beta but SOE just don't listen to their community!
  You could tell the game was starting to go down hill when people came familiar with it and all 
 the broken features came in ;)
  
  Macros, Afk grinding, Jedi, Hologrind and everyone using the same armor and buffs being virtually 
 invincible ruined it in the early days!
  
  As soon as everyone worked out how to get Jedi you saw the populations increase soo much that they 
 wern't rare anymore : ( Everyone started to have one and they just became a normal alpha class!
 
  
  The combat system that was in place originally needed to be removed for something new but SOE's 
 answer wasn't it!
  
  You see SOE rush expansions out that are broken to be able to make money ;) They do it with all 
 their games, specially Planetside suffered by just one.
  
  JTLS brang boring pointless space
  The CU came in, a broken system that made the game like everyother 
 mmorpg with the level system :\
  ROTW came removing everything that made the game original!
  TOOW comes with the nerf bat!
  
 
  SOE swing the ner bat too much and don't actually want to sit down and fix the game, instead they 
 are trying to get people to quit!
  
  In short the game was ruined by SOE and don't touch it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:30 am PT
Review:  I have played SW: Galaxies since the day it came out in the summer of 2003. Since then I have cancelled 
 my account about 3 times because I got so bored with it. SOE adds just enough new content every 
 now and then to make me play it for about another month, then I'm ready to cancel my account again. 
 The gameplay is alright and the immersion is ok as well. What holds this game back is the excess 
 amount of bugs in the program; bugs that should have been fixed before the game was even released 
 2 1/2 years ago. Customer support has been decent but not great. But on the other hand if you love 
 Star Wars like I do, at least give this game a try. It is definitely cool to run around the streets 
 of Mos Eisley or visit the forest moon of Endor with thousands of other players to cooperate with. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squigglly
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  This game was awsome until the devs screwed it up, now combat sucks and is very slow and it takes 
 forever to master a prof. TO get jedi takes almsot a year and to master 1 tempelte in jedi takes 
 up to like 8 months now. the games totally horrible. I meant i lvoe starwars, and have alot of 
 starwars games but this games just disapointing. : ( The devs need to fix it becuase the games dead. 
 the servers are very low on popualtion too. and space is dead no one ever flys. Kash is a waste 
 of money tis the worst desgined planet in the game and is very small. This game just sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoblinOnFire
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 11, 2005 7:44 am PT
Review:  I was so excited when I first heard of the new MORPG set in the Star Wars universe.
  The new aspect to it, the promised vastness of it was what caught my attention: You didnt have 
 to be a warrior, a cleric or a jedi, if you didn't feel like it. You could be a shop keeper, a 
 craftsman or even a creature handler. Wow! This wuold be so grand!
  
  But, alas, the reality is seldom as sweet as the dream. 
  
  What do you do? Everything you 
 want to, they said! Oh yeah? Yeah! Oh Yeah? Yeah!
  Ok, heres what you really do:
  
  1: You grind for XP
  Why?: To get to the next level
  2: You get to the next level. And you 
 keep grinding
  Why?: To get to the next level
  3: You get to the next level. And you get killed, while grinding. You ressurect, find your bike, 
 go out into the wild, and continue grinding.
  Why: Because you are gullible
  4. You log off, cursing the Lucas Arts for tricking you into buying yet another mediocre game from 
 them.
  Why: Because you got the hots for Natalie Portman and you think Storm Troppers are cool. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasz3
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  It was good at first, 20 classes that you could choose from a wide variety of people to choose 
 those classes, and the two main factions (imperial and rebel) seemed equal. Then came the first 
 major patch which seemed to be the start of Galaxies downfall. It was called the CU or combat upgrade 
 and it was the response to requests made by players who wanted to be jedi's but were upset because 
 not everyone could be a jedi. It also nerfed (made worse to blance the game) some of the classes 
 abilities. Then came what i like to call the Time of the Expansions. In which SOE (the company 
 that helps make Galaxies) released 3 expansions in the course of one to two years. I must say that 
 the expansions weren't exactly what i was expecting and regreted buying them. I was grudgingly 
 accepting what was happening because i still had my variety of classes and the galaxy was still 
 temming with players. Around the time of the time of the third expansion something caled the NGE 
 (New Game Enhancements) struck like a plague. It made the game so horribly broken that most of 
 the players left and with them the crafters left. That caused the once thriving econamy to collapse 
 because you could get whatever you needed from quests. The NGE reduced the 20 different classes/proffessions 
 to nine which caused even more people to leave. After a few months entire planets were near abandoned 
 and space even more so. There were no more grinding groups which i was so fond of. Most of the 
 guilds collapsed and with them the player made towns dissappeared. Capitols became Ghost Towns 
 and the two factions became unbalanced. Not to mention that you had jedi running all over the place, 
 where back before the NGE you would see maybe one or two every once in a while. Most of my friends 
 left and soon I was left wandering the empty wasteland of what was once was and looking for someting 
 that I could do in this game that made it worth it.
  
  As a man once said, You can always go back to an old roleplaying game by picking up its box. But 
 the old Galaxies is gone for ever .
  
  Written by Noorik
  Ex-Imperial Major Level 83
  Ex-Tera Kasi Artist + Ex-Doctor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  The bottom line with Galaxies is that it's ALWAYS changing. I logged in over the weekend and there 
 was a event. The event was nothing fancy, just a group of enemies that weren't there before. One 
 of the NPC (non player charecter) instructed me and my group of wookie smugglers to go out in the 
 desert to the middle of nowhere for a battle. These types of things happen all the time. New missions 
 all the time, this is the first game I've played where the limits are almost endless. You can team 
 up with people and take a ship out to space, smuggle some spices, and possibly encounter resistance 
 with pirates or the empire. The only problem I have with the game is the long tutorial which you 
 can choose not to do, but then you won't get a free speeder. In summary, buy this game right away. 
 My charecter name is Klausious Xiono, look me up if your logged on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooltrip71
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 11, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Warning to all those Star Wars Movie Fans who see Episode 3, do NOT go to Star Wars Galaxies. You're 
 better off flushing your money down the toilet. How can i objectively say this? I am a near 2 year 
 veteran of the game. I have played since the first rocky launch date in June 2003. The premise, 
 a virtual Star Wars world that you can play, explore and participate in the epic that is Star Wars. 
 The problem, Lucas Arts' partner, Sony Online Entertainment fails miserably to deliver. Sony is 
 the only company who could possibly botch the potential of this game.
  
  From the start this game has been plagued with problems. In beta testing the beta players said 
 the game was not yet ready for launch, it was riddled with bugs, professions were incomplete, game 
 systems were incomplete. Sony launched the game anyway. That's where my story begins.
  
  The graphics 2 years ago were great. They still hold up VERY well today. They clearly are far superior 
 to World of Warcraft, and on par with EQ2. The sound at the time was very good. However, after 
 nearly 2 years of no changes, the combat music etc, could be very grating. And it is the no changes 
 that is a recurring theme to some degree and is the problem with this MMO. There are bugs from 
 launch STILL in the game and unaddressed. They finally were making progress this year on some, 
 and unleashed the "Combat Upgrade". If you value the solo gamer experience, being a Han Solo type, 
 forgetaboutit. The solo game has been completely nerfed. The CU was launched in an alpha state 
 at best. Introducing a litany of game breaking bugs. The game play was irrevocably damaged reducing 
 the strategic elements to the game for more arcadish feel. 
  
  I could write more but think I am limited in this space. Go with Lego Star Wars, or the Ep 3 game, 
 pass on this, it's your only hope of saving your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReactiveDrunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  In my time playing massively multi-player roleplaying games, I've played some good games and some 
 not so good games. Galaxies is one of the best games in this genre combining the concept of a large 
 persistent world with characters from my favorite sci-fi saga.
  
  Gameplay has always been fairly good and it just recently got better with the upgrade to the combat 
 system that Sony issued. It's now even more enjoyable and I find myself unable to decide what I 
 want to spend my available amount of skill points on at any one time.
  
  Graphics and Sound were well made and executed but still not as good as they could have been or 
 as good as some other games on the market. The conclusion is that Galaxies was produced and released 
 to run optimally on a system of the future. In other words, we haven't got the retail equipment 
 yet to get the most out of this game which can be seen as good in that the graphics have much more 
 room to improve. That's not something that many games can claim to be able to do. We've already 
 seen some of these changes in the first expansion, Jump to Lightspeed. With a required upgrade 
 to DirectX 9c, we saw the use of pixel shader 2.0 and improved loading.
  
  The value of a game like this is great. When I start playing an MMO that I like, I just plain stop 
 buying other games. I feel that even with the monthly subscription fee, I get more than my money's 
 worth out of this with uncounted hours of gameplay.
  
  You're either going to love SWG or hate it outright. Give it shot and don't listen to the fanboy's 
 or the complainers. See for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I dont play SW: G any more, for the reason that is I dont think star wars should be an RPG like 
 this. I liked KOTOR and this, but this game is very strange. I was a marksman, sniper, and bounty 
 hunter, but I wasnt always fighting. Before I start the full review I just want to say that im 
 done with this game but I recomend it to anyone. when you start the game, you'll just be fighting 
 the same thing, but then you'll meet friends, of course, if you want to have fun....
  
  
  Alliance: In this game you can join the Rebels or the Empire. 
  
  
  Friendship: Make friends, 
 it will make the game more fun.
  
  Betrayal: My first friend, was secretly an undercover rebel, then I joined the Empire.
  
  Story: 
 besides following the story from character to character, you will be able to have fun seeing how 
 you charcters life turns out. Such as I was interagated, I kinda went rouge to find out what this 
 imperial town was doing there is just so much stuff that can happen in this game.
  
  By now galaxies has advanced since it first came out, with as you know expansion packs, but some 
 stuff like player vehicles are avalible for download. This is an exellent game, in witch you dont 
 just fight in the star wars universe, you live in the star wars universe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UF_Matt
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 15, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Test System
  ----------------
  PIV 2.4@3.12ghz
  ASUS P4P800 MB
  XFX 6600GT 128mb
  1gig PC3200 RAM
  WinXP Pro
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  --------------------
  While the interface 
 was acceptable, the actual gameplay was almost nonexistant. As with other MMORPGs, the combat was 
 quasi turn-based. The tools at your disposal, however, were limited to what other players could 
 produce. In the end, everyone was running around with the same weapons for any given build. In 
 addition, certain builds were heavily favored by the developers, so most professions proved completely 
 useless. Almost no "loot" was to be had and most of the world consisted of expanses of wasteland 
 with randomly generated generic creatures.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  --------------------
  For the time of release, this DirectX9 driven game had exceptional graphics, especially for a game 
 of this scope. Creatures could be scaled to massive sizes and environments were often reasonably 
 well detailed.
  
  Sound 7/10
  ----------------
  The sound was average. Nothing to complain about, nothing to take notice of. 
  
  Value 4/10
 
  ---------------
  To pay $50 for the game and $15 thereafter, one would expect an incredible amount of things to 
 do. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Missions were randomly generated and all revolved around 
 either killing creatures or serving as a deliverboy. Uninspired and underdeveloped. Very disappointing.
 
  
  Tilt 5/10
  ------------
  Due to the efforts of the players on the servers, this game was enjoyable for about a month. After 
 that, one would discover that they had seen all that needed to be seen in this game. This game 
 was too easy to master and offered little "end game" content. The game did well to cater to new 
 players for a few weeks. After that, nothing was left.
  
  Overall 5.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iridium0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I consider myself an avid Star Wars fan. I've seen the prequels, played Star Wars games from the 
 sublime (TIE Fighter, Knights of the Old Republic) to the truly awful (Force Commander, Rebellion) . 
 I am Star Wars Galaxies' target audience, and the fact that this game should really appeal to me 
 makes me feel even more disappointed in the game.
  
  First, some background, Sony Online Entertainment (makers of Everquest) and Lucasarts teamed up 
 to make a MMORPG in the Star Wars universe. It premiered approximately a year and a half ago, and 
 has recently seen a host of updates in order to cash in on the hype that the Star Wars: Episode 
 III will create. Therefore, I thought it appropriate to give my feelings on why it is disappointing 
 both as an MMORPG, and as a game itself. Note that I am negative only because the game had the 
 potential to be so much more, and has instead made itself into Everquest with a thin coating of 
 paint.
  
  There are some positives to the game. For one, providing you have a great machine, the graphics 
 are astounding. Player characters are detailed and are not just cookie-cutter templates, and monsters, 
 especially the higher-level ones, can be just be downright scary. Explosions are quite amazing, 
 and watching player-made fireworks while the sun (or suns, as the case may be) can really show 
 off your graphics card. Also, the sound is superb, if a bit repetitive. Everything sounds like 
 Star Wars, with blasters, vehicles, and droids sounding straight out of Lucas'e pic. The music 
 is your standard John Williams score, but there's a reason why he's a multi-millionaire; his songs 
 are atmospheric and can make one's heart race.
  
  That's the good news, now the bad news. As a MMORPG, it has failed to heed the lessons of games 
 like World of Warcraft, and Dark Age of Camelot. Enjoy killing womp rats? Well, you're going to 
 put a major notch in their populations as you go through the grind. I'm tired of hearing the word 
 "grind" in these games, turning them into work. While a game can be repetitive, it seems like the 
 balance of work to accomplishment is off. Unlike in other games such as World of Warcraft and Dark 
 Age of Camelot, there seems to be very little way to play unless you log some serious time in even 
 to get a small progression in your character. Crafting is a chore as well, where in order to create 
 parts that people might actually buy, you have to create 500 "Newbie Guns" and dump them in a grand 
 Galactic Landfill or sell them for cents on the dollar.
  
  Another issue that is unfortunate is that the experience system is different that most MMORPGs. 
 Instead of getting XP and gaining levels, you gain specific XP in certain skills, and you can climb 
 a skill tree. So, in order to become an Intermediate Pistoleer, for example, you'll need 10,000 
 Pistol XP. It's a good idea in theory, but a problem is that you only have so many points that 
 you can have in your skill tree. Therefore, after a certain point, if you wish to gain skills, 
 you have to start losing other skills. That prevents someone from just learning every skill there 
 is, but it also makes characters hard to customize.
  
  The truly great games are fun not because of the universe itself, but because the universe enhances 
 an already existing good game. If one took out all the Star Wars from Knights of the Old Republic, 
 it'd still be a well-constructed, balanced, and fun game. Adding the Star Wars mythos to the game 
 only enhances it. If one were to call the Wookies "Woogles" and Jedi "Super Mage Users!" in the 
 game, I would bet my comfy chair that it would go the way of the dodo. In the end, that is what 
 disappoints me about this game. It's a generic cookie-cutter game that could have really used the 
 Star Wars name to full potential, but ends up coasting on its name alone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 3, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  After playing for six plus months
  grinding to master fencer, master swordsman, teras kasi master, master brawler
  camping acklay 
 a solid month to make a baton that made me one of Bria's best fighters
  and grinding millions of xp on the POS they called a jedi...
  
  SWG became more work than fun. 
 I joined thousands of other disenchanted players, who reluctantly left the game for more pleasant 
 endeavors. Jedi, or possibly SOE killed this game months ago. $OE $UCKS. They didn't listen to 
 the players, if they were, they didn't let on.
  
  Some of the biggest fun killers were: the crappy risk vs reward system, breaking equipment, old 
 bugs, new bugs, pvp bugs, other bugs, holo grinding, broken/non-existent galactic civil war (GCW) , 
 jedi, necessity of buffs, etc.
  
  From what I read and heard, Jump to Lightspeed was a joke, but $OE got their buck.
  
  I have 
 no regrets about the first 5 months, they were fun. But eventually the nasty truth came out. It's 
 a shame too, SWG could have been a great game. SOE has lost a customer for years if not for life. 
 If you want a good, solid, FUN, MMORPG... go play WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 28, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  For a Star Wars fan, this is the game of all games. I quit last year, but like to throw in some 
 input.
  
  SWG is a result of a game with so much potential rushed too early and ultimately doomed by teenage 
 kids with Jedi characters. The Devs were initially on the right track but when the Jedi system 
 was initially introduced, somehow, somewhere the Devs turned their back on us and more notably 
 the Bounty Hunters. Content wsa quite broad with many worlds and land to explore. 
  
  graphically, SWG is a treat to the eyes. From the high end to low end machines, you really felt 
 like you were in the Star wars world. Theed, Naboo and Coronet were major starports and designed 
 very well. Animations are very fluid. 
  
  Add the sound to the graphics, and SOE put you right in the action whether it was combat, crafting, 
 exploring or chatting in a major starport. 
  
  The bottomline is the gameplay. From trading, to buying, selling, or middleman, living as your 
 typical SWG hermit was fun and addicitive. Leveling up xp was straightforward and fast if you join 
 a guild. 
  
  The original Jedi permadeath was a good system to control the population but months later they 
 get rid of it. Bounty Hunters were severely nerfed and BH missions were somehow "broke" for so 
 long, as Jedis were allowed to roam the world and level up without worry. Having owned a BH and 
 Jedi character this was the ballbreaker for me- the last straw. It took way too long to fix the 
 BH profession and by the time it was fixed circa June 2004, thousands of Jedis roamed the galaxies. 
 This was not real or in line with the current gameplay. It was obivous the Devs were being controlled 
 by kids with Jedi characters. I enjoyed my Jedi character but I also had just as much maybe more 
 fun, hunting jedi with my BH character. By the the time the BH profession was fixed, the Jedi were 
 too strong to hunt alone. It was time to quit. Too many Jedi, too strong, and too much politics 
 involved with SOE. A great game with so much expansion potential ruined. Someday a company will 
 listen to mature and thoughtful gamers and get it right. Maybe the future Star Trek MMORPG???? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimsonDS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2004 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok when i saw this game i didnt think much of it but 2 years later i decide to get it knowing the 
 subscription fee and canceling final fantasy 11.
  When i first started of with the tutorial i noticed that the controls felt so good i would have 
 never expected a star wars rpg to have such a good feel to it.
  After going throughthe tutorial i ended up in this sity on tatooine with my wookie grasmyryk and 
 set off outside the city to see what i would find i ran in to my first enemy i was delighted to 
 see how easy combat was made , i soon killed the enemy harvesting its hide and checking my inventory 
 i noticed this crafting kit and decided to make a tent i set up camp and then these othere peoplein 
 a guild came from the city and decided to come rest at my camp i would have never expected freindly 
 people on the game every where you go there are freindly people that will treat your wounds and 
 even give you free stuff.
  This game is a MUST HAVE for a star wars fan as there are very nice areas to visit like Obi Wans 
 old home and jabbas palace. I have been playing this game for about 3 weeks now and it is very addictive 
 and is worth the monthly fee of $14.99 a month. This game takes a lot of thinking also to think 
 of the best way in making money and what items you will need for your next adventure.
  NOTE:256MB RAM does run this game but cities are very slow with it i reccomend 512MB or 1024MB 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabra
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 12, 2004 6:45 pm PT
Review:  In the aftermath of the Death Stars destruction, the Galactic Civil War reached its peak as the 
 Empire began to hunt down the Rebellion in a conflict that would forever change the course of events 
 in the Galaxy. That is at least what Sony Online Entertainment would like you to believe is going 
 on. Well after a year of its release, Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided remains incomplete, 
 unbalanced, and lacking in the depth required to keep veterans of the game reason to stay or the 
 polish to warrant new comers.
  
  Graphically, the game is attractive. From the grassy hills of Corellia to the dark swamp of Dathomir, 
 the environments create the feeling of living worlds with diverse terrain. With the inclusion of 
 player cities since the games release, planets that were once too sparse to accurately portray 
 the civilizations of space faring peoples now accomplish that feel. Character and creature models 
 are uniquely stylized and fit in with the worlds beautifully. Character animations are somewhat 
 stiff and unnatural, but the creature animations are nice, with some of the best idle animations 
 Ive seen in an RPG.
  
  Despite this basic eye candy, clipping is a huge issue that dramatically affects game play. Since 
 the game is almost entirely mission based, it is common for objectives to load inside of walls, 
 trees, and other static objects. It is also unnerving to see the citizens of a town trapped halfway 
 in a wall as if it were carbonite. Invisible walls are also prevalent at the edge of each world. 
 The landscape continues on, but you can not travel there, which hurts the experience of exploration. 
 
  
  The sound of any Star Wars game is key to being able to immerse yourself in the experience. Here, 
 Galaxies falls flat. With the exception of the occasional Move along by a Stormtrooper, there 
 is no voice acting to speak of. The citizenry of every city is silent. No Ootini from the Jawas, 
 no roar from a Wookie, nothing. Music is sparse as well. You will here one of three songs while 
 engaged in combat, one when you accomplish a mission, you will here the Bith Bands cantina song 
 in Mos Eisleys tavern, and then you will here the music played by fellow players if you choose 
 to listen. Thats it. All in all, theres seven classic Star Wars scores in the game, and thats 
 including the opening theme for the opening cut scene and the score you will listen to as the game 
 boots up. Laser fire, explosions, and vehicles sound exactly as one would expect for a Star Wars 
 game. Since the vast majority of your time will be spent in combat, thats good.
  
  Thats right, the vast majority of your time will be spent in combat. That would be good if combat 
 wasnt bland and repetitive. The game utilizes the much overused sandwich combat system in which 
 you select attacks and wait for them to occur as you get your turn to attack. This means you can 
 engage in a battle, stack a bunch of attacks to do through the course of combat, and then go to 
 the bathroom, watch TV, or simply sit patiently and wait for the battle to unfold. If you are like 
 me and bore of this rather quickly, you can instead be an entertainer or artisan, where you set 
 up a macro to craft or dance and then take a nap, file your taxes, or what have you.
  
  There are different types of missions that a player can do, but to call it a variety would be 
 going too far. Combat missions consist of receiving a waypoint, going there, and destroying a creature 
 layer. Artisan, entertainer, and delivery missions, consist of going to a waypoint and either crafting, 
 entertaining, or making a delivery. You can also get a series of missions from major and lesser 
 known characters from the Star Wars universe, but their missions are still the go here kill that 
 or deliver this. That is of course when they work. To this day there are still missions spread 
 throughout the world that are impossible to complete, because they were never finished to begin 
 with. There are only a couple of dungeons in the game that have any thought put into them. The 
 vast majority of caves one will run across in their exploration are usually identical in layout 
 and merely contain a group of creatures that are readily available everywhere else on that world.
 
  
  The class system in Galaxies is broken. As a game with a large player versus player component, 
 the classes are not adequately balanced against each other. Originally intended as a rock/paper/scissors 
 style of battle with one class strong against another, but weak against yet another, fails. Most 
 class abilities are useless. Classes have only one or two moves that a player will actually use. 
 That being said, mastering a profession is unnecessary and useless. A player who spends two weeks 
 learning the best defensive abilities of certain classes and one or two good attacks will be unstoppable. 
 They will become able to take down the largest of creatures on their own, where as someone who 
 masters a difficult profession like Bounty Hunter, will not be able to hold his own against most 
 opponents. 
  
  The special aspects of many classes are underdeveloped or completely lost. The Smuggler, an important 
 profession in the Star Wars universe, is a jack of all trades, who is mediocre in all of them. 
 The spices they produce are useless, their combat abilities are limited, and their hacking ability 
 is laughable. Bounty Hunters, again a key profession, are weak and their bounty missions are so 
 buggy, it borders on unplayable. The remaining classes are uninspired, boring, and are plagued 
 by useless abilities and weapons that grow weaker as more artisans grow bored with the game and 
 leave.
  
  Now to the purpose of the game, the Galactic Civil War. There are in fact Stormtroopers, there 
 are Rebels, most of the key characters from Episodes 3 through 6 are here, and you can join either 
 side. Thats about as close to the Star Wars experience as youre going to get. Beyond the inequities 
 within the classes, the sides of the Galactic Civil War are so uneven in terms of numbers and abilities 
 that there is no war. The game plays out as if it is the aftermath of the destruction of the Empire, 
 with the last few remnants of the Empire struggle to reclaim their former glory. 
  
  Battlefields are set up on every planet, but they are in such out of the way places that you will 
 not find anyone to fight. Bases held by either side are rife with bugs, making it often impossible 
 for either side to take it even after killing the entirety of the opposition. Originally, you were 
 to be able to command a squad of Stormtroopers or Rebel fighters that you earned over the course 
 of fighting the opposition. This has been removed, allowing players to command a single unit. Well, 
 so the Empire has the advantage, because their one unit is an AT-ST you say. That should make up 
 for the inequity in numbers. That is except for the fact that a single Commando with a flamethrower 
 can take one down in seconds. It is things like seeing a walking tank destroyed in seconds by one 
 of the attacks its construction is designed to prevent. 
  
  The poor design is really indicative of the whole experience. The Empire is almost non-existent 
 at a time in which they were at the height of its power. Instead the streets are patrolled by Rebel 
 players with the few Imperial players forced to remain in the shadows. The monthly updates to 
 the world to help shape the story are neither monthly nor do they do anything but preserve the 
 status quo in the war. The basis of deciding which side wins is based entirely on the number 
 of players participate on each side across all servers. This means the Rebellion always wins regardless 
 of the resolve of the Empire on any given server. A game that features a war with no accomplishments 
 means it is little more than a death match. Given the lack of balance and bland combat, it fails 
 even on that base level.
  
  And what of Jedi? Theyre in the game at long last, and there are player Jedi. Under the old system, 
 Jedi was near impossible to achieve given that you had to master numerous classes with only rare 
 holocrons to guide you. The new system thats been instituted is designed to make you spend months 
 in the pursuit at the end of which there is no guarantee you will accomplish all you need to do. 
 There is still a random element in terms of skill tree mastery under the new system though. Ultimately, 
 if you want to play a Jedi you should not play this game. You will be throwing away money in terms 
 of the monthly fee with no guarantee you will get or enjoy the experience which boils down to the 
 same lame combat.
  
  Well after a year of its initial release and only days after the release of its first expansion, 
 Galaxies still feels as if it is in beta testing. This is a simple case of a great idea being rushed 
 to release and as a result it fails on every level. If you want to experience what it is to be 
 a solider on the frontlines of the Galactic Civil War, play Star Wars: Battlefront. If you want 
 to experience a Star Wars role playing game, play Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. If you 
 want to experience what it is to be a Jedi, play Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast. If you want to experience 
 an initial few days of euphoria followed by weeks and months of frustration and boredom, then by 
 all means pick up Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 11, 2004 7:10 am PT
Review:  After a 9 month hiatus from SWG I decided to reinstall it and give the game another try. Now that 
 the expansion is out, I thought that it might be worth it for me to get my character up to a respectible 
 rank and buy the expansion and do some star fighting. When I began to play almost a year ago, it 
 was still a new MMO, with plenty of bugs but plenty of charm. You could sense the potential in 
 the game, and could see around the rough edges with the hope of having an awesome gaming experience 
 once the little things wrong with it were ironed out.
  
  Unfortunately, not much has changed about the core game in the past 9 months. If anything, the 
 game has become even more needlessly complicated, and many of the year old bugs remain.
  
  Graphics remain average and needlessly bloated and piggish. My top of the line rig only averages 
 22fps in cities, compared to the silky smooth rates I get in other more graphically intensive games 
 like Doom3. The game requires huge amounts of memory to play and huge amounts of hard drive space. 
 Loading times are still long between zones. Audio is basically non existent once you get past the 
 handful of looping environmental sounds and the weapon sound effects.
  
  Many skills remain broken, or just plain useless. It's not that skills have been nerfed, they just 
 no longer work as intended, or never have. Documentation remains sketchy, and skills often say 
 you'll get a bonus that either doesn't correctly apply, or it doesn't make a difference. Other 
 gameplay mechanics have become been needlessly complicated, like the Stat Migration process. You 
 used to be able to change your attributes slowly over the course of a few days, now you need to 
 find another class to do this for you. The player search engine remains useless, because there 
 are hundreds of titles and hundreds of mix/match class combinations. So, if you needed an Image 
 Designer to help you migrate your stats, but all the Image Designers in the game happened to be 
 using a different title (which people often choose arbitrarily because they sound cool, like "Hunter" 
 or "Iron Chef") , you wouldn't be able to find someone to help you. The Stat Migration change doesn't 
 make the Image Designer class more useful, it just makes life for the other 20+ classes in the 
 game more frustrating.
  
  There are even entire professions that serve little to no use in the game, or are still hopelessly 
 bugged. The politician track in the game is a good example of this. It may sound like fun to be 
 the mayor of a city filled with other players, but the game doesn't give you enough control over 
 the city itself, nor do you have any ability to enforce rules other than appointing city members 
 or setting taxation. Even if you're the mayor is personally responsible for sinking a million credits 
 a week into a Metropolis sized city, the game gives you no ability to even find out who owns a 
 building in your city! As a final insult it's impossible to even step down as mayor, as citizens 
 auto-vote you back into office unless they specifically go out of their way to choose a different 
 candidate. Seeing as cities are a giant money sink, nobody ends up running against you, so your 
 only option is to let the city decay into nothingness.
  
  It's complete lack of foresight in professions like this that really ruin the game. The politician 
 is just one example of possibly 25% of the game's professions that have borderline-unplayable problems 
 with them. Another 25% of the professions have serious balance issues with them, and contain bloated 
 skill trees that are mostly filler that give you only tiny rewards for skilling up into them.
 
  
  Crafting remains a strong point in the game, and it's fun to survey for resources, create harvesters, 
 and skill up on the crafting professions. However the end result of crafting remains dubious because 
 SOE has STILL not implemented a player merchant search function. The only way to find items is 
 to either go to a local Bazaar, which only sells newbie items under 6000 credits, or wander aimlessly 
 through the hundreds of player run "cities" that sprawl right outside every major NPC city. Most 
 of these cities are ghost towns, filled with tons of empty houses and player merchants that promise 
 huge deals and giant inventory but have nothing in stock... or, nothing you want to buy. Seeing 
 as the only way to search for an item is to go from house to house you'll quickly grow sick of 
 this procedure.
  
  Likewise it's useless to attempt to sell your own crafted goods for a profit, because you'll be 
 selling most of the items at a huge loss to the 6000 credit-capped bazaar. Sure, you can spam your 
 personal merchant's location on the Auction channel and the chat channel in heavily trafficked 
 areas like starports, but those are both generally ignored and if you're annoying enough, you'll 
 be manually /ignored by individuals anyway. You have no idea on how to set prices for your items 
 unless you constantly shop around, and even if you remain competitive there's no way for other 
 players to find your store unless they're also wandering randomly.
  
  This brings up combat, which in the end, disappoints as well. I still found it a fairly boring 
 and automatic process (you just target and select specials during the actual fight) . The first 
 few skill levels in a combat profession can be exciting but they quickly turn into the same mindless 
 grind as crafting does. Before you know it, you've capped the combat experience, because you'll 
 eventually figure out that a medic can buff you for 15000 credits and those buffs will let you 
 take down huge amounts of monsters in the 3 hours they last. Your end result will be credits, which 
 eventually pile up, but in very short time you don't have anything to spend them on other than 
 a crafting career. See above for the problems with the crafting system; all your combat credits 
 will be spent mastering crafting professions which you will have a very hard time finding customers 
 for.
  
  The other sides of the game, such as Jedi training and faction points and the few instanced "dungeon" 
 like missions that are available, are really just some extra stuff tossed into the game and far 
 from an incentive to keep playing. Jedi skilling is a very long, boring route, requiring massive 
 amounts of time skilling up on everything in the game, which you immediately throw away once you 
 obtain Jedi status. Then, when you're a Jedi, your life consists of killing mobs again and avoiding 
 bounty hunters - which due to the lame game mechanics, isn't half as exciting as it may sound.
 
  
  With the "new" crop of released MMOs such as City of Heroes and World of Warcraft, SWG really isn't 
 much to look at, or much to play. It's often confusing, usually frustrating, and starts being a 
 mindless grind way too soon into the play experience. SOE has been promising changes to just about 
 every aspect of the game, over and over again, throughout the past year. However in lieu of fixing 
 the core game they instead release an expansion pack, which introduces even more problems. 
  
  Both CoH and WoW have superior, streamlined interfaces, better graphics, and interesting story 
 arcs. It's fortunate that SWG has the Star Wars license, because if it was a generic sci-fi universe 
 or a random fantasy setting I doubt people would continue to play it as long as they have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2004 7:50 pm PT
Review:  After playing Star Wars Galaxies for over a year, the game has made tremendous progress forward 
 and backward. Star Wars Galaxies was my first MMORPG, and I suffered through the very first days 
 after release of instability, lag, and the general mayhem of a game not yet ready for public release. 
 The game is currently much more polished, but unfortunately has a rotten core based on poor combat, 
 broken features, and not nearly enough content.
  
  While SWG tries to assert that it can help players live in the Star Wars Universe, the claim is 
 not backed up with results and could be considered an outright lie. Set during the time between 
 the movies A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, it seems more likely that the time should be 
 during the reign of the Republic and the Jedi. After all, Jedi are everywhere! Probably one of 
 the worst design decision the developers at Sony made was to include the ability to be a Jedi. 
 Clearly they wanted to be able to put on the box Be a Jedi! However, the developers did not correctly 
 predict that players would figure out the system for becoming a Jedi (master 5 randomly unknown 
 profession unique to your character) and then grind out as many professions as quickly as possible. 
 
  
  A steadily improving game was crushed by the Jedi grind that devastated the player economies and 
 changed the dynamics of game play. This forced the developers to put necessary changes to the combat 
 system and professions like Smuggler on permanent hold until have two major publishes for Jedi. 
 
  
  Although the Jedi system was devastating mistake, some positive changes were made that increased 
 the quality of the game. Animal mounts, land speeders, player cities, and high level dungeons are 
 all excellent additions that do a lot more good than bad for the game. Cities have malls to enhance 
 commerce, and its easier to get to the far reaches of planets to fight or explore with friends 
 with speeders. 
  
  The biggest obstacles toward ensuring a long lasting game are probably the developers at Sony themselves. 
 Although they should be applauded for their improvements so far, all too often, the developers 
 seem to rush toward bad ideas and fail to accept blame when mistakes are more. Also, important 
 changes are not accompanied by frequent and clear communication with players. Customer service 
 is mixed: sometimes the reps are helpful, polite, and quick, while others are nasty, slow, and 
 unresponsive. 
  
  Overall, the developers at Sony made fundamental mistakes when designing the game. The entire time-period 
 is unbelievable, with the Empire not mighty enough and Jedi running around everywhere. Combat is 
 unexciting and a solo player can take out most enemies, even the most dangerous. Moreover, some 
 professions are much too powerful, while others are hopelessly broken or weak. Even with a new 
 combat system, the fundamental flaws that exist from conception can probably not be overcome, except 
 by starting over from square one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainmaker04
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 16, 2004 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Galaxies is the first MMORPG I played. A friend at work recommended it to me, so I broke 
 down and bought it. After the horrendous installation and the even longer update, I finally get 
 the game loaded up and start to create a character on the Tempest server (Where my friend was playing)
 
  
  Not too bad so far, graphics at this point are ok, but nothing too spectacular. A decent amount 
 of options for creating a pc, but I did find myself wanting more variety in certain areas. Chose 
 marksman for my class, and off I went into the training portion of the game.
  
  I was fairly impressed at this point, the game looked it's best here, ran smooth, graphics looked 
 nice etc. So I spent the few minutes going over everything here (When games have a tutorial I usually 
 like to play through them, get a feel for the game etc) Everything seems pretty nice, nothing too 
 difficut to understand, so I get through this quickly and choose Mos Eisley on Tatooine for my 
 starting location.
  
  This is where it started to go downhill. Loading times take forever, it's horrendous. When I finally 
 spawn into Mos Eisley I'm hit with an excessive amount of lag... so many people just hang out around 
 the spaceport it's not funny, for a newbie like I was, it was a pain just trying to get away from 
 the crowded area.
  
  Trudging through the patchy frame rates, I head out into the outskirts to gain some xp. This game 
 is a major grind, skills take forever to level up, especially some of the combat skills... needing 
 xp in the thousands and only getting 50 or so xp a kill is not fun at all. Hear me Sony?
  
  I ended up playing it for a few months, then got bored... too much of the same over and over again. 
 Missions weren't interesting, as skills take forever to level up there is little sense of advancement 
 - I never felt like I was getting anywhere.
  
  In closing, I don't recommend SWG to anybody but the hardcore MMORPG players and possibly hardcare 
 Star Wars fans who are more interested in living in the universe George Lucas created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid23
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Horrible game, i loved it ones, but what SOE/LA have done to it sholuld be called murder, dont 
 believe the hype either, cause they will always treat you badly as a customer. They took the CORE 
 Combat of the game and revamped it TWICE in 6 months ,thats hard for any gamer to SWALLOW. I played 
 it for over 2 years, great complexity and variety in the system before the NGE, what it is now 
 is a pre-school shadow of the game that it once was. So do yourself a favor and deface all Starter 
 kit crap boxes, cause thats what the game is now. CRAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neal_douglas
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  Star wars Galaxies is big. Really big. There's so much to see and do you'll want to do it all straight 
 away. But you can't. Say you're new, you have little money so you have to walk everywhere to earn 
 money, combat can be frustrating and rewarding, but often amounts to nothing. The game definitely 
 looks sweet enough, but it should. It's set in Star Wars land. Sound was initially shak but seems 
 great now. The economy is interesting and can be played for personal gain easily, provided you 
 have something to sell. Which is the main problem, if your main goal at the start of the game is, 
 say, to purchase a speeder, you first need to sell your craft. To do that you often need resources 
 and to get resources you either need to buy them, with money you don't have or risk your neck obtaining 
 them, it's a viscious circle, and one which alienates newcomers and rewards veterans. The "it costs 
 money to change proffessions" method was an attempt to make players think carefully about what 
 they wanted to be, but still allowing you to switch later. It is however an annoying quirk.
  
  Others have complained of a lack of purpose. This is not entirely true, there are many purposes, 
 but they are all VERY difficult to attain. The game is obsessed with skills, you can't become a 
 Bounty Hunter for example until you've mastered scout and marksman, frustrating as these are fairly 
 hard skills to proceed in since scouting takes a lot of killing and harvesting and marksman takes 
 loads of killing with a gun. Plus, though it is never truly mentioned anywhere, not only ae skill 
 points recquired to learn, money is too. The whole "Change your mind later" thing that was central 
 to the skills (apparently) is therefore a scam, as I said earlier. It is ludicrously difficult 
 to do what you want in this game. After an unhappy stint trying to get my dream job (Bounty hounter) 
 I went into trading so I could earn enough to buy a speeder bike. I grew frustrated by the length 
 of tim trading took though, something I couldn't alleviate until I had my speeder bike. Like I 
 said, viscious cycle.
  
  I at first felt that the proffessions system was the only thing wrong, but gameplay becomes formulaic, 
 it suffers from an unbalanced (Read: almost completely player controlled) economy and difficulty 
 in EVERY task. Only the Star Wars license saves this. And it is quite frankly an insult to its 
 own license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NRIAgent
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 4, 2004 11:53 am PT
Review:  The first time you kick the game on and get going its pretty neat. The whole world seems so fascinating 
 and rich with life. In that it is very true but not in the way that it should be. Star Wars Galaxies: 
 An Empire Divided (SWG) boasts one of the largest, if not the largest, player bases known thus 
 far to the MMORPG genre. Aside from the life created by (desperate) players with nothing but boredom 
 all around, there isn't much life.
  
  Most NPCs in the towns are just "filling" meant to do nothing more than make the game LOOK as if 
 it really is alive. You soon discover that the NPCs are well read up on the different ways to tell 
 somebody off. Aside from these NPCs (which consist of about 95% of the NPC population) there are 
 trainers that train you in (semi) different skills, a few quest givers, mission/banking terminals, 
 and countless player run "bots" spamming and buffing everyone.
  
  The class system is very empty, quite boring, and extremely broken. Every Bounty Hunter in the 
 game (until just recently) was almost an exact clone of one another. Having this combined with 
 few classes that actually work leads to very few variations in play style and hundreds of thousands 
 of people with the SAME EXACT power template. The experience curve is beyond reasonable, combat 
 balance is non-existant (which after 6 months of promises is pushed back another 6 months) and 
 cities are riddled with PCs that don't have anybody playing. You could walk into a Cantina and 
 find 20 dancers/musicians and another 15 people in the audience and none of the performers and 
 half of the audience are off at baseball practice, working, or making dinner.
  
  What is good about the game? If you like spending your days grinding away to gain useless skill 
 boxes or find fun in trying to make your broken character work then thats fun. In all seriousness 
 though, the graphics are pretty good and there are people everywhere which would have to be the 
 most interesting part of the game. There are always the rotten people out there trying to make 
 you miserable for their simple kicks but there are sometimes some very interesting people around.
 
  
  There is also a downside to the people. It almost reminds me of the Mafia in that once you get 
 into the circle of friends, you can't leave. All your friends are there and you don't want to leave 
 them. The only way out is if they die or if you all leave together and the chances of either are 
 very slim (or I hope they are) . 
  
  Don't get started, its a really bad habbit. The only hopes are the long (1 year) delayed combat 
 balance and the Jump to Lightspeed Expansion. Both are in the pipeline but with the track record 
 that the game has I wouldn't put too much faith in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romonov
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 30, 2004 7:00 am PT
Review:  The graphics in Star Wars Galaxies are pretty impressive. Although, there are more than a few problems 
 with them. Most of these are clipping issues and things of that nature. Such as your hair might 
 go right through the backpack you are wearing or your hand will go through your helmet during emotes. 
 And the overwhelming amount of graphics make lag in the larger cities such as Theed, Coronet, and 
 Mos Eisley an issue. Unless you have a high quality, top of the line computer, expect to spend 
 quite a bit of time getting across the densely populated cities and towns. Although, this isn't 
 a big of a problem as it seems since most of your time during play is spent out of cities on missions 
 or just doing your own thing or hanging out with your friends whether you are out hunting or just 
 sitting around in a house.
  The sounds in Star Wars Galaxies are fair and you will recognize familiar Star Wars tunes. Ambient 
 sounds in the background of the game come off as annoying (such as buzzing noises made from crafting 
 stations) , however, and you will hear the same combat music every time you attack an enemy. Which, 
 with the extremely large amount of time you need to invest to level your skills, you will find 
 yourself turning the music volume down to 0 and playing your own music on Windows Media Player 
 or another such program, since any music in the game worth listening to plays very rarely.
  Game play is good. Star Wars Galaxies is not what people had hoped it would be, but the game delivers 
 well on the standards of MMORPG style games. In most cases, Star Wars Galaxies beats all of the 
 current competition just by the vast amount of things you can do in the game. There are three main 
 roles to play in the game. Neutral, Rebel, and Imperial. Since the PvP revolves mainly around selecting 
 a faction, most people won't remain neutral for too long if they want to get into the action. As 
 an Imperial you have the benefit of having an easier life in the game. You could also spend many 
 hours gaining faction points which you could use to purchase your own AT-ST. But at this point 
 in the game they aren't worth the time it takes to acquire them since two good players can take 
 one down. Imperial troops will sometimes stop players to determine their status as a Rebel or Imperial 
 and in the case of Rebel players they will most likely kill you unless you are strong enough to 
 fight them off or fast enough to run away. If you are an Imperial and are found carrying contraband 
 (weapons enhanced by smugglers, or spices) you will be fined (unless of course you are a Colonel, 
 the highest ranking officer attainable by players in the Empire) instead of the Rebel alternative 
 which is to be attacked. This is just one of the small additions that has taken place since the 
 release of the game and adds to the overall enjoyment and promise of things to come. The combat 
 in the game is fun, although repetitive at times (especially when starting out) , but so is combat 
 in any game out there. The economy is almost completely player driven which is pretty new to MMORPG 
 style games. Crafters can sell their items to players who do missions for cash. They can then use 
 that cash to buy items they might need from other crafters or just hoard it to become filthy rich. 
 This is interesting but sometimes it comes off as extremely annoying. An example would be if you 
 are searching for a certain weapon. Since there are no real NPC controlled stores, there is no 
 place you can go to that will guarantee the item you want. So sometimes you may end up spending 
 over an hour looking for a particular item. But all in all, this unique system does more good than 
 harm and adds more of a player controlled feel than other MMORPG games even though the quality 
 of player crafted items is so great that looting your fallen enemies is pointless and rewards for 
 NPC quests are often pathetic also.
  The game definitely has some balance issues, but they are trying to work them out as hard as they 
 can while they work on the upcoming space expansion at the same time and various updates that will 
 come into play soon.
  In the end, if you are a fan of Star Wars and MMORPG games you should check this out. While it 
 may not be worth the fifteen dollars a month now, it will be when the space expansion comes out 
 and because of the time consuming nature of the game you will find that you aren't renting or buying 
 other games as much as you once were anyways. So you can probably afford the fifteen dollar payment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 29, 2004 7:30 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is Star Wars. Even the worst of Star Wars games has 5 minutes of enjoyment for me as 
 an avid fan of the far away universe. Star Wars Galaxies gave me a bit more than that, yet left 
 me uncomfortably empty at times.
  
  I tried out several professions in an attempt to get a clear perspective of what the game offers. 
 In EVERY profession, I found a very limited and static amount of what many players call "Grinding", 
 where a character must perform a mundane and repetitive task in order to advance. At some point, 
 your character just plateaus, and then must jump through some very boring hoops. Eventually you 
 get through to bigger and better things. Overall, it is an experience that brings you back to the 
 game for more. There are many places to see, static quests to accomplish, creatures to fight. Many 
 try to become a Jedi of some kind, unlocking the elusive Force-Sensitive character. More grinding.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but the polygon count can get quite high. Invest in a nice pixel shader 
 card if you want to play this for very long. Your swap file will get punished unless you have at 
 least a gig of ram. There are great video settings, tho, that let you control MANY aspects of the 
 detail in the game, right down to which pixel shader version you will use.
  
  The sound is classic Star Wars, but nothing to shake a stick at for the unfamiliar sounds.
  
 
  I can't imaging paying $15 for very long for this game. The only thing that keeps you in is the 
 fact that you have already spent so much TIME investing in a character, you'd hate to see it all 
 go away. Classic MMORPG.
  
  If you like Star Wars, then this is a fun game. The expansion will add a great layer of depth that 
 may make the $15 more understandable.
  
  We'll see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ELGUAPO353
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2004 5:48 am PT
Review:  An honest review after a months steady play...
  Caveat: This is the first MMORPG that I've played so take it for what you will. 
  
  First of 
 all no one needs this review as there are already more than enough but for anyone reading this 
 you obviously still have questions concerning the game. As I said before this is the first time 
 I've acutally sat down with an MMORPG but I do have an extensive amount of hours logged playing 
 other online games and have been playing video games at a "hardcore" level since the Atari 2600, 
 so I do know a little bit of what I'm talking about here so let's get down to business.
  
  SWG is very open ended game and it is what you make of it. The gameplay then depends on what you 
 want to try and do within the game. A combat oriented character will differ in their experience 
 with the game than say a medic or a merchant. But no matter what path you take within the game 
 several standards hold true. All the systems in place to get you from a novice player to a veteran 
 Krayt slayer work farely well. Like anything else though, the game has its bugs but I haven't seen 
 anything in the game thus far to make me want to quit or even get me more than mildly annoyed. 
 In a month I've had to back out of the game twice to get things working properly and I would call 
 that pretty 'OK'. 
  
  The graphics in this game are outstanding but you're gonna need a farely high end system to enjoy 
 them....'nuff said.
  
  This game sounds like Star Wars... again 'nuff said.
  
  As far as value goes, well that depends on who you ask and what kind of person you are. There are 
 better games to play than this one but if you like Star Wars than this is the MMO game you should 
 play. If you have a short attention span and don't care for much social interaction go play something 
 else. If you like RPG's but don't care so much for Star Wars than maybe you should try it on trial 
 basis. The bottom line for me is that when I get into an RPG I get obsessive and want to do everything 
 and become the most powerful being in the Universe. This game shot me down though because it is 
 very time consuming to say the least when it comes to leveling up a character it's very slow and 
 difficult, and then once you have there is always someone out there that can whoop up on 'ya. For 
 me however, the value is high because instead of getting bored with gaining xp like I do with most 
 RPG's I actually enjoy the challenge in this game. I shouldn't say challenge, I should say work 
 because that's really what it is. You should get payed for the amount of time you have to actually 
 work during this game and its this aspect that I think will turn most people away. But as I mentioned 
 above about social interaction, if you enjoy interacting with people you can enjoy this game. This 
 game gives you all the tools you need interact with people and have a good time and thats where 
 I think the difference is in whether you will enjoy the game or not.
  
  Would I recommend this game to you. Yeah proly.
  
  One last note... don't buy this game if all 
 you want to do is be a jedi. Go by Jedi Knight Academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darniaq
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 29, 2004 7:10 am PT
Review:  Like all MMOGs, SWG a year after launch is very different from SWG *at* launch. Is it better? Worse? 
 Depends on who you ask.
  
  The biggest problem with SWG isn't the game. It's the continued expectations for it, entirely derived 
 from the dichotomy between the name and the genre in which it exists.
  
  It's "Star Wars". That must mean it's high technology and swash-buckling action with singular commando-like 
 heroes that only get hurt off camera. Right?
  
  It's an MMOG. That must mean it's a bug-riddled horrendous grind through an early newbie experience 
 that trains players in what they can do through aggressive and overly redundant repetitive action 
 requirements. Eventually, players get to do what they want, but only after they're way to bored 
 to bother. Right?
  
  That's why it depends on who you ask.
  --------------------
  SWG, to some, was "EQ in Space". No doubt these people came looking for EQ in space though, probably 
 wanting to quest and increase their armor, weapons and ability through conquest. SWG at launch 
 had what I consider to be a bland combat engine. Queue up five combat moves and watch what happens. 
 This is akin to Knights of the Old Republic, except combat is only part of the story in KOTOR. 
 SWG lacks a story, so it's no wonder folks seeking EQ in Space focus on the combat.
  
  A year later, combat has not change significantly. It's still queue-up-moves-and-watch. In an age 
 of Planetside and City of Heroes, I find SWG's combat system rather antiquated and boring. Unless 
 one gets involved in PvP, there's a very high chance they'll eventually master combat to such a 
 degree as to guarantee the outcome of all fights. That's only fun if you're into resource farming.
 
  --------------------
  SWG, to some, was SimBeru (or Ultima Online 2.0) . This is an apt description. The game doesn't 
 force players into roles. The game provides very rich tools for roleplayers and folks who like 
 to run virtual businesses. The game is not actually what we see in the foreground of the Star Wars 
 movies. It's what we see in the background. 
  
  My first go around with SWG lasted 8 months (+2 in beta) during which I ran an energy business 
 with four employees, two partners and 15 contracts, started and co-ran a Player City, ran the guild 
 that started it, played in a full-time player band as a Master Musician and eventually became a 
 Master Ranger and scoured the lands for the highest quality organic resources.
  
  A year later these are all still viable activies. A year later the question is still asked: just 
 who finds this fun? The emphasis on virtual lifestyle adds diversity to a genre populated by EQ 
 clones (including CoH which, while extremely fun, is really EQ-lite at quadruple speed) . However, 
 having been tacked upon a license popular because of the high adventure within it pretty much guaranteed 
 SWG was never going to be a pure success. 
  
  Virtual lifestyles are a niche concept, and as such have a niche following. That isn't to say SWG 
 is doing poorly. It is currently either the second or third most subcribed-to MMOG out right now, 
 depending on who's numbers you read (last official number I received was 250k, three months ago 
 and before Final Fantasy XI) . But some consider it a failure because the license alone should have 
 made it an EQ killer. The gameplay is what prevented that from happening.
  --------------------
  So SWG has an identity crises. Folks wanting EQ in Space will walk away 
 bored after a month. The combat isn't that difficult and is more rewarding if you do something 
 with what you collect than in the nature of the fight itself. The PvP can be fun, but there are 
 much better PvP MMOGs out there.
  --------------------
  Will this change with the Space Expansion? Yes. The Space Expansion is being designed as a unique 
 activity for players disinterested in SimBeru. In fact, new players don't even need to grind to 
 get into space. The moment they launch the game, they can visit an NPC, choose a skillset (faction-based, 
 which results in limiting your choice on newbie ships) , grab a newbie ship and hit the Starport 
 to get right into space. 
  
  And once in space, players will see why it's different.
  
  This is X-Wing vs Tie-Fighter lite. Full 3D (not the fake planar-floating things like vehicles 
 and Vynocks) , joystick support, twitch action. I played this quite a bit at E3. It is THAT good. 
 It's really a game-within-a-game that allows players with totally different preferences co-habit 
 a virtual landscape.
  
  More importantly, it gives me hope that they can vamp the Battlegrounds too. If they can integrate 
 X-Wing vs Tie-Fighter, why couldn't they integrate Planetside? :)
  --------------------
  If you've been waiting for a time to check out, or check back with, SWG, and want something other 
 than SimBeru, wait a bit longer. They just vamped some Jedi stuff with Publish 9 (released today: 
 6/29/04) , but they haven't yet introduced the new system for unlocking the Force Sensitive Character 
 Slot. That'll come in Publish 10. They also haven't yet launched the Combat revamp (Publish 11) . 
 Then of course there's Jump to Lightspeed, which is anyone's guess on a launch date.
  
  SWG is still what it was. It won't be something different until the Space Expansion. And it'll 
 never be RADICALLY different as long as there's resource harvesting and crafting. If you like that 
 stuff, great! You're probably already playing SWG. If you don't like that stuff, then even a year 
 later, SWG probably won't be as engaging for you now as it may be down the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohNNy_BraVo
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 26, 2004 2:22 pm PT
Review:  If only another developer would have made this game with the resources behind
  Lucas Arts. Can we say, "Jedi Carrot" to keep you in this game? The game had potential but pvp 
 was not a top priority during beta so that never-ending nerf war began after release (when the 
 game worked) . 
  
  Evidence of a FREE "SWG 14-day Trial!" is always a huge indicator a game is suffering a painful 
 death and losing more players than it is acquiring.
  
  Complete waste of money for the long-term. Quite fun for about 3 months and then you'll be bored 
 to tears of a great game turned Carebears MMORPH...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jheinecke
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2004 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I recently started playing SWG and am enjoying it more than any other MMG I have played. The biggest 
 draw of the game to me is the depth of character creation and the complexity of the player economy. 
 As you begin the game, you can customize the appearance of your character and then choose a primary 
 profession from among six starting classes: marksman, brawler, artisan, entertainer, medic and 
 scout. Each class offers unique abilities and you earn experience according to your skill tree- 
 artisans earn experience by crafting and surveying resources, medics earn experience by healing 
 and making med kits, marksmen and brawlers earn experience by fighting with different weapons, 
 etc. Once you master the basics, more advanced classes open up for you such as bounty hunter, droid 
 engineer, and combat medic. You can specialize in multiple classes at once, so it is possible to 
 be a scout and marksman or a brawler and artisan. As you progress in levels, there is a built-in 
 trade-off that keeps players from becoming proficient in all classes: there is a finite number 
 of skill points for players, and you spend them as you progress in skill levels in your professions. 
 When you run out of skill points, you have to unlearn a skill in another class to continue your 
 progression. It may sound limiting, but it keeps players from becoming uber-powerful and promotes 
 team-work. For example, a master armorsmith will need to befriend a master tailor to gain the materials 
 that he'll need for advanced sets of armor, and will need to interact with the combat classes to 
 determine what types of armor are in demand.
  
  The second thing that stands out for me is the economy in the game. It is entirely player run- 
 all items for sale in the bazaar are placed there by other players. Most are crafted by artisans 
 and master crafting classes, but some are looted from monsters and NPCs. Combat classes are always 
 on the hunt for better weapons, armor and upgrades. The crafting classes are tasked with creating 
 these, but they need raw materials to make them. These materials need to either be surveyed from 
 the ground, bought on the market or bought/traded from other players. This creates a vibrant marketplace 
 as well as a source of quests for players. 
  
  Combat in the game is fairly straightforward. There are special attack abilities in each combat 
 class that help you to increase your damage as you advance in experience. There is also a series 
 of weapon certifications that unlock as you progress in levels, effectively keeping new players 
 from carrying uber-weapons. Armor is not as prevalent as in fantasy based games since it adversely 
 affects your statistics and their replenishment rates.
  
  Early reviews mentioned that the game doesn't feel like Star Wars but for me the feel is there. 
 There are landmarks on each planet from the films and books, weapons and armor is recognizable, 
 droids are commonplace, and vehicles such as swoopbikes and landspeeders run from Mos Eisley to 
 Anchorhead. The soundtrack is authentic and the graphics are in line with the films and other SW 
 games (though not quite as detailed) .
  
  I've been playing for about a month now, and have mastered artisan and am working up the marksman 
 skill tree. I'm not sure if I'm going to continue my crafting or abandon it and focus on becoming 
 a more lethal combatant. But I don't have to choose right away- so I think I'll explore both for 
 a while. Meanwhile, I've got to visit a few other planets and decide if I want to join the Rebels 
 or Imperials... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kr0e
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 16, 2004 6:38 am PT
Review:  Almost a year after launch and the game is still going through "balancing" issues, i. e. they're 
 still nerfing... I'd only recommend this game to a total Star Wars fan who has a month or so to 
 kill. Basically the whole game is one giant grind... doing the same thing over... and over... and 
 over, to gain XP. For those people who see all the cool movies and screen shots of Jedi doing their 
 thing, and want to play the game on the off chance they'll get to be one; save your money. Currently 
 the system to become Jedi is to spend months and months mastering some of the 30+ professions the 
 game, still with no guarantee you'll get close. A few months they'll be changing it to a quest 
 based system, which of course will be more difficult. One reason being that half of the quests 
 in the game simply don't work... Actually they didn't fix some of the MAIN themeparks (Jabba's 
 Palace, Rebellion Quests, Imperial Quests, etc.) until the time of this review. So for those who 
 just HAVE to try it, I'd be prepared to enjoy about a month of it, then look for something else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakule
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2004 6:01 pm PT
Review:  There's not much to say about this game that hasn't already been said in reviews and countless 
 forums across the internet. The game is terribly incomplete in almost every single area one can 
 rate a MMORPG.
  
  The best thing by far about SWG are the graphics. The scenery, modules and effects are second to 
 none in the MMORPG industry. This alone compelled me to purchase the game. Having said that, there 
 really isn't much else to SWG. The various portions of the game just don't come together into a 
 cohesive experience that's worth the time and energy one invests while immersing themselves in 
 a MMORPG.
  
  The crafting system seems to be very popular among hardcore SWG players, so if you're a crafter 
 then perhaps this game has a lot to offer. However, if crafting isn't your cup of tea then you 
 may find yourself questioning the point of playing the game at all after you begin to understand 
 that it seems to go nowhere. There's nothing interesting or tangible to compel you to accumulate 
 wealth. PvP is literally half finished and seems almost an after thought, which is a big disappointment 
 since it would only make sense to put some focus on Rebels vs. Empire as it was one of the major 
 themes present in the Star Wars movies.
  
  If you're looking for an involving MMORPG and you're not a crafter I would suggest you skip SWG, 
 at least until it's more developed. Supposedly, there's an expansion due for release later in 2004 
 that will add space battles. One of many aspects that should have been part of the game's initial 
 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalCowboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies  A new experience.
  
  I have been playing quite a few MMORPG's, but do not count myself as an uber player of any of them; 
 however, I do get very caught up in them and play them pretty hardcore when I do play them. Sadly, 
 I rarely have the patience to stick to one and their appeal often fades after 2 months. 
  
  However, Star Wars Galaxies have done something new, fresh and fun with their system, allowing 
 teaming as well as soloing to be equally fun and rewarding. Without a classic leveling system, 
 where high level teaming is required for you to progress, this game ensures that you always have 
 something to do. Can't find a group? Head out and solo, you get same Xp or better sometimes, if 
 you are not into fighting then choose one of the many different crafting professions and excel 
 in that making armor/weapon/clothes/furniture or tons of other useful items. Buy a house and decorate 
 it as much as you can afford. 
  
  Just exploring the vast environments are fun and rewarding, roaming the countryside or forests 
 in your newly re-painted swoop bike is nice. The atmosphere of this game is overwhelming and I 
 often get amazed over how good the game looks (note: I have an uber PC with all settings maxed) . 
 
  
  I was worried about the downtime between fights when I first read about the game, but I must say 
 I love it. A couple of friends fighting some hard mobs, when fight is over and the beasts are slayed, 
 set up a camp and sit by the campfire and talk for a couple of minutes. Man, this is something 
 I thought I would hate, I want XP XP XP, next level but not in this game. Its great and it also 
 adds to the atmosphere.
  
  The game lacks goals though. When I first started to play the game, it had very little appeal to 
 me. I actually thought about quitting after only 3 days, but after 5-6 days the game was overwhelming, 
 and now I wouldnt think about quitting. The lack of goal makes it hard to keep you motivated sometimes 
 and you have to set your own goals, like mastering a hard profession or having a shop that sell 
 sweet items at low prices or what ever you can dream up. I do wish there where more quests that 
 you could do, and I mean big adventure quests (big in the sense of scope, not the number of players 
 required to do them) . Also, going into this game hoping to become a Jedi is not a very good idea. 
 The path to become a Jedi is a long one and if you are unlucky you have to master EVERY single 
 profession in the game and there are over thirty. However, the developers have promised this will 
 change in the near future.
  
  I am not a Star Wars nut, so the game could have been in any universe for me in that sense. I love 
 the game mechanics in SWG, the universe is just a bonus. However, its a well-known universe (doh!) 
 and it doesnt hurt when you find yourself in a setting you have seen before and recognize. 
  
  I think this game will appeal to all, both casual gamers (this is probably the best MMORPG 
 game for casual gamers released to date) , and the hardcore players should find things to keep them 
 interested. As in all MMORPGs they are in constant development and things change from patch to 
 patch. This is something you have to learn to accept. Many people dont and leave the game because 
 of it I however think that is one of the huge appeals of this genre. 
  
  Unfortunately there is no trial version of the game, so you have to make up your mind if you are 
 going to buy it or not. But if you like the Star Wars universe in a healthy way (I. E, not a fanatic 
 fan boy) then I think you will love what is in this game. If you have never played an MMORPG, try 
 to get a friend to join you. Its fun to solo, but is twice as fun with friends. 
  
  May the force be with you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbs999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2003 11:10 am PT
Review:  The major problem with this game right now is lack of content. However right now there is still, 
 a ton of things to do inside the game. So while I understand why some bash Galaxies for it's current 
 lack of stuff to do for high level players, the game system is the best out there for a MMPORG. 
 The combat system is innovative and far less simple than Everquest was, and the world is bigger 
 in terms of allowing, and rewarding players for doing more than going out and killing every night. 
 Once high level content gets added to the game the system for combat will make for very different 
 challenging encounters. For instance a high level mob could be weak against only a couple types 
 of damage, and people who could not dish out that particular type of damage would have a hard time 
 hurting that mob. Or the mob could just have very hard armor in which case only people who could 
 pierce that armor would do good damage. Since for the most part who can do what type of damage 
 is diversified across the class list, it would make different classes more caluable for different 
 encounters. I am keeping my fingers crossed that content like this is around the corner, and not 
 a pipe dream for players like myself.
  
  Well almost a year later and content still lacking I am changing my review because I have not been 
 impressed at all with the growth of the game. I did play it for a while so Im not going to totally 
 diss the game, but it certainly has some major issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 12, 2003 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I should make one thing clear before I kick off this review: I do not like MMORPGs. I have never 
 played a MMORPG that I liked, however I always go into these games with an open mind, so understand 
 that this is not MMORPG bias i'm basing this review on.
  
  It had to happen sooner or later: Star Wars as a MMORPG. I was very hyped up and very interested 
 in this game for about 5 or 6 months. Since I harbor such a strong dislike for Ever Quests, I dismissed 
 this game initially as EQ in Space, but as I read on about all the features Star Wars would have, 
 I was generally intrigued. I bought the game on launch day, and the disappointment began. The launch 
 day problems were rampant, which is to be expected of course, since so many people were trying 
 to get in that the servers were overloaded. I was able to finally register and log in about a day 
 after I got the game.
  
  Character Creation was decent... you can edit alot about the character, from body type to facial 
 construction. You choose from a few base classes, and then go on from there to expand the class 
 and branch off into a more advanced class, such as Bounty Hunter or Weaponsmith or Commando. What 
 is good about this is that you can take a little bit from every class and mix and match it to design 
 your very own unqiue character. However, level progression is very slow, and it becomes necessary 
 to teach your skills to others in order to progress. Interesting concept, if a little flawed. There 
 are no Jedi's running around yet, simply becuse the method of becoming a Jedi is a 'secret' which 
 players have since discovered, but it is still difficult to do. Thankfully this limits the Jedi 
 population and keeps balance. 
  
  As for the game itself, it just wasn't really that interesting. The world is huge, but devoid of 
 life. Lots of quests require you to hump your way all the way across the planet for pathetic rewards 
 and little experience points. Other quests require you to destroy objects, like dirt mounds or 
 junk piles, which creatures spawn out of. What's bad is that these quests cannot possibly be undertaken 
 alone, since attacking one of these mounds causes a tremendous group of creatures to gang up on 
 you and tear you to pieces, and if you do manage to fend them off, there are other creatures healing 
 the object, making your effort useless. There are some quests unique to sides, if you join the 
 Imperials or Rebels, which is a decent change, but its still the same: Find and Kill soandso, bring 
 this item here, etc. etc. 
  
  Items in the game are all made by players, which is utterly ridiculous. There are no shops in the 
 game at all, except for one Bazaar that holds player auctions. Since everyone is making the same 
 stuff, the same items appear over and over. There are no unique items anywhere. One of the problems 
 with this is that making weapons and armor is a career for some players. Funny, but that sounds 
 like nothing more than a job to me. I'll go to my real job if I want to be productive, thanks. 
 I'm sure many other players will begin to realize that too, and the items in the game will start 
 becoming scarce.
  
  The game is just very monotonous, but I should expect no less from the makers of EQ. Sure, its 
 fun for the first few hours, when you're exploring and getting familiar with everything, but the 
 experience degenerates quickly. When I got this game, I was hoping to be surrounded by Star Wars 
 nerds role-playing their characters... but I forgot that Role-Playing is not allowed in MMORPGS. 
 Try role-playing your character for one minute around other players and watch your text screen 
 fill up with people screaming 'St0p r0lE PlAyinG j00 n00b!' and garbage like that. Hence, the 'Wow, 
 i'm in Star Wars' feeling wears off extraordinarily quick. 
  
  The realization that this is just another online game and the fact that no one cares that its Star 
 Wars becomes evident quickly, when you see players running around with names like 'Potthead Smokey' 
 or 'Do0bi3 Sm0k3r' or 'L000k3 Skyywaalk3rrr123441' (all of which were names I actually saw) . Its 
 the idiots like that which completely take away from the game experience. You can barely understand 
 what anyone is saying, because everyone talks in '1337 speech' or whatever the popular term for 
 it is among the little kids. Overall, I found the rampant childish behavior and boring, pointless 
 gameplay to be a huge turn off. I was off the game 3 days after getting it. I really, really wanted 
 to like this game, but in the end the boring gameplay just got on my nerves, and the immature players 
 didn't particularly help much either. This game was clearly just very over-hyped, and I was extraordinarily 
 disappointed. Luckily I didn't get slapped with the rather high (over $15) monthly fee since I 
 was off the game in 3 days.
  
  If you want a great Star Wars Role Playing game, then I suggest checking out Star Wars: Knights 
 of the Old Republic for XBox, or waiting for it to come to the PC. Its a much better game, and 
 well worth the money. Since Galaxies doesn't really seem to qualify as a role-playing game, you're 
 better off saving all the money you would waste on the hefty monthly fee. A nice try, but i'm not 
 impressed at all. Just another run-of-the-mill Massive Online Game ruined by childish players and 
 boring gameplay. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iscandar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2003 11:27 am PT
Review:  As long as you don't need spoonfed content and are not afraid of making up a bit of your own, this 
 game is great. Fantastic graphics and despite what the reviewer said about playing an entertainer, 
 you can have a blast as a musician.
  
  This game is still in the beginning stages. If you are new to the online world type of game, I 
 suggest this one is a keeper. As the additional content is added over the next year just hang on 
 for the ride. If you start now you'll be ready to afford vehicles and even a starship later. 
 
  
  Login, find some friends, and play! If there is not enough content for you, make your OWN! Sometimes 
 that can be more fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hubyduby
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 5, 2003 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's not fair for me to judge this game now that I've played ffxionline. I am currently a 
 subscriber to SWG and the only thing I do is craft and try to sell my goods. In the context of 
 a better game, this would be just fine. When i'm bored, i pick up a mission and try to do something. 
 But there's no point in doing missions. There's no point in playing this game. There's no reward 
 for hating rebels or hating imps. There's content that's buggy. THere are professions that are 
 buggy. There are missions that are buggy. 
  
  Don't get me wrong... there's stuff that works too. But, overall, the game needs more development. 
 In the long run, if things do not change dramatically, and I've been playing for 3 months, then 
 this game will not be considered one of the best in the market.
  
  There is currently a far better MMORPG that does fantasy like no one else can. If you want Sci-fi, 
 checkout Anarchy Online. You want Fantasy, check out the prolific work the devs at Squaresoft put 
 into FFXI. I'm now a biased FFXI fan so my scores only reflect a reviewer's tilt of 1. Everything 
 else like the gameplay, graphics, sound, rank high... but the value and my tilt rank really low.
 
  
  The choice is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shnelle
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 28, 2003 12:49 pm PT
Review:  SWG has a lot of potential but its not there yet.
  
  To be frank the game was shipped way before it was ready for release. I blame the 'suits'. It has 
 a list of bugs a mile long that are majorly noticable. To name a few: warping of creatures from 
 50m away, dissapearance of items in many way shapes or forms, chat features that stop working. 
 The play dynamics of the game are not balanced in the least so there is avid nerfing by the Developers 
 going on. The high level content of the game is almost non-existant. There are no major bosses 
 or long involved dungeons to go through with a guild. In fact most dungeons are created from the 
 same map. The loot tables are almost non-existant so there are no major rewards for killing things 
 besides exp. Which considering it takes only 1 month to finish a profession you dont need that 
 anyway. You can only have one character per server so if you want to play another race with your 
 friends or want to keep your elite profession but try something else you are jacked. All professions 
 have at least one thing about them that is broken. Some professions have half of it broken.
  
  This is 4 months after release, but let me say at release it was worse.
  
  The good news: 
 this game has a very devoted set of developers. Never have I seen a group of coders try as hard 
 as these guys to communicate with their subsriber base. This is one of the reason I was drawn to 
 the game in the first place. I feel these guys want to try as hard as they can to make this game 
 as good as it can and live up to it's potential. Because it has mountains of potential.
  
  Graphically the game is probably on of the best out there in the MMORPG arena. It alos has the 
 most customizable character creation interface ever, plus you can keep changing your character 
 in the game after you create them.
  
  I'm not going to go into the way the gameplay works but I will say it is a very innovative system 
 and with some major tweaks could be really fun.
  
  I will keep my eye on SWG as long as it is around. Because it is Star Wars so of course I want 
 it to do well. Give it 6 months and I'm sure this will start being a real contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olypilot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 17, 2003 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I actually tried this game twice. The first time I stopped playing because of a patch that completely 
 changed the economy. The second time I stopped playing because I was just bored with it. You can 
 only run around for so long looking at the back of your character running off to some rather mundane 
 gameplay. There is no such thing as a Galactic Civil War, for example Guilds can have Imperial 
 and Rebel characters together in them. You would think they would be arch enemys. Most of the people 
 I ran into that enjoyed the game really didn't know anything about Star Wars and it didn't bother 
 them that other than a few common names, the game doesn't really have anything to do with Star 
 Wars. As long as they could have a pet, they were happy, they should have called it a somewhat 
 boring Pokemon Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnHenry
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 11, 2003 9:22 am PT
Review:  Had I reviewed this game the first 3 weeks I was playing, I would have given it a much higher score. 
 The game is so lacking in anything fun to do after mastering the basic stuff, that it really becomes 
 worthless. I did like the theme parks (which only recently were fixed) eventhough they were still 
 only delivery and "kill this guy" missions. 
  What this game does have is an awesome interface and skill system (although at least 1/4 of the 
 skills are broken or still non-functional. I quit this game a month or two ago because I felt it 
 was going absolutely nowhere. They are still working on mounts for the love of god. This was supposed 
 to make release! Mounts, vehicles and to some degree player cities will add next to nothing to 
 this game. It needs content asap. 
  In the end, if you like SIMs in space, this game will do well for you. After you master those novice 
 things you will find all there is to do is talk with people. The galactic civil war is a joke as 
 people just complain when they are killed and complain about every class and how it is unbalanced. 
 The fact they closed the message boards on the official site to everyone but owners of the game 
 should say something... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeli
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 6, 2003 2:18 am PT
Review:  I was one of those people who was excited about this game for a long time. I got into the last 
 phase of beta and even got bored there, but I kept reading the boards and they said that the content 
 is being saved till the released, so I kept on. 
  I wanted to play a weaponsmith, since I figured this is a player driven economy and I want to make 
 my own stuff. At first I really did enjoy the game, I would lose lots of sleeps just grinding away 
 to make better and better weapons and to make master. But money has no value in this game, I have 
 millions of credits and nothing to buy. I miss unique items. 
  You would also spend hours doing a quest and it would be broken or if you did get to finish it, 
 you would get 1) a useless item like a broken binocular! 2) nothing 3) more useless items, who 
 hoo I got a swooper helmet!! huh did I miss the boat somewhere? And the bugs, I've played many 
 mmorpg's and this one have to take the cake. Everytime they fix something, they would break 2 things 
 in the process. 
  Pvp is a joke in this game. I would be really really lucky if I lasted 15 seconds in a fight. Sure 
 there was the excitement, but what is the fun of getting killed by one eyeshot? Maybe it'll get 
 better down the road for pvp, maybe not.
  Content?? No such thing, I was bored out of my mind, I would log on just to chat to my friends. 
 The Star Wars feelings wore out faster then you can say starwars galaxies and empire divided. lol. 
 Save your money and go see a movie or 2 with the money you use to spend on the montly subscription. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyz
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 2, 2003 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I was really looking forward to this game. I bought into all of the 
 hype about living in the Star Wars Galaxy, etc. etc. I got this game as a gift shortly after the 
 release. I played the game for a good couple of days. I started off as one character, then another, 
 then another. 
  
  I must have been something that I was doing that made this game suck. Alas, it wasn't. I've got 
 a pretty hefty machine. It's not top of the line anymore but most games play fine with no performance 
 problems. Not SWG. My character would run around and the game would just hang with my hard drive 
 spinning out of control trying to cache all the graphics. 
  
  That problem was overcome by lowering the texture mapping to low detail. The game performed much 
 better. Now I have a game that performs well, but still doesn't do anything to capture my interest.
 
  
  Once the initial "hey, I'm in Star Wars" wore off, there was nothing much else to do. I visited 
 the mission terminal and got some missions. The missions are soooo far away. If you don't have 
 credits to hire a transport, just give it up now. Walking/Running takes forever. If you walk, you 
 can get ambushed by killer bunnies that for some reason hold up to multiple blaster hits... I mean 
 lots!!!
  
  To give some credit, the game looks great. The scenery is nicely rendered but even this can't save 
 this title. I'm glad that I didn't spend any of my own money on this title, but regret that I paid 
 for 3 months on online access. 
  
  All in all, don't waste your time or your money on this very uninteresting and disappointing MMORPG.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfade
Rating: 1.6
Date: Aug 19, 2003 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I can only say, Dont buy this game if u want gameplay and not constant breakdown on servers. This 
 game is so buggy it makes me puke.
  SOE have made a nice system ingame where you write a ticket if u find a bug or error, but BUT BUT, 
 does the admins on SOE care, NOT.
  My ticket was in process for almost 14 days, had lost all my stuff in bank and on me "HOW NICE 
 - 14 days of gameplay GONE", and what did SOE do, nothing before i went complete mad and insane, 
 then they where doing somthing.
  I told them it was my father they talk 2, and that made them running.
  LOL do we have 2 use our 
 parents before we get a reply on our problems.
  NICE JOB SOE/Lucas...
  I would give the game 10 for music and 0 for the rest.
  DONT BUY IT, its a ripoff of proportions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgdsn
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 18, 2003 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Listen, I and all of my friends have bailed out of this game, and we were very excited about it 
 at one point. They keep updating it and each time it gets worse and worse. Crucial problems remain 
 unsolved, while the team is busy removing everything fun about the game. Anything that people enjoy 
 doing is removed. I'M SERIOUS ASK ANYONE WHO PLAYS IT! The only people who have it good are Bounty 
 Hunters. Thats because while the sony team is busy nerfing every class in the game to the point 
 where they are practically unplayable (not to mention certain classes have no weapons to use yet) , 
 they are also busy making Bounty Hunters even more ridiculously powerful then they already are. 
 And I'm not biased against Bounties, cuz I was gonna be one myself. However, The game is just plain 
 stupid at this point. Its more than stupid. Its beyon not fun. Its a terrible, frustrating nightmare 
 to play. If you dont believe me, go buy it and see if youre not clawing your own eyes out within 
 a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevorsJunk
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 15, 2003 2:36 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since the beginning, I followed it through development excited, and 
 what do I get... a totaly waste of time. 
  
  It has some very cool stuff, Jabbas Palace, Rebel and Imperial Bases, etc. The only problem is 
 that only about half of them work. The agro NPCs spawn right in front of you, which makes life 
 interesting, and there are kilometers and kilometers of NOTHING. Just landscape, no NPCs, no creatures, 
 nothing. The missions become very routine and boring. There is no scale to the missions, it's either 
 easy or hard, no middle of the road.
  
  It was great the first month, then the devs started their nerfing/revamping campaign. It was needed 
 in many cases, but not to the extent that it has been done. People are now quitting the game by 
 the minute now, half of my friends are gone. The key problem is the service provider, same as everquest, 
 does not care about bugs, glitches or testing things before they implement them. They do not care 
 if you report a bug because of the IMMENSE amount of them. This game is nothing but you beta testing 
 for them and paying for it. Nice deal eh? I'm a Star Wars Fan, but after you see the sights and 
 walk around for a bit you will see what I'm talking about. 
  
  I would urge you not to buy this game, it has a very limited lifespan left. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagan02
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 11, 2003 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I know this game doesn't deserve a 1, I would give it a 4.5 but all the rabid fanboys giving this 
 medicore game a 10 have forced me to rate it a 1.
  I'm not going to have this be a flame fest because I want both people that like it and people who 
 don't to read this review.
  
  Pros:
  It's a star wars universe
  It's somewhat fun... for 1 hour...
  Cons:
  The PvP system sucks
  The world is constant terrian 
 THAT'S EXACTLY THE SAME ALL THROUGH THE PLANET!
  There is only 1 or 2 caves, and horrible caves at that
  There's no storyline, and the sucky "Story 
 Arc" events SUCK!
  Towns, oh the towns, they call random sky scrapers that you can't even enter a town, the only reason 
 to go to a town is the medic center and missions, seriously, I thought coronet or naboo would be 
 beatiful and breath-taking, but instead both have tons of ugly skyscrapers that you can't even 
 enter.
  
  In short, I fail to see how anyone can like this game, even when it gets all bugs out, the towns 
 suck, the terrian sucks, it's WORSE then everquest, I'm going back to Ragnarok online, I hope everyone 
 considers this stuff I pointed out, if you enjoy the game ask yourself why, is it just because 
 it's Star Wars? If so, think about it, is it REALLY star wars? no it isn't, it's Everquest Lite 
 with blasters, and the towns are even worse then everquest's, there is near no caves and dungeons, 
 the caves and dungeons don't even appear on map, and when you do find them they suck.
  
  Avoid this game at all costs, wait for Final Fantasy XI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spencer-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2003 11:04 pm PT
Review:  OK here was what my opinion is, first of all i dont like how that guy reviews he reveiews what 
 the bugs are what the game is now and what its NOT how its the same as ever quest but star wars 
 etc... This game has bug but remember its man made when i started i got put into this city and 
 dint know what to do but i got in a group with people talked bull while killing some wierd looking 
 spiders about the size of me we had a medic he healed me and made me battle ready so when they 
 left i went into town wanted to see what was goin on went into a hotel there was a band playing 
 of real people yes real people playing the song from star wars 3 with that fat slug thing and there 
 were two real women dancers dancing about 85% nude the game has allot of detail and people gave 
 them tips and things it was amazing i was listening to some people talk about a battle they were 
 in agianst the rebels sounds awsome but i havent seen one yet and what the guy siad about not allot 
 of armor in the game yet! the game hasnt been out long the armorsmiths havent gotten to the level 
 of making them or the weapon smith making new weapons but he is right this game has allot to grow 
 oh and about how there is no shops he is right the shops are made by people there is this guild 
 who has there own shop it takes allot to make them by the way you need some one to build it and 
 some one to supply it than bam a shop run by a real life person not by a npc so you can argue with 
 him how stupid the price is, the game is slow but it gets better but it takes a really long time 
 what that guy siad is what the game is now but think what it will be in the future you cant even 
 imagin but remember that is my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sel33c
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 28, 2003 11:20 am PT
Review:  After having played this game in beta and then purchasing it on the off chance that some of the 
 issues in beta would be handled before production shipped, I have to say that I'm more disappointed 
 in this game than perhaps any since that folly Descent to Undermountain. Surely no other game was 
 hyped as much as this delivered as little. (okay, maybe Battlecruiser 3k) . For a quick overview: 
 
  
  Gameplay: This is probably the largest gripe out there. That, and the failure on SOE's part to 
 live up to any of the promises that they've made during the overly-long development cycle for this 
 game can completely ruin a pleasant RPG experience. After being promised player-controlled cities, 
 vehicle and mounts, and other such hype, SOE failed to deliver and as of right now these features 
 remain "in development". Server stability issues have caused several days of downtime, something 
 that most of the players of the artisan profession could not afford. As for the professions, you 
 can sum most of it up in a word and that word would be "broke". Balancing issues, items not working, 
 lack of even the most basic justification for some of the professions in the game, and several 
 other issue plague what could have been an excellent MMORPG. 
  
  Graphics: Although the graphics can be awe-inspiring at times, you should be away that even in 
 moderately populated areas your computer, no matter the specs, is going to be slowed to a crawl. 
 Shadows are beautifully rendered in the game, but you'll be turning that off so you won't notice 
 it much. Flora has been meticulously created, but you'll have to turn down the draw radius so much 
 that it becomes humorous to watch trees pop in and out of existance that eventually you just stop 
 paying attention. My personal feelins are that while the graphics can be nice, they aren't optimized 
 enough for todays computer power and make the game much less enjoyable than they could be.
  
  Sound: While the sounds can be very nice, there aren't enough of them to really give you a 
 feeling of being there. Running through city streets, seeing the hundreds of players and NPC's 
 still only reward you witht he hollow sound of your boots clicking in a hollow hall.
  
  Value: Right now, very little. At 60 or 80 dollars U. S. for the initial puchase and a hefty $15.00 
 per month subscription fee, the suggestion of this reviewer would be wait and see what happens 
 in the next few months before purchasing this game.
  
  Tilt: All in all, there are some moments in this game where you find yourself genuinly having fun. 
 Your first kills and your first crafted items give you a perverse sense of joy at just having accomplished 
 it. Also, the Star Wars motif that this game runs under just flat out gives it cool points.
  
  Its my hope that this game gets fixed and becomes the game that SOE promised when it was announced 
 that they were developing it. The potential is there, but as of right now, the game is very lacking 
 is some basic polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bros1941
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2003 8:34 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game is not for everyone, but . . .
  If you enjoy open ended games and have ever day-dreamed of living out an existence in the Star 
 Wars universe this is the game for you. I can honestly say I have never enjoyed a game so much. 
 I hope that Lucas Arts delivers on its planned evolution of the game. The only thing I will say 
 is that the game does seem to have exceedingly long load times at points and seems to require very 
 hefty system requirements to experience the game as it was ment to be experienced. In summary I 
 think the game is simply amazing and can not imagine what these games might look like 10 years 
 from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 22, 2003 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is 'ok' at its current state. I do not believe it has much content compared to the other 
 successful mmorpg's out there. There are tons of bugs, server instability, and completely unbalanced 
 pvp. The only thing to do is take repetative missions. 
  
  The worst part of this game is not even the game. Its the support, or the lack there of. The way 
 SOE treats its customers is completely and astonashingly terrible. They do not care at all about 
 the customers. Funcom at least extended the free month for Anarchy Online because of its problems. 
 SWG is as bad as AO was at release. (AO was not $15 dollars a month either.) 
  
  If your expecting DAoC suuport, stabilty, and content. I would suggest trying elsewhere, World 
 of Warcraft will probably be worth your wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2003 10:07 pm PT
Review:  A few weeks from launch and Star Wars Galaxies plays like most other MMORPGs, and has about the 
 same limited content as comparible games at launch. It has the potential to become one of the upper 
 tier MMORPGs, however, its not there yet, and will not be there for a few months.
  
  Gameplay:
  - Combat: plays out much like every other MMORPG out there. Choose Target, attack, 
 use special moves during combat. Group tactics are lacking, this is most likely because the community 
 is new, typical tactic is large zerg groups. It has taken several years for EQ veterans to develop 
 group tactics and skills to the point where a good group is like a well oiled machine, everybody 
 doing their job perfectly. It will take some time for the developers to create situations where 
 good group tactics are required, and time for the community to develop their skills.
  
  - Crafting: This is by far the best implementation of crafting from the gameplay perspective in 
 any MMORPG. It is an interesting and diverse part of the game. Crafting involves searching, or 
 hiring somebody to search for minerals; mining the minerals or buying on the open market; creating 
 items and thus gaining skill; and marketing items. The gameplay mechanics are nicely developed, 
 however, the economics are lacking. There are also issues with balancing, some items created by 
 "newbies" are better than items created by intermediate weapon crafting specialists and armor crafting 
 specialists.
  
  
  - Economics: The economics are truly free market. Most useful and powerful items are created by 
 player characters. There are no NPC stores to buy armor or weapons, you get those from your local 
 crafters shop. There are economic issues that need to be examined: 
  1. There are few money sinks, and missions to earn money are fairly easy to complete, so there 
 is much more money going into the universe as leaving it. 
  2. Some items only need to be crafted once, and only minimal money needs to be paid to upkeep it; 
 this will eventually reduce the demand for certain "permanent" items such as houses and droids 
 (reducing or eliminating the need for those crafting professions) , while items that degrade quickly 
 like weapons and armor will always have strong demand. 
  3. Limited population - each player has 1 character per server and server populations have a max 
 cap of 3500. In games such as everquest each player has 8 characters, so even though the server 
 may have 2500 players, there are potentially 20,000 characters requiring items vs 3500 max on SWG.
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are stunningly beautiful, to the point where you will just stop and enjoy the 
 view of a waterfall on naboo, or build your house on the lake just so you can enjoy the view. Graphics 
 can be choppy on lower end machines and having lots of RAM helps! Character animations are magnificent, 
 including characters emoting based on what you say.
  
  Sound: There isn't much sound, aside from blaster fire and music which is few and far between, 
 the game is silent.
  
  Value: The Game has potential, lots of potential. If the vehicle expansions come out it will open 
 up a whole new realm of possibilities. But again its all potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2003 11:45 am PT
Review:  Very enjoyable game. It has it's flaws, and bugs, although I've experienced nothing serious. I've 
 been through UO, AO, and WWIIOnline release, and this one, by far is in better shape.
  
  Not have vehicles and a few other things is a bit of a disapointment, however the phenomal graphics, 
 outstanding sound and gameplay tend to make those seem minor.
  
  I've had more fun with the game than any other MMORPG to date. I'm not dismissing people who did 
 not like it, but SWG wont be for everyone. If you're a Star Wars fan, or a fan of the Sci-Fi Genere, 
 this game just might be for you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunburn
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 15, 2003 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Let's face facts Verant, gameplay should be king, and when newbie players have to run for 15+ minutes 
 to accomplish a supposedly easy mission, there is no fun being had. Graphics and sound are all 
 quite nice, though I was hoping for even more detail in the capital city of Theed on Naboo; yet 
 in the end if you insist on punishing players for being new by performing insanely inane tasks 
 do not expect much of anyone being willing to pay for that 2nd month of subscription at 14.95! 
 I dont know where they get off thinking they can charge more on the subscription when games like 
 DAOC is entertaining people at a more reasonable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iluvatarx
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 13, 2003 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Having experienced most MMORPG launches for the past few years, I would call the launch of Galaxies 
 as Anarchy Online with the Star Wars license. There are several broken and half baked aspects to 
 the game. I have lost all my equipment twice since launch and lost several other items after logging 
 out. Many of the professions are not completed and do not have skills associated with them. I have 
 seen characters stuck in limbo that will not log back into the game world (this character had to 
 be deleted as the "Customer Service" rep said they could see no issue on their end.
  This game has promise (how could you not with such a great license) but its current state is unacceptable. 
 It's a sad state of affairs when game companies are allowed to float turds like this and expect 
 the customer to finance the completion of their product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieHardTWB
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 13, 2003 4:44 am PT
Review:  Well, okay. Here is the problem at hand. This was a highly anticpated RPG. Made by the same guys 
 that are working on EverQuest now, after having assimilated Verant Interactive into their evil 
 empire. Here are the facts: It's developed by some of the same guys that brought EverQuest, I say 
 some, because half of them went to open their own studio called Sigil Online, because they were 
 sick of the Sony Tyrants, which comes to no surprise why this game became such a flop. They're 
 more interested in releasing a game with the Star Wars name on it, knowning it will sell millions 
 of copies, and not give a hoot about content.
  
  Content they promise to have released on launch will now be release maybe in 6 months or more. 
 All while paying 14.95/mo for the game. Okay, the graphics are really good. The sound is pretty 
 much what you'd expect from a Star Wars game, the same sound effects you heard back when Episode 
 IV came out. Not much new there.
  
  The crafting system is pretty good, and so is the trading system. However, I see major problems 
 without having any NPC shops around. Either way, I was pretty able to base this review on the game 
 without having ever played it. Simply talking to those that have played it and also from what I 
 have read from Sony Onlines own website.
  
  Oh, and should I mention that one of SWG's own developers said he was afraid this game wouldn't 
 live up to peoples expecations? There you go, their own people are telling the public - It's not 
 worth it!
  
  As another person posted in a review, go out and get some sun, don't glue to your monitor all summer. 
 Long live fresh air! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiddolemite
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2003 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a MMORPG before, but for years, I've been screaming for a Star Wars RPG videogame. 
 I never thought I'd actually get my hands on one. Well, that's been rectified, and I have to say: 
 Don't just take what others say as truth. 
  
  Play this game! Now.
  
  Who has seen or read a Star Wars story, and hasn't wanted to be Luke Skywalker or Han Solo? Chewbacca 
 or Princess Leia? Obi-wan or Anakin? Well, this game goes one better. It lets you be the person 
 you want to be. Okay, so you can't be the major characters. Big deal. I get to make my own. I can 
 join the Rebellion or the Empire. I can be a fine, upstanding citizen, or I can be a ruthless, 
 conniving bastard. That is the coolest! 
  
  Now, the controls are easy. I have the worst time with PC game controls, but SWG is like butter. 
 I can't imagine an easier control setup. I wish all of my other two or three PC games used this 
 setup. 
  
  Nothing compares to seeing the lush forests of Naboo, or the scorching wastelands of Tatooine. 
 They are beautiful, and populated by all manner of creatures and characters. And they sound really 
 good too. 
  
  In short, this game is a must have for Star Wars fans, and non-fans should check it out as well. 
 If you don't, you are missing out on the single coolest game....
  
  
  
  EVER. (That's a peiod, in case you couldn't tell.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweb74
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2003 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Are you people that rated it low, you played SWG and not Force commander right? The review from 
 gamespot is horrible, and I want to beat the shiznik out of that guy. No one has mentioned the 
 factions in the game, the empire you can join, or the rebels. Join Jabba for a story driven quests, 
 to eventually becoming a bounty hunter or smuggler, along with many other factions you can join.
 
  
  Yes the game had a few problems, but every on-line game has. Anarchy on-line still doesn't work 
 right, and they were giving it away free at the E3 show. Everyday, the game is getting better as 
 they fix quirky hijinks the game has. As they do this, their is no monthly fee, as they stated 
 that they are extending the 1 month free subscription. 
  
  The plethora of career paths is great, with everything driven by the players. People are building 
 weapon shops, and factories that provide goods and services to the people in the SWG universe. 
 What this means is that it will be ever expanding, growing as the players sees fit, not the A. I.
 
  
  The graphics are hands down some of the best I have seen, of coarse you have to have a beefy system 
 though. Sound is great, and the balance of players working together is great. If someone is a dancer, 
 they can also be a marksman, or a brawler, as you are not confined to one career. 
  
  For a full review, read over at ntsreviews. com, they give more detailed and accurate review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bheema
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2003 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game with lots of bugs. That pretty much sums up my own experience wuth SWG. The game 
 gives a very intimate fee of the Star Wars universe. The graphics is excellent. The game has some 
 lag inside crowded cities, but it usually is not game breaking. Sound effects are well done.
  
  Now for th bad part. The game is full of bugs. You may be unceremoniously kicked out of the 
 game due to SWGClient. exe crashing. You may be standing next to a player, but he/she may not see 
 you. Groups will find that suddenly some members are not getting XP. Your lots, where you started 
 buildings or harvesters are suddenly gone. You may take a destroy mission, but by the time you 
 reach the mission objective, you may find the mission objective is no longer there or in some cases 
 you receive no credits for it. There are so many of such issues.
  
  Most of the classes are well thought. However, some classes still feel incomplete. Prime examples 
 are smuggler and bounty hunters. The infinite grind mill also dampens the enjoyment of the game.
 
  
  In summary, if you are a Star Wars fan, just buy this game. Otherwise, I would recommend waiting 
 for at least 3-4 months until the development team irons out most of the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxumus423
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2003 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Do not listen to gamespots review. I usually pretty much agree with them on everything, but this 
 is crazy. 7.5? This game is easily a 9.0. True, some of the promised content had to be pushed back 
 until a few months after launch, but this is the type of game that you play for much longer than 
 that anyway. Buggy? There are some bugs, but its very much playable. Its impossible to release 
 a game as grand as this without bugs. They will be worked out soon Im sure. I have played all of 
 the MMORPG's. All of the big ones anyway. Everquest, DoAC, UO, Anarchy, Shadowbane. This is by 
 far the best of them all. So much more to do that just go out and kill this mob, because he drops 
 this item, come back to town, sell item, rinse and repeat. Whatever your playstyle, this game accomidates. 
 I am beyond belief at the review gamespot gave this game. It is a much better product than they 
 are professing. They must have had a little too much to drink and smoke while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2003 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I beta-tested SWG for the last two months of its development, and have advanced in most of the 
 basic professions. Ive also played quite a bit since it went live. So I feel I know the game fairly 
 well. However, I am a newcomer to MMPORGs, and cannot compare the game to games like Everquest. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is quite varied, depending on your choices. The first thing you must realize is that 
 SWG is a hybrid of a class and skill based system. There are six starting professions: Artisan, 
 Brawler, Entertainer, Marksman, Medic, and Scout. Each of these starting professions has a tree 
 of skills. You can acquire as many of these starting professions as you like, and pursue as many 
 skills within each profession as you wish. Each skill costs skill points and experience points 
 (XP) to learn, and may require you to spend some cash with an NPC trainer. There are many different 
 types of XP in SWG, however. For example, firing a pistol earns you pistol XP, and you can only 
 get advanced pistol skills by earning pistol XP. If you take a wide variety of skills, for example 
 by taking multiple professions, it will cost you more skill points. 
  
  The games design encourages you to take multiple professions. For example, scouts gain Scouting 
 XP by harvesting resources from dead animals. Unless you become a marksman or brawler, it is very 
 difficult to kill animals, however. Medics and entertainers provide all the healing, and artisans 
 are able to craft the best weapons and armor, so even combat oriented characters are encouraged 
 to take non-combat professions. You can choose to take some skills within a profession while ignoring 
 others.
  
  Fortunately, you can surrender skills in order to regain your skill points, though you do not regain 
 the XP spent. What this means is that the best way to play is often to take many professions and 
 advance in whatever skills suit you. Later, when you run out of skill points, you can surrender 
 skills you dont want anymore so that you can get them more advanced skills. My current character 
 is a  I intend to become a master scout, but only dabble in 
 the other professions, specializing in pistol and unarmed combat, and business (part of artisan) . 
 I've got a little First Aid from Medic, and don't plan to get more. I aspire to be a Master Merchant/ 
 Master Smuggler one day, and will have to give up some skills to do so. But thats a long way off. 
 
  
  The combat system is real time, but with a turn-based queue of actions. The experience varies depending 
 on whether you are hunting animals, fighting thugs or other humanoids, or participating in player 
 vs player (PVP) . My experience with combat has mostly been as a scout hunting animals, though Ive 
 fought off the occasional thug. I will say that PVP is entirely consential. If you dont want to 
 get involved with it, you dont have to. This is a plus for folks like me who want to ease into 
 PVP, or who want to enjoy other aspects of the game without distraction. Hunting animals can be 
 quite a thrill, depending on your skills, location, and how many people you are grouped with. Soloing 
 is entirely possible, but can be difficult. You cannot solo the most powerful creatures, and thats 
 how I feel it should be in a multiplayer game. If you disagree, you may not enjoy hunting solo. 
 Combat does require some player skill. Having the best equipment and lots of XP helps, but selecting 
 the proper special moves at the proper time can help you succeed more often. You have to think 
 when you are in a tough fight.
  
  Non-combat professions can be tedious. Lower level crafters do not have enough schematics (things 
 they can build) and being a full-time entertainer or medic can be dull, prompting most players 
 to diversify and get a little combat skill. The crafting system can be fun, however, and the economy 
 is almost entirely player driven. Making money is challenging and satisfying for non-combatants. 
 The economy has not matured yet on any server, however. It takes time for artisans to master the 
 elite professions, so many items are not yet available for purchase. Some weapons require certifications 
 to use to their fullest extent, and there are not many players who have become certified on the 
 most advanced weapons, so there is little demand for them, yet. After the economy matures, there 
 will become more of a market for the items that lower level crafters can make. Many such items 
 are needed by more elite crafters as components, and are useless by themselves. Artisans can also 
 repair items, and since items have not had time to decay, there is no demand for that yet either. 
 Non-combat professions can be boring right now, but these professions are tied closely to the player 
 driven economy and will become more interesting as the economy develops. 
  
  The interface is very good. As a first person shooter fan, it took some time for me to master, 
 but now I have no problem getting around and using my character to his fullest potential. Contacting 
 other players is easy, and there are many chat options, emotes, and moods. There is a great deal 
 of non-verbal communication in the game available.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are excellent, but make certain you have a newer video card and have updated your 
 video drivers. The framerate in cities, however, is substandard, even with a great system. The 
 graphics can be very immersive; you feel like you are in the Star Wars universe. Your characters 
 look is very customizable, and no two characters look exactly alike. 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in the game is good, but too sparse. There isnt enough music or sound effects in the 
 game right now. The developers have acknowledged this during the beta and claim to be adding more, 
 but there does not seem to be enough. Sometimes the silence is so deafening I have to check to 
 see if Ive muted my speakers. 
  
  Entertainers can get together to put on impressive concerts. Watching a band of talented musicians 
 and a troupe of skilled dancers playing together is surprisingly entertaining, and sometimes you'll 
 find yourself sticking around to watch and listen even if you don't need the healing. 
  
  Bugs
  
  The first days disastrous server problems were atypical. Since then, the servers have 
 been relatively reliable, with only a few hiccups, and very little downtime that Ive noticed. 
 There are a number of bugs still in the game, most of them only mildly irritating. The biggest 
 is that some characters have been unable to retrieve items from their corpses, but the developers 
 are addressing that, and in the meantime have temporarily allowed for free insurance of items, 
 so death isnt much of a penalty right now. 
  
  While they arent really bugs, I have to say that some professions were not betatested enough or 
 even at all. The smuggler was never tested in beta at all (there was a bug that no Smuggler trainers 
 appeared, they didnt fix it in beta, though its fixed now) . Chefs were never able to test all 
 of their schematics because some types of components (like eggs) could never be found. Some abilities 
 were changed or added at the last minute (Artisans weapon upgrades, scouts Wire Mesh trap) . The 
 Droid Engineer was riddled with bugs all the way through the beta, so that they could hardly do 
 anything, and might still have significant problems. The Bounty Hunter had three skill trees devoted 
 to nothing except fugitive tracking droids, and was redesigned just before the beta ended to be 
 more combat oriented. Image Designers were unable to change their own looks and since players in 
 the beta had access to all the different hair style and tattoos, I. D. s were unnecessary and couldnt 
 advance to be beta-tested. 
  
  It remains to be seen whether these elite professions are balanced enough or not, or more importantly 
 if they are as fun as they ought to be. The attitude of the developers was No MMPORG is ever finished, 
 well continue to change things as it goes along but in my opinion these professions were in too 
 unfinished a state to launch with them. Players spend a lot of time planning and developing their 
 characters, and no one wants to see their profession redesigned to be less powerful or significantly 
 different than how they planned. I predict many elite professions will indeed be tweaked quite 
 a bit in the future. 
  
  Overall, though, the game systems work remarkably well. The developers did an excellent job of 
 fixing issues during the beta before the launch, and Im sure they will continue to improve things. 
 
  
  Value
  
  As the Gamespot reviewer noted, there is a lot of breadth, but not much depth. There arent enough 
 unique missions, locations, or NPCs. The planets are large, and sometimes feel empty. Many features 
 that were originally going to be in the game have not been implemented yet. There are still many 
 bugs that were not squashed in beta, and Ill admit that I was one of many beta testers who believed 
 that the game was not ready for release in June. However, the developers have accomplished a great 
 deal in the last few months, both towards making the game more stable, and polishing up certain 
 aspects. I believe that they will implement player cities, vehicles, and mounts before the Space 
 expansion next year, and that they will continue to add more content. 
  
  The bottom line on value is this: Casual MMPORG players who happen to be big Star Wars fans will 
 get the most enjoyment from this game. Your definitions of casual and mine might not be the same; 
 I define it as someone who doesnt play more than an hour or two a day, on average. Powergamers, 
 or those who arent really Star Wars fans will not get as much enjoyment from Star Wars Galaxies. 
 In the future, after more content is added, powergamers might have more to do, but right now the 
 content is relatively light. Even someone like me who hasnt played Everquest can realize that 
 there should be more to do. 
  
  Star Wars Galaxies is all about living in the Star Wars universe, and part of the fun of the 
 game is what you make it. I feel that this game is more of a software toy than a game that is 
 won or "lost". Most of the fun is in the journey, not the destination. If your primary enjoyment 
 in an MMPORG is in leveling up to become powerful, you will not have as much fun with this game 
 as the player who enjoys the immersiveness of the Star Wars universe, who enjoys interaction with 
 other Star Wars fans, and who takes time to smell the Correllian wildflowers on the way. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jombix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2003 7:14 am PT
Review:  Three years. Three grueling years of waiting for the mighty MMORPG to change MMORPGs: Star Wars 
 Galaxies had arrived! Excited, I installed my 3 CD masterpiece and downloaded the necessary patches. 
 The installation went smoothly. So far so good.
  Drat! The servers were down for a couple of hours before I was able to take a swing at the game. 
 What could possibly be wrong? Why are these lousy servers down already? After the extensive wait, 
 I was finally able to begin my character creation. Ahhhh! Marvelous! This was just the beginning 
 of my new life-changing experience.
  With giddiness I created my first and only thoroughly played character to date. With only briefly 
 scanning the manual, I decided to make him a Zabrak brawler. This is only the beginning. The detail 
 that has gone into the character creation process boggled my feeble human mind. Facial features, 
 body type and size, tattoos, skin/hair color, and even age can be changed (Note: Changing age appears 
 to require a non-MX type Geforce, such as the TI series) using simplistic sliders to gradually 
 increase or decrease the degree or type of detail for each setting. This is all done with a classic 
 Star Wars track playing in the background, highlighting the whole experience. After some tweaking, 
 I was ready to begin my journey to Tatooine (Tutorials are for wuss newbs) .
  What is this? Mos Eisley isnt allowing any shuttles to dock? Was this a time schedule mishap? 
 Then I realized: Everyone wants to see Mos Eisley. I arrived at the conclusion that Mos Eisley 
 is probably bogged down with too many players in that area. Mos Entha? Full. Mos Espa? No problem. 
 Off to Mos Espa I went.
  Upon my arrival, the first thing I noticed was the luscious landscape. Eager to get the best out 
 of my 1024x768 resolution, I quickly tabbed to my Geforce settings on my TI card and turned on 
 my Quincrux Antialiasing at 4x. Cant be much different, I foolishly assumed. 
 Boy was I wrong. Three words came out of my mouth that Im unable to repeat in this review, 
 but lets just say Ive yet to play a single player game that was this gorgeous. Spectacular! 
 I even turned up the graphics options to the max (sans shadows, of course) . The frame rate still 
 smooth as silk, I began wandering the city.
  Searching the city and talking to a few folks, I found just about everything I needed within minutes. 
 After a generous individual informed me of the /find command, I was in heaven. This 
 command alone would have saved Everquest players hours of time in towns. Say youre looking 
 for a cantina in town. Simply type /find cantina and , a path with arrows appears 
 on the screen. Just follow the path, and it will take you immediately to the closest cantina.
 
  This is just the beginning. Interplanetary travel is possible via shuttles. These appear to be 
 the only load times in the game thus far, although the future space add-on promises that these 
 shuttle rides will be in real-time, with mini-games to help pass the time. You can also set waypoints 
 on an overlay map of the town, and you can even pull up a world map of the entire planet. After 
 setting these waypoints, you can even mail them to another player. Other archaic RPGs are sorely 
 in need of this feature. Whether they are science fiction MMORPGs or not, these features should 
 be available for EVERY online RPG. Period.
  About 5 minutes into my exploring, I began to wonder, Where are all the vendors? 
 The simple answer is that there are none. The economy is completely player driven from auction/sales 
 terminals. Its a lot like Ebay. You can place an item that you want to sell and have a set 
 price, or you can put it up for auction. On that same note, you can also purchase other players 
 items and bid on them at your leisure. Excellent! Playability? So far so good. I was extremely 
 pleased at this point with the plethora of options for players. Onward to the fighting!
  The fighting in Star Wars Galaxies reminded me a lot of previous MMORPGs with a few enhancements. 
 The animation is extremely fluid, and my character seemed to start out rather strong in comparison 
 to those other MMORPGs. I immediately delved into the unarmed combat. After a period 
 of multiple fights and an increase in Unarmed Combat Experience, I was informed that 
 I could train in Basic and then Intermediate Unarmed Combat skills.
  The skill tree you access gives you all the information you could possibly need in terms of the 
 number of points you need to advance to the next level. In addition, you can even look ahead of 
 your current tree at the Professions and get an idea of where you want to go in your training from 
 the get-go. As an aspiring Master of Teras Kasi (Martial Arts) , I stuck with the unarmed stuff.
 
  A new problem presented itself, however. Training in a new skill costs a lot of bread, er, credits. 
 This is where the player character interaction enthralled me. I yelled out to see if another player 
 character would train me. for free. Yes! You can have players already trained in a skill 
 to teach you what they know. You only have to have the prerequisite experience. The same goes for 
 languages. Within an hour of scanning the town, I am quite certain I know every language there 
 is to know. From Sheriwook (Wookie) to the Rodian dialects, you can learn a new dialect in seconds. 
 This type of interaction is what sets Star Wars Galaxies apart from other MMORPGs. 
  With a player-driven economy and no Artisan (crafting) skills, I needed moolah (credits) fast, 
 so I took on a mission. I delivered some goods to a fellow about 9000 meters into the desert. Not 
 too rough for my 600+ credits. I decided to take a look at some other missions, and found that 
 most of them appear to be similar. The two categories Destroy and Delivery appear to be rather 
 limited at this time. Keep in mind that these missions are from the mission terminals in town. 
 I met up with a few NPCs who also had assignments for me. Although not always as 
 profitable, these missions made more sense to me, and they felt a little more dynamic as opposed 
 to the scripted missions from the terminals. Overall, the mission structure isnt too shabby, 
 as it is simply the beginning of better things to come.
  After a couple of missions, I began to notice the music in the game a bit more. Other than when 
 I was in the midst of battle, I noticed that the excellent John Williams score didnt always 
 play in the background. This was a little disappointing, but its hardly noticeable unless 
 you really look for it. The sound, on the other hand, is a different story. I was looking forward 
 to some powerful sounding combat. Laser blasts aside, the combat sound and effects appear to be 
 limited. I did enjoy the effects of the unarmed combos, but other than that, heres hoping 
 that the sound improves a bit in the future. 
  Star Wars Galaxies, overall, has been a wonderful experience. Its addictive and fun 
 qualities outweigh its faults, but I can see where a lot of content and work will be necessary 
 for the game to maintain its staying power in order to outshine other MMORPGs that are currently 
 available, as well as future titles (Everquest 2 anyone?) . Although I do admit that a lot of the 
 games drawing power comes from its setting in the Star Wars universe, I can definitely see 
 its potential to improve. With more dynamic missions, forms of transportation, and an overall story 
 to draw future players to the Star Wars Galaxies universe, the future of Star Wars looks very bright 
 indeed.
  
  Im BatDan
  
  Jombi BatDan X 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenKnight98
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2003 12:28 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is a wonderful game with incredible graphics and sound. For a MMORPG its probalby 
 ahead of its time and the servers are still too young. the Review given by this website mentions 
 not being able to buy things in shops and that the bazaar has only cheap items in it. This is because 
 the economy in this game is player driven. Once a month or two has passed you'll will find good 
 items and armor available to buy in the bazaar. For a price of course since it took one person 
 quite awhile to develope the skill to make a good rifle or armored chest plate. I did Beta test 
 this game in the third and final phase so I understand the game play elements better but this game 
 allows you to truly do whatever you like and roleplay to your hearts content. Pick a planet and 
 town and just hang out there you will eventually get to know the people and truly experience the 
 community. I don't understand how this game only got an 8 for graphics. The reviewer obviously 
 didn't try to turn the graphics options up to there fullest. If he did he would realize you can 
 see things over a 1000m (in game) away with detail. And at close range see a person's facial expressions 
 with striking detail. Although most people would slow the game to 2 fps if they turned the graphics 
 all the way up. That is the nature of this game. It was built to last for the future. It is still 
 going to look and feel impressive in 5 years and in a couple of months the player driven economy 
 will have gotten off the ground. Those who thought ahead and developed their characters now will 
 reap the awards while those who wait for the "bugs" and "kinks" to work out will be the ones paying 
 you for the really nice pistol on sale in your player built house "store". Get this game now if 
 you love Star Wars and be apart of the galaxy. If your like me, you'll be so absorbed with the 
 game you will not notice the time going by as you attempt to complete missions, quests, build that 
 new rifle or try to unlock the mystery of the force sensitive character slot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megamillionz
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 8, 2003 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game at someone's house. I am not impressed. Have you ever played Outcast? Now 
 thats a fun star wars game. This game is slow and boring -- I couldnt even figure out how to play 
 it through and gave up on it but saw the game in action and was bored as hell.
  This game is really a 3D chatroom. And you must be such a friggin nerd to pay 15 bucks a month 
 to move your character into a room, make him sit in a chair, and actually watch another player's 
 character go through dance animations... Did you ever see that bit with triumph the insult dog, 
 where he goes to make fun of those star wars nerds? Those people who play swg remind me of those 
 guys.
  If your a normal guy who likes action or other REAL games, dont buy this game! You're only encouraging 
 more of these games. My apologies to all you dateless wonders who are and are going to spend every 
 day of this summer glued to your monitor.
  Long Live Fresh Air!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImDrFreak
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Really the only way to review an MMO is to do it in chunks. As these games age, they change. They 
 can age gracefully like a fine wine, or they can spoil like Star Wars Galaxies.
  
  When the game was initially released, I was completely enamored with it. It was a lovely game in 
 a setting that I loved, and I had a glorious time of it  Even having spent nearly three straight 
 days on it when I initially got it in June, 2003. Initially, it was a game of great fun, and wonderful 
 socialization. We met a number of great people, and between socializing in the towns to the general 
 fun of going out in the field for hunting trips, I loved it. I even wrote an earlier review of 
 the game in July of 2003, giving it a glowing review.
  
  That said, it really was the delicious icing on well a fruitcake  some bits being tasty, and 
 others not so much but the entire thing being complicated. One of the most fun things about the 
 game was being able to have your own buildings  homes and factories and such, but they require 
 upkeep. That means money  you need a steady supply. And its not easy to come by it never is. 
 For combat, you could grind missions  or if you were a crafter, you could make items in demand 
 if you were an entertainer (as I was) , you were sort of out of luck. Oh sure, you could take a 
 secondary profession but it was difficult to max it out, and required an epic amount of you guessed 
 it grinding.
  
  Through creative macro use, I managed well enough, but it was slow and tedious, but I stuck it 
 out eventually buying a small house and some furniture. It was a great accomplishment, and I couldnt 
 have even done that without the help of a number of friends. But when you have a house, it needs 
 upkeep that means you guessed it money. The only feasible way to make money was to grind combat 
 missions. But that wasnt even enough. I came back one day to find my house gone. Along with all 
 my possessions  my furniture, clothing, armor everything that my friends and I had worked so 
 hard for. That was the end of Star Wars Galaxies for me.
  
  Fast forward to 2005. I knew that much had been added to the game like vehicles, space combat, 
 and something called the Combat Upgrade but I was still so mad. Then, someone told me that if 
 I came back as a returning player, Id get a bunch of neat stuff including my own space freighter. 
 How nice!... So I said well, Ill give it a shot. So I returned.
  
  I found a much changed game, in many ways for the better. It wasnt as difficult to get items and 
 money, I had some new things, and was able to re-spec my character into a better version. The combat 
 upgrade didnt give me issues. I particularly enjoyed just getting a group, and heading out in 
 a hunting party. It was a blast. This fun lasted approximately two weeks.
  
  Sony released a brand new expansion, that gave me some new stuff, but not much else I could access 
  it didnt worry me since Id get there eventually but then, suddenly, without warning, they 
 announced a grand overhaul of the entire game  essentially turning it into something completely 
 different. I was aghast. The game I had gotten to like (again) was changing. But I gave them the 
 benefit of the doubt, and I waited. Then one day  I came back to
  
  The New Game Enhancements  Known as the infamous NGE, the changes to the game were done in 
 order to make the game more Star-Warsey as-it-were. It failed. Limiting characters to a single 
 profession, and to almost no variety  it turned every single person into a cookie-cutter character, 
 and tore the game down around us. An utter failure, the New Game Enhancements proved to me what 
 people have accused SOE (Sony Online Entertainment) of for so very long  not caring at all for 
 its gaming customers. I left the game, dejected and feeling betrayed.
  
  For those who have ever played Star Wars: Galaxies in the past  I cannot recommend enough that 
 you stay away  far, far away. It has been hollowed out and spat upon  shredding it ov everything 
 that you might have liked about it. There is so little left of what once made the game fun  and 
 so much of the familiar annoyances that it simply isnt worth it. For those who never played it 
  I cannot recommend the game, though I cannot say for sure that you wont like it. Try it on a 
 trial, but dont say I didnt warn you.
  
  Star Wars Galaxies has always had issues  it has been fun in the past, in a variety of ways, but 
 today it is simply a shell  a game that shouldnt exist for what other purpose do games have than 
 to entertain? Star Wars Galaxies does not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelostwoods
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 8, 2003 12:00 pm PT
Review:  SWG was supposed to be the end-all, be-all of MMORPGs. It's not. In fact, it's little more than 
 a glorified Star Wars chat room. 
  
  Socializers and Star Wars fanatics will love this game because it lets them truly live within the 
 Star Wars universe. Achievers and PvPers will be bored to death with the lack of content. When 
 you come right down to it, there's no *GAME*, there's just a platform. 
  
  Everything is repetitive, from crafting to dancing to fighting. The graphics are astonishing on 
 a high-end system, but the graphics on Super Mario World were also astonishing when it was released 
 on the SNES. Graphics cannot make a poor game great, and they do not make SWG great either. The 
 same goes for sound. $15 a month (highest of any MMORPG) is too much to pay for a platform with 
 no game or content behind it.
  
  As I said, socializers or Star Wars fans will enjoy SWG. Gamers should look elsewhere. And, as 
 I am a gamer, I have begun looking elsewhere. This is not the MMORPG you're looking for, move along. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeXeN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2003 10:57 am PT
Review:  I just watched the review and for the most part I would say it's pretty good. The problem I have 
 with it is this.. What is your motivation for playing the game? Do you just want to run around 
 killing things so you can gather hides and bone so you can buy a better gun? Well guess what then 
 that's what you are going to do in the game. In fact you are the type of player that has made me 
 a very wealthy man.. My so called peon. I have like 5 or 6 fighter type employees running around 
 working for me, which I find extremely entertaining. Now you have to understand I still attack 
 things but only in self defensive, I do usually have a DZ tracking droid patrolling around me while 
 I am gathering resources, at the same time, crafting items for all the tell msg's from peons that 
 are asking for stuff. Anyway the fact that you didn't talk about any of the cool class's really 
 kind of annoyed me, I mean what's it like to be a bio-engineer or a smuggler or how about a droid 
 engineer like myself? Or how about a bounty hunter or creature handler, I saw a guy yesterday with 
 a baby banta it was cool as hell, he could give it commands and everything, he also said the little 
 guy would eventually grow into a full grown banta that he could ride. The fact that you talked 
 a lot about the dancer class which where obviously created for women is a bit unfair, funny enough 
 most of them are in fact women. 
  
  The fact is there are tones of guns out there I don't think you looked at the depth of creating 
 items, as you get better at crafting you actually get to make experimental weaponry when near a 
 crafting station, which mean I have seen the same type of gun but twice as good, they did it is 
 kinda like "Age of empires" where the first part of the game takes place in the CDEF age (stone 
 age) then later on we get to a new class of gun as more time goes by . So yes there is tons of 
 weapons out there you just have to look at the statistics, or ask a artisan to try and craft you 
 a really custom good gun. The fact that you can upgrade your weapons or armor or really pretty 
 much anything in the game with modifiers was not mentioned as well. You didn't talk about how you 
 can build your own house or get a architect to build one for you, nor did you talk about actually 
 building Miner extractors that get recourses while your sleeping, which I think is really cool. 
 How about the factories that can mass produce items, or that let you use draft schematics if you 
 are not of that class, so you can make your own guns or whatever? I also don't think this game 
 was attend for you to only pick one profession since you have so many skill points to pick form. 
 You could literally pick every single profession in the game early on and do a bit of everything 
 and at the same time you don't lose XP or anything like in say D&D when you muilt class. You can 
 always drop a profession later on if you want to make room for one of the elite profession. 
  
  There is way more depth to this game then even what a mentioned above but since I make games 
 for a living and don't write reviews I will leave you to this. I really thing you guys should find 
 out for your self. console gamers not need apply.
  
  Anyway I would like to apologize for my bad grammar, bad spelling or anything else you didn't like 
 about the Review Of the Review, still haven't gone to bed people keep asking me for those R5 units.. 
 ahh.. peons.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uplift1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 8, 2003 10:10 am PT
Review:  I can't believe that review I just read. Again, we have another jaded EQ player that doesn't even 
 read up on the details of the game. Has this guy ever done any of theme parks or other multi-leg 
 quests? Has he ever been to the Crystal Swamps? Has he ever worked on socketing his crafted items 
 with looted gem powerups? 
  
  The same gameplay? What about player housing? What about a player economy complete with resource 
 extraction to factory production? What about the dancing and music system? What about all the new 
 features in combat, stances, and YES YOU CAN USE COVER, knock downs, etc. What about MOBILE PVP 
 warfare with REAL territory control with faction HQ, turrets, etc (not the static same old same 
 old of DAOC) . What about the freakin skill system, character customization with layered clothing, 
 customizable avatars post creation (image designers) ?
  
  This guy sounds like such a newb! How long did he play the game? I've played all the same MMOs 
 (EQ, AO, DAOC) out there and THIS is the first one I've thought had deep enough gameplay that it 
 could hold a candle to a single player game. Great game, but if you're an EQ player as this guy 
 apparently was, you have to expect to play the game in a different way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citybus1577
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2003 6:05 am PT
Review:  Many gamers I believe have judged this game too quickly. This game is all about a building of a 
 living community. There is no specific story, beacuse the story will eventually evolve around us. 
 When you start out, therer will not be much to do, nor much direction, but remember the communities 
 that exist at this momemt have only been alive for 2 weeks. The direction, story, and missions 
 will eventually revolve around those in the community. This game has tremedous depth, and will 
 only get better as the communty matures. Right now everyone is just trying to get the basic skills, 
 no one really has had any money to build houses, mining facilities, ect. Those that have started 
 at the beginning will have an edge later on. They will probably be in the upper class, while new 
 people are continuing to join the community. The true beauty of this game will really be seen after 
 2-3 months, when the diversity of people, classes, wealth and power will truly make this community 
 come alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 8, 2003 5:21 am PT
Review:  As of right now, Anarchy Online is THE best sci fi game online. SWG has many things to do to catch 
 up to AO in regards to atmosphere (sound effects and music are horrible) content (more to do in 
 ao) BUGS, (In AO the missions work and are worthwhile) and overall gameplay.
  
  Right now Star Wars Galaxies is in a serious learning phase, and frankly after the stuff in EQ 
 im surprised this game is such a let down. Many fanboys will come in here and jack the game up 
 with false 9. X reviews, but the game is simply tedious and boring at the moment
  
  At this point I log in to craft and sell things, and check my in game email to see if I sold anything.
 
  
  The Interface is sluggish with that lame radial menu, missions are boring and bugged, with little 
 to no reward but death most times due to the games unbalanced combat. You cannot solo a destroy 
 mission, and they are all outdoors and boring.
  
  There are bugs out the wazoo. Little things like disbanding a group or losing items on trade, to 
 big things like losing items on death or houses being destroyed.
  
  In order to buy anything from the over inflated market you have to make money yourself and everyone 
 must be a crafter in this game to sell goods to afford even a shuttle ticket
  
  THis means you are stuck with hours of crafting and mining for lame resources out in the middle 
 of bland landscapes.
  
  If you like to come home and work after a long day of work, log into SWG
  
  As for me, nothing 
 beats Anarchy Online right now
  
  Oh and the servers go down in this game each morning for 2-3 hours, sometimes less, and they never 
 seem to tell us the patch message or WHAT they are doing.
  
  THis game is BETA. Steer clear for at least a couple of months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docnorge
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2003 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I have tried many of the online RPG's. This includes Everquest, Asheron's Call 2 and Planetside. 
 I can honestly say this one has captured my interest more than the rest. I love the way you train 
 skills in this game. It is genuinely fun to hunt, craft items and complete missions. It is always 
 easy to find people to group with in the game. The graphics are sharp but my only complaint it 
 that the game runs slightly choppy sometimes even on a DSL connection. But it is obvious they are 
 working on this, as it improves each time I play. I am addicted to this game. Like any game, I 
 would recommend you try it for yourself. One persons review is an opinion and you need to form 
 your own. But I felt strong enough about this game to review it and that says something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinji0187
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2003 9:41 pm PT
Review:  SWG is a wonderful refreshment from the other stale MMORPGs out there now. The crafting system 
 is the best that I've seen and fact that the economy is player run makes it even better. The game 
 fleshes out nicely from a starting Marksman to a Master Bounty Hunter, although you should expect 
 a lot of time and devotion into your high end game just like other MMORPGs. Whether an artisan 
 chooses to be a Droid Engineer, Architect, Tailor, Chef, Weaponsmith, or Merchant, the options 
 available for advancement are all appealing. Picking up a second starting class is effortless, 
 allowing players to dabble in other fields without being punished for their starting class.
  
  The graphics are stunning. I am using a GeForce2 MX 400 (64mb) , one of the low end cards that 
 can run SWG, and I am very pleased with the visuals that SWG delivers. The interface is top-notch 
 and everything is so customizable that no one can feel left out in the cold. There are even EQ 
 control options to ease the transitions for the vets of EverQuest.
  
  SOE even has reduced rates for 'contracted' play time, making SWG $14.99, all the way down to $12 
 a month. The $80 price on the collector's edition hurt a bit, but I feel that it was worth it. 
 Who can live without a Star Wars lapel pin?
  
  The only disappointment to be had in SWG is the lack of features. The missing player cities and 
 vehicles would have made the Star Wars immersion perfect, but the sounds and sights of the game 
 work as a temporary fix.
  
  This game is for Star Wars fans and MMORPGers, and definately that shy gamer looking for a chance 
 to jump into mainstream online gaming. A must buy for everyone with the system to play and the 
 cash to burn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rudesoccer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2003 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow. All I can say. Star Wars Galaxies is truely an awesome game. The game is so deep. I can start 
 out as a marksman, and then branch into the Scout profession to make my own camps. Then I bump 
 over to Artisan and get some crafting abilities. All working on what I feel like working on. I 
 can train in pistol for awhile, until I hit Expert, then go onto Rifle. Its limitless the combination 
 of characters you can have. Two characters will hardly ever be the same. Pick it up, buy it. Star 
 Wars Galaxies is awesome. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2003 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The GS review is pretty much on the mark. I think they were a bit too nice though. The game has 
 some nice features but overall is very lacking and has some fundemental flaws with how they set 
 things up. First of all the good...
  
  - Graphics are exceptional if you have a nice rig. everything looks just as I would have expected 
 it to. Lush enviroments, nice effects, excellent animation.
  
  - Interface is nicely done. Lots of nice configuration options and organized well with a good tutorial 
 to break you into the game.
  
  - Nice features like email, alarm system, mapping direction system, re-trainable skill setup, help 
 system and more.
  
  The bad....
  
  - Combat is very un inspired. I see what they were trying to do but it just doesnt work. One nice 
 thing about games like EQ, AO and Daoc is that while the combat may be a bit boring to some... it 
 requires teamwork and people working together as different professions to take dow ntough creatures.
 
  
  In SWG you get 20 hybrid people in a group and everyone runs circles blasting the hell out of creatures. 
 There are no tanks, calmers, healers etc etc. No real feeling of working as a team. Its just a 
 matter of getting tons of people together and then not being the first one to get attacked and 
 die.
  
  - Gimped artisian system. At first look the crafting system is very nice. However they have created 
 a problem in that all the early gam adopters are going to corner the market on all goods. Meaning 
 a new player a month from now who wants to make weapons to sell will find no buyers. Everyone will 
 have moved on or will get high level crafter to make for less. Added to the fact that the new artisian 
 cannot sell to NPC's it promotes an endless system of making and throwing stuff away. 
  
  - Repetitve gameplay. Very boring missions and very slow exp progression make it a game that will 
 after the new game coolness wears off puts you to sleep.
  
  - Bugs. But then which mmorpg doesnt after launch?
  
  SWG has some nice features but overall 
 if your into sci-fi and mmorpgs Anarchy Online is now the better game and with Shadowland's expansion 
 coming I really think AO is the better sci-fi mmorpg for the buck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pister
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 7, 2003 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I played in the beta for almost two months and there were some very enjoyable things about SWG. 
 However, there are a LOT of things wrong with SWG as well. As the official review and others have 
 pointed out, there is very little content. You cycle through the same ten or so missions and with 
 little variety. I was enjoying playing my craftsman, but the final update before release screwed 
 him up to the point he was no longer fun. The bottom line is, this game was released too early. 
 Wait at least a few months to buy the game or before renewing your subscription. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbyTheBorg
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 7, 2003 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Well I've spent five straight days playing Star Wars: Galaxies and I have to say, it's pretty addictive. 
 Why? Well I am actually not sure. This title has a lot of game bugs, mostly with the quests and 
 missions which are very often broken (so you end up wasting your time) . I like the mission terminals 
 and the Rebel/Imperial factions. The game could use a lot more variety in terms of what kind of 
 missions you can get and where they take place. The game suffers from some pretty horrible performance 
 issues in the cities where even with a top end machine, the most you can hope for is 1 FPS (or 
 less) . Transportation is also a major problem. I would think that a character with 250000 credits 
 should be able to buy a landspeeder, but NOOOooo, I have to keep on running around all over the 
 place all the time. The variety of weapons and armor is actually quite limited and it's quite frustrating 
 because as a Apprentice Marksman, I need more powerful rifles in order to succeed but I can't find 
 any. BTW, trying to solo in this game is infinitly harder than if you play in a group. I'd wait 
 a couple of months before buying this game, to leave the developers enough time to fix many of 
 the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBiggar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2003 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review with just one word, WOW! I have played em all folks (EQ, AO, AC, AC2, 
 Eve, DAoC, UO, Jumpgate) and Star Wars Galaxies is a keeper.
  
  If you have any interest in this type of game, stop what you are doing and go pick it up, you will 
 not be disappointed. If you have never played a MMORPG, stop what you are doing and go pick it 
 up, you will not be disappointed. If you are a Star Wars fan, stop whatOk you get the point.
 
  
  This is an incredibly deep online experience, and why wouldnt it be since it is brought to you 
 from the makers Everquest (love it or hate you have to admit it set the standard that all other 
 online games strive to beat) . I have set out to create a Bounty Hunter and I can already tell that 
 this game will keep me going for quite some time.
  
  I will say that it took me a while to come around to Star Wars Galaxies, early in the beata process 
 I was very worried about the feel of the game. Then one day as my character stood waiting for a 
 shuttle a group of stormtroopers approached me and the player who commanded them began to question 
 me. At that moment it hit me who do these thugs think that they are? I thought for a moment and 
 bit back a heated retort and realized that it was 4 of them versus 1 of me, so I answered as politely 
 as possible and tried not to make a scene. When it was all over I realized that I was really playing 
 in the Star Wars universe and that was a dream comes true.
  
  I have heard the complaint that the system to become a Jedi is too strict, but you must remember 
 that during the time this game is set the Jedi are all but extinct. To have thousands of Jedi running 
 around wielding lightsabers would not be in line with the universe.
  
  Finally bugs, what can I say? There are some bugs in the game, I have personally traveled 2 kilometers 
 only to find my mission waypoint empty. Game breaking? Hardly. I have also lost 5000 experience 
 points once when trying to train, annoying; yes. Game ending? Not a chance. 
  
  To the people who have posted low scores I think you are welcome to your opinion, but at least 
 play the game before you condemn it, one reviewer stated that he had not even purchased the game, 
 please. Some have complained that the game costs too much, I suppose to some people 15 dollars 
 a month is too steep a price to pay, but really for the price of 1 movie a month you could play 
 SWG.
  
  In conclusion let me just say this is a deep game that is just getting started, with the addition 
 vehicles, player cities and a space expansion in the next year or so SWG is set to be the next 
 MMORPG that all others will be measured against.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanamAldrin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2003 8:41 am PT
Review:  I am totally addicted. The Artisan class makes the game more dynamic and interesting than other 
 MMPOGs, and combined with Marksman or another combat class it is very diverse.
  
  I would give this game a 9+ rating, but there are still some bugs to be worked out and things to 
 be finished. There is huge potential here and once they have vehichles and the other expansions 
 done it will be almost perfect. 
  
  The best thing is playing in a universe where the mythology and culture is already so well-known 
 by everyone that it is easy to stay in character and have fun. If you're a Star Wars fan and want 
 to play an MMPOG, this is the one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debdebtig
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 7, 2003 6:34 am PT
Review:  $15 x 12 months = 180 x 5 years = $900... That is IF (big big big if) they don't raise the rates 
 which is par for the course for SOE. The reason they gave for raising everquest monthly fee; "increased 
 bandwidth" three months later they came up with something that "greatly reduced bandwidth usage". 
 Did the monthy fee drop? HAHAHAHA! SOE is a money engine that runs on your blood. "Money, so they 
 say, is the root of all evil today" -Pink Floyd.
  
  Don't expect customer service. Don't expect the 10 expansions x $29.95 to be anything but more 
 of the same clinically tested to be time (money) sucking mind numbing evil. Lucas, I still feel 
 the good in you. Turn back from the dark side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2003 8:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all, to all those who put 1.0 as the rating is useless. You are only haters who can't 
 really review a game properly. What's the point of bringing down the rating of a game because you 
 aren't mature enought to review the game properly? Instead of putting 1 everywhere, at least admit 
 that the graphics are nice. True enought, the value could be 1 to you, but the bugs doesnt affect 
 the image or sound so much... come on kids... stop fooling around.
  
  As for the game, it is a lot of fun. I never played any other MMORPG, but the universe in which 
 we are driven is fantastic. Players really play their role well and you really feel like you are 
 part of another world... it is true that some of the tasks are quite repetitive, but some patches 
 will bring new things to the game each month...
  
  As for the bugs, I was expecting them (of course...) so I wasn't suprised. Anybody who thought 
 this game would be released bug-free can keep dreaming because it is certain that some unoticed 
 bugs will arise and the /bug system is there for a reason...
  
  If you can afford it, go for it. It is well worth the money I say :) Good job :)
  
  Graphics 
 are fantastic, so is the sound ... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbush27
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2003 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Read this review for a non-bias opinion. 
  
  I have never been a fan of Start Wars. I was sent a Beta CD by a friend of mine, and before I knew 
 it I bought the game when it came out. First of all, nobody should review this game unless they 
 have played it, and Im surprise that Gamespot has posted reviews from people that admit never 
 to have played the game. Anyhow, let us talk about the game.
  
  I would like to begin saying that this game is the pioneer for the next level of online games. 
 It has great 3d graphics with crisp surround sound. The maps for each planet are so huge. Imagine 
 hiking on mountains, swimming in lakes, walking in open fields with large creatures on your side, 
 and when you look where you are at the map, you have only walked through a small portion of the 
 map. Then multiply that by 8-10 other planets. 
  
  The missions are fun, but the interaction with other players makes the game more interesting. Grab 
 few buddies and go hunting for large creatures that require a large hunting group. Feel a little 
 down, go and listen to players playing instruments in the cantina. The options are limitless. For 
 this, the game play is just amazing. Also, this is just a beginning of many other ad-ons that are 
 on their way.
  
  Is it all good? Well, no, there are some bad things about the games. Like bugs with missions and 
 few other things, but they are working really hard to fix those issues. Keep in mind that this 
 game is very ambitious, so it is expected to have glitches. As long as the developers do their 
 part, all is fine. However, these bugs are so minor compare to the whole adventure.
  
  Also, the subscription of $15 per month is a bit high for the younger crowd, but for those that 
 have a real job, it is just peanuts.
  
  So overall, the game has few bugs, but the gameplay, graphics, and sounds make it worthwhile enough 
 to begin the adventure today.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velox
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 6, 2003 10:46 am PT
Review:  Remember the launch of AO.. Well this week has been AO Launch lite for SWG for me. It installed 
 ok. It runs slow and I have a fairly fast 1.8g 512mb mem 64mb video system. They seem to still 
 be in beta mode. I crash every day about twice. Just lose the connection. My char lost all its 
 items due to some bug and I had to recreate all my items. lost a day there., at least, didnt really 
 get a satisfactory response form support either.." we know about this problem" etc etc. Yesterday 
 a segment of resources (ore) that are required for crafting big stuff was absent. It came back 
 today. they have an online bug reporting system through which I have logged maybe 15 bugs so far. 
 Some big. some small. They doesn't seem to be any genEral customer support areas to acknowledge 
 problems for example, so most players on my server when asked about the missing ore just said I 
 guess it will come back. A lot of these are ex Beta players who are used to putting up with things 
 half working it seems. 
  There are some innovate ideas in the game. The entertainer class is real fun the online Ebay type 
 Bazaar selling system is cool, as is the email system ( you can email any player for retreival 
 when they log on etc. The quest at this low level for me are pure FEDEX type.. mindnumbingly boring. 
 go here , get that, kill that, make that.. The /con system is a little confusing too, but thats 
 just a design issue. Right now there doesnt seem to be as story at all. I have as yet not found 
 any quests that are complex, story driven. The game may get better , but now it seems so unfinished. 
 I will give it till the end of the month and if things are no better, stop playing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2003 10:40 am PT
Review:  I've not played this game. Nor will I. The reason I'm reviewing it is so I may add balance to the 
 fanboy "force" ;)
  
  So anyway. It's pretty funny how a game can generate such strong feelings. I see message boards, 
 IRC chats etc ... this game is "hype" in its purist form. 
  StarWars is to geeks as what Beer is to an NFL football game. I think, the game is "okay" from 
 what I've read. But people who love something so much can't stand to see it fail, so even if it 
 sucks ... to them, it's ownage.
  
  Sony Online Entertainment should be ashamed though. Releasing something that was so obviously not 
 completed. The way I see it .. there should be no on-line subscription fees until the game is running 
 in 100% beautiful form.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dredra
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2003 6:25 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about a week and have become very addicted to it. As MMORPG are 
 growing in numbers the gamplay (thank god) has started to get better, which SWG has done. With 
 solid Gameplay, graphics, sound, and lasting value I gave it an 8.3 (overall) . Now let me explain 
 to you why I gave it what I did. When you start in the game you are greeted by it welcoming you 
 to starwars galaxies (this is after the whole credit card or game card payment) , once you start 
 the game up you will be able to Create your character. The game breaks it down into 8 different 
 races to choose from, with 6 starting classes to choose from and 12 EXPERT classes after becoming 
 a master of these classes. The character creation interface is fairly simple to use, youre able 
 to edit stuff like eyes, mouth, body, jaw, mouth, width, muscle, eye color, hair, hair color, body 
 color, then extra stuff depending on your class which is started to be standard with any current 
 rpg. The character customization has made it so you are able to create your own UNIQUE character 
 that no one will possibly be exactly the same as you have picked. Once you are done with all your 
 character naming/server choosing you will be greeted by a talking woman that will guide you through 
 the game learning basic stuff during the tutorial, which helps greatly. Once you are done with 
 the tutorial there will be a travel console that you will select what planet you want to be your 
 home planetm, which currently there are 6 to choose from that you have seen in the star wars movies. 
 Once you get familiar with the game you are able to do imperial missions, rebel missions, destroy 
 missions, and deleviery missions. The faction missions will greatly effect your gameplay because 
 if you choose imperial the rebels will shoot at you and the same way goes for the rebels. The skill 
 balances make it basically even for any class to be a great one. Once you get later in the game 
 you will be able to do EXPERT class missions such as a bounty hunter missions, ect. The game still 
 has some bug issues to be fixed but are probably the fewest I have seen in any MMORPG, also sony 
 plans on keeping the game going with expansion packs and patches such as the vehicle patch which 
 is expected to come out in 2 weeks. But in the end even without vehicles it is a VERY solid MMORPG 
 and in my opinion the best one out as of this moment, even for the non-fanboys of star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAGZ1973
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2003 12:45 am PT
Review:  The only reason why I do not put 10 in graphic is because of the numbers of glitches I saw in the 
 game. I really like this game, the way the experience is acquired is awesome, instead of kill kill 
 kill, you actually do something else. You can personalize you character which is pretty nice too. 
 The fact that we need everyone (no computer generated weapon/armor) is also really cool. You don't 
 feel like everyone one else. The only thing about these is it seems like it will not be long before 
 we can master our skills. But there are so many path you can choose it is awesome. Well worth the 
 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoneColdWhat
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2003 11:55 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I never have played an RPG game that I like, let alone a massively 
 multiplayer online role-playing game. However, I have read about Star Wars: Galaxies for quite 
 some time and being the sucker for hype that I am, I purchased it on launch day. I'll now say that 
 this is probably the single most addicting game I've every played. 
  
  Star Wars: Galaxies is a huge MMORPG from Sony Online Entertainment and LucasArts. There isn't 
 really a story as it is your job to create one. The game itself is huge. You start off by creating 
 a character from a number of different species with everything from wookies to humans. It's fairly 
 detailed as you can choose skin tone, hair, hair color, mouth size, nose size, etc. all until you 
 have your own personal character for the game. You can also choose which job you want to start 
 out with. There is Artisan, Entertainer, Medic, Marksman, Brawler and Scout. Each job offers a 
 different costume. Although you start out with this job and it's individual skills, you can later 
 gain skills from other professions. Each player is allowed one character per server. Once created, 
 you name him/her and choose the server you want to play on. There are a number to choose from but 
 all essentially contain the same locations and items. From there, you choose to play on one of 
 five planets however you can travel from planet to planet later on.
  
  The planets in Galaxies are absolutely huge. Running on foot from one end of the plane to the other 
 will take well over an hour. There are 5 planets as stated above that will be familiar to many 
 Star Wars fans. Tatooine and Naboo are there as are some other great locations. Each planet has 
 it's own cities. In these cities, you'll find all your important locations like cantinas, medical 
 centers, guild headquarters, banks, mission terminals and shuttle ports. The cities themselves 
 are typically quite large as well and you can get to them by foot or via shuttle ports or star 
 ports for a specific price.
  
  In Star Wars: Galaxies, there isn't really an objective; rather, it's up to the player to set his/her 
 own goals. There are mission terminals where you can get two kinds of missions: destroy or deliver. 
 Destroy, as the name suggests, sends you off to destroy what is usually a dangerous creature's 
 lair or nest. Deliver typically sends you off on a lengthy journey to deliver a package to another 
 character. Doing these missions earns you credits. Credits are the game's currency. It's what you 
 use to buy a variety of items such as clothes, armour, weapons, supplies or food. You can also 
 tip players such as medics who heal your body or the entertainers that heal your mind.
  
  Killing creatures gains you XP or experience points that can be used to enhance your skills through 
 a skills menu. After gaining a set number of XP, you can upgrade your skills and become a stronger 
 fighter. With medics, artisans and entertainers, however, their skills are upgradeable through 
 healing, building or dancing/singing for others. It works much the same though. After gaining XP, 
 they can upgrade their skills as well.
  
  Players are free to join groups and tackle missions to lower difficulty, chat with friends and 
 foes alike, roam the large planets and search for some amazing locations or just sit and relax 
 in the cantina with a hot tea, listening to music. There is so much to do in Star Wars: Galaxies. 
 It's most fun when you play with someone you know and work together to better your skills and tackle 
 missions. It's really what you make of it. Star Wars: Galaxies has really impressed me and it can 
 only get better once SOE introduces the first story elements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2003 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is my first MMO and one of my favorite games of all time. The interface is hard 
 to use at first but after a while you can the values of SWG's interface system. Its easy to use 
 and all the option are clearly visible. The amount of races is a definate plus and you tons of 
 profession option (it take a long time though to get to the elite professions) . The visual are 
 amazing for any game, and the sound is usally good but the music turns off sometimes. The value 
 is any 9 (-1 for it takes forever to advance) . I encourge anybody how likes game to play this right 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrspockII
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2003 10:23 am PT
Review:  An Outright Success
  
  Being a newbie to MMORPG I decided to pick up a copy of Star Wars Galaxies. The sign-in and tutorial 
 was relatively pain free. This aspect took probably half an hour and it was half an hour well spent. 
 I immediately jumped to the planet Tattoine and my first impression left me breathless. There was 
 so much going on, blaster rifles blazing, people dancing, people conversing and Stormtroopers walking 
 around. I met up with a fellow newbie and we decided to walk around and check out Tattoine. Just 
 walking around and talking to others was not something I was accustomed too since I have never 
 played this genre of gaming. 
  
  My partner and I decided to take on a mission where we had a difficult time completing due to our 
 lack of skills but this did not take away from the game. As I only played for about 2 hours I did 
 not get very far in the game but there seems enough to keep me busy for my next jump on-line. The 
 community is very helpful, the graphics are outstanding (I use a high end system) and the sound 
 was great. Lag did not pose a problem for me (I have seen worse ie. Medal of Honor at times is 
 lousy) . 
  
  I am looking forward to jumping back on-line. Hopefully my fiance understands as I could be away 
 for awhile visiting Naboo...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confirmed_Kill
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 4, 2003 7:50 am PT
Review:  Well let me just say that the general concept of Star Wars Galaxies is great but not all that original. 
 This game was made for obvious Star wars followers. I would not necesarily recommend this game 
 for anyone who has no idea what star wars is all about.
  
  The game has many up's and downs. First of all the ability to be able to create a camp or a house 
 ect... can be very rewarding when with a group of players. But a certain level of training is required 
 to reach a point were building a camp is really worth your time and effort. As well generating 
 money has to be the most frustrating part of Star Wars galaxies. In some cases the wapoint data 
 and orange arrow do not show up. This can make it impossible to find your target destinations. 
 However if u complete an imperial/rebel misson then u will recieve a large amount of money and 
 othing insignificant as if u did a misson for the towns people.
  
  The graphics are well done epecially for an MM game. This is NOT a FPS so do not expect the graphics 
 to be that of Battlefield 1942. They manage to recreat a believable city and believable faces. 
 u acually think u r in star wars.
  
  Sound = excellent. The good old John williams theme does well in this game.
  
  Gamplay has 
 a few things to work out. One connecting can sometimes be hard. Several times i have not made it 
 online. In fact today all of the servers are down for some unknown cause. Learning the controls 
 is a bit of a trick as well. it's not the standared key formation of W A S D. It relies on the 
 arrows. But in to compisate for the confusing gameplay is the tutorial which is extremly in depth 
 and helpful.
  
  This game is OK if u don't like Star Wars then stay away from it. If u enjoy the Star wars series 
 than u may want to purchase this game. Check out all the reviews as well as Gamespots official 
 review. When the game does work it can be alot of fun. In time as well the developpers plan to 
 put in patches and new animals and other things ect..
  
  The most important thing to remember about star Wars galaxies is that this game is MM and is always 
 being up dated and improved. This is a game that develops in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuros
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 3, 2003 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I love MMORPGS and had such high hopes for this game. I got into beta early and loved it. The game 
 was lacking in beta , but I thought hey its jsut in testing. Sorry to say, it was not the case. 
 This game has not point to it, never feel like you acomplish anything. Graphics I must say are 
 great. Once you max skills you come to a dead end. You have endless miles of land with a few creatures 
 here and there. Quest lacking, and stupid yet a must. Traders got a good deal in this game and 
 thats about it. SGW sucks so bad i cant even write a good bad review for it. Wait till space expansion, 
 then this game might be worth a try. Wasted my money on the pre order. And there jsut too many 
 cool MMORPG's coming out for me to waste my time on thsi such as WOW and EQ2 which I think will 
 be the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedizdead
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 3, 2003 9:46 am PT
Review:  LOL! This game had too much hype behind it for it to please everybody. Somebody was bound to be 
 dissapointed. Not me. I didn't bother paying, I just played it at my sucker brother's house. I 
 warned him tho. I wasn't surprised that it sucked. I wasn't surprised they released it early, and 
 I'm not surprised that the kiddies are here giving it a 10. There's no shortage of sheep online 
 and apparently no shortage of deep-pocketed suckers reviewing this game here. That, or there are 
 some parents out there having their hard-earned money blown, badly. 
  
  My brother was a Beta Tester for this, and I played it over at his place. It sucked then, and guess 
 what, it sucks now. I mean he has the box, the instructions, all the stuff that comes with a complete 
 game except it's the same beta test, but now it's $50 plus $15 per month. They should be slapped 
 for charging that, and the people who actually pay should be slapped too.
  
  $15 bucks can buy too many things that are better than this game. But they didn't make this game 
 for me. They made for the fanboys who'll swallow anything with "Star Wars" in the title. What a 
 waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  After enjoying this game for over a year, (I mean I really, really really liked it) the devs finally 
 managed to spoil what distinguished this one from the rest, so editing this review is in order 
 for this ever changing game. Right now the game sucks, and I won't pick it up anytime soon by the 
 looks of it.
  
  I just remember loving the hunting parties, the events, and the old friends long gone... They changed 
 the combat system, somewhat reminicent of Guild Wars... why? Only the force can tell.
  
  I won't be coming back, all that time spent, all those monsters killed...
  
  Poor bet by Lucasarts 
 with SOE.
  
  Although there's talks of an emu server of the good olde SWG... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi2001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2003 12:53 pm PT
Review:  To someone who has only played mainly FPS's and absolutely NO RPS (let alone mmorpgs) unless dues 
 ex is considered, this game is a complex but surprisingly fun game. The size and interface to the 
 game is initially overwhelming but once the basics are learned, the more advanced features fall 
 in line and it becomes apparant that the UI is fairly streamlined. Gameplay is great at the starting 
 levels with small creatures to fight and the ability to have a go at some of the largest creatures 
 in the game (even though it proves quite fruitless) . Grouping and working together has increased 
 the games fun-factor incredibly as a group consistently working together for a diverse Player Association 
 (PA) giving each other benefits that we only can bring. All in all, early on this game is great 
 with a very positive future ahead of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGENT J WY
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 1, 2003 1:46 am PT
Review:  Fist off I was kinda iffy about buying this game because the beta testers where saying it sucked. 
 Thas just a bunch of bull****, I came from the game planetside and although they are different 
 kinda game overall I would preffer to play swg because it has alot more things to do. I am not 
 even a hardcore fan about rpg games but when I played this it was just awesome. Theres many things 
 you can do in this game besides combat . I would just like to say if you dont have this game its 
 well worth the money, one last thing is dont listen to beta testers cuz I dont know how they can 
 complain about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal_Jam
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2003 1:05 am PT
Review:  In many years when MMORPG's have evolved beyond this void, pong like state, this game will be revered 
 as the one that made them realize just how empty MMORPG's were. A large, Barren world that is full 
 of creatures and stagnant NPC's that you will never feel alone, as in similair games such as AC2. 
 However, the randomly generated missions are exceedingly boreing, with the object to destroy a 
 rock produceing bugs or to take down a Rebel Windshield in the middle of a Desert. Little or no 
 life is given to the sharp graphics, so they seem awfully stale, devoid of any soul. Also, combat 
 can be a bit tricky at times, most noticeable when thier are 80 players present attempting to fight 
 off some Tuskan's. While the Tuskans make mincemeat out of these 80 players, all failing to select 
 a target due to the clunky controls, it's kind of sucky. That, also brings me to another complaint-The 
 controls are like those of a barely running vehicle from the 50's. The limitless player character 
 options are kind of disapointing in that it takes a lot of work for such little rewards. The best 
 part of this game has to be the player economy, buying weapons from players instead of NPC's gives 
 the feeling of a half concious liveing gameworld. Thier may be much to this game that I haven't 
 seen, such as maybe becomeing Darth Vaders right hand man, or playing a key role in the rebels 
 outright victory. Although for now it feels like all you have the ability to do is run around in 
 a chicken pen and peck up the tastless feed that the designers heartlessly throw at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2003 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played several MMORPG's and I like this one the best so far. I was not a big fan of Everquest 
 because it couldn't keep me interested. SWG is an excellent game. The combat is fun, the skill 
 system is incredible, and the graphics are gorgeous.
  
  However, it is not perfect (though given time it very well could be) . The lag in the cities is 
 unbearable and makes the game almost unplayable. The loading times between planets is horrendously 
 long (about 5 minutes) . If these two things were to be fixed, I would give the game a perfect ten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mideonnviscera
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 30, 2003 9:20 pm PT
Review:  well, heres the blaitent thruth of it, this game has very good graphics for a MMORPG, best i; ve 
 played as far as that goes, i was impressed by many things, such as the ranged attack system and 
 the no zoning feature (xpcept to other plantes.
  
  The system for "leveling up" is a bit odd, yet its still good, comparable to FFX compared to its 
 predicesors. The thing about it is, although this lvling system is unite and creative, it does 
 not grasp the strangleing addiction of everquest or such games. It just plain gets old after a 
 while. my suggestion is if u like online games like Everquest or Camelot and really really like 
 Star Wars, it might be worth a try. 
  
  otherwise at least wait for the space expansion to decide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beteck
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2003 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I have played many Online games and I have to say that all these other reviews by idiots who can 
 not log in right away makes the game looks bad because they have no idea what they are talking 
 about. Most games that I have played since the beta have always had an issue on the day of the 
 release these morons that have no patience kill me. I waited and got the game 2 days after release 
 and have yet to have a problem logging on or playing the game. Of course there are still a few 
 bugs in the game but the same thing goes in everyother game I have played the log on system is 
 nice and easy compared to some other MMRPG games that I have played. The one thing that bothered 
 me was the control took a little bit to get used to them but now that I got it down its a great 
 and easy system to use. The GUI can be all changed to the skins they have available which are great 
 looking. Overall the game is quite fun and lot of things to do and very unique concepts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heinrich
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 30, 2003 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game should be viewed as a canvas to which much greatness will soon follow. The very best 
 thing about this game is the skill and advancement system. The boring nature of "level up" games 
 for the kiddies is gone in a system more similar to Ultima Online, but also more complex and variable. 
 The graphics are incredible though a 5.1 sound environment would be state of the art. The release 
 has had many bugs and flaws and server crashes but the patches and improvements are flowing, even 
 on Sunday, and the game is very playable. Problems are the overly shallow missions; the boring 
 and shallow non-combat classes. However, looking over the development plans for space modules and 
 better missions, I see this game as being a great foundation from which much greatness will soon 
 follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ministry
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 30, 2003 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The major problem with SWG is that there is no real reason to group with other players. The skills 
 system seems to me flawed in that it does not take into effect how diferent play styles afect a 
 group leaveing the non blaster types to hope to get a hit in here or there and then receave a few 
 points tword a skill. The graphics are great and if this was a one player game I would give it 
 a 9 but since it is a game were people work together to acheive goals I have to score it low. It 
 just makes being in a group pointless and slow to level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malovech
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 30, 2003 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Oh how the mighty have fallen. First George Lucas bastardizes his own work by "reissuing" the original 
 Star Wars movies (complete with cartoony CGI effects) , then he insults us with the pile of crap 
 that are the prelude movies and now we get a steamy pile with this unimaginative MMORPG.
  
  All the other obvious things aside (bad graphics, no vehicles, buggy, laggy etc.) . This game does 
 nothing to advance the MMORPG genre. It basically ends up being EverQuest reskinned with Wookies 
 and Stormtroopers. The mission system is boring and was done better in Anarchy Online (which is 
 another pile of bantha fodder) , the PvP system seems to be regressive and there is no point to 
 doing anything in the game (why must I hunt around and endlessly level? what is the point to my 
 existence?) .
  
  Sony has proved that it has no desire to make quality steps forward in terms of MMORPGs. It would 
 rather rest on its laurels and reap the benefits of the cult-like fan base the Star Wars franchise 
 enjoys- instead of making a strong game. Star Wars will no doubt do well, but for the select few 
 of us out there who have become tired with the same fight-level-rinse-repeat cycle of the vast 
 majority of MMORPGs it comes as a big disappointment. 
  
  One last thing: $15 per month is criminal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikthog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2003 9:28 am PT
Review:  Prospective Star Warriors, please keep things in perspective. Don't listen to those who insist 
 Star Wars Galaxies is the worst game ever because your chracter can't jump, and don't listen to 
 those who give the game a 10 because they have a friend who heard it's supposed to be cool. As 
 with most things, the truth lies somewhere in-between.
  
  They did a lot of things right. The character graphics are excellent, and there are a wide range 
 of options that add to the expressiveness of the characters. The terrain is the most varied and 
 beautiful of any MMRPG I have played, and there are numerous options to adjust the complexity to 
 fit your system. The skill-based advancement system is at least somewhat original, and while there 
 is no question that the grind is alive and well in SWG, at least it's not just another EQ clone. 
 The combat system could definitely be improved, but solo combat still offers more options than 
 in many similar games. Group dynamics are definitely lacking, something they should work on improving 
 in the future. But the addition of incapacitation, wounds and battle fatigue add another layer 
 that at least makes the aftermath of combat more interesting.
  
  Role-players will find a wealth of possibilities far beyond any MMRPG I've seen since Ultima Online. 
 Even if you're not interested in pretending you're actually a Mon Calamari, the degree to which 
 you can interact with other players adds a great deal of depth. Moods, facial expressions and extensive 
 emotes all add character, and the graphics are good enough to make non-verbal communication viable. 
 It's quite possible to live a full in-game life without ever shooting anything, as the Artisan 
 and Entertainer professions are surprisingly deep.
  
  So what's the verdict? I don't really have one. So far, I'm having a blast, something I haven't 
 said about a MMRPG in a while. Your mileage may vary. There's no question that some players will 
 hate, hate, hate many of the things I love about it. The state of the game six months from now 
 will be the true test of how good the game is, and that's hard to foresee. The advancement tree 
 may turn out to be more shallow than it seems, the PvP war may never really materialize, the high-level 
 game may be boring or pointless. But even if you're not looking for something to do for the next 
 five years, if you read this far, Star Wars Galaxies is probably worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midjak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2003 9:04 am PT
Review:  WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOW, this game is way better than any MMORPG that I've play, they took everything 
 that I've loved about the other ones and put them on this single best ever made game. 
  
  Some will say I'm on a Hype, maybe, but the graphics are awesome, the sound effect and music, common 
 admit it battling monster listening to John William's music is a great experience on any star wars 
 game made.
  
  My only objection is the monthly fee of 15$, ok the game is great and everything and maybe I'm 
 not going to buy or play other game for a while but they should:
  A- put it on their new all-game plan
  B-lower the price to the same as the other game SOE have
 
  
  
  For the one wondering if its wirth it try the first moth thats why it's here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojo283
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2003 7:55 am PT
Review:  I was lucky enough to beta test this game for 3 months. I fell in love with it right then and there. 
 I can not believe some of the neg press I'd read from other players here. I played EQ for about 
 2 years. I love what sony is doing. The only thing I will not play is PlanetSide only because Im 
 not a shooter kinda guy. SWG will get better I just know it. Heck EQ got bad reviews when it came 
 out right? Now look at EQ, it just got better. I just wish there were more hours in the day for 
 me to play these games:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyro30
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2003 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies is one of the most anticipated games of this year. Now that the NDA was lifted 
 and the game was released, you can't start reading if this game is the game we all hoped for, but 
 more inportantly if it is a game you'll enjoy. If you happen to read a few reviews you'll find 
 out that there are many opposite opinions. The only thing that you can be sure about, is that this 
 game did not fill its incredibly high expectations (I'm talking in terms of game quality, in terms 
 of sells it seems that is going to do really good) . 
  The game has lots of great features that separates itself from the rest of the MMORPGs. It has 
 lots of different professions that you can persue; it has a a deep crafting system that fuctions 
 as the engine of a totally player-driven economy; a nice character creation system that allows 
 your avatar be physically different from the other thousands of players; it has nice graphics; 
 and of course the Star Wars setting.
  This features are dampened by two big things. The first one is: the servers performance, stabillity 
 and bugs. This is a mayor, mayor flaw of the game right now. The game is filled with bugs, from 
 little annying this to mayor bugs that could destroy your precious character. The game on its structure 
 itself is very complex and unstable. Patches that are released usually cause more bugs than the 
 fix. Bazzar and Mission terminals (essencial for the games economy and gameplay) continue to fall 
 dawn and work incorrectly. Server performance is terrible, specially on heavilly populated cities 
 (your frame rate can drop from 30fps to 4fps on those areas) The other by flaw is the lack of content 
 and how "empty" the game feels. Although there are over 30 professions some of them are not fun 
 to play. The gameplay tends to be a little repetitive, you'll find yourself doing the same things 
 over and over (an inheritant problem on most MMORPGs) due to the lack of content and the lack of 
 motivational elements to develop your character.
  Fear not Star Wars fans, this game has the potential to be a really good MMORPG. Since this is 
 an MMORPG these two big flaws can be corrected. Content will be added and bugs will be removed 
 on time. But how better the game will get, time will tell. 
  In conclusion the game is not the game we expected. The game is incredibly unpollished and it's 
 still a "beta" phase. If your a fan of MMORPGs and you are a patiente man, you'll find an ambitous 
 game that can be fun, really fun. But if you are new to the genre and you think this is the game 
 to start on, you might want to wait a couple of month and see how the game develops. It Seems that 
 Sony Online Entertainment has found the formula that most of the MMORPGs use with their "Everquest". 
 A formula that only thing that garantees is that the money will be rolling in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2003 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Honest Review from someone who was in the beta from months. The graphics, while not top notch, 
 are still great. Many of the people who gave the graphics probably did not bother to turn up the 
 graphical, terrain, & Sound sliders (which are set to the lowest setting by default) .
  The game can leave you a little lost at first as you are left to your own devices. Unlike EQ there 
 are no beginner quests. You can go off and kill mobs or do quests but I would recommend using the 
 /who command to look for helpers. After a few minutes you can get into the game pretty easy. Also 
 next month Sony has said the story line will begin so there will be new content to work with.
 
  While it did have a very rough start (what MMPORPG hasn't) it is a lot of fun to play (even for 
 those of us who are not hard core Star Wars fans) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboy757
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2003 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been in the beta for a month, and I bought the game the moment it came out. I will admit that 
 I am a star wars nerd. Here comes the review. 
  
  Star Wars Galaxies was being developed a few years back. To get hype for it's release, the developers 
 showed up at two E3's to get many people to start following the game. One major flaw is that the 
 developers don't know their own pace. At first it was settled to be released near Fall of 2002. 
 They pushed this back to an official release date of April 2003. Now they've actually released 
 the game, but many agree that it still isn't done, and developers still don't know their own pace. 
 I recall seeing a post on the official message board, saying that Q3P0 did not think launch would 
 be a disaster, and many were reassured. Not knowing that they would have this much people signing 
 up, launch was a disaster. They did not plan hard enough, as now many newbies are trying to level 
 up, only to find out they can't learn Intermediate Pistol because no one around is to teach them. 
 The developers should have compromised for this, as the testers in Beta ( such as myself) easily 
 gained skills just by asking someone else to teach them. Some are complaining what horrible gaming 
 experiences they are having because of this.
  
  8 for gameplay. The gameplay has a balance, depending on what Job you choose. The balance is between 
 Social, and real Gameplay. Musicians and dancers have jobs that do not require you to do much anything, 
 but still have fun because they talk to their viewers, and try to lure them into getting a tip. 
 Scouts can run to the farthest side of the planet, and not talk to anyone, but still have fun while 
 shooting baby dewbacks. The gameplay also is most enjoyable if you're into talking. It might be 
 a "chatroom in a Star Wars Galaxy" to some who do not like to join in the social events going on. 
 The developers, really make you talk though. All roles run into each other, and interact to make 
 it a true Massive Multiplayer. Say, as a marksman, you might need someone to heal you. You'll need 
 to talk with a medic for that. Battle Fatigue? Entertainers heal that. Need a new gun? Need to 
 check with the local blacksmith. Star Wars Galaxies will force you to engage the game in a social 
 manner more then any other MMORPG you've ever played. On the down side, the game might not be very 
 exciting at points... Players will run across planets endlessly, and combat isn't as fun to many 
 players, but that's only because they don't know where to look for action. Battlefields and duels 
 are very fun and strategetical. Some say the action is too slow while you're waiting for your avatar 
 to pull the trigger... Well, the delays are only there so you can make a decision. The gameplay 
 might serve as repetitive but as you level up, you also get new skills to try out, so the game 
 keeps feeding you more and more.
  
  The graphics are a 10. Many would argue with me, Half-Life 2 and Doom 3 are much better. Well, 
 this is true, but not for a MMORPG. MMORPGs are suppose to run on many systems, for it to be one 
 of the key words, massive. The game's graphics are better than any other MMORPG by far, maybe Eve 
 and Planetside a little behind. The game first boasts a very detailed character customization. 
 Players will be making characters that represent themselves, or making aliens that are just really 
 different. The customization is very unique, no games scratch this level of customization. The 
 game has 10 planets, and even these 10 planets have many places to be seen. For a game that's 3 
 cds, you wouldn't believe the ammount of work that is put into the game. The 10 planets all have 
 many places very intresting to visit, each one rendered very well. Jabba's Palace looks massive 
 and dark, while the city of Theed looks very detailed and beautiful. The graphics will appeal mostly 
 to Star Wars fans, as seeing Bothans or characters mentioned only in novels and comics for the 
 first time is quite a memorable experience.
  
  The sound recieves a 9, because it's taken straight from the movies. Some might argue this is like 
 cheating or something, but it's movie quality isnt it? It also has John William's musical score 
 to accompany it, again straight from the movies. That's 5 movies of sound and music there, all 
 imported into the game rather nicely.
  
  The value gets a perfect ten. It will take about a month to fully explore every bit of a planet, 
 and there's 10 planets. Every planet is filled with points of intrests, it would be like taking 
 a vacation and seeing intresting sites. It does help to be a Star Wars fan, because most places 
 of intrest will only be truly rewarding if you are one. The game has about 30 different occupations, 
 and those take 3 weeks or so to master one. I don't think anyone will be able to fully play the 
 game, because by next year (probably) , we'll recieve an expansion to this, which adds space travel, 
 and more races possibly. The developers will keep on adding content, and I expect that the content 
 will surpass the ammount of Ultima Online, which is still making expansions for the game even today. 
 The game will develop itself faster than you can reveal all of the game. 
  
  Even though the game might be a little embryonic, it still shows much promise in the future. The 
 diversity, the depth, and the immersiveness of the game truly makes it a one of a kind. The gameplay 
 might not appeal to some, the less patient, but to patient players it's more than worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2003 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 7
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Value 8
  Reviewer's Tilt 8
  
  Gameplay - Horrible, horrible and beyond horrible. The fighting scenes are extremly difficult to 
 come by. It nearly takes 20 seconds for your character to either fire a weapon, or strike a blow. 
 Gameplay like this deserves two thumbs down.
  
  Graphics - What can I say, PC. We're not dealing with console games, but the in game depth is awesome. 
 You really do seem as if your in the Star Wars Galaxies.
  
  Sound - The heart and soul of SWG. If it wasn't for the sound, this game would be in the 7's. The 
 sound is straight out of the Star Wars movies. 
  
  Value - 50/50 in my book. It's really annoying when your trying to build skills, but when you are 
 maxed out, the game get's boring. SWG is probably the most confusing game to date. I see more people 
 trying to get help rather then just play the game. Too complex for the newbie gamer. For the advanced, 
 they'll catch on in 24hrs. I myself am still trying to figure a few tweaks and it's been my 2nd 
 day.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I don't like SWG. But what can I do, I bought it didnt I? I think this game is 
 boring. You think there are thousands of people logged in the matrix, but nobody seems to be around. 
 WERE IS EVERYONE? Maybe there's a certain planet or server everybody goes on. Who cares, this game 
 didn't pass my test and it shouldn't pass any other gamer unless your a Star Wars NERD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 28, 2003 11:06 am PT
Review:  Anyone who is rating this game above a 5 has got to be a blindly devoted SW fanboy who is going 
 to love ANYTHING SW related (and probably thought that Episode 1 was a good movie) . Come on guys 
 admit it we got robbed of $50! It is disgraceful that this game was released in this state and 
 even worse that our fee trial period will be up before it is running correctely. There should be 
 a recall of this product. The fact that SWG went gold in what is clearly still a beta state is 
 more proof that George Lucas stopped giving a damn about his fans when Jedi ended (actually before 
 that when he decided to forget a sensible story for Jedi and put in the ever so marketable Ewoks) . 
 If the last two movies didn't turn you off from SW then SWG might not but don't bet on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarmaMule
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2003 8:48 am PT
Review:  Yes, the game had an EXTREMELY rocky first day, but the second day was much, much, better, and 
 all signs point to the game reaching a stable state in the very near future.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, though owners of higher-end systems and graphics cards will have to 
 go into options and turn up detail quite a bit to see all the graphic splendor this game has to 
 offer. (Do not forget the Terrain tab!) Graphics are attractive even if you do not do that, but, 
 if you do turn up the detail this game is second to none in appearance.
  
  Overall, the sound is strong, with appropriate Star Wars-themed music, not as much as you may want, 
 but what they do have is first rate. There is a great variety of creature and ambient sounds that 
 make the environment convincing, though I wish they did not have the ambient 'crowd' noise when 
 you walk into an empty cantina, and some sounds of creatures running around sound more like renegade 
 Selectric typists than they do footsteps. On average, though, the sounds are very well done. (The 
 sound a Rodian female makes with the 'nuzzle' emote is brief but VERY funny.)
  
  Gameplay: Summed up in one word: diversity. There is alot to do in this game. In many ways it is 
 the Morrowind of MMPORPGs. Depending on your preferences, this can be good or bad. For most people 
 it will be good: SWG provides a rich world with many things to do: the usuals such as combat and 
 exploring, but many rich crafting and other non-combat options such as tailoring, creature handling, 
 droid engineering, architect, chef, dancer, musician, image designer, etc etc. You will not get 
 a lot of direction on what to do next (though they have a VERY thorough in-game help system called 
 the 'Holocron') , but with a little imagination you will be busy for a long, long time. Some generic 
 missions and the like are just that, generic..... but later 'theme parks' and other quests are waiting 
 to be discovered. There is really no "end game" here.... this is meant to be a universe you live 
 a life in. 
  
  As with most recent games of this type, SWG is more skill based than it is level based. Your character 
 can become expert in multiple professions (fully master two professions, and most of a third) but 
 at any point can "give up" one or more skills to retrain elsewhere, so there is no need to worry 
 about mistakenly taking your character down a wrong path like in some other games. 
  
  In-game e-mail and the usual communication amenities make keeping in touch with fellow players 
 very easy, and the "Bazaar", an in-game auction and purchasing system, make selling and buying 
 goods very easy, and much more interesting than most games.
  
  I really have not begun to describe all the options available to you in this game. They are rapidly 
 getting server availability and other issues under control. If you are worried, wait a couple weeks 
 to be sure all the worst of the pain is over (though it already seems to be mostly past) , and, 
 if you buy this game and love lots of open-ended possiblities, you will be in for the ride of your 
 life!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2003 8:20 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided presents new players a friendly start in a well made tutorial 
 that teaches the player some basics about the interface, combat, and control. It is well-done, 
 and fortunately optional, so experienced players are not forced to wade through the same tutorial 
 should they create a new character. It is also as brief or as throrough as a given player needs, 
 allowing you to skip parts, or linger with NPC's asking questions about the interface. Fortunately, 
 little explanation is needed to explain character control: it is, by far, the best avatar control 
 scheme in any MMORPG. The player can play both in third- and first-person, and in third-person 
 view, the player can zoom in and out, and rotate the camera around his avatar, an extremely helpful 
 feature during combat, which can be frustrating in other MMORPG's. It is intuitive and customizable, 
 so those preferring a a traditional control scheme can use the preset "Everquest" control scheme, 
 or simply remap controls to better suit their styles.
  
  Once you finish the tutorial, you choose a planet and enter the game world. There are several planets 
 to visit, including Tatooine, Corellia, and Naboo. Travel to and fro is simple, though not always 
 inexpensive. There are shuttle ports that allow you to travel between cities, and starports to 
 enable visits to other planets. It is simple to buy a ticket and travel, but it will cost you credits, 
 so you will want to take some missions at the outset of the game. Missions can be taken at mission 
 terminals, a la AO, or from NPC's, and can involve travel to other cities, and other times can 
 involve a literal one-minute jaunt from your starting location. There are standard delivery missions 
 and combat missions, and other more involving ones as you progress in the game.
  
  There are no levels in the traditional sense in SWG. As you earn experience and skill points, you 
 can use them in any way you choose; for some, that will mean following a single path, while others 
 prefer to spend points in different skills, allowing for a less focused and more rounded character. 
 It is a refreshing change and is implemented well, as each type of player can find something to 
 enjoy. There are plenty of ranged and melee combat opportunities, but those desiring a more peaceful 
 approach can be crafters and architects, while others can be dancers or musicians. Each path allows 
 you to earn experience, so unlike in most MMORPG's, it is possible to earn plenty of experience 
 as a crafter or healer, and if you want, you can combine skills to be a dancing architect, or a 
 singing brawler; it's up to you. Sony has done a great job implementing a skills-based system that 
 eschews traditional levelling. The open-ended professions also allow for both successful solo and 
 group experiences, and both are enjoyable, although it's hard to argue that soloing is better than 
 the exciting group efforts that I have seen and in which I have participated. 
  
  The interface is well-done, giving experienced players a wealth of options and information, but 
 streamlined enough for a casual player. There are, frankly, a ton of small details that make the 
 game different. For example, you can set your character's mood; he will then reflect his mood through 
 his facial expressions, as well as through your own chat. There is in-game email, friends lists, 
 and even in-game auctions on the SWG Bazaar. I couldn't possibly share every detail, but there 
 are a lot of them that help differentiate SWG. 
  
  The graphics look good. They look excellent when all details are turned up, and you can customize 
 a lot of them, such as water and terrain details, draw distances, and more. While they are not 
 as good as if the game were released last fall, there is certainly plenty of eye candy. The flora 
 and fauna are beautiful, monster and character models are extremely well-done, and cityscapes can 
 be often breathtaking. It all comes at a price, however, and unfortunately, even my 2.4 Ghz P4/Radeon 
 9700 PRO/512 MB system fairly chugs at higher detail settings. The good news is that the game looks 
 good even at more moderate settings. I love the MOB and avatar animations as well, and they are 
 quite realistic for the most part; however, combat animation is somewhat stilted, as in most MMORPG, 
 and it can be frustrating to watch as you or your enemy take damage seemingly unrelated to what 
 you are watching on the screen.
  
  Sound is excellent, from crowd noises in more populated areas, to monster noises, to the traditionally 
 strong music, SWG has it all. In fact, even though you have a minimap/compass to allow you to locate 
 NPC's, other players, and enemies, you can also use the great directional sound to locate your 
 enemies as well. 
  
  Still, I have my own frustrations. Firstly, there is no jumping. You can sit, lie prone, swim, 
 and climb impossibly steep hills (another frustration) , but you are forced to effectively roam 
 the environment in a wheelchair, unable to jump onto certain walkways and forced to walk to a nearby 
 ramp. Jumping is relegated to an emote that does little but announce that you jumped to area players. 
 I am glad to say that swim speed has been increased, though. Until last week's patch, swim speed 
 was unbearable; I could literally start swimming across a river, step away from the computer for 
 a few moments, and return to my computer to discover that my avatar was... still swimming.
  
  In conclusion, I will admit that I really like the game in spite of its small frustrations 
 and launch stability issues. It may not be as innovative as some other recent MMORPG's, but it 
 has one quality that sets it apart from original games like EVE, The Sims Online, and others: it's 
 a great deal of fun to play. Isn't that what gaming is all about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panzerjager
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 28, 2003 7:27 am PT
Review:  I am a Beta Tester and I was surprised at the release of SWG so early. I had been testing for about 
 2 months and I was impressed with the games potential. I can not begin to describe my surprise 
 and amazement when I get home one evening to find an email announcing the release of the game. 
 There had been no indication that SWG was ready for release in fact I will quote from a Beta patch 
 message less than 10 days before release.
  
  "In the past 3 years Star wars Galaxies has seen some 30,000 changes to improve the game, 3000 
 of these changes have happened in the past 2 weeks. Please tell us about any problems you encounter" 
 not the exact words but pretty close. In other words "we know we have come a long way but we still 
 have a way to go, help us to get there."
  
  I said to my wife that night. "Lucas and Sony are really going to show other companies how its 
 done when it comes to releasing online games, SWG is really coming along well. I think it may even 
 be in release quality by late July or August but Id say they will wait for Christmas to be sure. 
 So again I say I was stunned at the unexpected and unannounced release of what can only be described 
 as SWG Beta 3 (retail) .
  
  I Beta tested UO, AO, AC2 and many others. Many of these releases are now infamous for their almost 
 fradulent marketing hype, masking an unfinished product. I was almost certian Lucas/SOE would not 
 only learn from this but use their combined powers to show the gaming world how it should be done. 
 How wrong I was.
  
  I will conclude my introduction to my review by saying this. LA/SOE as far as I am aware never 
 even officially lifted the NDA on SWG (acronym hell) . I received my Beta 3 disks printed with a 
 warning not to disclose details about the "product", an agreement I upheld. Logic dictates that 
 the NDA must surely now be lifted since the game is in retial form and some lucky people may even 
 be playing it, if they can log in of course. Truly bizarre bahaviour from such esteemed company 
 and licence for me to provide my opinion of the game.
  
  SWG is perhaps the most anticipated online game in the history of online gaming. Surely every pioneering 
 EQ player salivated when the first hint of SWG's development appeared as a login message one day. 
 As a 37 year old who saw Star Wars as a kid and the novelty never wore off, the chance to participate 
 in the Star Wars universe was an awe inspiring opportunity.
  
  After applying for Beta status within the first few days of it becoming available, I recieved my 
 beta disks with intense anticipation. Much downloading of patches later, I was loggin into a game 
 I was certain would be the best game I had ever played. Initially I thought I had indeed found 
 the holy grail of gaming as I toyed wiht the excellent character creation system.
  
  Creating a character in SWG is interesting and rewarding. The sheer amount of options from race 
 to age and nose size almost guarantees that no 2 characters on a server will ever look alike. For 
 me this was a HUGE factor, one of the greatest killers of immersion in games must surely be 200 
 people that look just like you. Logging into SWG my elation grew as I found my self in a world 
 that looked exactly as I imagined it and in many ways better.
  
  Galaxies manages to recreate the look and feel of the Star Wars universe with a more than acceptable 
 level of accuracy. Standing in Mos Eisly on Tattooine, you could be forgiven for expecting to see 
 Luke and Obi Wan drive by, its that good. Many weird and familiar characters are going about thier 
 business, some controlled by the computer and some other players. Often it is obvious who is a 
 player and who is an NPC, often it is not. This adds a tremendous amount to both the immersion 
 and depth of the game.
  
  Once you start to delve deeper into SWG however the problems begin to emerge. It would be easy 
 to sit here and list the many bugs and broken systems that are currently in the game but that would 
 be both boring and unfair to SWG. Suffice to say that the major flaws render it nothing more than 
 another online game with amazing potential and nothing much more to offer.
  
  Until you can complete missions regularly without major programming issues too numerous to list 
 preventing you. Until server stabilty, login capacity and numerous other basic MMORPG issues are 
 resolved. Then SWG is unfortunately not the best game ever, but for me it may be the biggest dissapointment 
 ever. Not just the game but in SOE and LA for deciding that enough pre-orders is what drives a 
 release date and not the quality of the product.
  
  I recently purchased GTA3 Vice City PC. On the same measures that classify and rate any game, Vice 
 City must surely be among the best games of all time and thats from someone who played Syndicate 
 and UFO on release.
  
  I feel violated......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alestian
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 28, 2003 7:13 am PT
Review:  As a Star Wars fan from the original 1977 Trilogy, Star Wars Galaxies is a game that I have been 
 waiting for my whole life. The ability to interact in a Star Wars universe with other real people 
 who are interacting in the same fantasy environment is long overdue. The real question is whether 
 or not the game lives up to its goals and objectives and whether or not it is worth the fifty dollars 
 you will spend to take it home. 
  
  Since I first learned this game was going to be released, I have counted down the days until I 
 could purchase it. When the release date came, I rushed to the nearest computer store and bought 
 one of the first copies off the shelf. When I got home, my expectations and excitement were quickly 
 ruined by several things.
  
  First of all, the opening day or release day was a complete disaster. I was so disappointed. The 
 Oracle servers that SOE uses to make the game work crashed and burned. You couldnt create a character 
 if you wanted to. I spent hours trying to create one character for this game and finally realized 
 that it was a wait for nothing. I went to the official web site and couldnt even post a message 
 in their message boards. Their web site alone asked me to log in like fifteen times. This is when 
 I really got worried. I mean if their web site isnt worth a flip then how will their game be? 
 I finally was able to read the messages posted by other buyers. Everyone was disappointed and furious 
 with SOE as well. They shared my frustrations. I then thought what a disaster this day has been! 
 There is absolutely no way at all that SOE could not have anticipated a huge opening day and the 
 possibility that their servers may be over-weighted by users. I mean, this is every Star Wars fans 
 dream. The fact that they didnt anticipate a huge opening day ended up in disaster and Im not 
 sure I can trust a game company that doesnt have their act together.
  
  Second, if I had known that after I bought the game I would still have to pay for time to play 
 it then I would have never bought it in the first place, no matter how much of a fan I am. Okay, 
 let me simplify this statement. I spent fifty dollars on the game. I took it home and installed 
 it, which if you dont have 2GB free then you might as well forget it. Okay, that was fine. Then 
 the main window came up and I quickly realized that in order to play this game I had to sign up 
 for monthly, yearly, etc. fees. The yearly fees were like well over a hundred dollars. I could 
 pay every three months but thats like over forty dollars. I honestly felt like throwing the game 
 into the trash. I was so disappointed. I had no idea that there is no way for you to play the game 
 without signing up for extra charges. I have no idea what the fifty dollars for the game buys you 
 because everything is done online and that fee is extra. So, if you want to feel like you are throwing 
 fifty dollars away then buying the game is a good way to do it.
  
  Third, during game play the graphics are stunning. I mean, you honestly will be in complete wonder 
 and amazement with the graphics. The sound is even better. I have to admit that they definitely 
 live up to my expectations in these areas. However, several times during the game, especially if 
 the world you are on becomes really crowded, the game play becomes a bit choppy. The frame rate, 
 I assume it is called, slows down at times and it gets difficult to feel comfortable with the movement 
 of the character. Lets put it this way; if you dont have an awesome gaming machine then I probably 
 would not buy this game. 
  
  Fourth, once you are in the game you literally think to yourself Okay, now what do I do? Every 
 character I saw just stood or ran around and stopped. I could tell that people where hesitant to 
 interact with one another. So, I thought I would try a mission or something so that I wouldnt 
 get bored. Well, in order to do the missions you really need more than one person to help you because 
 some of the missions require heavy fighting and a newbie character wont be up to it alone. Okay, 
 so I got killed very quickly in the missions. To be honest, the game is kind of boring. Most people 
 just stand around and wonder what to do next. If you explore the map, you find yourself fighting 
 swamp animals which become old quick. The game plays just arent there and believe me when I say 
 that it hurts me to tell you that because I really wanted this game to work. 
  
  Overall, yes, the graphics and sound are phenomenal. The game play is not that great. The extra 
 money you will shell out to SOE every year is worse. To be honest, I think Ill most likely give 
 the game the free one month trial period but then after that I wont play anymore because its 
 just too darn expensive. Of course, dont take my word for it; see for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 28, 2003 1:49 am PT
Review:  It is tough at this time to think of anything (I mean anything) good about this game right now. 
 Yea, maybe I am a bit disgrunted that I waited this long for something to give off such a disappointing 
 first impression. I knew I was in trouble when I saw the Imperial Guard in the training mission 
 dancing at one point - never saw that in a Star Wars movie. 
  
  I have only played for about 12 hours but nothing is keeping my attention in the game. The graphics 
 are good but everything else so far is downright boring. The interface seems so over engineered 
 that one can't just "get immersed into it". The controls are really, really frustrating. There 
 also seems no rhyme or reason once you hit your first planet - just a tons of people standing around 
 with absolutely no idea what to do - not even a starter quest. Not to mention the initial servers 
 being out or full (yes full) .
  
  I am heading back to the store and my old MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendomac
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2003 9:49 am PT
Review:  I was a bit dissapointed when I got the game. After three years in development and thousands of 
 people waiting for this game, I would say the release day is a total failure. I couldn't get in 
 for hours, but when I finally did (after 5 long-ass hours) I was impressed. The game has so much 
 to offer and you can easily see that if you look for specific details. I thought graphics were 
 good, but not excellent. The framerate was a little slow at times, even though I have an ATI Radeon 
 9700 ASeries 128 MB video card and I just put in an extra 512 MB of RAM. That's really strange 
 to me *scratches head* I thought the sound was pretty good, and so far the gameplay has been excellent 
 and nonstopping. Maybe they should have kept the game in development a few months longer, but the 
 game does have its strong suits, and with upcoming patches and expansion packs, Star Wars Galaxies 
 is sure to be one of the top MMORPGs on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJMFilm
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 27, 2003 9:29 am PT
Review:  Someday game companies will learn the trick to the Massively multiplayer online market. Charge 
 ultra low for a good quality product and you will make a killing in the monthly fee. 12.95 is a 
 fine price per month, most people can handle that easily. Charging 50 bucks for a product that 
 you can only play if you pay a monthly fee is idiotic. I won't buy another MMOL game that charges 
 the normal PC game price. Just imagine if they sold Star Wars Galaxies for 10 bucks... you'd increase 
 sales by 100% AND if, a big if, you put out a quality product people will happily throw down for 
 the monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2003 3:04 am PT
Review:  I been a beta tester since the Beta 3 started. I bought the game at launch so that tells you I 
 must like the game (I only by Blizzard games at launch) . It is a very enjoyable game and is easy 
 to become engrossed in it. However I think the release date was premature and probably should have 
 been pushed back at least a month. Crashes were very common in the beta (a little too much for 
 the advance stages I participated in) If the launch day is any indication of what's to come, this 
 game could be a very frustrating experience for the next few months. Once the rough edges come 
 off this game will have a very high entertainment value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molovian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2003 11:36 pm PT
Review:  SWG is a pretty game with lots of potential. 
  
  Gameplay is decent for an MMORPG. The SWG team has done what others have done but just a little 
 better and a little cleaner. It needs work to get the MMORPG community to play the game as an MMORPG 
 as opposed to a level up and quit but it has the besat potential yet.
  
  Graphics are good but sparse as of yet and the game needs the content they are working on. 
  
 
  Sound is repetitive when you hear it. 
  
  Value today is low. Their last patch before release was huge and mostly untested and they are still 
 having balance problems. Having said that once the servers are up and running, they get some content, 
 fix the last of the big bugs and add the features they promise for release they game will start 
 to look up. Hopefully this will happen before the three months of levelup leaves all the players 
 where the want to be skill wise and wanting soemthing to do. Personally this game is worth playing 
 today just to be able to get your characters built, in preparation for the real game, but try to 
 take it slow or you rmight get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud_ff7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2003 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has a little something for everyone, plain and simple! 
  I have played SWG in beta, and I have played the release version. This is what I have to say. The 
 game is very complete and offers something for everyone. In Beta I saw some pretty Amazing things, 
 For one thing the Graphics are amazing I could spend hours sitting down, looking in amazement at 
 the countryside. On the game play, It is very simple and easy to use, the learning curve is about 
 2hrs. The game also offers you very wide options, Basically you can be Who ever you want to be, 
 Example: I was a Artisan who was also a marksman, That meant I could Build Weapons and also learn 
 how to use my own creation. 
  If your a Fan of SW, or even heard the name Star Wars then this is a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoEnd
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 26, 2003 4:22 pm PT
Review:  
  They knew how many pre-orders they had and they didn't have server capacity to handle the load?
 
  
  The program manager for this game release should NEVER EVER EVER work again anywhere. He should 
 be fired immediately.
  
  If you go to a movie and the movie doesn't play because it doesn't work what rating would you give 
 the movie? A ZERO, unfortunately I have to give this a 1.0 as it's the minimum.
  
  Oh by the way, they let you register your keycode immediately so that your one free month will 
 be up as soon as possible when you can't even play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jolandir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2003 1:40 pm PT
Review:  As a beta tester and as a game player, I believe SWG is one of the best online games out there. 
 In terms of Graphics if you have the system and connection to not lag a lot then this game is extremely 
 beautiful and definitely gives you a feel of the SW universe. It is and easy game to play but definitely 
 not an easy game to master.
  
  If you play it do not expect to become a Jedi/Sith easily it will not happen. It is earned and 
 they are not giving out how you earn it. In fact they state that it is different for each player 
 in many ways, yet you have to believe there are certain criteria that will certainly drive a character 
 in that direcetion.
  
  The sounds in game are very good and very directional.
  
  You really do need to be patient and learn the system, your profession and to find and enjoy this 
 game to the max. But it is worth the effort. Yes, there are things that will need to be fixed, 
 tweaked and touched up, as well as the fact they are already hot into develop more for this increadibly 
 large universe and game. It is very much a player driven game, not a story driven game other than 
 you need to pretty much stay within the SW mythos.
  
  Jolandir 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeleyman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2003 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Here's a review from someone who has actually played the game...
  
  Gamplay -- The only thing that stopped me from giving this thing a 10 in this area was that the 
 controls just feel awkward to me because of using the arrows. As soon as you try rebinding everything, 
 you lose some of the flexibility that the default controls have. So, I'm conforming to their default 
 controls, but it just takes a while and makes me feel a little clumsy in the process. :)
  
  Graphics -- I really can't say enough about this. I'm playing on a 9700pro and the game just looks 
 nothing short of amazing. The thing you will *have* to remind yourself is that this isn't an FPS, 
 where the visuals are able to look better without the performance degradation. This is an MMO, 
 it just doesn't work the same way. The detail is absolutely amazing. The sunrises, sunsets, weather, 
 characters, buildings, shadows,.... everything looks very, very good.
  
  Sound -- If I had to nail down one aspect of this game as its strongpoint, sound is it. They have 
 ALL of your favorite Star Wars sounds here that you'd expect to hear. I especially like the way 
 that the combat and weather music gives the game more depth, allowing you to feel a little more 
 submerged into the game.
  
  Value -- This game is expensive. No, I'm not talking about the usual $50 price tag because I think 
 we're conditioned to expect that anymore. I'm talking about the subscription fees. I'm not saying 
 that it isn't worth it, because it *IS*. I just don't see how the price is justified. 
  
  Tilt -- I was in the Beta for this game, and I can't believe how far it has come! The interface 
 has come a looooong way, and the gameplay has gotten better and better. The fps's you get while 
 walking around cities is a little low, even on a high-end machine, so expect some jitter. Purely 
 from the standpoint of an MMO enthusiast, whether in Beta or not, I think this game is just amazing. 
 There are virtually an unlimited sea of possibilities for you to explore here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lifehost
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 26, 2003 12:07 pm PT
Review:  An actual opinion from one who has played the beta, you must read this before buying the game. 
 Ok, i was so hyped about this game for so long. probably more than 2 years. when the planetside 
 beta came out i found a swg loader and put 2n'2 together. i used the planetside key to get in the 
 swg beta site and from there i got accepted in. dont try this anymore as it simply wont work, unless 
 you wanna buy planetside and use the key for a day. anywho, once i finally got in my first thought 
 was wow. there is so much stuff. the character creation is awsome, there are so many classes to 
 be. the newby tutorial was pretty good, it explains the basic mechanics of the game. once you get 
 in the real world is where the problem starts. you get a pistol 250 credits and thats it (along 
 with some other basic items) . you have no idea what to do. no sense of purpose, no given missions. 
 I know, I know your supposed to be allowed to do whatever you want. but i think there needs to 
 be things to do, to do stuff. the game looks awsome, although quite buggy, is just not all that 
 fun. that's the point. they should have given those who want a linear game a linear game and those 
 who don't, do not have to play it linear. but jeese, the game is so freakin boring, they spent 
 all the time implementing missions and new ideas, SOE forget the most important thing its not fun. 
 Yes it is like EQ, UO and so on. but its not even addicting because it is so boring. im going to 
 eb today to cancel my preorder. i highly recommend to you all to read the gamespot review, and 
 ign if need be. read as much as you can after its released. wait till you see the reviews and dont 
 go blow your money. i am assured half of you will love this game and half of you won't. so just 
 wait and read the reviews. oh yeah sound is pretty good but who cares if the game stinks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fish007
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 26, 2003 11:14 am PT
Review:  Uh where to start this game should have not been released in its beta state. SOmeone really messed. 
 On the bate forums, there were and uproar that they were realeasing the game so early.
  I bet that you are say, he was in beta how can he reveiw the game before he playes it.
  Well 
 I can honestly say that the game is still in beta to my opinion counts.
  The game is mediocre at this state but it has the potentila to turn out great. The graphics are 
 par, unless you have the new card and a super rig, then you are okay.
  56k er stay away the huge patch are gonna take you days. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
