-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Armada
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startrekarmada/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 669 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 29, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an impressive real-time strategy game that borrows action and gameplay elements from many of 
 the genre's classics. 

 Most Star Trek games aren't very good, but Star Trek Armada's an exception. It's an impressive real-time 
 strategy game that borrows action and gameplay elements from many of the genre's classics. It lets 
 you do battle with the fleets of four of Star Trek's most popular races, and while it isn't an 
 especially complex game, it still manages to be highly enjoyable even in spite of some technical 
 problems, thanks to its good graphics and gameplay.  

 Star Trek: Armada looks superb. Although you play the game from a slightly skewed top-down perspective 
 similar to most other real-time strategy games, Armada's 3D graphics engine lends the game a distinctively 
 crisp and colorful appearance, as well as a pronounced cinematic flair thanks to all the impressive 
 special effects throughout the game. The various spacecraft look and move more or less exactly 
 as they do in the Next Generation movies and television episodes - the smooth curvature of the 
 Federation and Romulan ships comes across just as well as the more jagged Klingon ship designs 
 and the plain geometry of the Borg vessels. Although the spaceships in Armada are depicted to relative 
 scale, the four races' vessels do correlate to one another. That is, while the impressive Federation 
 Sovereign-class is much bigger than anything else the Federation has, it appears to be the same 
 size as the imposing Borg cube, which is supposed to be many times larger, according to Star Trek 
 canon. But aside from a few discrepancies in scale, all the ships in Armada look dead-on accurate. 

 The ships aren't the only impressive element of Armada's graphics - almost everything in the game 
 looks great. Ships' phasers and photon torpedoes sizzle against their enemies' shields; and once 
 the shields dissipate, a ship's hull will start to melt and burn as the ship spirals out of control 
 and finally explodes. You can throw an awful lot of ships at your enemy, yet the game's frame rate 
 remains steady even on less powerful computers. What's more, although the battles in Armada are 
 set in outer space, the setting is anything but the cold, featureless expanse that's to be expected. 
 Armada's outer space is filled with swirling, colorful gasses and nebulae, dense asteroid belts, 
 bright stars, and huge planets slowly going about their day cycle. And most all of the deep-space 
 geography you'll come across has a direct impact on the gameplay. The various colored nebulae disable 
 or impair any ships within and may create tactical opportunities for ambush or retreat. Asteroid 
 belts form impassable barriers, while wormholes let you instantly transport your fleet to another 
 point on the map. And constructing a space station near a planet increases the flow of additional 
 crew to your resource pool, which you'll need in order to assemble your fleet.  

 Providing crew for your spaceships is one of the only unique elements of Armada's gameplay, which 
 is otherwise reminiscent of such action-oriented strategy games as Starcraft and Activision's own 
 Dark Reign. A steady influx of crew is added to your surplus, and a certain quantity is required 
 both to construct and to maintain each new facility or space vessel you build. Crew members die 
 off as your ships take hits, and they die off very quickly once the ship's shields are down. A 
 vessel may still survive a fight with few crew members intact, but even if the ship is restored 
 to full working condition, its limited crew will impair its performance. Fortunately, you can replenish 
 a ship's crew by transporting additional crewmembers from other ships or stations. You can also 
 transport your crew onto enemy vessels whose shields have fallen, at which point your crew will 
 automatically attack the enemy's. If your crew defeats the enemy's before the ship is destroyed, 
 you can claim the enemy vessel as your own. Or if you find your ship severely damaged and in danger 
 of being hijacked, you can opt to self-destruct to keep your technology out of the enemy's hands. 
 It's a challenge and an incentive to try to capture enemy vessels instead of destroying them, just 
 as it's important to prevent your foe from turning your warships against you. To field a starship, 
 you'll also require officers (or the race's equivalent) , who are available in limited supply from 
 your starbase. It's essentially a constraint that dampens your ability to keep constructing your 
 most powerful ships, since the bigger the ship, the more officers you'll need to staff it. But 
 Armada's most prominent resource is dilithium, which is harvested and refined just like most any 
 other real-time strategy resource. Because Armada revolves around gathering enough dilithium to 
 build additional ships and facilities, and thus trying to defend and expand your resource-gathering 
 operation while hindering the enemy's, Armada ends up playing much like many other real-time strategy 
 games. You quickly need to establish your base and defend it while scouting unexplored territory 
 and gathering information on the enemy through reconnaissance. Although Armada offers some variation 
 to the formula, it's of the sort that only a fan of similar games, or someone inexperienced with 
 similar games, would appreciate.  

 Veterans of real-time strategy games will note that Armada is a fairly simple game at the strategic 
 level. Each race has approximately five different vessels suited to combat, and each race's vessels 
 have an analogous counterpart on the three other sides. However, each vessel has a unique special 
 ability that needs to be researched before it can be used, and these abilities help distinguish 
 the different races. For example, the Borg Assimilator can rob enemy ships of their crew and transfer 
 that crew into the Borg's pool. The Federation can lay minefields, Romulan vessels can cloak, and 
 Klingon vessels have a variety of debilitating special weapons. Each race also has an expensive 
 vessel with several unique and powerful special abilities. The four races all seem similar enough, 
 and their special abilities all seem powerful enough, that they're all competitive in multiplayer 
 competitions. However, the Federation and the Romulan long-range artillery units are so damaging 
 that they tend to skew game balance in favor of those races. But in general, the distinction between 
 the four races only becomes evident once they've built up their forces, and as such, the initial 
 phase of the most typical Armada single-player or multiplayer scenario can get to be monotonous. 
 Fortunately, you can adjust starting resources in a skirmish or a multiplayer match so that you'll 
 spend less time setting up your base and more time fighting your rivals.  

 Armada features four interrelated campaigns, one per race, in addition to a final scenario that's 
 accessible only after you complete them all. Though some of the cutscenes between missions are 
 mostly static 2D screens that don't look very good, the involving story that's established in the 
 game's impressive introductory cinematic, as well as the voice talent of Patrick Stewart and Michael 
 Dorn, help keep the campaigns interesting. The campaigns are meant to be played in a specific order, 
 and the missions become much more challenging as you proceed, and they're generally successful 
 in not falling into the straightforward combat missions typical to the genre. Unfortunately, Armada's 
 technical problems may prove to be as difficult to overcome as some of the missions. The game has 
 problems with certain video cards and video modes, and may spontaneously crash or lock up. The 
 readme file provides little consolation: "Armada's unique combination of 3D and 2D technology may 
 cause issues when the ESC key is pressed during gameplay." That and the option to run a safe-mode 
 executable file suggests that Activision was satisfied to ship the game with known bugs, which 
 would be unacceptable if Armada weren't a good game, but it is a regrettable problem regardless. 

 Star Trek: Armada will appeal to Star Trek fans and real-time strategy players alike, thanks to 
 its exciting graphics and enjoyable, if familiar, gameplay. It's not the most strategically sophisticated 
 game of its kind, but its space battles look spectacular and offer lots of interesting tactical 
 options. The game also lacks the television series' deliberate and diplomatic approach in favor 
 of fast action. But if you can accept that Armada is essentially no different from other real-time 
 strategy games, and if you can deal with the bugs, you'll find that not only is Armada a lot of 
 fun, but it's also one of the few Star Trek games to do the series justice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Star Trek: Armada gave me lots of good memories. I was very lucky to play this game in 2000 and 
 to join multiplayer with many fans! In my memories, the graphics of Star Trek: Armada was very good! 
 I ever zoomed in starships and buildings to look at how detailed the models of units were. And 
 I remember the details of ships and buildings were excellent. Star Trek: Armada was made in 2000 
 but graphics of 2003's RTS games still can not overwhelm it! I don't know why there is no Star 
 Trek: Armada III. : ( ___It's a pity there is no series after Star Trek: Armada II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startrek934
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Armada is a great game. It is a extremely mod able game. This game starts out after the 
 dominion war and you play Capitan Picard of the Enterprise. The first level is where you are to 
 build a small outpost and search for dominion resistance. The second level is where you are defending 
 a small base. Anyway that was a basic description of the first two levels in the game. Star Trek 
 Armada has 5 campaigns. The first campaign has 4 levels where you play the federation. The second 
 campaign has 4 levels where you play the Klingon's. The third campaign has 4 levels where you play 
 the Romulan's. The 5th campaign has 4 levels where you play the federation. Each of the last 4 
 levels of the game play a part where you are to kill locutus (caption picard's borg clone) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zellnerz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  we've played Age of Empires, Empire Earth, Star Wars Galactic Battlegrounds, Command and Conquer 
 . . . . now we have a Star Trek to add to that category
  
  if you like Star Trek, or like this style of game, . . get it . . but if you don't like this style, 
 then you probably won't like it
  
  gameplay? a lot like the above mentioned games, with some differences and new features, graphics? 
 are great for when it came out (or at least they are to me, maybe i just havent seen a lot of the 
 games with good graphics) ,
  
  sound? really doesn't matter to me since normally i have the volume off and music going, value? 
 well it depends on a lot of things, your system, how much you got it for, what you expected, so 
 i'll leave that up for you to decide
  i got it a while ago, after i played a demo for what i thought was this game, turned out to be 
 #2, and since #2 isnt easily available, this game has to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjedi05
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  If games like Starcraft, Age of Kings, and Total Annihilation have set the bar for real-time strategy 
 games, someone needs to inform Activision that the purpose isn't to dance the limbo. The attractive 
 Star Trek license and the multiplayer gameplay rescue it somewhat, but the single-player game is 
 about as exciting as watching one of those Next Generation episodes where the crew spends an hour 
 wrestling with ethical dilemmas and intellectual puzzles, such as why Captain Jean Luc Picard has 
 a French name but an English accent. Gameplay is straightforward real-time strategy stuff. You 
 get four campaigns, each with five missions, and then a bonus scenario at the end. You play as 
 the Federation, the Klingons, the Romulans, and the Borg. Each race gets five main vessels, and 
 you research a variety of special weapons for most of the ships. The Romulan Shadow Class ship 
 can use a Phase Cloak, for example, as one of its specials. The infamous Borg Cube has a Holding 
 Beam as its special. Besides the campaign, you can also play in skirmish mode against the computer 
 or online with up to eight in a game. Resources add a small new twist to the game. Dilithium is 
 the familiar cousin of C&amp; C's tiberium and Starcraft's crystals, but the other resources are 
 a bit more interesting: crew and officers. Each ship needs a minimum number of each to function 
 effectively, and as a ship takes damage it loses some of each. As the ship loses crew and officers, 
 it becomes less effective, finally spinning out of control if it isn't destroyed outright. The 
 game allows you to transport crew from one ship to another, including from friendly to hostile 
 ships. You can actually take over ships this way. The Borg can also assimilate your crew. If you 
 find an unmanned ship, just beam some crew over there and you're good to go. The story is good 
 Star Trek fare and does a nice job of propelling the player through the missions. Cutscenes are 
 a mix of engine-rendered scenes and some cut-rate CGI. The story's interesting though. Graphically, 
 the game is strong. A nice option is to be able to switch from the top-down view to a more cinematic 
 view. That's probably the most compelling feature of the single-player game  being able to get 
 in the middle of a big fight and switch to a movie-like view. You'll see nice touches like a shield 
 flare when an enemy is hit, and spectacular explosions as ships break apart in a shower of metal 
 and flame. Armada is played on a 2D plane in space. In an effort to combat what I'll term the boringness 
 of space, Activision has populated the cosmos with many obstacles, usually in form of asteroids 
 and nebulae. The nebulae come in five colors, with each color having a unique effect on ships passing 
 through it. Red nebulae are dangerous while blue ones offer safe haven  shields and weapons don't 
 work inside of them. Some of the level designs are a bit weird, like M. C. Escher had personally 
 laid down the asteroid belts and gaseous nebulae. The result is that your suspension of disbelief 
 is stretched way beyond the breaking point, which is something considering this is a Star Trek 
 game. The game is also buggy and has problems with some video cards and sound cards. It crashed 
 every time I alt-tabbed to the desktop. Bad Activision! Beyond that, the RTS gameplay is a bit 
 on the dull side and has several flaws. Beyond the glitches, the most notable flaw is the poor 
 AI. The computer tends to do a poor job of both instigating an attack and rebuilding its destroyed 
 structures. The AI does a lousy job in both using special weapons and in reacting to humans using 
 them as well. The scripted campaign missions tend to bypass this problem somewhat, but players 
 will find the skirmish mode too easy. Another difficulty I encountered related to the fact that 
 the game's units are entirely made up of spacecraft. The result is they tend to look alike. It's 
 a bit hard to tell some of them apart at a glance, which is crucial to successful RTS gameplay. 
 Managing crew levels was another headache. If your crew members are dwindling, you don't know it 
 unless you click on each ship and squint to read a small display. Finally, Armada suffers from 
 another common RTS problem -- the spellcasting issue. We've seen it in Warcraft and Starcraft, 
 among others. Supercool abilities like Klingon Death Chant and the Federation's Corbomite Reflector 
 really add to the battle - it's just that it's frustrating to attempt to use these quickly, while 
 the computer AI can use them with ease. RTS games have evolved beyond the point where attractive 
 graphics and the excitement of real-time action are enough to carry the day. We rightly expect 
 more now. Armada may find a receptive audience with casual game fans who love Star Trek. It's easy 
 and straightforward and propelled by an interesting story told with graphical flair. The battles 
 look great, although after you've seen them a few times the visual splendor wears off. For hardcore 
 gamers there's a multitude of better RTS choices out there, although if you want to play a Star 
 Trek RTS, you can have fun with multiplayer options. Armada is not a bad game. The design is interesting 
 and at times it is an exciting game. It just doesn't hold up well when compared to the best RTS 
 games the genre has produced. As much as I love RTS gaming, the genre's a bit played out. It's 
 hard for me to be enthusiastic for anything that isn't as good as the best games I've played in 
 the past. I want my RTS games to be as good as Starcraft and Age of Kings, and Armada unfortunately 
 isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Armada is one in a long line of franchise licensed games that takes a successful game 
 design -RTS in this case- and wraps a successful license around it. While success plus success 
 would seem to be a match made in heaven, this is not always the way it turns out. Luckily for fans 
 of Paramounts long running Star Trek series, Armada does a decent job of making the formula work. 
 There is certainly nothing new here however and if you have grown weary of the RTS style of gameplay, 
 Armada will do little to change your mind. However if you are not tired of RTS gameplay and happen 
 to think Star Trek is awesome, well, welcome home. Your game has arrived. Set somewhere after Star 
 Trek: Insurrection, and before Star Trek: Nemesis, this game weaves a somewhat generic tale of 
 yet another attempt by the Borg to take over the Alpha Quadrant. Patrick Stewart, Michael Dorn, 
 and several other actors from the show do the voice overs for the games characters which lends 
 an air of realism to the drama . The plot line takes you through four factions to tell it's story, 
 starting you off as the Federation. Completion of that chapter unlocks the Klingons, who will unlock 
 the Romulans, who will unlock the Borg. Each is comprised of about 6 missions that range from huge 
 open playing fields where harvesting and base building if needed, to smaller maps that allow you 
 only a few units and require you blaze a trail without any bases. Graphically, this game is not 
 the strongest. But RTS games were never heavily reliant on cutting edge graphics anyway. But what 
 is there is still pretty good. All the ships look like the on-screen counterparts and there is 
 a good variety of different classes and styles. Some of which offer special attacks that can drain 
 shields, infect and kill the crew leaving the ship afloat and ripe for taking over, or just knock 
 out engines for a limited time. Each faction also has one special ship that requires you to build 
 a special installation to research it's four special attacks. These can add some interesting tactics, 
 even if they do unbalance the game somewhat. All the weapon effects look nice and while they aren't 
 exactly perfect when compared to the shows effects, they do a good enough job. The sound design 
 of the game is pretty standard fair. Phaser and photon torpedo sound effects are straight out of 
 the series and the voice acting, as mentioned, is great. The score is about what you expect from 
 this type of game and is easily forgettable. Overall, Star Trek: Armada is total fan service. It 
 offers nothing new to the genre, but it will still be fun for those who like this style of gameplay 
 and have a love of the source material. If you meet those criteria, then by all means get this 
 game and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthurknight35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  it has the correct voice actors that adds a more realistic aspect to the game it's long enough 
 so you wont blow through in an weekend and simple enough to learn to play that anyone can enjoy 
 even if your not a star trek fan you can enjoy this game. until this game i was never a fan of 
 star trek games because they almost always blew chunks but i was surprised at this game before 
 i knew it i was playing this game all the time. the game play has you building up enough resources 
 only then can you build enough ships to defeat the enemy i found it to be very addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome and i play it still today even thought it is nearly 6 years old... This 
 game made Trek fans wonder that the universe is actually bigger. I have waited forever and it finally 
 came out. The story and missions are pretty cool and fun. The ships details are awesome and the 
 sound of the phasers and the torpedos are amazing to.
  
  Strengths:
  -Trek fans slubber over this one
  -A series great
  -NO KIRK YES!!
  -Details are amazing
 
  -Battling and making alliances are always fun
  
  Weaknesses:
  -A. I. can be difficult
  -To many ways to cheat
  
  Question: What does picard put on his head to make it shine?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Armada is one of the best games that I have ever played. I regret I can't get it to work 
 now because i would be playing it online even now. You are in command of one of the four major 
 races of the Star Trek Universe, The United Federation of Planets, the Klingon Empire, the Romulan 
 Star Empire, and the Borg Collective. All of these races have key advantages and disadvatages when 
 they are fighting each other, for example, it is generally hard for the klingons to beat the federation 
 75% of the time, while the Borg tend to dominate most of the starship battles, but their ships 
 are expensive and slow to build. The Romulans ships can cloak, but their ships are generally weak 
 and their crew is the worst at boarding and defending against boarding parties. The Federation 
 is average both on offense and defense. Plus there are a few minor races in the game that play 
 a minor role in the game, but are great to have in the game. The game play is solid, especially 
 the fleet control. You can assign 8 ships to 1 taskforce and control up to 10 taskforces for 80 
 ships. Thats usually enough to defeat the enemy, if you need more, you might want to start the 
 game over. The ship movements are pretty straightfoward and the graphics are exeptional. I wished 
 they could have had warp drive though, it would have made an already great game better. The resource 
 gathering was simple but uncreative, just gathering dilithium. But thats good in of itself anyway, 
 because in games like civilization you had to concentrate on alot of resource gathering and maintaining 
 the resources there was alot of distraction from the fighting and the general strategy. But in 
 this game, just one resource to gather and then you get to the fighting. The multiplayer lobby 
 for this game is one of the best ive seen, next to command and conquer, tiberian sun. Some other 
 games need to take notes from those two lobbies. The only consistent bad problem with me was the 
 crashing. Especially in multiplayer, you would be in a really good game and it would just crash, 
 it was very annoying. But nowdays the patches should help minimize that problem. Overall, a fantastic 
 game for all real time strategy players and a must for Star Trek Fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmax84
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Most Star Trek games i've played for PC are a real LET DOWN. 
  This is the exeption.
  
  I love this game.
  
  Its a little old, and the graphics arent THE BEST, but there still pretty 
 darn good. And besides that, the game play is pretty decent to boot.
  
  You can choose any race (expet Ferangi) , and have a blast commanding a fleet of star ships!
  
 
  You can even be the BORG (me reccomendation) , as you can easily begin to assimilate other ships 
 (even the very expensive ships that the AI sends at you) and add them to your arsenal, even early 
 in the game this is quite simple.
  
  All in all , HOURS of joy can be had with this little jewl. 
  
  BUT BEWARE: YOU HAVE TO DOWNLOAD 
 THE PATCH, its not worth playing without. It hangs, it shuts down, you cant save skirmish games... 
 Dont even bother. You can get the patch (V 1.2) here on this site. So dont even play once without 
 it. Besides that, the patch is free and FAST (over broadband it takes seconds) .
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Star trek Armada is believe it or not a good game if you don't pay attention to the storyline and 
 just love RTS games.
  
  However where the game fails is the Game is bloody frustrating and pointless. I have to think the 
 writer of the story must of hit his head too many times. You have to do like 12 missions with each 
 race before you unlock the next one. Where you spend the next 12 missions undoing everything you 
 supposed to of done in the first 12 missions.
  
  The most irratating one is the Borg final mission invasion of earth, That battke could last from 
 an hour up to 3 hours if you do it properly. You conquer earth n assimulate earth 3 cheers . but! 
 no wait.
  
  After the borg you get a new lot of missions, The enterprise went back in time. So woo joy you 
 get to reply the same battle you just spent 3 hours fighting all over again but this time the opisite 
 side. The multiplayer never seemed to work even on gamespy not enough people playing it. Also the 
 games couldn't handle it.
  
  with interenet stress and the normal graphic glitches it has of it's own. Yet dispite all that 
 the original defently has out done its sequal.
  
  Given all the flaws already said Star trek Armada is better than ST: Armada II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  Upon loading the screen you get a pretty cool 3D graphics intro explaining some of the goings on 
 and one of the key elements which is the Omega particle. Thats probably the best piece of graphics 
 in the whole game. I do rather like the cut scenes explaining the story as you proceed through 
 the single player mode. All round I am pretty impressed with the graphics from 2D to 3D. It does 
 look better on older PCs know.
  
  The theme is good and the game play is excellent bringing a touch of class to the Star Trek universe. 
 The style of the game is strategy in space, with lots of stellar activity. The ships look good 
 and the Borg Cubes do seem somewhat a bit small! But everything seems to match out.
  
  Sound effects and the background music are adding to this already impressive game and in my book 
 thats saying something. Of late I have been let down with some incredibly poor quality games so 
 this put a smile on my face. Possible a little too short in one player mode but it does have multiplayer 
 mode and that is always an added bonus, but I am sure I wont be playing that!
  
  Just a few pointers, after installing this game, make sure you upgrade to v1.2 straight away that 
 irons out a hell of a lot of bugs. There is still a bug in scrolling sometimes, but overall its 
 an impressive game.
  
  All in all, this is a must for any Star Trek fan. :)
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
