-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek The Next Generation: Birth of the Federation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startrekthenextgbotf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 21, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 416 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: Atari
Genre: Strategy
Date:     1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Birth of the Federation is a good game, if you are willing to forgive the interface and the amount 
 of micromanagement required. 

 Anyone who has played Master of Orion will find Birth of the Federation very familiar. It is not 
 so much that the game is an unofficial sequel to that classic space strategy game, but more that 
 both games borrow so many features from Civilization. In many ways, Birth of the Federation is 
 the next in the long line of MicroProse strategy games, breaking little from the mold set by Civilization 
 and cemented by Master of Orion and Master of Magic. While each had its own distinct flavor, all 
 these games shared many qualities. Birth of the Federation is no different.  

 The options in the game are as robust as any other MicroProse strategy title. You can vary your 
 starting conditions in the game setup menu, but in general, you get a barely developed starting 
 solar system and an imperative to conquer the rest of the galaxy. The options you can adjust include 
 the starting technology level of the five major empires (Federation, Cardassian, Ferengi, Klingon, 
 and Romulan) , the number of minor races in the game (such as Vulcans, Nausicaans, and Betazoids) , 
 the shape of the galaxy, and the size of the galaxy. The shape dictates how you can travel in the 
 galaxy, while the size determines how much territory you need to conquer and when you'll encounter 
 your rivals.  

 Once in the game, you have to manage and guide your empire through technological research, diplomatic 
 relations, espionage, military buildup, internal production, exploration, and outright ship-to-ship 
 combat. The game starts off simply, as do all these games, but can get very complex and overwhelming. 
 Those who don't have patience for the micromanagement might call the exponentially complex gameplay 
 tedious, and indeed, each extra system to manage does add more repetitive action, but those who 
 enjoy this kind of game won't be disappointed.  

 I did appreciate that the different races do act according to their Star Trek personae. The Klingons 
 come off as aggressive warmongers, and the Ferengi sure sound like sneaky bastards. The Federation, 
 predictably, was always last to declare war on me and always seemed to make quick friends with 
 most of the minor races. As far as accurately representing the Star Trek universe, Birth of the 
 Federation does a good job.  

 Unfortunately, the interface leaves much to be desired. It is a jumble of colors and icons, ensuring 
 that beginners will spend a lot of time fumbling over buttons until they arrive at the desired 
 action. For example, the descriptions of the troop transport don't tell you that the only way to 
 build an outpost or starbase is by transforming an existing transport. You have to dig through 
 the manual or stumble along until you figure that out. While there is a tutorial of sorts in the 
 form of saved games, there really should have been an obvious tutorial with better help as one 
 of the main menu options.  

 In addition, there should have been better documentation of each race's special buildings and concrete 
 stats on their specific strengths. After all, this is a strategy game. It's already crammed with 
 stats. There is no reason not to include stats in the manual if they let you know why you want 
 to play a certain race. As it is, the manual says the Romulans have good intelligence, but it says 
 the same for the Cardassians. Which is better?  

 Moreover, the futuristic setting is at a disadvantage as far as easing gamers into the game's complexity. 
 Whereas Civilization has the benefit of using historical terms and units to define its gameplay, 
 Birth of the Federation falls into the same trap as Firaxis Games' Alpha Centauri: It's not easy 
 to tell the difference between futuristic technologies.  

 One other thing that bothered me were the voice-overs during combat. I wish there were a way to 
 shut them off without turning voice off altogether. Otherwise, tactical combat is fine. It doesn't 
 look too bad, although when you get large ships engaging small ones, it gets hard to spot the small 
 vessels. At least you can zoom in and out and rotate at will.   

 While games of this nature tend to have very drawn-out endgames, Birth of the Federation addresses 
 this problem to an extent by counting 60 percent conquest of the galaxy as victory. This is a great 
 feature because having to crush every last vestige of the enemy's territory when you've already 
 essentially won can get tedious. However, while this partial conquest victory condition is nice, 
 it doesn't always prevent games from dragging out if you are on the losing end (in one game, it 
 took 60 turns for the combined races of the galaxy to crush me, even though I had no ships and 
 only one system) .  

 Birth of the Federation is a good game, if you are willing to forgive the interface and the amount 
 of micromanagement required. It definitely has a Star Trek feel to it, right down to the humanoid 
 aliens and confusing technobabble. As for gameplay, it doesn't stray too far from the Master of 
 Orion mold, making it a good, albeit familiar, game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: martok
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'll admit I'm biased -- I love this game, and have ever since it came out. I still 
 play Birth of the Federation (or BOTF, as its usually referred to by its fans) frequently, even 
 after 8 years of owning it. Any list of my top 3 favorite PC games has always included this title. 
 That said, however, it's really not that hard to review the game objectively, as both its strengths 
 & weaknesses are readily apparent to those who play it. 
  
  
  If you've played any type of turn-based space strategy game (such as Master of Orion or Galactic 
 Civilizations) , then the overall setting & objectives will be familiar to you: You start out in 
 your home system with a scout ship, a colony ship, and a mandate to go explore & colonize the galaxy. 
 You play as one of 5 major powers (Federation, Klingons, Romulans, Cardassians, or Ferengi) . There 
 are the usual various settings you can tweak before you start a new game: Difficulty level, galaxy 
 size, random events turned on/off, etc. Throughout the course of the game, you'll run into the 
 other 4 major races, as well as numerous "minor" races (Vulcans, Andorians, Naussicans, etc.) . 
 You'll colonize new worlds, build stuff on these worlds (including ships) , research technology, 
 conduct diplomacy, wage war, and all of the other fun stuff that interstellar rulers do. 
  
  [A note on minor races: Every minor race has their own special structure which will grant various 
 bonuses (to research, intelligence, morale, ground combat, etc.) to the empire that "owns" that 
 minor race. In addition, some of the minor races always have dilithium (which is needed to construct 
 spacecraft) , a shipyard, and their own fleet. (Should a minor race join your empire via diplomacy, 
 their fleet will become a part of your navy.) A good percentage of the time, minor races will occupy 
 a big, juicy star system as well. For all these reasons, minor races are very nice to have as part 
 of your empire. As a result, you want to make it your goal is to get as many as possible into your 
 empire, via either diplomacy or conquest. As you may guess, each of the 5 major powers has their 
 own preferred method of - ahem - "acquiring" minor races -- the Federation obviously favors diplomacy, 
 while the Klingons & Cardassians will (usually) opt to simply walk in and forcibly annex minor 
 races at the business end of a phaser rifle. Also: All minor races are *not* created equal; some 
 are better to have than others.] 
  
  Eventually, as the galaxy fills up and all the empty star systems are claimed, the game turns to 
 more of a war footing. This is where your ships will enter combat, in all their 3D glory. Combat 
 takes place in simultaneous turns (or "phased real time", whichever ou want to call it) . All that 
 really means to the player is that instead of one side being able to shoot first and destroy the 
 enemy before the enemy even gets a chance to fire back (like in some strategy games) , both sides 
 now take damage simultaneously. 
  
  A typical Domination Mode game is won when you've conquered 60% of the map (or 75% if you're allied 
 with someone) , although you can of course choose to decline the "lesser" victory and go for the 
 100% victory instead. There's also a "Vendetta" Mode game in which you must be the first to conquer/destroy 
 two designated enemy empires, but few people play this version. 
  
  
  
  
  Okay, on to the nitty-gritty. I'm going to do the rest of this review backwards and hit the "bad 
 stuff" first, and then move on to the game's more positive aspects. I'm going to focus on the poor 
 enemy AI and the numerous bugs in particular, as they are probably the two single biggest complaints 
 most people have with BOTF. 
  
  
  To put it simply, the AI doesn't provide much of a challenge, even on the higher difficulty levels. 
 It just isn't very good at managing an interstellar empire, at least not in the long run. It's 
 actually not bad in the early game; but it starts to come apart later on, as it eventually falls 
 behind the human player in certain key categories, especially economic strength, military strength, 
 and research. In addition, the AI is very inefficient at colony construction -- I've conquered 
 countless AI-controlled worlds that had something like 30 farms and 25 power plants, when only 
 6 of the former and 8 of the latter were actually necessary to maintain the colony's population 
 and infrastructure. 
  
  The AI is also flawed when it comes to military matters: The vast bulk of AI-built navies will 
 consist of mostly scouts, destroyers, & light cruisers -- only rarely will you see them field more 
 powerful vessels such as strike cruisers, heavy cruisers, and command ships. The AI also obviously 
 never read Sun Tzu, as it often splits up its fleet into smaller, more digestible chunks for your 
 navy to easily pick off and devour. Of course this isn't necessarily a bad thing when you're first 
 learning how to play, but overall it would be nice if the AI had at least some understanding of 
 the concept of concentrating one's forces. 
  
  The AI is a little better at handling diplomacy, although even then there are some issues. Any 
 long-time BOTF player can tell you stories of rival powers at war with each other (or with the 
 human player) sue for peace, only to turn around and declare war again a few turns later.... and 
 then doing it all over yet *again* (make peace, declare, wash, rinse, repeat) ! It's not really 
 a major issue in the grand scheme of things, but it is annoying at times. What's more annoying 
 (and detracts from the game's immersion factor) is that the AI-controlled empires all tend to behave 
 in a similar fashion. While one expects the Klingons, Cardassians, and (to some extent) the Romulans 
 to be fairly aggressive, the Federation and Ferengi tend to be just as militaristic as the others. 
 If you think the "peaceful" Federation won't declare war on you, then you're in for a rude surprise. 
 
  
  
  The game's other major flaw: Bugs. Birth of the Federation should've had at least another 3 months 
 beta-testing before it was released (if not more) , and unfortunately it shows. The most well-known 
 & infamous of these bugs is the memory leak (which causes a major slowdown between turns somewhere 
 around turn 150) , but it's not the only one. Another bug causes odd things to happen to ships when 
 you click "End Turn" (they'll suddenly stop moving, go in the opposite direction, etc.) . Yet another 
 bug has to do with minor races that have become part of your empire -- as soon as you acquire that 
 minor race (it doesn't matter whether it was through diplomacy or war) , you'll sometimes make the 
 unpleasant discovery that they have no factories there, or no farms! ["How did the people eat or 
 build anything here?? Aargh!!" Frustrated beating of head on desk ensues.] 
  
  
  
  So after reading about all the flaws this game has, you're probably wondering how I can possibly 
 love it as much as I do. Well I've got one word for you: atmosphere. 
  
  Without a doubt, Birth of the Federation captures the Star Trek "feel" better than any other Trek 
 game I've ever played. Each major race has its own interface appearance, voice work & and soundtrack; 
 and they all work together to successfully immerse you in the game. The ships look excellent (especially 
 considering the game was released in 1999) , every vessel has a role in your fleet, and overall 
 the 5 major races are fairly well balanced -- not perfectly, of course, but it's very possible 
 to win with every race. 
  
  Each of the 5 powers (not surprisingly) also has a different playing style, which is nice. Do you 
 want to be the goody two-shoes with lots of research bonuses? Then the Federation is for you! Do 
 you prefer to sabotage people all the time, expand in a "turtle"-like fashion, and squeeze every 
 last drop of blood from your conquered subjects? Then you'll probably like the Cardassians. Do 
 you prefer a more balanced game, where you have several modest bonuses instead of 1-2 big ones? 
 Then I recommend the Romulans (my personal favorite!) . 
  
  
  
  The bottom line is this: If you like empire-building strategy games, you might enjoy Birth of the 
 Federation, you might not. If you like Star Trek games, you'll very likely enjoy it, even with 
 all it's drawbacks. If (as I do) you like both strategy games *and* Star Trek games, then you should 
 really already own a copy of BOTF. If not, then I highly recommend you get one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  There were a couple of neat things about this game. Firstly, was the screen themes according to 
 which race you were. If you were Star Fleet, then you had that theme and sounds and voice. If you 
 were Vulcan, etc. That was neat. Secondly, I thought it was neat to dangle your space stations 
 and create ships that went together. That was neat. Finally, was the universe map so that you could 
 locate where you and your enemies, allies where on the map. But thats not enough. What ruined this 
 game firstly was the lag time between turns as it was a turn based game. It was a long lag. Then, 
 you really could not win unless you cheated. There was a cheat code that you had to learn and type 
 in again over and over and over again in order to get credits and earn money to buy ships. Sooner 
 or later, the game was more about sitting there typing in the same code over and over again. That 
 ruined this game for me. Sorry, its a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Birth of the Federation is one of the only Star Trek games made in this fashion, one of those turn-based 
 strategy games that you rarely see today, and I don't think it was very popular, but it's a sad 
 thing. I think even non-Star Trek fans could've appreciated it if they took the time to understand 
 it.
  
  The game definitely confused me at first, especially considering how young I was when I first played. 
 The great thing is that you can change the difficulty to however you want, place yourself wherever 
 in technology advancement so it is not as confusing. You can basically create your own learning 
 curve.
  
  The micromanagement takes a while, especially understanding energy management, ship production, 
 population, research, and intelligence. Once you get a hang of it, though, the game flows, and 
 it is very free form.
  
  The races have tons of unique capabilities, which adds a fantastic element to the game. For example, 
 Cardassians have facilities that give outstanding intelligence like sabotage, the Federation far 
 excels in research, the Klingons can get more labor and have the strongest warriors but lower morale, 
 the Romulans have cloaking ships (which is a huge advantage) and good espionage, while the Ferengi 
 can just raid and trade and make a whole crap-load of money.
  
  There's much, much more to the game, but it's really not too complex, and it's sad that they actually 
 haven't made a sequel to it, because I would think about buying it right away, and it might just 
 help revive Star Trek video games. Who knows... either way, if you see it at a bargain bin, think 
 real hard about it. You'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I was always a star trek fan from the times when I would watch the show on spike tv with my mom, 
 so when I first saw this game when my older cousin was playing it, I was just hooked on it instantly. 
 I liked the strategy involved in the game, it is like a mind puzzle that kept me busy for countless 
 nights. I liked just the federation at first, as much as I like just wiping out civilizations without 
 mercy, I wanted to try diplomacy for a change. It worked out great, I went to like turn 300 with 
 the most powerful federation fleet I had ever seen, negotiated borders with all of the major races, 
 and had bribed all of the minor races to my side, so I just spent the majority of the time fighting 
 the borg. About the borg, they are tough to beat as the federation, ferengi, and the cardassians 
 because they dont have the cloaking device. They assimilate everything they come across, and when 
 they are done with a system, another cube appears. I enjoyed them appearing though, them and a 
 lot of other alien ships. The Crystalline Entity is my favorite one of all time. That and the good 
 random events that happened, although there are more bad events than good ones, they kept the game 
 interesting for the long sessions during the night. 
  The ferengi are really profit oriented, and I have used that to buy lots of ships. The cardassians 
 are the bad guys, I used them to conquer others and pretty much dominate the galaxy. I enjoyed 
 all of the minor races as well. They were missing some of them, but they got all of the important 
 ones in. 
  I liked the tactical combat as well. In particular I enjoyed really large battles with lots of 
 ships against each other. Even though the tactical choices for the ships are few and pretty much 
 straightforward, its still challenging to try to win against superior odds. The klingons are good 
 for that, they can be hopelessly outnumbered and still win sometimes due to their superior weapons 
 and their production rate. This was proven to me dozens of times when I thought I would definitely 
 lose the battle, I still came out on top. The starships are pretty nice as well, I enjoyed just 
 looking at them from the tactical viewer and just zooming them in and out. Overall, these ship 
 designs are pretty nice I think.
  I wished they could have had the dominion and a few other races I could think of as well, but the 
 list might be too long. But for the first try, it turned out pretty good. The races are pretty 
 balanced out, but when they are ruled by the right person, you can turn each of them into deadly 
 forces. I recommend this game to anyone who has lots of time at night, a brilliant tactical mind, 
 and you have got to love micro management. Without it, you will be confused really quick. A great 
 game, a must have for the Star Trek fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was indeed under appreciated. It gave us exactly what we wanted, mostly, and it did it 
 like no other star trek game has before or since. When you sit down to play a Star Trek game, you 
 want to enjoy the epic experience that is Star Trek. Birth Of The Federation gave players a chance 
 to build huge empires, ala the 4X method of eXpand, eXploit, eXterminat, and eXploring the galaxy. 
 It gave us 3d combat that was just wicked to watch. It provided a much needed meal for the starving 
 Star Trek 4x fans, and it did it with class and style.
  
  The game had its flaws to be sure, but those flaws, the micro-managment, the buggie multiplayer, 
 the lack of certain tech, and the failure of Microprose to support the game made playing BOTF a 
 challenge for only the die hards. 
  
  Sure the butt pimples at Microprose felt under appreciated with all of the negative feed back, 
 but hey, seven years after the game was released, it still stands as the definitive Star Trek 4x 
 game of all time.
  
  That says a lot about their work. They gave up on this game way too soon, and took way to much 
 of the crap that jerk head slung way to personal. Hard core, helk even medium core fans such as 
 myself, still love the game and have it installed on our PC's.
  
  Birth of The Federation even inspired mod of such popular games as GalCiv and Space Empires IV. 
 (SEIV being the dominate most emersive game available with a Star Trek Mod.)
  
  Microprose did a great job with this game, and no other game company has yet to surpass them. All 
 in all BOTF is one of the best Star Trek games of all time, and was certainly one of the best 4x 
 games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ive read through the user reviews here and one was blatantly wrong, this game came out in 1999 
 not 2002.
  
  Anyway on with the review, birth of the federation (BoTF) is a strategy game which is turn based 
 and has a turn based combat system.
  You can play as one of the major star trek powers from the next generation, these being:
  The 
 United Federation
  Cardassian Union
  Ferengi Alliance
  Romulan Star Empire
  Klingon Empire
  
  Each has its own unique looks , ships, buildings and ways of playing, this 
 all helps to create a rich game with lots of replayability.
  For example the federation are the more diplomatic of the major players and will probably end up 
 getting more minor species in the game to join them, but this isnt to say theyre weak, they have 
 the most ships to choose from in the game but they suffer from bad morale during war time depending 
 on your actions, such as retreating, bombarding planets, conquering planets etc and not only this 
 but they have a weak intel system.
  The cardassian Union excel in covert operations and are pretty much average in all other aspects.
 
  The ferengi's speciality lie in economic growth , easily becomming one of the richest if not the 
 richest faction in the game, and wealth can be translated into power.
  The Romulans have strong intel, strong ships and have the added bonus of being able to cloak their 
 ships which makes them a enigmatic and capricious force.
  The klingons are essentially warlike and have strong ships but are only average in other aspects 
 although they also have cloaking technology.
  
  The game is epic also, it takes a while to research new ships, you need to carefully plan your 
 empire by terraforming worlds, building outposts making sure your military and intel are up to 
 scratch, making sure your planet settlements are running smoothly (food, energy , morale) and never 
 forgetting about the economoy.-not just credits but also dilithium which dictates how many ships 
 you can build per turn.
  
  Ontop of this you also have minor races in the game which feature from the next generation and 
 original series, such as the pakleds, naussicans, andorians , selay etc, and depending on your 
 empires diplomatic outlook they will either hate, dislike, remain neutral, like or worship you.
 
  For example the naussicans are warlike and will be more likely to side with the klingons than 
 the 'weak' federation, however like the other major powers you can engage in diplomacy with these 
 minor races and they can join your empire bringing with them, a unique building such as the selay 
 mustering base etc.
  
  Also you can choose to have random events happen in the game which can bring about the likes of 
 the borg or the cyrstalline entity both of which can screw you up big time.
  
  The combat is done rather well, much better than any other turn based strategy game including the 
 very recent Civlization IV.
  It goes into a seperate mode were you see your fleet and the enemy and you dictate orders to ships, 
 this can be done individually or as a group order and then you click turn and watch the torpedoes 
 fly!
  Very satisfying to see huge fleets clashing with each other and the resulting carnage.
  
  The 
 AI is decent enough to offer a challenge, although it can range from difficult to very difficult 
 depending on the diplomacy situation, i often find that the major powers will ally with each other 
 and go for an all out attack on me, and once ive dealth with one alliance the other attacks me 
 and so forth.
  
  This is quite an old game, but the graphics are sufficient in combat mode and i cant fault the 
 empire screen either.
  The sound is very good, the voice overs are good although some of the federation ones seemed outta 
 place, and the music is fitting.
  
  The gameplay as ive explained is exceptional, this is THE best star trek game thats been made, 
 and its also one of the best strategy games ever.
  
  The major fault i have with the game is that,, if your a beginner its very confusing, with every 
 strategy game thats on such a huge scale it takes time to get use to everything, but also the way 
 the interface is done can seem strange at first, but you get use to it after a while and you'll 
 wander why it was so difficult to figure out in the first place.
  
  And you'll probably also end up wandering why there hasnt been a sequel or another star trek game 
 made in this vein.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoZ24
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have been playing BOTF for a long time. Pretty much since 2002 when it came out. 
  
  The Game is fun and addictive. Hard to learn anythign cause it just does not give you enough info. 
 YOu should check around a few BOTF boards for hints etc.
  
  HINTS:
  Learn fast that you need star bases. You will need two Troop transporsts to build one StarBase.
 
  
  Always make friends. Forget about the ST Universe anyone can be friends here. Even Roms and Humans.
 
  
  Dont bother building Large Warship Fleets like WarBird Class Ships they are expensive and slow. 
 Unless you are attacking Planets just buy the Cheep and Fast/Powerfull Destroyers in any Race this 
 works.
  
  If Building things is getting expensive then buy lots and I mean lots of Fabricator/Assembly plants 
 yards ETC then the costs of building/ships will drop.
  
  Guaranteed you will get hooked like I have been. I play it put it away for months then come back 
 again.
  
  BTW Always go with the Romulans. They are the most fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Birth of the Federation, is a hard game to get into but when you do you will not stop playing it. 
 BOTF is one of those games where it helps to already be a fan of star trek that way most of the 
 work is done and you know what to expect.
  
  In BOTF you get to play as 1 of 5 major powers in star trek, these being the:
  
  Federation.
 
  
  Klingons.
  
  Romulans.
  
  Cardasians.
  
  Ferengi.
  
  As one of these five powers you must compete for the minor races and other systems that you can 
 find. The end goal is to control it all, the great thing about BOTF is that complete in the game 
 can be done differantly.
  
  The grahics of BOTF are ok not great but they do the job, the music is great and the sounds are 
 cool as well. If you can find this game and you are a fan of star trek then i say you should play 
 it you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2004 7:10 am PT
Review:  In this game, you can chose to play as one of several races in the Star Trek universe; The Federation, 
 Klingons, Romulans, Cardassians, and Feringi. You manage production, diplomacy, research, intelligence, 
 the military, and the economy/trade. You can negotiate with minor races and convince them to join 
 you, or you can ruthlessly conquer them. It's all up to you. There are a diferent customizable 
 options, and no game will ever be the same. You can research and design new ships, build them (if 
 you have the facilities) , and send them out into the galaxy. Battle scenes aren't too detailed 
 and are oversimplified, giving little depth to the battles, but winning them is still fun. Each 
 race in the game has it's own strengths and weaknesses, and so they are all fun to play as. As 
 nice as this game is, it tends to slow down later in the game when there are a lot of things going 
 on, this even happens on fast computers. This game is a lot of fun, but is rather dated and more 
 features could be added. This game is in great need of a sequal, as it seems to be the only real 
 Star Trek strategy game available. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
