-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Startopia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/startopia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 419 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Mucky Foot Prod
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 19, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a testament to Startopia's fundamentally sound design and attractive presentation that you'll 
 enjoy it despite the fact that, at times, it'll make you feel slightly alienated. 

 Management has proven to be a lucrative source of inspiration for computer gaming. Almost every 
 managerial career imaginable has been made into some sort of game. In addition to abstract business 
 simulations, there have been games based on managing cities, transportation systems of various 
 types, healthcare facilities, and amusement parks. Even pizza restaurants and dungeons have inspired 
 games that are, when you get right down to it, simple exercises in planning and economics. A few 
 of the better games in this genre have come from Bullfrog Productions, including Theme Park, Theme 
 Hospital, and Dungeon Keeper. So it comes as little surprise that Startopia, a game in which you 
 manage a space station, was designed by a company founded by ex-Bullfrog employees who were in 
 some way or another involved with all three of these. In creating Startopia, Mucky Foot Productions 
 (whose previous credits include the acclaimed action game Urban Chaos) has stuck closely to the 
 management game formula but improved upon it in many ways. Startopia plays like a refined and expanded 
 Dungeon Keeper -- the main difference is that it has been relocated to deep space.           Your 
 space stations will be home to many colorful alien species.    

  In Startopia's campaign, you are charged with rebuilding and running a series of derelict space 
 stations. There's a brief tutorial that introduces the basic game mechanics, but it's in the campaign 
 that you'll really learn how to play. The game follows a simple formula: You set up basic facilities 
 and some moderately profitable ones and hire some aliens to run them. Then you make some money, 
 build more-elaborate facilities, increase your income, promote/replace/fire employees, and repeat. 
 There are numerous ways in which you can earn energy (the game's currency is also your stations' 
 power source) , and the 10 campaign missions slowly introduce you to the game's variety of tasks. 
 In one, you'll learn how to build sick bays and heal injured and infirmed travelers. Another will 
 introduce you to the game's simple but fun trading system. Others will teach you the basics of 
 setting up the pleasure deck, which features shops and attractions to please guests and employees 
 alike; and the biodeck, a strange area where you can control the climate and landscape to please 
 the variety of aliens who'll visit your station and even harvest alien plants for tradable goods. 
   

  The variety of facilities and recreational facilities available in the game is striking. There 
 are three types of hotels, several types of shops, a handful of bars, and numerous other types 
 of places to keep your guests and residents occupied and happy. You can research and build these 
 items yourself, buy blueprints from traders, or carry out any combination thereof. You must hire 
 employees to run your operations, and you'll also build basic health facilities, manufacturing 
 plants, security systems, prisons, and laboratories. Then you'll research improvements to all of 
 these and build bigger, better facilities.           You'll need to equip your stations with a 
 wide variety of amenities.    

  The campaign is fun, but it sometimes seems like an extended tutorial. There are only 10 missions, 
 and for the most part they go by quickly -- not necessarily easily, but quickly. There are some random 
 elements -- such as the appearance of traders, as well as the price and availability of their goods -- that 
 can make one or two of the missions very difficult or very easy, depending on what you're offered 
 and when. But the real problem with the campaign is that it ends just when you're comfortable with 
 the specifics of running your base. The last mission requires you to put all of your knowledge 
 to use, but it seems like the game is just getting started.   

  Luckily, the game includes multiplayer options, as well as a flexible sandbox mode that lets you 
 configure and tweak the game to your personal preferences and then begin building and running your 
 station indefinitely -- or not indefinitely, depending on how you set it up. You can create specific 
 win conditions or just play freeform. And the abundance of random events -- such as pilgrim ships 
 seeking enlightenment from your monks, tourists seeking entertainment, and ambulance shuttles needing 
 medical care -- helps to keep things interesting. There's a great deal of freedom in the sandbox 
 mode, and it almost makes up for the lack of predesigned missions.    

 One option you might want to consider turning off is the combat. Battle between administrators isn't 
 bad -- it's just very simple. You have a fighting force, made up of what the game calls "combat 
 ready" races. When it's time to take out an opponent, you must declare war, breach the doors to 
 one of the enemy segments, and then hope you have more guys than he or she does. The only control 
 you have over your troops is the ability to set muster points, areas where your troops will gather. 
 Once the combat begins, they'll choose their targets on their own, though you can increase or decrease 
 the importance of targets if you choose. But combat is so hectic that you'll likely just trust 
 your forces' decisions.   

  The one minor problem with combat is that many of the combat races are also important to your operations. 
 Greys run the sick bay, targs run your communication devices, and salthogs run your recyclers and 
 factories. In a full-scale battle, vital areas of your station will grind to a halt, and you have 
 no means of choosing who goes off to fight.           The love nest is one of the many types of 
 facilities you can make.    

  At least there's no obvious means, which is suggestive of Startopia's biggest problem. The manual 
 packaged with the game is poor: It avoids any sort of useful information regarding the alien races 
 that visit and live aboard your ship, and it provides almost no details regarding the ins and outs 
 of your buildings. Are researchers more effective in quiet, secluded areas? Do kasvagorians enjoy 
 shopping in combat stores more than in curiosity shops? Possibly, but you'll find no such information 
 in the manual or the manual addendum included with the game. And there's little feedback during 
 the game itself to help you draw such conclusions on your own. The manual also doesn't offer any 
 mention of a few important interface options, including some really vital shortcuts that can save 
 a lot of time once your station expands and your tasks become more numerous.   

  Startopia isn't well documented, which can be frustrating since it's essentially a very good game -- it 
 would probably be even better if it gave you a better sense of how to make your station run more 
 efficiently. You can get extensive information with the in-game encyclopedia, but it often isn't 
 very useful. This lack of information can initially get in the way, but playing Startopia is rather 
 straightforward for the most part. Setting up and running a profitable and functional station can 
 be easily done, and the game manages to be complex on the whole while keeping the various elements 
 rather simple from a management perspective.   

  Moreover, the designers have taken more than just the formula from the Bullfrog games before it. 
 Like Dungeon Keeper (and especially Dungeon Keeper II) , Startopia looks great. The various alien 
 races are mostly inventive and have a fair amount of personality as they roam around your station. 
 You can zoom in and out as you see fit and can even go outside your station to look at the stars 
 and planets beyond. The game looks good even at 640x480 resolution, which is a blessing considering 
 how sluggishly it runs at anything higher. On a Pentium III with 128MB of RAM and a 64MB GeForce 
 2 card, the game is playable but slow at 800x600, but almost impossible to play at 1024x768.   
 

  The game can still get very sluggish even at low resolutions and also has an unpredictable tendency 
 to crash. Luckily, Startopia includes a robust and original auto-save system, which cycles through 
 three different auto-save locations and lets you easily get back into the game at several points 
 in your recent management history.           Startopia's great graphics help make the game seem 
 to come alive.    

  The voice work in Startopia is as good as the graphics, and you'll learn to like the interruptions 
 of your advisor and the visits from Arona, a trader who always sells high and buys low. Arona's 
 visits are especially entertaining in the campaign, as his attempts to entreat you to buy his overpriced 
 goods are always in line with the mission goals. And it's not just Arona's visits -- the game is 
 filled with humorous touches, including an abundance of science-fiction references and jokes about 
 the aliens' interests and origins.   

  Startopia is very enjoyable overall, and even on a surface level, you'll find yourself consistently 
 engaged by the number of tasks always at hand or just by watching the aliens go about their business 
 on your station. It takes the best ideas of the management game genre and improves upon them while 
 still remaining simple to play. And it's probably an even better game if you have the inclination 
 to learn all of its ins and outs through continuous observation. It's a testament to Startopia's 
 fundamentally sound design and attractive presentation that you'll enjoy it despite the fact that, 
 at times, it'll make you feel slightly alienated.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kristovich
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  When I got hold of the demo I was hardly overjoyed with it, I must admit. However, after finding 
 myself bored and Startopia was on sale for around 9 I figured why not, and I was surprised.
  
  On the bright side the game is easy to learn as you'll simply unpack crates and place rooms 
 and add furniture, there's no shortage of different goods to buy and if you get a spaceport you 
 might just get hold of the more rare stuff. Another fun thing is the missions that sometimes appear, 
 and they range from helping sick passengers to simply allow a travelling party to rest at your 
 station. There's also a nice variety of aliens and each species have their own preferences, and 
 most of them can be hired to fill a role on your station.
  
  On the other side of the coin lies the fact that the missions you recevie are repetitive and you 
 cannot really involve yourself in them other than saying 'yes' or 'no'. The game also gives very 
 little info regarding the species (will a Grey be my scientist or janitor?) and sometimes you will 
 find a monster wrecking havoc on your deck and you're not given a warning. Wars are a clunky affair 
 and often you'll just set a rally point and hope for the best. The good thing is that wars aren't 
 necessary to enjoy the game.
  
  In short, the game has some flaws, but they don't overshadow the finer points of the game I have 
 had many hours of fun with this game, and I think there'll be more hours down the road as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekarrd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  What is it that keeps me coming back?
  Startopias design is so absurd in every respect  music, graphics, characters, buildings  and 
 yet it takes it self seriously. Startopia screams Im ridiculous, but I mean business.
  
  Sound design is amazing.
  The ambient and techno tracks that play depending on what station floor 
 youre on keep you building late into the night. Zoom in on the deck and listen to the aliens go 
 about their business. Graphics
  Good for their time. To improve them you can download TomFs shadows patch to add realistic shadows. 
 Google it. Also can spice up the game with numerous alien skins from Startopia StrategyPlanet.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Expanding the station is a lot of fun, until youve built so much you wish you had organized it 
 more efficiently. The catch22 of Startopia is the confined space. Once you own half the station 
 youll have multiple building that do the same thing, but theyll be scattered throughout the station. 
 It would be more convenient and efficient for your buzzer droids to have all your industry buildings 
 in the same area, but its only after playing a few games that youll have the foresight to organize 
 your station such. There are also some balancing issues in the popularity of certain pleasure deck 
 buildings. After youve expanded down the tech tree youll find older areas of your pleasure deck 
 a ghost town.
  
  Gameplay fatigue
  While building a huge station is certainly fun and time consuming, it also can be overwhelming. 
 Between managing natural disasters, spys bombs, alien monsters, and sick aliens, there are so 
 many side goals in this sandbox, youll probably need to keep a written list. Hiring enough people, 
 keeping them happy, tending the sick, researching new tech, growing new kinds of plants based on 
 the environment in the greenhouse, building more bots to move your cargo, buying cargo low and 
 selling high, expanding your decks to make room for more people, planting and harvesting a big 
 crop of rare plants, and trying to delegate any job you can to your buzzer droids!
  
  By the time you have a huge station youll be itching for something new and the only thing left 
 is station combat. Big let down.
  
  Despite its fallbacks, Startopia keeps me coming back every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Through the industry of gaming we have been able to manage helluva lot of things, Hell included. 
 But space stations is something new.
  Stations are all doughnut shaped, creating gravity by rotation. Then there are three different 
 levels which are also separated into segments. The first level is given to industry. Aliens arrive 
 here, factories are stationed here, so are laboratories, clinics, prisons, security centers, waste 
 recycling, energy collectors, cheap sleeping quarters, ship docs, warehouses and more. They are 
 all used to maintain the station and give bigger part of the profit. New designs for buildings, 
 as well as blueprint boxes for buildings and many other things are produced here. The second floor 
 is for entertainment: shops, hotels, cafes, discos and a sort of brothel (there the Siren species 
 of alien, the only one having different sexes and looking more attractive the any other one, sing/hypnotise 
 clients into the feeling of being loved) are situated. The third level is green deck. here you 
 change the height of ground, fill it with water, make it tropical or arctical. Trees from which 
 good can be made grow here and it can also be a religious center's location. But almost every establishment 
 has to be operated by different sort of aliens. Manual labour, like garbage collecting and making 
 of stuff is done by grouliens, the two guys in the center of the banner. Two-headed guys run the 
 lab. Greys, the classical choice of alien, run the medical ward. An so on. Each alien has it's 
 own name, statistics (they influence their productivity and salary) and hobbies (like growing bonzai 
 planets) , so it's fun just to look at them. Also, many of your employees can answer the call of 
 war and help to take over other segments (called bulkheads ) of levels. Military action goes like 
 this: military buzzdroid (they are blue. Yellow ones do the hardest manual labour) unlocks the 
 door between bulkheads. Them your and enemies aliens engage in a laser shoot-out. And if your buzzer 
 stays intact for a set amount of time, you win a bulkhead with all buildings inside. YAY.
  While it may look an ardous job to run the station, is not that boring due to comic content that 
 fills this game. It's worth playing just for that. And for female Sirens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesehunter
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game feels incredible, even for now the graphics sometimes amaze me, having the feel of controlling 
 your own space station with every day life just never gets old.
  
  First off, the gameplay of open the box, hire some people, watch some people, kill some people, 
 it never gets old to me, sometimes you can just lay back looking at your peaceful community grow, 
 and grow!
  
  Graphics, still pretty good, even hold up to now for a strategy sort of a game. Not much to say 
 bout' it.
  
  The music, voicing, and sound effects seem so fake that it's quite funny, though some of them seem 
 like, haven't I heard that guy on a TV show?
  
  The replay value I have to say is quite good, I played the demo maybe 10 times different ways and 
 never got bored of it!
  
  This is pretty much all I have to say, and if you like the feeling of one day being a big wig, 
 this is the right place! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webofvirtues
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  No wonder this company went out of business. This is one of the most annoying games I have ever 
 played. Aside from the graphics, which are fair, the rest of the game blows. Gameplay consists 
 of opening a number of crates and building objects. I didn't buy a game to be a stockboy. Placement 
 is difficult at best, and often the objects are not allowed to be placed at all. The look of the 
 graphics are fair, but many of the characters blend too closely into the surroundings, and are 
 too small to spot well. The game, by and large, is too dark as well. Sound is unimpressive and 
 repetitious after about ten seconds, and the narrator is sarcastic and irritating. The game isn't 
 worth the jewel case it comes in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingShivan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Oh, so much fun.
  
  Imagine, if you will, a very simple city-manager sim set on a space station, with a bunch of aliens. 
 Imagine that running this space station is much like running a Las Vegas resort.
  
  I'm almsot being totally literaly with that last, since all your workers are visitors that you 
 hire.
  
  To really review it, you have to explain it, assuming your audience hasn't even played a demo of 
 it. So, you're the manager of a space station, and your first and primary focus is to attract lots 
 of visitors, and collect their Energy (E) , which is basically the universal currency that also 
 powers all your buildings. Your visitors are in the form of a few different races of aliens, who 
 all have their own speciality- the factory workers, the radio technicians, the researchers, the 
 doctors, the gardners, and the security experts. You attact visitors by constructing buildings 
 ina very unique way: open a construction crate, find the place you want the structure to be, and 
 if if it is a building with space inside like a doctor's office, bar, laboratory, disco, or slumber 
 area, you dicide the length and width of the building, place a door on the side, and place in all 
 the necessary items for the room, such as slumber pods for the rest building, Love Pods for the 
 Love Nest, waiting chairs and analysis beds for medical buildings, and bar units and tables for 
 the bars. Once you've played basic necessities of Sleep, Food, and Sanitation, you can start playtime. 
 Aronha, a shady space dealer, comes aroudn frequently offering you all manner of items, such as 
 new buildings, technology, and commercial products all at discount prices , and through the course 
 of play, you build on 2 of the 3 levels of the station, the work deck and the entertainment deck, 
 placing the appropriate buildings where. Then of course, there's the nature deck, where you control 
 all the aspects of the landscape, including temperature, moisture, and scape (the shape of the 
 land) as well as water in the form of puddles, pools, and lakes. In the nature deck, those gardener 
 aliens (appropriately, a purple race with dreadlock hair called Karmaramans) you've hired will 
 plant various flora suited to the various climates you've arranged the landscape in. This flora 
 can be harvested as commercial products such as food, medical product, black market goods, Alien 
 objects, luxury goods, and others, which you can then sell to Aronha or to other alien traders 
 who will dock in a star dock if you construct one.
  
  Learning to play the game is almost as fun as the game itself.
  
  The graphics in the game 
 are gorgeous, giving all many of colors and sparklies, and having few or no glitches.
  
  Soundwise, it's very good. Nearly every buidling has its own theme music, and at calm points in 
 the game, you'll find it relaxing to stop by the disco and listen to techno.
  
  Oh right, did I mention the visual control of the game is a free floating camera that lets you 
 view every angle at every altitude? This is perhaps one of the greatest assets of the game, without 
 which, the game would be irreparably shattered. Almost as though you are merely a video-camera 
 with anti-gravity built in, you can move to any point, position, and angle in the station, allowing 
 you to carouse every open building and get a panoramic view of the workings of your exotic Space 
 Vegas operation. So when I say Stop by the disco , I mean float over the disco building, and lower 
 yourself through the open top of the building and immerse yourself in the building's atmosphere. 
 You can also crawl along the floor of your station to get a feel of the life of your visitors and 
 residents.
  
  The object of the game is to either accomplish a specific achievement, economically, or own a certain 
 amount of the space station (you start each game contrlling 1 second of each tier) . In the single 
 player, it's a progression of these objectives each level, sort of giving you a very long tutorial.
 
  
  In fact, that leads to my one objection to the game- the singleplayer campaign is too short. While 
 sandbox is very enjoyable, the game would be perfect if there was more time in playing the campaign. 
 The value of the game is tied a bit to this, as I docked the raiting 2 points in the value to the 
 2 points in the gameplay I took because of the shortness of the campaign.
  
  However, it is highly likely you'll find the game for well under 15$, so I gave it back a point 
 in value, since what it does give you is worth almost 20$ in my opinion. It's a small game, giving 
 a very unique and entertaining space vegas city sim, well worth finding on amazon or in a bargain 
 bin or a used rack and taking home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macacd
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Startopia is a cross between Sim city and theme park set against an alien business world. Your 
 job is to re-establish the network of space stations to an accepted level by all individual alien 
 races. Thus begins the hilarious battle of wits and cunning. You must do your best to squeeze your 
 enemies with financial ruin, or simply blast them back into space.
  
  Through out the game you will encounter nine individual character types with own dietary and environmental 
 needs, you must employee, entertain and evade many of them.
  
  Species range from greys to Sault hogs, which are among the species that are the backbone of your 
 space station. Greys are medical experts who will offer medical supplies and services. The Sault 
 hog race is dirty, grimy and industrial. They are responsible for running of you industrial buildings 
 and sanitation.
  
  Best bits
  
  The game looks, sounds and plays extremely well with the addition of the sandbox system this gives 
 the game a lasting longevity that the missions simply didn't give. A worthy purchase.
  
  Worst bits
  
  There is little wrong with Startopia it is generally a well polished game, the 
 only complaint is the camera system and combat system. The camera system just feel odd at first 
 but give it an hour or two and it will be second nature. The game is predominately a business manger 
 and this shows with the combat system. If there is an interstellar type war on your employees or 
 ''combat ready'' as they are called just go running to the nearest bad guy.
  
  Pros
  
  + Ranging missions
  + Bio-Deck is a novel idea
  + The alien races all have there own style 
 and sense of humour
  
  Cons
  
  - The camera system may take some mastering
  - The small amount of mission levels
  - Poor Combat system
  - The lack of information the is 
 given in the manual (but that is nitpicking right?)
  
  Summary
  
  A surprising release from unknown to me Mucky foot productions, takes the elements from any good 
 management game and adds a comic spin to it.
  
  A possible game of the year if it wasn't for Black and White.
  
  Alternatively
  
  Sim City 
 3000, Sim Theme Park or Roller Coaster Tycoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Ahh Startopia. One of those games that stands the test of time.
  
  I first played this game the year it came out... 2001. Back then I was running a relatively archaic 
 machine that played the game at 1024x768 without difficulty, but anything higher with maxxed everything 
 started to make some serious chugging issues. Todays computers run this game beautifully.
  
  This game stands up even to todays games in original concept, unrivalled gameplay, and even 
 its tight graphics.
  
  Ever liked Theme Hospital? Or well any of the Theme series? Fan of Sci-Fi? Then this is the game 
 for you.
  
  The basic premise of the game is that you are a Station Manager. Over several different game levels 
 you are hired on by different races to over see operations in a segment of a donut style spacestation. 
 This spacestation is primarily a getaway location for aliens on vacation, a new place to visit 
 and unwind, or a stopover point for those tired alien workers.
  
  You start a level with 1 of 16 segments which you can expand into later during the game for a price. 
 Each segment consists of 3 physical levels. Due to centrifugal force the lowest level is part of 
 the outer-ring, in which you set up your industry. The middle-ring (level 2) is your recreational 
 deck, where you can set up bars, discos, shops, and even hotels. Last but not least is the inner-ring 
 (Level 3) more commonly known as the Bio-ring so called as it is a glass-ceiling wonderland of 
 uncultivated land, waiting for the hand of a Station Manager to bend it to their will.
  
  The point of the game is you, along with the somewhat helpful (and well witted) AI must create 
 a satisfying environment for your alien guests by providing places to sleep, places to shop, a 
 place for sick aliens to get healed, engage in hostile takeovers of other Station Managers (not 
 through business negotiations but by guns) ... along with a plethora of other tasks.
  
  I find this game to still be unique today as it was then, and considering that the game takes place 
 on a donut spacestation, each deck has a distinctive curve that adds immensely to the atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  Unfortunately due to the demise of the games developer MuckyFoot there was never a sequel made, 
 but you can still find this excellent game in bargain bins at your local gameshop, or these days 
 can be purchased online as a download (or physical product) direct from a few websites.
  
  Its been out for 5 years... but I recently started playing it all over again. You want this game.... 
 Now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  You know how some games just have "it"? "It" being that hard to pin down secret recipe of great 
 graphics, innovative concepts, a good interface and just plain fun game play. Well this is one 
 of those games. One the on hand it's everything that you have probably done dozens or hundreds 
 of times... gather resources, build stuff, deal with conflict, expand, rinse, dry repeat. On the 
 other hand everything about this quirky, little game seems to set it apart. Who would have thought 
 that building hotels, hospitals and "love nests" for aliens could be this entertaining? Oh, and 
 don't forget the environmental level where you basically get to create a nature preserve for the 
 aliens to stroll through.
  
  From the different characteristics of the alien races to the fairly wide variety of buildings to 
 the helter skelter nature of combat there is a wealth of stuff to be enjoyed here. It's like a 
 strange mixture "The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy" meets Zoo Tycoon 2. And the end result is 
 amazingly entertaining.
  
  The two major flaws that keep this game from being as close to perfection as a game can get are 
 its campaign length and its stability. The same mission that allows access to the full range of 
 space station options is the final mission of the game. It definitely leaves you wishing for more 
 and while the sandbox mode is fun the general open-endedness of all sandbox modes creates a missing 
 element of accomplishment that one gets from finishing a campaign mission. 
  
  The second flaw, the game's stability, was a major issue for me. This game will crash without warning 
 at unpredictable times. I suppose your results will vary depending on your system but on a previous 
 computer it got to the point where the game would no longer even run. This is something that the 
 developers definitely should have addressed.
  
  Final thoughts, Mucky Foot you will be missed. I hope that wherever your employees ended up that 
 their talents bring us another game in the not too distant future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played a Bullfrog game will know that they are built on roughly the same principles 
 of managing a 'project', defeating your opponents and looking after your creatures, in this case, 
 cute little aliens. Strictly speaking this isn't a Bullfrog game, but we all know that Muckyfoot 
 is/was made up largely of ex-BF developers, and the similarities to BF games like Theme Hospital 
 and Dungeon Keeper 2 are no coincidence. 
  
  Some of the things I love about this game 
  
  The little graphical touches that Bullfrog has always been so good at, such as the way the 
 aliens pet the cats, the dope-like plant, the way the aliens swim in the lakes
  
  The way in the buildings are stored in neat little crates that can be moved about at will
  
 
  The way in which your space station can be made to be self-sufficient or alternatively become 
 a galactic trading post
  
  The way the aiens have different moods/emotions/needs that need to be catered for.
  
  Things 
 that pissed me off about it:
  
  The bombs that agents can place on your station, because it's so damn hard to find them when the 
 station gets too big. Thankfully the damage they do isn't too great.
  
  The way you can only look at one message at a time on screen, and how they get deleted straight 
 after viewing. There should be some kind of email system like in Hardwar or Deus Ex.
  
  Similarly the way you can only deal with one trader at a time.
  
  The way in which the CPU 
 player can open/close a way to your segment if they wish, but you can't lock them out if you want 
 to.
  
  The way in which some things aren't made clear in the tutorials and not really explained later 
 on, such as the different buildings and their uses and the different needs of the aliens (such 
 as type of food they like and what buildings attract them, for example) .
  
  Conclusion:
  
  On the whole, the game is fun to play but it has so many things wrong with it. If you get pissed 
 off easily with small annoyances I would look elsewhere, maybe Dungeon Keeper 2. If you have the 
 patience to stick with it through the stupid parts you might find this game is extremely absorbing, 
 addictive and strangely relaxing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeOddysee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Lets get this straight off the bat. Startopia is a gem of a game. Beautiful graphics for it's time, 
 interesting storyline, easy navigation and most importantly: it's a whole lot of fun.
  
  What makes this game truly original is how you will build things. Everything, and I mean everything 
 will come in a crate, which you will click to unpack, choose where to place it on your hub and 
 your robots will then build it for you. Once you get the hang of doing these type of things the 
 game is easy to navigate, but before then the tutorials are highly recommended.
  
  The game is comprised of 10 levels. They diverse from curing sick aliens to rehabilitating criminals 
 to even helping monks convert believers. You will battle opposing businesses, barter with aliens, 
 grow trees and plants in a biodome, hire aliens to work for you, discover new technologies and 
 that's just a few things that the game has in store for you. For those who wish for more after 
 completing the game there is a sandbox option available. While it's fun for a while, not having 
 any objectives to complete does leave it feeling a bit empty.
  
  Getting back to the actual aliens, the developers have not been held back in the creations of the 
 10 alien types you can have on your hub. These include the adorable Groulian Salt-Hogs, the erotic 
 Sirens and the slightly disturbing two-headed Terrakin.
  
  The only major flaw in the game is the battle sequences. In that you don't have much control over 
 them. No one species of alien is stronger than another and you need a boatload of them to be able 
 to win the overtaking missions.
  
  Despite the weak battle system the game just oozes with personality and will not leave you disappointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtFlaman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  How many tycoon games exist that let you get to play in space? If they were all created this well, 
 not enough. Playing in a uniquely designed donut shaped space station with three decks, each deck 
 allows you to create different structures for different uses by the different alien races, and 
 each race can be hired to work aboard your station and each has different specialties to make the 
 other visitors visits more pleasurable, which means more money, allowing for more expansions, etc...
 
  
  The graphics are on par with any 3D tycoon game of the area and the sound effects are sometimes 
 amusing such as the sounds coming out of the Lavotron. I was particularily impressed with the soundtrack. 
 Definately fits the sci-fi feel of the game and very catchy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Something3k
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  The game, basically, is where you have to manage a space station, and work for different alien 
 races. Each race has its own unique ability (research etc.) and criminal record (some crimes are 
 out of this world... get it?... never mind) . The space station itself is like Space Odyssey 2001, 
 and you even have your own computer friend to guide you through the levels (who can be cheeky at 
 times) . In some levels, you have to have fights with other 'squatters' in the space station, to 
 force them to leave the station, which can get pretty hard at some points, but after 3-4 fights 
 you get used to it, and can take over the station one section by another.
  
  Overall, if you dont have this game, i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rojodiablo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  This and three other games were all bought from my local gameshop for the usual reasons: someone 
 recommended it and it was dirt cheap. I must say I was inordinately happy to find not just something 
 to amuse for a weekend, but a "proper" game. By "proper" I mean that despite the long tutorials 
 and even longer playtime of the levels (which still feel a bit tutorial-esque) , I was gripped for 
 a good 2 weeks or so. Just a couple of hours every night before getting online and getting my daily 
 MMO injection, but it kept me coming back for more.
  
  The slight predictability of the level structure after a while didn't deter me either, I wanted 
 that next type of alien so I wanted to get to the next level just so I could get to play with them; 
 see what they could do; work them into my now tried and tested Starbase designs.
  
  I must admit however, that at first I didn't have much patience with it. After lengthy tutorials 
 I was getting peeved that flicking between MSN Messenger and the game was taking longer than it 
 would with a much more RAM-hungry game, and I just wanted the smarmy John Cleese-esque narrator 
 to shut his cybernetic mouth.
  
  But, given time and a little bit of inginuity with a Recycling Plant I was soon making efficient, 
 profitable, teeming-with-life starbases that lit up the barren, war-torn cosmos ready for a new 
 era of economic prosperity and peace.
  
  Sometimes the control can be a little clumsy, and camera angles were forever a nuisance, however 
 slight. But the semi-inginuity of the whole control system and the nice clean HUD/interface more 
 than made up for it. The graphics were good for its time of release and the sound wasn't annoying, 
 on the 2 lower decks it was a background rather than a stimulus or a feature, but my favourite 
 place to take a break from the credit earning worlds of the industrial/pleasure decks was up on 
 the biodeck, with its bizarre yet soothing cosmic harmonies and whale-song-like chirps and blips.
 
  
  As far as value goes you can't fault it; I bought it in a Sold Out Software box and therefore payed 
 very very little for it (especially as they were doing 3 for 2 and it was the cheapest of the three) . 
 I used my tilt to keep it in the "good" rather than "great" class, because it was just that: good. 
 It couldn't have been much better and remain the same game, but it really only is a good game. 
 But we all need a good game from time to time. Beautiful, epic masterpieces are all fine and dandy, 
 but you'd be worn out if everything was so wonderful - you'd never switch off!
  
  If you see it on a shelf and have a spare 10/15 then hell, buy it. It'll be worth the 2 weeks 
 you get out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orkfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2004 6:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: the gameplay is just perfect , a lot of humor and there are so many things you can do 
 like trading and building stuff and make inviroment on your biodeck but it has one downside and 
 that is that the combat just sucks.
  
  Graphics: very good alto some textures can be blocky but you'll see past it.
  
  Sound: amazing! 
 the sound is just amazing , I was so impressed that I even found meself listing to messages I allready 
 heard.
  
  Value: after the short but funny campiagn that will take you about 10 till 15 hours you'll will 
 still have the sandbox and online gameplay so that can keep you coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cynner
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2004 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Girl's Point of View: Sometimes a game comes along that's intuitive, interesting, has great re-play 
 value and is tons of fun. This has all of that in spades, plus it's one of the funniest games in 
 a long time. Basically; you've been chosen to run a space station, you have to make a variety of 
 different alien types happy. They all have different needs (sleeping, work and food) and wants 
 (recreation & parkland) which you need to provide. It's simple in concept, but surprisingly complex 
 in application. Which is why it remains installed on my harddrive and even now get's loaded up 
 for a few games every other month or so. The only thing I regret is that they didn't provide additional 
 scenarios or come out with any expansion packs. However, the sandbox mode is fully configurable 
 and you can modify a number of different limits and goals to make the game constantly fresh and 
 challenging. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
