-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Legacy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/startreklegacy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All five Star Trek series and captains tied together into one game.
 Large-scale battles offer cinematic moments on par with the television show.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy controls and camera scheme create a steep learning curve.
 Frustrating mission design and lack of in-mission save.
 Crippling bugs and multiplayer doesn't work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.6, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 1,239 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Dec 5, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This starship combat game simply can't overcome bad controls, frustrating mission designs, and a 
 mess of bugs. 

  It seems like a can't-lose proposition: A Star Trek game, arriving in the year of the franchise's 
 40th anniversary and featuring nothing but glorious starship combat, as well as the voices of all 
 five Star Trek captains. That sounds like paradise to Trek fans starved after an unexpected hiatus 
 of new games over the past several years. However, if you're a Trek fan, prepare to have your hopes 
 dashed. Star Trek: Legacy limps out of development like the Excelsior trying to chase the Enterprise 
 in  The Search for Spock . It's practically broken in some places, and if that weren't enough, 
 it's plagued with other serious issues, as well.  

          Star Trek is back in Legacy, and though it looks good, it could have used a few more months 
 in the shipyard before coming out.     

  Legacy puts you in charge of up to a four-ship task force of Starfleet vessels, spanning the entire 
 breadth of Star Trek. You'll start with Archer, in the NX-01, before moving onto Kirk, Picard, 
 Sisko, and Janeway. The plot cleverly ties together all five Star Trek franchises by using the 
 Borg as the plot device. By chance, a typically long-lived Vulcan scientist learns about the Borg 
 during the early days of the Federation and figures out a way to become their queen, though this 
 quest will take decades. Along the way, she crosses paths with every famous Star Trek captain, 
 and they attempt to ascertain what she's up to and stop her. Sure, there's a lot of revisionist 
 history going on here, enough to make any Trek purist's head spin, but since Star Trek has always 
 felt free to tinker with its history, it's not horribly egregious.  

  What will make you pound your head in frustration are the controls, which are a nightmare to learn, 
 made worse by the way the game throws you into the action with barely any practice. You'll be flying 
 the starships in three-dimensional space from a third-person perspective using a floating camera. 
 However, it becomes a mess trying to figure out how to maneuver, and it's easy to get disoriented 
 while trying to track a target in the distance. It also doesn't help that the controls feel clumsy 
 and your ships don't respond well. Sure, they're lumbering beasts, which is what you'd expect since 
 these are capital ships and not nimble fighters, but trying to maneuver into firing position on 
 a target below or above you is a pain. Put it together, and you'll be in for a lot of early frustration 
 as you attempt to get used to the control scheme and camera.  

  Assuming you're willing to embrace the learning curve, you'll dive into a campaign filled with 
 some good highs but also some infuriating lows, thanks to crazy mission designs. First, you can't 
 save at all during a mission, which means that if you fail, you have to start the entire thing 
 over. Considering some missions can easily last an hour, the lack of an in-mission save gets annoying 
 awfully quickly. It doesn't help that mission objectives are sometimes hazy, and you'll zoom about 
 trying to figure out what you need to do. Other times, the mission objectives are insanely difficult, 
 and you'll need to turn in a superhuman effort to win. A case in point is a save-the-planets mission 
 where you have to warp around and destroy stellar debris before they crash into planets. However, 
 the margin for error is so small that the slightest misstep can cause mission failure. And when 
 you're busy fighting the controls, it doesn't take long before anger sets in.  

          Ships are modeled in good detail, and the large-scale battles look phenomenal at times. 
     

  Legacy also shipped with a number of game-killing bugs, though some of the worst ones were fixed 
 in a day-of-release patch. Still, when a game releases with a bug that locks the entire game when 
 you access the options menu, you have to seriously wonder whether it was even presented to testers. 
 Even postpatch, there are all sorts of issues. Multiplayer is a mess. Trying to join a server is 
 an exercise in frustration, as connecting is mostly impossible and even making the attempt often 
 results in the game crashing. The skirmish mode might have presented some decent replay value, 
 but it feels tacked on. For instance, skirmish mode isn't very user friendly, and there's no way 
 to replay a skirmish game, so you end up having to create a new game again. Meanwhile, there's 
 not much here in terms of variety. There's a deathmatch game, which you can play in teams, or a 
 co-op wave game where all the players have to survive as long as possible against a wave of endless 
 enemies, and that's about it.  

  You're almost willing to forgive Legacy of its many issues when you glance upon your favorite Starfleet 
 vessel floating in the void. If you're a fan of the original Enterprise, the Enterprise-D, the 
 Defiant, or any one of the many iconic starships from the show, you'll be satisfied by the level 
 of detail that's achieved in the game. It looks even prettier during the large-scale battles, as 
 Federation, Borg, Romulan, and Klingon starships trade fire and explode. However, even here there 
 are issues. Smaller vessels break apart nicely, but the artists should be embarrassed by how badly 
 anything large, like a space station or a Borg cube, explodes. The Borg cube literally breaks apart, 
 and then a fresh cube appears in the middle of the explosion and breaks apart, and then another 
 cube appears in the middle of that crack-up and breaks apart, before the large chunky pieces spin 
 in place like a top twirled at high speed. Then there are the bumper-car physics. If a starship 
 runs into anything, such as another vessel, an asteroid, or even a ridiculously out-of-scale planet, 
 it just rubs against it and then moves on. It's these kinds of oversights that ruin the otherwise 
 solid presentation.  

          Skirmish mode lets you explore Federation-on-Federation violence, but there's not much 
 depth to it.     

  Considering that Legacy boasts the voice-acting talents of all five Star Trek captains, you'd think 
 that all the stops were pulled for the game's audio, but for the most part the efforts seem wasted, 
 as a number of the actors sound like they're dialing it in. William Shatner does his best to infuse 
 his unique delivery, but he also sounds every one of his 75 years at times. Only the captains' 
 voices make an appearance, as the story is told in overly long, drawn-out voice-overs while the 
 camera pans over ships and space stations. Riveting viewing it is not. The music is typical Trek, 
 which means noble orchestral themes for the most part, and the sound effects are fairly authentic, 
 though some of the phaser fire seems off. However, only hardcore Trek fans should notice these 
 details, though they live for this kind of critiquing.  

  The pity is that Legacy could have been a good game if it wasn't so rushed out in such an unfinished 
 state. The combat can be very cool at times, but the game does everything possible to undermine 
 any goodwill that it generates. Hopefully, the developers will continue patching the game until 
 it morphs into something more enjoyable, but as it is, Legacy isn't the great step forward that 
 Star Trek fans were looking forward to.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (143 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: demoncraze
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game could be so much more. Wonderful graphics, great voice acting from original cast an crew 
 and the ships are perfect to the series.
  
  However the controls... terrible terrible controls. First they are far to complicated an second.. they 
 just don't work.
  You can lock on to a ship to track it an then your ship seems to wander off an forget whats targeted. 
 In thew second mission you are requested to guard a research outpost. On easy i just couldn't win 
 an Ive played many hundreds of games. The reason i cant win is because i cant lock into to anything 
 an when i do... i fire phasers... try to fire torpedo... hey where did my torpedo's go? 
  
  To follow that up the camera is useless in battle an I had plenty of times when i just go so confused 
 with the cam bouncing everywhere i couldn't fight.. low an behold.. everyone been vaporized.
  
  SO.. great ships.. awesome graphics.. great voice acting.. the ONLY things to truly let this game 
 down is learning curve, controls, an shear difficulty even on easy mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics, voices of all five captains, in depth story.
  
  The Bad: Poor mission design, clumsy controls, bad camera, enterprise era doesn't align with the 
 enterprise era.
  
  Well this game wasn't worth every cent but I like this game better than Star Trek: Bridge Commander 
 even though there's no bridge view. I'm amazed with the graphics, I've never scene such sharp graphics 
 in a Star Trek game before and that's a good thing but if you look at a nebula from a long distance 
 it looks like sandpaper. Story! Wow! What a great story. Now poor mission design, I think they 
 designed the missions a little to hard because I'm stuck at this one mission where you have to 
 do a area sensor sweep and you're controlling this Klingon bird of prey with an advanced cloaking 
 device and I keep failing each time because the bird of prey's hull is the equivalent of paper, 
 it's to thin! When you're controlling the ships they are so hard to control because when you're 
 in battle you can never align your firing arcs at the enemy without missing each time. Make a sequel, 
 make it better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annabrie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the naysayers fool you. I was skeptical about this game after reading the reviews but 
 I recently decided to try it anyway and WOW!! was I happy I did. Learning curve is about 30 min 
 and I have been playing it for a few days now. Graphics are great in this game and the ships maneuver 
 in a realistic way. 
  
  Granted the Planets lack realistic size in comparison to the ships and there is a somewhat bumper 
 car effect when impacting other objects and ships. I take this to be a positive since in a game 
 like this it is often hard to gage distance between objects and if you were to be destroyed every 
 time you impacted on another object the game would end up being ultimately frustrating. 
  
  There is a large amount of additional content (ships, missions etc.) via independent mods online 
 that is simply not available to the XBOX 360 version of this game. I think this makes the PC versions 
 of Legacy a far better choice.
  
  Skirmish mode VS the Computer is fun and very customizable. I have not tried multiplayer yet but 
 the fact that people say it is buggy on Gamespy network does not surprise me. Almost every game 
 with multiplayer mode seems to be Buggy on the Gamespy network.
  
  I definitely recommend this Game to any Star Trek Fan or combat simulator lover. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Over the years i have waited and waited for the ultimate Star Trek game to be released. A game 
 that includes action, drama and the overall charm from the movies and shows. This game is sadly 
 not that. Unfortunetly, only a few have. Star Trek Elite Force (I and II) , The Fallen, Bridge Commmander 
 etc. are some of the select few. Legacy starts out with an unclear storyline, EXTREMEMLY frustrating 
 controls and squad management controls. You find yourself staring off into space (pardon the pun) 
 many times just thinking about how much money you wasted by reserving it. 
  
  Although the game has down sides it also has good sides as well. it has all orginal voice acting 
 from the starship captains over the years, great ship models and damage effects, and fairly desent 
 maps. Sadly this is not enough to fix the mess that bethesda made out of this game's potential.
 
  
  Graphics-8 Good ship models and damage effects.
  Sound-6 fairly decent sounds and voice acting.
  gameplay-4 Frustrating controls. pretty pathetic 
 missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  that's all I have to say! 10 - 5 = poor design theme and play interface. who would like to play 
 a 3rd view space game? lol. even the old classic wing commander series are better than yours!
 
  10 - 1 = lousy fighting tactic and stupidity clumsiness.
  10 - 1 = flight controls are Poo men! u should learn from Bridge Commander flight control.
  10 
 - 1 = lousy missions
  10 + 1 = all captains are here and all captains's ship are here too.
  10 + 1 = for all your hardwork u have done. therefore 10 - 5 - 1 - 1 -1 + 2 = 4
  
  dun ever 
 design such a game again. It's DOG's work of poo! A piece of JUNK! RuBBISH WORK!
  
  That's why u see, the only most successful game for startrek is the Bridge Commander, too bad, 
 they never follow up to make part 2 or part 3. wondering why would u leave a good game behind and 
 create such a DOG's game for us to play. Worse of all, it's not cheap either. imao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  The game has a superb campain that fits between every Star Trek series & movies with the voice 
 acting from the most important actors like Patrick Stewart & keeps you intrgued till the end ! 
 The gameplay is fun but yes it feels incomplete ... but non the less tactical & its fun to control 
 the Enterprise or the Borg cube or the romulan/klingon ships .... you some sense you will feel 
 like in a movie but as you go un it can become repetitive !
  The graphics & sound are just perfect most of the sound effects are taken right from the movies 
 so that you will have an immersive feeling + the ship models look spectacular & as they go intro 
 battle they wiill show signs of damage !
  Being a Star Trek fan i find the game to be very pleasent its up to you to decice for yor self 
 !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. I admit I was a bit nervous about buying this game after reading some of the reviews here. 
 Some were good and some were bad. I paid $20 for the game so at least I didn't pay full price. 
 
  
  I have one older Star Treck game, Starfleet Command: Orion Pirates. I loved this game and played 
 it for thousands of hours. 
  
  Well when I first loaded it up, thing worked ok for a sec then got a bit rough through the first 
 mission.... very buggy. So I went to the gamespot page a downloaded the two patch for it and now 
 everything runs smooth. The controls take a bit to get use to and the command controls for the 
 other ships a hard to get at first but with less than an hour of gameplay you soon get the hang 
 of it. I think that this is the best Star Treck game out there. It may not be the greatest game 
 of all but it is really good. And if you are a Treck Fan then you will love this game!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown here: http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2361,0. html
  
  The Star Trek gaming franchise has had its own set of ups and downs throughout the years. We've 
 gotten everything from quality games like the Elite Force shooters and Bridge Commander simulators, 
 down to disasters like Starfleet Command and Encounters. Sadly, the trend in recent years has been 
 towards more mediocre titles. Even though RPG powerhouse Bethesda has taken over the rights to 
 the Star Trek series of games, Legacy is much less than what it could have been....
  
  Calling itself a Space-Combat Simulator, Legacy naturally puts you in control of a single starship 
 from the Star Trek universe, similarly to games like Bridge Commander. The game's single player 
 involves you taking the command of various ships in different eras as they explore and battle their 
 way through a plot which details the rise of a "new" enemy (yes, its the Borg... again) . The cutscenes 
 in between missions and objectives are pretty well done and reminded me of the TV shows in terms 
 of their authenticity. All of the original actors of the captains of the famous ships were also 
 able to contribute their voices, a first for the series. However, some of the acting comes off 
 as bored and/or monotonous.
  
  Once you get down to the gameplay itself, you start encountering some of Legacy's glaring problems. 
 The largest challenge is the controls, which are plainly badly thought-out. It's hard to figure 
 out how to maneuver and to track and designate the target you need to fire upon. There's something 
 off-putting about the response time of the ships, as it often takes 2 or 3 seconds for your ship 
 to start turning from the moment you press the button. Compared to Bridge Commander, ship movement 
 here is much less precise and satisfying.
  
  Instead of one ship, you are given command a small, four-member fleet. Giving commands to your 
 fleet is a nightmare, and you'll often have trouble figuring out what each of your ships is doing 
 a at a specific times. In instances where I could, I simply told the entire fleet to target one 
 ship at a time, in order not to deal with the micro-managing.
  
  There are some skirmish and mutliplayer maps, but I've been unable to find, join, or create any 
 matches on either the PC or 360 version.
  
  Disappointingly, the game's graphics don't look nearly next-gen. The ship models are good, but 
 they're almost on the same level as those found in Bridge Commander, which is several years old. 
 There's some weird graphical glitches such as Borg cube spawning multiple models of itself in order 
 to "explode" really take away from the immersion in the game.
  
  The ship, weapons, and other sound effects are all lifted directly from the Star Trek series, so 
 there's really nothing to complain about.
  
  Sadly, the Star Trek gaming scene is nothing compared to what it once was. Legacy is a testament 
 to that and Bethesda should stick with what they do best: The Elder Scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I played star trek since the Super Nintendo Weird game, also many games for the Computer. The game 
 Star Trek Legacy looks nice on the outside but theres no good stuff inside it.
  
  The Game does have nice graphics, but it provides with a very poor graphical engine, compared to 
 other games that runs with a lesser machines with same graphics, this fails in the department. 
 Like always the games mostly suffers from the publishers and the game engine they use. For example 
 the graphical engine from Jupiter Incident Nexus, as it have beautiful graphics but runs smoothly 
 than this one.
  
  The game play in the Campaign and missions are ok, easy to my taste. The User interface was likely 
 done in a rush, but also where is the star trek philosophy where you can set everything on your 
 ship, be the captain, or be the engineer. Surely Bridge commander is old but got more things to 
 do than Legacy. The actors where great, like always, as i don't mind watching their shows various 
 times.
  
  Also the game limits itself in a box, also the skill avoiding stuff can be forgotten here since 
 the game puts a barrier in every object.
  
  The controls, well, this is a mixed situation, let the computer do it or do it yourself with a 
 difficult learning curve until you try to get a hang on it. As i said before the game is on a box, 
 when you reach to the end the ship might get suck or do some weird maneuvers. Also with the clumsy 
 controls, the ship cannot do a clean 360 degree in a Y Axis. Is like stalling a plane when is short 
 of impulse air.
  
  The game had the potential, it have good things and bad things. The game have the Famous OS Syndrome, 
 where looks are primary and quality are seconds or last, is true is a lot of work but try the best 
 on doing a good. game. Well, hopefully that Fallout 3 will be a better game as i played the series 
 and loved the game play and the "philosophy" since Bethesda was involved in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 021294
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Many people say this game is garbage. they say this for one or more of these reasons: their computers 
 (like Mine) are not fast enough to run the game smoothly, they don't take the time to master the 
 control interface, or they get the game for its multiplayer.
  
  Jumpy gameplay is a problem that occurs with every pc game that has awesome graphics and detail. 
 complicated controls with lots of buttons means interesting and realistic gameplay (in fact the 
 starship controls have been simplified, imagine how many different buttons the brige crew of the 
 Entiprize have to press whilst phazerizing Klingons) . Multiplayer is just an extra thing thrown 
 in that everyone takes for granted. anyway, scince when did Borg, Federation, Klingon and Romulan 
 capital ships all have a free-for-all brawl?
  
  to sum it up, people expected to much from legacy. the game has exelent graphics, intruiging gameplay 
 and a storyline that gets you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmanchur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Has a ton of amazing looking ships from the episodes that I've always wanted 
 to fly and made up ones too. definitly the only good star trek warship game out there. the missions 
 sometimes take 45 minutes but I kind of treat it like watching an episode of star trek and only 
 play 1 or 2 missions if I get on so this is a slow game but it is just like star trek. I love star 
 trek battles because of their pirate ship like battles which is in my opinion a better vision of 
 future space battles. I like the touch of the voices of every captain. I don't understand how this 
 game got bad ratings. I don't understand how it is a let down to any star trek fans. Make sure 
 you download the patches because it makes the battles have better explosions and better graphics 
 on the ships. Buy it if you like star trek like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDSmoove
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  By now we've all read the problem with this game and I hardly disagree with most of them. However 
 recently a mod from Chris Jones. com called Ultimate Universe was completed that addressed most 
 of the issues that we've all had with this game. The voice acting, controls, storyline could not 
 be changed but the graphics are even better on most ships,. And there's several dozen more ships 
 that have been added. The explosions are much better now especially for stations and Borg cubes. 
 The weapons fire and in game music is much more Trek like. The Skirmish mode has been expanded 
 and has been made much more massive. You can have 8 different players with 4 ships each for a total 
 of 32 ships duking it out which is truly a sight to see. The stations are now practically planet 
 sized and you can repair and reload your fleet at repair bays. The issue with pieces of the ship 
 blowing off but then reappear is still there but that is an issue with the original code. Plus 
 races like the Cardassians and Dominion are added with their respective vessels. Plus now there 
 are many scenarios that have been added so you can replay classic moments and battles from the 
 entire Trek saga including the battle in the nebula from Wraith of Khan.
  there are many other fixes in this mod that I could list here but let's jus say it breaths life 
 into the old girl and makes the game closer to what we wanted it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank138
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  All of the hype before the launch was for nothing. It really isn't worth expending energy on but 
 i think that is mainly due to the rushed launch.
  The campaign mode is awful as some levels are nearly impossible, the story line does kind of fit 
 with the TV series but that's about all that is good about it. The voice over from all of the captains 
 is a nice touch though. With only like 3 missions for each captain they could have expanded on 
 that, and that i found to be a really let down. 
  The skirmish does redeem Star Trek Legacy slightly though. It has a good replay value to occasionally 
 go back to, but i'm sure with the difficult controls it would get frustrating after a while. The 
 graphically explosions on most of the ships are very good with a nice boom created, but on the 
 Borg large ships the explosions are awful with the ship breaking apart dreadfully. There are some 
 catastrophic errors in the game as well where your ship flies through other blowing up ships and 
 bouncing off the wrongly proportioned planets. The controls are quite difficult to get a hang of 
 and to master them is unfeasible. 
  Overall i believe that if your a really Trekkie then you'll probably love it and if not then you 
 will just get frustrated by a lot of the bad failures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardie27
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Before Star Trek Legacy was released, people were excited and just couldn't wait for it's release. 
 But when it came out and people bought it, they seemed to be disappointed because of the hard controls 
 and short campaign mode, but I say why? Personally I think this game brilliant and I just don't 
 see why people hate it. I am a hardcore Star trek Fan and I will always stick by this game whatever 
 the controversy about it. The ships look superb, the campaign modes story line is brilliant and 
 the battles are just immense. I just can't find a problem with it. I don't think the controls are 
 hard just tricky, but not impossible to master. You can also change between different ships in 
 your fleet which is just cool. The maps are well detailed and make battles more interesting, especially 
 with the explosions coming from the destroyed ships. I think it's just brilliant and I am going 
 to give it 10 out of 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primus9999
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  2nd Worst Game Ever!!!!!!!!!!!! : (
  
  horrible controls that some time lags, confusing keyboard controls. slow battles and a very dumb 
 AI. Overall its an below average game to a Trekkie, but considering whats boldly gone before, its 
 a big letdown.
  
  on the controls
  its like having two keyboards and similar key configurations as far apart as possible 
  On the 
 AI
  its like shooting at bees with a guided sniper rifle which takes up too much time and it reloads 
 quite slowly
  
  even though the game has good graphic, it spoils it by having confusing camera angles
  
  one 
 last thing
  you can't even save you game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardj692000
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Right! what can i say, take the pretty good starship control mechanism of SFC 3 and throw it away, 
 take the ok graphics and update them so only the top spec, (at the time of release) can play it, 
 and then sprinkle on some voice acting from all the captains from each series, and yes that is 
 william shatner as kirk, but played as a more deeper, refined kirk with this throat torn out by 
 a targ, and once again add the borg in another ridiculous storyline and you have StarTrek legacy! 
 
  
  Overall its an ok game to a trek fan, but considering whats boldly gone before its a big letdown, 
 controls are difficult and camera angles are dodgy and i was hoping that there would be some memorable 
 moments from the series to replay, but alas there is not. so because of this the game seems unfinished 
 and as a result u end up playing it once and giving it to a m8 only to find that it doesn't work 
 on there computer.
  
  On the plus side you get to hear all the voice talent again from the captains and get to fly around 
 in yr fave ships. 
  
  Customisation would have been good like in the earlier SFC games as well as a non borg story line. 
 Kill the ferengi would be good.
  
  If you like startrek and you want to endulge yourself give it go from someone that has it, if not 
 you'll either love it or have it play it once and come back to it someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeh650
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  ST Legacy has very cool graphics. Fans will love having all of the Star Trek generations during 
 game play, and the voices of many of the original actors. I agree with most of the posted critic's 
 review. The game is hampered by a complicated, messy user interface, and if you can't control your 
 ship, it gets frustrating very quickly. That on top of not being able to save your games makes 
 this one of very few games that I never bothered to finish playing. 
  Star Trek: Elite Force is the only Star Trek game since ST: 25th Anniversary game that is actually 
 fun to play. It is a shame because there are so many good things about ST Legacy, that if a little 
 more effort had gone into the actual game play physics, this could have been the best Star Trek 
 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagrofess
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Overall, this game is quite good but the controls can be real annoying as can the camera angles. 
 The campaign starts well but cannot really carry itself and some of the later levels are near impossible. 
 Unfortunately it does not pay equal attention to each era but makes up for this with the detail 
 and variety of ships. The multi-player lacks a Trekky feel and seems as if it was only half finished. 
 This game is good for passing a bit of time, but you will eventually become bored. Not worth paying 
 the RRP of &pound;29.99 for sure. More of a &pound;15 deal.
  
  Besides the bad controls, multiplayer and dwindling storyline, Star Trek Legacy is a decent game 
 at heart but lacks substance, which ultimately lets the game down.
  
  I also found the game to jerk a lot and had a really hard time stopping the lag (even though I 
 have a really powerful pc, but I do who knows...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adz21
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  everyone seems to have such a negative view on this game. But its as bad as it sounds. In single 
 player mode you can play campaign, starting as captain archer then through to kirk, and onwards. 
 You can control up to four ships at a time (by switching between them) and fight in epic battles. 
 
  
  some of the single player missions are a bit difficult, you might get swarmed by little romulan 
 ships while trying to guard other ships.. but.. its a challenge i guess.
  
  One thing is though... if you have vista, you should know that this game is only good for single 
 player, its only partially compatible with vista.. and thats only if you by the 'Xp/vista' version 
 rather than just 'XP'.
  
  But, that said, theres a few mods out there, among them is UUM (ultimate Universe Mod) that adds 
 a little extra to the gameplay, loads more ships, bigger maps, etc. Then again, the armoured voyager 
 is a little overpowered...
  
  But i cant tell you what you like so.. if you want a tactical kinda game, that doesnt take too 
 much messing around to play, you might wanna give star trek: legacy a chance.
  
  -AdZ- :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker058
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I am a long time star trek fan and have been playing the games online since starfleet command gold 
 edition. I must say that the graphics are quite good in this game but that is about all the good 
 things I can say about this game. When i got the game right out of the box the multiplayer would 
 not work, the cut scenes are really choppy, controls are aweful, impossible to chat in multiplayer 
 due to multiple letters upon every keystroke, sometimes the mouse just goes crazy and your view 
 goes with it all over the map and you cant do anything while this is happening, and the fact that 
 this game is an xbox 360 port and the xbox 360 control layout is even in the pc game in a file 
 on the disk yet bethesda says that this game is not a port. I waited since the end of starfleet 
 command 3 only to waste my money on the worst star trek game ever made! It is sad that a game that 
 had so much potential turns out to be an utter piece of trash. I should have just taken my $50 
 and set it on fire... at least i would have gotten some enjoyment out of the experience instead 
 of the constant frustration with a game that was clearly made by a company that just does not care 
 about the consumer at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalsyr
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  I recognised that Mad doc used similar style of Game that was used in Star Trek Armada II (RTS 
 Strategy) . I bought the game and played the first mission. Piece of cake. Walk in the park. When I 
 read the reviews I thought the every body must be Joking. Ok I normally play with the games Manual 
 so I can understand the controls better. Its normal controls which are W, A, S, D. with the mouse targeting 
 ships and on top of it you are controlling a Bohemoth of a ship ,its not move like a space fighter 
 .So Maybe it does'nt agree with everybody's stomach but I tell you this, it is the next step to 
 a better quality game. Who gives a Damn about the planets. Also the first mission is a tutorial. Makes 
 me think do people read the manual before playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Although I do love Star Trek games, I am still well shy of being what most would classify as a 
 fan boy . Like everyone else, I was expecting this to be the end-all of Star Trek ship combat games. 
 And while Legacy does have its share of shortcommings, to be objective I must admit it breaks some 
 ground too.
  
  Gameplay: The ships are sluggish. The creators heralded this as realism because, and I agree, these 
 are capital ships, not small fighters (which small vessels like the Defiant are quite agile which 
 gives a good poalr opposite to the way the large ships move) . I do wish they would respond a bit 
 quicker as I found heading one way and trying to switch to the opposite direction would often result 
 in a delayed reaction feel to how the ship would respond. However, by the time I was through the 
 game I found I had adapted to this and was able to work with it. Having played many first-person 
 shooters and WOW (pvp requires a good deal of mastering of the movement keys to be good at it) , 
 I did not have much trouble using the WASD movement keys. However, the tactical map was a nightmare. 
 The concept was fine, but the mouse moved around the map at the most annoyinly slow speed.
  
  Overall, I can't disagree the gameplay could have used some polishing, but I can't in good 
 concience say this is a dealbreaker like many others have.
  
  Graphics: I have mixed reviews on this part. The enviornment was visually adequate and the ships 
 were graphically well above average, but the way objects (especially space stations) blew up made 
 me feel embarassed for the designers. They would litterally spit into 4 or 5 poorly drawn chunks 
 and spin unrealistically away from the explosion point with very little fanfare. I have seen explosions 
 on games 6 years old that make these look dated and even as I write this I am annoyed by the lackluster 
 animation. That said, the rest of the graphics were good and I loved the realistic appearance of 
 the weapons fire. The TNG phasers were a solid line while the Original Series ships phaser fire 
 were somewhat pulsing just like the movies. Nice job paying attention to details. I recall one 
 fight where I was flying by a ship that was taking a line of phaser fire and smoke and debris was 
 falling away behind the phaser line as it cut down the side of the ship. If you close your eyes 
 while stuff blows up, you'll only see cinematic quality combat that's like living a movie.
  
  Sound: Adequate for Star Trek. I was saddened that there was no original music. The age-old 
 Klingon theme would have been very complimentary to several appearances by the race. In the end, 
 it worked, but was nothing spectacular. The captain voices were good overall. I chuckled as Scott 
 Bacula sounded so hollow with Archer for a couple of missions and by the end of the Enterprise 
 campaign had finally got into character. Shattner sounded like he'd rather be nursing a brandy 
 in some night club the whole time. Stewart was to say it in one word Picard , by far the best performance. 
 Sisko and Janeway made appearances and were believeable, just brief. Still nice to hear them again.
 
  
  Value: I would have been irked to have paid full price for this game (but I'm a cheap bastard) . 
 All things considered if you can pay twenty bucks for it like I did, I'd say it's money well spent. 
 I think a lot of people were disappointed in this game because it was supposed to be the realization 
 of many a Trek lovers dream of what a Trek game should be. I believe this is why it has taken such 
 a hit and so much critisizm. It has bared the brunt of the inadequacies of every poor imitation 
 of Star Trek to date. The story was short and mildly interesting, I think the designers cared more 
 about the design of the game than the content. The TNG campaign is without a doubt one of the coolest 
 Star Trek gaming experiences I have had to date. Patrick Stewart did an excellent job of voicing 
 Picard and the mission combat was worthy of a Star Trek movie. I wish those of you who quit before 
 making it here would carry on so you can see it. This game is what it is. Yes, I agree they could 
 have done more with the story and pulling the player into the experience. It's as if they didn't 
 get it together until the TNG missions. The controls are standard port quality, but I found them 
 workable (except for that acursed tactical map) . If you love Star Trek, give this game a shot and 
 put your biases aside. It's not the monster everyone has made it out to be. If you have an Xbox, 
 I've heard it handles better than the PC port. Either way, this game is good ship combat in a simplistic 
 form. If you want a Star Trek ship simulator, might I recommend Star Trek Bridge Commander. You'll 
 find it in the Similar Games box to the right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 13, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy was an utterly disappointing game, especially coming from the big-mother Bethesda. 
 With a good reputation on the Elder Scrolls, I was really expecting a great sci-fi game. But no, 
 this was just a bad experience from the beginning and in the end, I did not play the game for very 
 long. The graphics are terribly out-dated, the voice acting was driving me up the wall, the game 
 play needs a lot of work and the story line was just plain bad. No, I did not like this game one 
 bit. In fact, after playing for a few hours, it put it up on an auction site just to get rid of 
 it. Do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwatson jr
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  If only Bethesda had removed the errors in the manual and provided decent documentation on how 
 to target and fly the spacecraft properly this could have been a great game.
  
  Once I took the time to learn how to fly it by reading everything I could find in the forums on 
 Bethesda I began to really enjoy the game. The graphics are great. The story lines are super, and 
 any die hard Trek fan will love this game, but learn the controls first or you will be very disappointed. 
 Once you learn the controls, and figure out how to target properly everything falls into place. 
 It is really sad that a major game provider that produces the likes of Morrowind, etc. had to produce 
 something as obvioulsly lacking as this game. They really should start paying attention to what 
 fans want, and give the quality we expect. Whoever managed the release of this game prematurely 
 should be fired. I hope they procuce the required patches and support documents to make this the 
 game ithe designers had intended it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maveryck69
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Ok ive played this game half the night through. First off i love the graphics accept for the borg 
 cubes and some crappy explosion design, its like they got in a hurry to release the game and just 
 slapped some script together to make a mess of a metal plate that looks like the commodore 64 is 
 back, but i thought that was overlookable, and even correctable with a patch. Next the really bad 
 controls.... they are just horrible, but again being a heavy trekky fan i overlooked it and learned 
 pretty well to manouver and destroy, but how well can you really master this mess of controlability. 
 Still i continued to play on. I do have som good to say about this game and that is that it is 
 actually fun to play and the hard controlability is a tad entertaining to figure out yet it is 
 frustrating. It seems to have an alright story line, though im far from finishing it. I really 
 wanted to give this game a higher rating than 6.7, but the only reason its even that high is because 
 i gave the sound a 10. This game just lacks the expectations all Star Trek fans had for a bethesda 
 developed game, and the ships weapons specification are just so incorrect its not even funny..... since 
 when did the Enterprise-A have 3 photon torpedo bays and only 4 phaser banks??????? Anyway looking 
 at this game ive come to the conclusion we will probably never see Fallout 3, but if we do itll 
 probably be a mess like this game. In conclusion, this game is fully burnable and has no cd key 
 to speak of...... if you wanna play it find someone that owns it and try it.... dont by it, go buy 
 starfleet command 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The ships are difficult to control ... some times they just don't respond at all.
  The heads up display is unintuitive and the objectives in the game are so obvious and typical as 
 to be sleep inducing. You go from point a to point b and blow stuff up ... big surprise ... thats 
 if you can get your ship to corporate enough to get you there. The method of navigation is klunky 
 to say the least.
  You use the cross hairs on your display and double click to go in that direction. Unfortunately, 
 often your own ship blocks the view and you go no ware. The only good thing I have to say about 
 it is that it looks nice. But the ONE camera view you are locked into makes even this nice look 
 ... boring. A fly by or even the ability to zoom in or out would be nice ... but they didn't even 
 do that. The lack of these simple things is confusing considering they are features present in 
 even some of the oldest combat sim type games. Just another half baked Star Trek game I'm sorry 
 to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruper11
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Game is quite annoying because of it`s controls and camera modes, but is higly addictive... and 
 has a great soundtrack... we can hear all original voices from every series : the next generation, 
 enterprise, voyager... only Scott Bakula`s voice is kinda stiff, and of course Wiliam Shatner`s 
 voice that we hear during the gameplay is not so young and strong as we remember from the series. 
 Graphics are really detailed, i`ve spend many hours just looking around the space and contemplating 
 detailed spaceship models... It`s a really good game for fans of the serie and also just for the 
 begginers in the Star Trek universe, really good job from Bethesda and Mad Doc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I was very tempted to buy this game as soon as it came out. I had been wanting 
 a good Star Trek game for a while, and Legacy looked promising. Thankfully, I did not pre-order 
 and waited for the reviews, so that when I finally bought it I knew what I was getting. At this 
 point, I would not recommend that anyone buy this game. Wait for the next patch (1.3) . The game 
 is missing some key elements that should have been included. However, if you decide to go ahead 
 and buy it, it can be made rather enjoyable with a XBox 360 controller and some mods. Still, the 
 best advice is to wait and see what the developer and modders do next before buyiing.
  
  Gameplay: Right off the bat, the gameplay is very awkward with the default keyboard and mouse controls. 
 The real shame is that these controls cannot be remapped, which is rather inexplicable. The game 
 was made to be played with a 360 controller which greatly enhances gameplay. If you are one of 
 these PC gamers who thinks gamepads are beneath you, then pass on this game. However, with a controller 
 plugged in, you're in for a treat. The ships handle pretty well and the camera (controlled by the 
 right stick on the 360 gamepad) lets you rotate in every direction. Much of the combat -- the whole 
 game is based in space -- is cinematic, as if it were directly from the movies. Your adrenaline will 
 get pumped in a number of fights as you play with and against the Federation, Klingons, Romulans, 
 and the Borg. Moreover, Legacy is easily the best looking Star Trek game to date and certainly 
 the most immersive.
  
  The game comes with a fairly interesting single-player campaign of 15 missions. However, it has 
 a problem, a big problem. There is no in-mission save system. The game autosaves between missions, 
 but you're on your own during the mission. This is a huge problem because some of the missions 
 are quite long (over an hour) and any slip up means you're have to start from the beginning. It's 
 an inexcusable oversight on the part of the developers that just doesn't make any sense. Before 
 starting the campaign, I would strongly suggest downloading the Community Mod (0.4 is the most 
 recent version) that adds an unlimited save feature, easier access to the map-making tools, some 
 additional maps, and some nice textures. I couldn't imagine trying to play this game within this 
 fan-made mod loaded, given how frustrating some of the missions can be. The mod also opens up all 
 of the missions so that you can play them in any order anytime. The skirmish mode is lots of fun, 
 but it, too, suffers from a huge design flaw. You can have up to four sides with four ships, but 
 you can't select the AI enemy ships and have set-piece battles. Thus, no recreating the Khan vs. 
 Kirk battles of Star Trek II or the battle royale against the Borg cube at the beginning of Star 
 Trek: First Contact (although there is a mod available) . This omitted feature alone greatly damages 
 the replay value of the game. Also, the lack of other gameplay modes besides death match is disappointing. 
 I hope that the developers will patch these options into the game, or some enterprising modder 
 will at least unlock the AI enemy selection option. Again, I have no idea why this feature was 
 left out.
  
  Graphics: Generally, the visuals are stunning. The ships are all finely detailed, and other objects 
 (planets, stars, nebulae, etc.) look really good. Many fights look like film footage from movies 
 and are worth taking screenshots of. The only sore spot in the graphics is the explosions, which 
 can be downright ugly. Borg ships are the worse and sometimes show blank square panels as they 
 break apart. It's really a shame since the other parts of the game are so attractive.
  
  Sound: Everything, thankfully, is in order with the audio. The orchestral soundtrack is suitably 
 Star Trek in feel, and the voice acting by the 5 captains is good. Sound effects are done well, 
 too.
  
  Technical issues: The game does not have any major technical issues beyond the missing features, 
 but there are glitches. The game manual is inaccurate in places and is obviously a carryover from 
 the XBox 360 version of the game. The default control scheme cannot be remapped, and you cannot 
 replay a skirmish game without dropping to the main menu. The game crashed about a dozen times 
 during the campaign, usually during heavy engagements. On an up-to-date computer, this game should 
 play smoothly and look very good.
  
  Replayability/Value: While the campaign is good overall (though frustrating in places) , the replay 
 value of the game will not be decent until the option for selecting AI enemy ships in skirmish 
 mode is added. Although I don't play online, I suppose the multiplayer experience can be good if 
 you can find a game. Ultimately, Legacy is the shell or promise of a good game, not the reality 
 of one. It's for a niche audience of Star Trek gamers who have the time and patience to wait for 
 the official patches and the fan-made goodies (including texture mods, new maps, new missions, 
 etc.) that will make this game really shine. The poor folks who bought this game within the first 
 week of release (or even worse, pre-ordered) and the people who are not interested in mods will 
 suffer the most from this purchase. Of course, it's not right, and the publisher (Bethesda) and 
 developer (Mad Doc) should be ashame. However, I predict that in two years from now this game will 
 be like Bridge Commander and Starfleet Command 3; that is, an out-of-print, heavily modded cult 
 classic with used copies selling on eBay for $100 each. If you can just wait for the great mods 
 to come out and more patches, this game will likely be worth the asking price. If you are looking 
 for a great Star Trek game out of the box, look elsewhere.
  
  Overall, I rate this game a 6. If you play it with an XBox 360 controller, add 1 point. And if 
 you add some choice fan-made mods to the game (start with the Community Mod) , add a little more 
 to this score. Pros:
  --Graphics (especially ships)
  --Sounds and voice acting
  --Cinematic battles
  --Decent campaign (with Community Mod save-game feature)
  --Convincing 
 Star Trek atmosphere
  --Fun battles (with XBox 360 controller)
  
  Cons:
  --Goofy default controls
  --No in-mission save feature
  --No ability to select AI enemy ships 
 in skirmish mode
  --Ugly explosions
  --Limited gameplay modes
  --Poor manual
  --An overall lack of polish
  --We should have gotten much more for the 40th anniversary of Star 
 Trek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spown8661
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  It's true that this game is not what people expected it to be but I personally like it. It has 
 all of the elements I want from a Star Trek game -- good graphics, great ships, good voice acting 
 (the originals!) . The latest patches fixed almost all of the bugs so that has been taken care of. 
 I don't understand why the people complain of the interface so much. Once you get used to it, it's 
 pretty easy. I loved how the developers integrated all of the Star Trek eras into one campaign! 
 I'm sure that's something all Trekies would appreciate.
  
  Conclusion:
  This is a great game for everybody who enjoy great graphics and awesome Star Trek experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian0007
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I expected a game not a nightmare. The only fun is switching off the game before i get upset. You 
 may like it and enjoy watching your target just there but you cannot just get there. The booklet 
 has keyboard commands which actually do something else. And ywho thought up the gem just press 
 back space for max power then off. Press a key and wait, Oh no press it again. Whoever wrote this 
 one needs to go back to school and learn how to programme from scratch.
  Star trek world has been let down by this excuse of a GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of Star Trek. Now, that means that the defiant is my favorite ship, and that I really 
 dug watching many of the movies. It does not mean that you'll find me wearing a gold-painted barette 
 over my eyes like the guy from reading rainbow, nor will you find me wearing pointed ears, which 
 were a great bargain because I can use them when I get together with all of my equally nerdy LoTR 
 friends. But, I'm a Star Trek fan. I've seen most of the episodes of every series, and, I have 
 a fair knowledge of most things that happen on the show, which, admittedly, gives me a smug sense 
 of superiority.... although I know it shouldn't.
  
  With that said, I really enjoyed Star Trek: Legacy. However, a caveat if you will, I enjoyed it 
 much in the same way that I hated the movie: 'There's Something about Mary.' Let me explain; I 
 am sure it's a good movie, but, I didn't get out to see it the first week of it's release, which 
 is a little unusual for me, to be honest. So, I endured several weeks of just about everyone I 
 know telling me that it was the 'funniest movie ever,' and, 'you have to see it, it's sooooo gooooood!'... 
 etc, ad ininium. When I finally saw the movie, I was not only disappointed, but actually revolted 
 by it. I'm not a fan of Ben Stiller, but he can make me laugh, but I really... hated it. I think 
 it's because of what everyone told me. It couldn't live up.
  
  Legacy is the same way, I think. It's got some issues. Some big issues, I can't deny that. However, 
 I think that many of the reviews that I've seen have blown a lot of it's 'flaws' out of proportion. 
 All in all, though, the game is a lot of fun, it let's you command a variety of ships throughout 
 the Star Trek franchise, and, can be an interesting diversion. I run a fairly high-end system (I 
 believe that I've established myself as a geek, and will not expound, but trust me, my e-wang is 
 probably bigger than yours) , so, I'm able to run the game at a very high resolution without even 
 the slightest of stutter, so, the complaints of 'system requirements' do not really effect me, 
 but, I imagine, from seeing the game in action, that most of those complaints are coming from people 
 who weren't wry enough to turn off the 4x AA that is enabled by default, although, I could be wrong. 
 It could also have something to do with the fact that a lot of people don't understand what system 
 requirements and system recommendations are. There's a list of the things you MUST HAVE out the 
 package, and many people don't know or care about that list. Just because you have a computer made 
 in the last 3 years doesn't mean that you can play every video game on the shelf. So sorry.
  
  However, even at lower resolutions, without a lot of eye candy, the game is still very stunning. 
 I can only knock it for the fact that, as noted in many reviews, large object explosions are pretty 
 silly. Even with that flaw, though, the attention to detail on the models is quite literally breathtaking.
 
  
  Beyond the graphics, the sound is very good, even if some of the 'exclamations' can get a little 
 repetitive. since you change eras frequently, you're not hearing the captain say the same things 
 for too many levels, and when I get tired of Kirk and Sulu, I might just change to the miranda 
 class ship in my envoy and continue on. The story... well, I actually enjoyed it a lot. It seems 
 like a very plausible way for the Borg to come about, and, really, it's pretty reasonable, so that 
 I don't want to write angy letters about it. Not that I would... My only real complaint about the 
 story is that, without any cutscenes, and very little between mission reading, it doesn't pace 
 all that well. The fact that it's told entirely through voice overs makes it a little frustrating.
 
  
  As to between missions, before you start each mission you must pick your 'fleet', but, they don't 
 give you any info as to what's coming in the next mission, so, if you pick all big clunky ships, 
 you might find you need a mission that involves a lot of speed to get from point to point. Though, 
 you can bet it will probably be either shooting ships, or flying from point to point. There's not 
 a lot of variety. Not that there could be with a game like this. One of the biggest complaints 
 I've read is that there's no in mission Save System. But... to be honest, I haven't really found 
 this an issue at all. Most missions don't run more than half an hour, and I've only failed a mission 
 3 times, and it was the same mission, which, was, admittedly, a little annoying. Beyond the single 
 player campaign, there is also a built in skirmish mode, which is amusing, because you can play 
 as any of the four 'races', and get to pick ships out of any era. I enjoyed it... though, without 
 a lot a 'replay' option, it's a little annoying that you have to repick your loadout everytime. 
 It did give me a chance to vary the settings a bit though. I didn't try the multi-player at all, 
 but honestly, I'm not really sure why I would. I enjoy multi-player games... but this one doesn't 
 strike me as a replacement for bf2142 by any stretch of the imagination. The last thing I'll mention 
 are the controls. The controls, to me, are pretty good, but, there are times they can be a bit 
 frustrating. I think they did a really good job, given the resources they had, and the ridiculous 
 undertaking of translating the 360 controls to a keyboard. A gamepad helps a lot in this game, 
 though, I made due with the kb + mouse combo pretty well for the most part. In the end, I will 
 say that I really enjoyed this game. I continue to play it. I would definitely say that this is 
 one that would probably be better played on the 360, and most certainly would be good to wait for 
 a clearance shelf. The graphics and sound are great, and the controls are a little tough, but not 
 unreasonable. If you're a Star Trek fan with a typical Star Trek fan PC... it's worth playing just 
 to see the stunning ships, and to hear the 137 year old William Shatner say, Klinongs! and Fire 
 Photons! . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathewwright69
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Can&acute; t get the damn game from freezing every five minites. I am using a pentium D processor 
 plenty of disc space and ram and a new graphics card wit 512mb ram memory, way more than the recommended 
 specs required. the game still locks. where the hell is the patch to eleviate these problems err? 
 The game would be lovely if you could play it for more than 30 seconds without a large screeching 
 noise coming out of the speakers and the game freezing solid like a block of ice.
  
  Totally useless game I should have just downloaded it and never paid 30 quid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forensic
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I consider myself an odd gamer. I like to review my games, but more often than not, I find that 
 the sheer amount of sarcasm that courses through my veins can take over and I tend to be more of 
 a critic of games -- a harsh one at that -- than I otherwise would be if I were just a casual gamer.
 
  
  However, the cynical attitude I have helps to allow me to rip things apart with ease.
  
  Sadly, it's days like this that I wish I wasn't such a cynical bastard when I'm playing games 
 because I just played the new Bethesda game Star Trek: Legacy... and you don't want to know the 
 levels to which this game truly and utterly sucks.
  
  You don't. It's really quite traumatic. Especially for someone who actually likes Star Trek. You 
 don't want to know how you're going to be installing just under 3.20 gb of information to find 
 a game that feels more like it was a quarter completed before Mad Doc and Bethesda rushed it out 
 to make a quick buck.
  
  You don't want to know that it's buggy and badly made and how it sounds weak or that the script 
 is shocking or the missions pointless, the multiplayer non-functional, or just that at points your 
 mouse runs away from the game at the sheer sight of how bad this game is.
  
  You really don't. So I'm not going to tell you how bad it is.
  
  I'm going to describe in agonising 
 details how pitiful this game is and ask the question every few paragraphs Why the hell did they 
 allow this thing to be packaged up and sold to consumers?! 
  
  First let's start with the good things. There aren't a whole lot so we'll get through this paragraph 
 or two quite quickly.
  
  The idea behind the game is a good one, especially if you're a fan of the series. The premise is 
 that you'll follow a story through all of the Star Trek series arcs that have taken place, starting 
 with Captain Archer (Quantum Leap's Scott Bakula) and the Enterprise NX-01 to the classic Captain 
 Kirk (William Shatner) and the real Enterprise through to Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) then 
 to Deep Space Nine's Sisko (Avery Brooks) and finally ending up with Voyager's Janeway (Kate Mulgrew) .
 
  
  Sound good so far? It gets better.
  
  You'll be controlling the ships and creating your own mini-fleet as you battle Romulans and Klingons 
 and The Borg in a story involving Vulcan-logic and Borg-assimilation. You'll get to control the 
 Enterprises and the Defiant and about any other class ship you can think of and it'll all be done 
 in 3d in nice graphics and it'll rock and... yeah... I'm beginning to lose patience for this crap 
 too.
  
  So, as I was saying before, here are the good things:
  The graphics don't suck as much as I expected they would. Sure, they're not the most brilliant 
 of graphics compared to a lot of games coming out, but they're actually pretty attractive depending 
 on your config. On my ATI X800, they looked better-than-decent, and I was quite surprised by that. 
 Ships seem to display a sense of depth and volume, more so than most Trek games seem to give off. 
 Even the space phenomena like nebulae look good. The spatial rifts look stupid, but I guess you 
 can't win them all.
  
  The music isn't bad. It's very repetitive, but it's all your typical Star Trek orchestral fanfare. 
 Its real lack of anything that defines what a Legacy of Star Trek would be is what kills the music, 
 sadly. For a Legacy , it lacks any of the real themes, which is a shame. Bethesda could at the 
 very least have licensed a track of two and entwined it with the soundtrack. Even without it, it's 
 not an overly bad soundtrack. At least it's one of the not-so-crap parts of the game.
  
  Oh, and there are voices of the captains you all know and love. And... yup. That's it. We both 
 can take a breather now because that was it. There is nothing else good about this game.
  
  Now I can describe for you in painful ways how such a game is more like a corrupt virus (is there 
 any other kind?) than a video game that you'd actually want to play.
  
  Before I start, I'd like to sum it up with a quote I said to a friend a few minutes prior to beginning 
 the writing on this review so you can get a general gist of what I'm going to say:
  
  It crashes a lot, loses mouse control, has bugs galore, missions that go on and on that you can't 
 save through, the voices lack feeling, the sounds are edited badly, the control scheme is disgustingly 
 poor, the navigation menu has amazingly slow mouse control, the story is stupid and loaded with 
 continuity errors that any trek fan will pick up... its as if the guys at Mad Doc (who developed 
 it) were constantly on acid when they were developing it. 
  
  Right, so now you see what you're going to be in for with the game and this review.
  
  Here 
 we go...
  
  From the get-go, I installed the game, loaded it up and played through the first mission. Scott 
 Bakula's Captain Archer sounded less convincing than on the show and sounded like it was more a 
 chore (which is a shame because I liked him on the show) . So, I played through the level and while 
 the tutorial options were just irritating pop-ups that came and told you what you were supposed 
 to do, it was still fairly easy.
  
  The control scheme uses a mouse control for the camera views, ENTER for centring the camera back 
 on the behind of your ship, a WASD control for steering the ship, SPACE for selecting your next 
 enemy, CTRL / MOUSE 1 &amp; ALT / MOUSE 2 for phaser and photon torpedo weapons respectively, and 
 an F key for doing other things like hailing ships or transporting crew over to things and what-not. 
 You even get to either use your scroll wheel or the BACKSPACE command to control your throttle, 
 which lets you have a grand total of 4 choices for speed control: full, one half, one quarter, 
 or none.
  
  Get used to the lack of choices. This game is filled with them.
  
  So anyway, I play through to the end of the first mission by getting the Enterprise to blow away 
 a Romulan ship (which seems too powerful for their size, but who's counting here) . My mission is 
 a success... so it automatically saves!
  
  And there goes my mouse. I've lost all control. I can't press enter or space or anything... I can't 
 click OK to move on... it's... just... stuck. But it hasn't crashed. The music is still playing 
 its orchestral goodness like I'm not going to notice. The mouse has just seen the sights of how 
 bad this game is and has beamed itself to anything BUT this game as quickly as it could.
  
  So I use Task Manager to force quit the game and try again.
  
  Half way through the combat 
 this time, it decides to save on me, which is very odd because saving through a mission is something 
 you actually can't do in this game.
  
  So if you've got a long mission of blowing up an excessive amount of warp field stopper-thingies, 
 you're stuck playing it for however long you have to in order to get to the next level. Your choices 
 are either play or exit, and if you exit, you'll have to start all over again.
  
  So back to it, I'm trying to control my awkward control scheme while attempting to blow up Romulans 
 at the same time and all of a sudden, it's saved my game and my mouse has disappeared on me again.
 
  
  And this happened two more times in similar ways immediately after.
  
  This is a really bad bug... and it hasn't been patched. In over six weeks since the game has been 
 released, only one patch has been issued, and that was for GameSpy connectivity.
  
  All of this should give you a fundamental understanding of how bad this game really is.
  
  
 Let me get more serious in my review here and really tell you what's wrong about it.
  
  Yes, there are bugs. And they will come left, right and centre. You will lose mouse control, your 
 camera won't do as its told, your game play will stutter and jiggle and do everything BUT feel 
 like it's been programmed well.
  
  And let's talk about the camera control... I've felt more at ease in trying to balance a spoon 
 on my nose, and I can't do that to save my life. When you're flying through space doing nothing 
 more than checking out a planet or two, it'll work fine. But the moment you're in a battle, it'll 
 be as if you're racing in an oil slick and trying to find you way out. It just doesn't work, and 
 it doesn't even feel as if it's been made for this game. It feels more like a cheap flight simulator 
 from a 3rd person point of view than a starship-space simulator.
  
  What the hell were they thinking when they packaged this piece of junk and sent it off to stores?!
 
  
  If you're already having problems with bugs and bad control schemes, try getting around the mission 
 design: it's all over the place!
  
  At points, the levels are either too easy or just too long. When they're too long, only the most 
 die-hard of Trek fans are going to play them and all they're going to get at the end of it is another 
 dialogue by the Captain and if they're lucky, a Mission Successful dialog box. At one point, upon 
 successfully completing a mission, I was greeted with a mission failure box!
  
  But wait! There's more!
  
  The sound isn't good. Sure, the phasers and photons and engines 
 sound nice and crispy and some of the dialogue is good, but it's let down by poor editing and a 
 bad script. A lot of the lines feel rushed, choppy, and all over the place.
  
  In fact, while the voice overs by the actual actors are generally decent, only Kate Mulgrew's and 
 Avery Brooks' parts (which seem to be the most limited) sound altogether constantly believable.
 
  
  The remaining voices tend to sound immature and unlike the characters they're representing, almost 
 border on being a comedy, while the Queen of the Borg has the worst sound altogether. You see, 
 the Borg are supposed to sound as a collective, as one.
  Not this new Queen. She's singular, there are no other voices. It is only her when she's on the 
 comms to you and it doesn't flow or gel with the other sounds that the Borg make in the game.
 
  
  Everything's all over the place!
  
  And the script... Christ, don't get me started. As someone who loves scripts, I think I've found 
 a script I actually loathe. The story is creative but stupid as far as Trek timelines go, and the 
 continuity errors pop-up all over the place from ships people control to their ranks to  
 it's just... insane!
  
  I haven't even mentioned the boring scenes at the start of the missions. You see, the missions 
 are treated like episodes (they're even given names!) , but because this game is built more like 
 a tactical squad flight sim, your opening animatics are purely views of ships with a voice over 
 dialogue cut over it. It's about as entertaining as watching grass grow... with narration.
  
  Yep.
  
  Whoever thought that this would emulate the feel of an opening to a Star Trek episode 
 obviously had never watched one.
  
  There's multiplayer and skirmishes, but half of the time the AI will just pair you up with a ship 
 that is going to be a lot bigger than yours and the other half of the time it just doesn't work 
 at all. And then there's the support, which seems to be one of the worse parts of this whole Legacy 
 .
  
  The communities of angry customers and fans of the game are either having major issues in getting 
 the game to work or are having requests for patches to fix things fall on deaf ears. Bethesda seem 
 to be doing nothing about any of the problems or complaints and it makes me wonder how either Mad 
 Doc or Bethesda got this thing out of beta-testing and to a gold status.
  
  It's just hideously unfinished.
  
  The communities of angry customers have actually paired 
 together and released their own modifications that act more like patches and allow customers to 
 do what neither Mad Doc nor Bethesda have allowed as of this point to let many of its customer 
 actually play the game.
  
  All of this is a shame, especially since there have been loads of bad Trek games.
  In recent 
 years, however, weve seen some very good ones. Titles like the Elite Force series, Bridge Commander, 
 Starfleet Command 3, and the Armada games are all worth mentioning, as well as the old A Final 
 Unity game.
  
  But this game really only furthers to tread all over the so-called Legacy this game aspires to 
 represent. Instead of doing the label justice, it weakens it and takes our hopes for a good gaming 
 experience with it.
  
  This game would be better off pushed out of an airlock than taken seriously by anyone wanting to 
 purchase it. Steer clear until patches are issued, and then you might still want to wait 'till 
 this game hits the bargain bin.
  
  I wouldn't even feed this to a Targ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladislaus
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  I'm a dir hard Star Trek fan, but it pains me to say that this game was a huge disappointment. 
 First, the controls. At first I tried to play it on the keyboard, but it turned out to be a frustrating 
 exercise, the controls are simply wrong. Then I used my gamepad, and it got better, but I still 
 didnt liked the gameplay (The ship control should have been like it was in Bridge Commander) . 
 The AI of the ships in you group is appalling. The single player mode is very very short. The graphics 
 and sounds are the only good points in the game.
  
  Its a pity, this could have been a great game. Lets hope that Bethesda Softworks repairs the 
 game problems and improve the gameplay. If they dont do this, perhaps the mod community will. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skybluemad04
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  When beginning the campaign i enjoyed it, i had bought a PC controller which did make the game 
 easier to play however moving is still difficult and rigid. As many others have said when approaching 
 a large object or planet the ships seem to bounce off them, however it makes me think it would 
 be impossible to avoid asteroids when you are focused on your enemy (or am i just a noob :D ) Also 
 when fighting larger ships it seemed very difficult to move into a firing position. Ship detail 
 i think is excellent and i think the impact effect on shields and other ships is good, However, 
 I watched the E3 preview when a load of ships at DS9 fought a Tactical Cube, the impact looked 
 like the movies and i was impressed, but no, we're going back to starfleet command graphics the 
 weapons do seem to disappear into the cubes (with a small amount of explosions) The campaign i 
 believed started well and Scott Bakula did a good enthusiastic voice over, but the campaign started 
 to lose its course, i expected there to be some voyager and DS9 related missions, and also more 
 with the Enterprise D. The storyline was good but did just lose its track. One mission where you 
 have to rescue planets from stellar debris was nearly impossible. When moving the turrets into 
 position with the tractor beam, you had to be precise to the millimetre, by the time you had it 
 aligned the planet was destroyed. It took me 12 times to complete!!!! I liked the idea of the tactical 
 map and was helpful, especially on the asteroids! however if you input a command and then go back 
 to ship view the ship cancels the order and puts you back in control. When you order a ship to 
 fire in ship view but then switch ship, the last ship moves away and focuses on a target miles 
 away!! (this really didnt help when debris is heading for 3 planets, i need to command 3 other 
 ships!!) Unfortunately the campaign was too short and didnt involve the series like i thought it 
 would. There must have been about 8-9 hours gameplay and this being from the makers of Oblivion 
 i expected more. Patrick Stewart did a good voiceover as usual however Sisko sounded like he had 
 a hangover! In the end i think i was disappointed with game length and depth. Skirmishes are boring, 
 sorry but i played one and i was bored, it was then decided that i'd finished the game. I tried 
 connecting to multiplayer, however i was unsuccessful and there was no one there. I was originally 
 happy with the game and i think it was rather successful, however after looking back it was swamped 
 with clumsy mistakes and was disappointing that the game was so short. Im not sure what to think.
 
  
  WARNING: DO NOT ATTEMPT WITH A KEYBOARD!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackDevil99
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I WANT to like this game. But I can't.
  The Reviews have been across the board (granted, more heavily on the lower end) , I'll tell you 
 why.
  The Treckies (Which I am not, despite my enjoyment of star trek, most of them) want to like this 
 game so much, that they over come there basic senses, and many nerds are treckies, and many nerds 
 are also game reviewers. A pattern!
  However, any basically objective party will see that this game suffers from 3 main points.
  1) 
 NO in-mission save, at all. Dosn't matter if you play for 5 min or 5 hours. if u loose, u loose. 
 prepare to become frustrated
  2) The absolute worst control scheme since Enter the Matrix, possibly worse. This is perhaps the 
 most frustrating thing in the game. If you need the manual (which lists wrong controls, they really 
 have to print those AFTER they make the game) open to controls to play the game. somethings wrong. 
 once again, frustrating
  3) poor, really poor mission design. scan the thing, shoot the thing, protect the thing. rinse 
 and repeat. Hope you like frustrating, because that's all we got.
  so frustration is all this game has in spades. If 5 captains are why you bought this game, then 
 consider urself a nerd. and just to end this, so every nerd, i mean treckie will hate me
  william shatner suc! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dioncarlyle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has the unfortunate luck of being sent forth as a game to grant fans and gamers of this 
 tremendous franchise a reprieve from a long list of disappointing games that preceded. It unfortunately 
 does nothing to dispel the ongoing disappointment of games for Star Trek.
  
  Its flashy and at first glance incredibly detailed and it's hard not to get caught up in a skirmish 
 or caught up in wave after wave of Borg... thats about all you can say for this game. The game 
 engine itself is gorgeous.
  
  When you start getting into the controls of the ships it's clumsy, your hands flying across time 
 and space to keep the enemy where you can see him, the keyboard and mouse combinations for the 
 controls have a very steep learning curve and when you do manage to figure out exactly what you 
 need to know it's just not ingratiating.
  
  The missions that were built for the single player were horribly setup starting with the tutorial 
 and it got progressively worse. For someone that has long awaited a game that satisfies, I'm going 
 to have to keep waiting I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobias1701d
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Bueno para empezar calificar este juego no es facil para mi porque soy un verdadero fanatico de 
 Star Trek desde que era peque&ntilde; o pero bueno vamos a comensar.
  
  Desde que vemos quien es el desarrollador del juego (BETHESDA SOFTWORKS) creadores de muy buenos 
 juegos como OBLIVION entre otros damos por sentado que el juego va a tener una muy buena historia 
 y muy buenas graficas y la verdad asi es.: Las graficas son MUY BUENAS las naves estan muy bien 
 dise&ntilde; adas y tiene efectos de iluminacion muy buenos y desde que comienza el juego con la 
 voz del capitan Archer (Scott Bakula) la historia empieza a desentramarse muy fielmente a la serie, 
 pero desde que empezamos a jugar la interfase nos dan ganas de salir del juego desinstalarlo y 
 tirarlo por la ventana, ya que no solo el sistema de controles es desastroso el juego no nos da 
 una introduccion a los mismos y empezamos a jugar sin saber que hacer, ni mencionar el sistema 
 de camaras desastroso pero para los que puedan superar esos detalles frustrantes encontraran que 
 ademas de poder jugar con todas las naves de la serie en un simulador muy basico de combate solo 
 la poca curiosidad de la historia es lo que te lleva a jugar a este juego.
  Se puede recomendar otro juego de la serie de Star Trek (Star Trek Bridge Commander) que es mucho 
 mejor juego en el aspecto de la interfase, controlesy esta muy a la par en graficos, pero sigamos 
 hablando del juego actual.
  
  Lo bueno: Muy buenas graficas buena historia buena dificultad
  
  Lo malo: desastrosa interfase 
 malisimo sistema de controles sistema de camaras espantoso falta la musica caracteristica de Star 
 Trek (descansa en paz Jerry Goldsmith)
  
  En conclusion hay que ser muy fanatico de la serie para poder jugarlo (yo lo soy y ni aun asi) 
 pero lo bueno es que los que tengan una XBOX 360 podran disfrutarlo como dios manda porque los 
 que tenemos Pc sensillamente ''No vamos a donde nadie a ido antes'' ''We don't go where no one 
 has gone before'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobwill1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legacy has so much potential, being one of the first games to be made that encompasses 
 all Star Trek eras. Unfortunately, the game seems to have been shipped out while it was still in 
 alpha testing as it seems that several features that people would expect from a PC game are not 
 present.
  
  The game play is entertaining, and many of the graphics are pretty; however, the customization 
 options are almost non-existent, the player cannot assign remap the controls, and the graphics 
 options are very limited. The game gives you the options to set your resolution, turn shadows on 
 and off, adjust brightness, and set Anti-aliasing to several different levels. Other than that, 
 there's no way to make the game run at higher frame-rates if your graphics card isn't up to the 
 task. Sadly, some of the graphics cards that are listed as being supported still cannot run the 
 game very well.
  
  The campaign is relatively short, though with some harder missions you might still find yourself 
 playing the game for some time, since there is no in-mission save feature, and unfortunately there 
 is only one save-game file. If you find yourself stuck without enough ships to complete a mission 
 and unable to afford to buy new ones, you're either in for a long battle to try and complete the 
 mission with what is available, or you will need to start over.
  
  The combat itself is actually rather fun, the graphics are nice and the larger ships handle quite 
 like the juggernauts you'd expect. Trek canon fanatics will find that the game's modeling of weapons 
 and shields is not really what you would expect from a Star Trek game. Ships are protected by a 
 single omni-directional shield, as opposed to being broken up by varying locations (aft, forward, 
 port, starboard, ventral, and dorsal) as seen in the shows and movies. Also, torpedoes do almost 
 nothing to shields and only damage hulls, the player needs to use their phasers to drain an enemy's 
 shields and then use a combination of phasers and torpedoes on their hulls. Ships hulls don't seem 
 to take visible damage as fast as you'd expect based on their indicated hull conditions. Your ship 
 could be nearly at the point of falling apart, yet there might only be one or two visible burn 
 marks, on your hull.
  
  When the player locks onto a target the camera automatically snaps to a location that puts both 
 the player's ship and the targeted object on screen; however, I find myself using the mouse buttons 
 and wheels for weapons fire, and throttle control, and moving the mouse happens to control the 
 camera as well, unfortunately this means that as soon as the mouse is moved the camera lock is 
 broken and now acts as a free-floating camera. This leaves the player trying to keep up with ship 
 maneuvers as well as moving the camera around. It really is not that difficult once you get used 
 to it, which should not take too long; and, precision isn't necessarily required as many ships 
 you will be playing with have good coverage with weapons; however some of the ships are small, 
 fast, maneuverable, and have very limited firing arcs, this can make lining up shots very difficult.
 
  
  The story in the campaign is interesting, the developers hired D. C. Fontana, a name that should 
 be known by almost all Star Trek fans for being one of the most beloved writers the show had in 
 its 40 year existence. Unfortunately, the campaign is somewhat short with only 3 or 4 missions 
 for each of the 3 eras, and many have claimed that the story suffered for it.
  
  On the positive side, players can target individual sub-systems on enemy ships, though the interface 
 for doing so is rather clunky on the PC, the player can also order repairs for damage taken, and 
 you can distribute power between the ships engines weapons and shields, and on some maps you can 
 even dock with stations or other facilities to get repairs and reload on torpedoes, and if one 
 of your ships is taking a real beating you can try to escape by warping to another area to attempt 
 to make repairs. Of course, your enemy can send a ship in pursuit, or they can chose to focus on 
 taking out your other ships.
  
  All in all, this game is really just for star trek fans, and even then they need to be willing 
 to look beyond what they were expecting and see it as little more than a starship shooter game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krio_1000
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Well first off lets just say that it only took me two days of solid playing to complete.. thats 
 not because its easy mind you. the controls on the game take a bit of getting used to, and i usually 
 get used to controls pretty quickly. These took me an hour, and just when u think you've got them 
 they confuse you mid-battle. The idea of having the cursor to control options is the worst idea 
 for a game simply because if you move the mouse it resets the direction the ship is flying.
  Personally if i had designed a startrek game i would have passed the controls and handling on the 
 previous, 'Star Trek Bridge Commander' those controls were simplistic but brilliant; The normal 
 W, S, A, D movement controls, and F or G to fire [or left click/ right click] . All the ships functions 
 had seperate controls so there was no confusion. For example on Star Trek Legacy, if you lock on 
 to a ship and then u deside to use the repair function then the ship stops following the targeted 
 ship because you've moved the mouse! Plus there is no gaurantee that it will lock on to the ship 
 any way, it will put the box around the targetted ship but it wont follow. Of course the only way 
 to do this is press F, however some times when you click F the ship only goes in the direction 
 which you were pointing the cross hair when you clicked F, insteda of following the enemy ship. 
 Lets just put it simply, The controls are that bad i'm getting confused talking about them!!!
 
  
  Well we've covered bad controls, (sorry for my bad grammer but its hard to explain how bad they 
 are!) lets move on to the STOREY LINE, and lets face it, it is the worst star trek storey line 
 i've ever seen heard or imagined. i mean come on the vulcans taking over the borg, i mean i know 
 you want to get all the races in, but that is pitiful! the best thing they could have done was 
 continue from the current time line with flash backs of previous time line events... OR completely 
 seperate the individual time lines all together. ) (The later being the best option) .
  
  I will say that it was a good idea to get the actors voices involved with the game but they needed 
 to be more extensively involved.. with better cutscenes. but over all i rate the sound better than 
 all the other ratings cos theres no real fault there, aside from the odd glitch they got it right! 
 Graphics!!!! well the graphics are excellent, EXCEPT for the massive glitch factor, now i dont 
 have a top of the range pc, but lets head back about 4 months ago and i did have.. The game SHOULD 
 run more beautifully than ever, how ever there are glitches upon glitches.. one of the most annoying 
 of which was what i call the cursor-save game glitch. What happens is, right you save your game 
 before each level, lets clear that up first. During gameplay, (and its generally the battle moments 
 of the game) the cursor stops functioning and disappears so if you want to repair your ship or 
 energy or look for another ship, you've got no chance. I've discovered that the only way to counter 
 this is by pressing 'esc', now heres where the -save game part of the glitch comes in. Generally 
 you would have thought that pressing esc would lead you to the options menu, WRONG. In this glitch 
 if presents a save-game confirmation screen. This screen says game saved succesfully, and displays 
 an ok put below it. now here comes the annoying part if you've just descovered this glitch-fix, 
 You can't select this ok button with the cursor, as the cursor doesnt function. So you can either 
 wonder round with you r mouse for ages hoping for the cursor to appear over that ok button or do 
 it my way, and press down several times until it selects. Now press enter and there you go cursor 
 back with the options screen.. BUUUTTT WHY DO YOU HAVE TO DO THIS ON A GAME, you should be able 
 to play with no problems, and NO Glitches!
  
  Well in all fairness the this game is worth about 99 pence in a bargin bin down your local supermarket.. 
 however it has potential for the gaming moders our there. Simply because Modders can fix these 
 bugs and glitches and send to other users.. but thats up to them. over all this game does have 
 the potential to be worth the price of a priemium game, but the developers didnt sort out the numerous 
 problems before releasing the game.
  
  So all in all the game 'IDEA' was good but they clearly didn't work hard enough to make the game 
 a success! and it is because of this that i rate the game a abysmal 1.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izmirchat
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  it simpy hasn't the good game facts which Startek Command series has. Bad Controls is the second 
 reason. Graphics are ok.. some gliches. But i think simple it doesnt deserve the name Startrek at 
 all... after Startrek Command III many Startrek fans will understand what i mean.
  Maybe someone (will) like (s) it... i don't.
  
  it simpy 
 hasn't the good game facts which Startek Command series has. Bad Controls is the second reason. 
 Graphics are ok.. some gliches. But i think simple it doesnt deserve the name Startrek at all... after 
 Startrek Command III many Startrek fans will understand what i mean.
  Maybe someone (will) like (s) it... i don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandlol
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing more but big joke to be something compared to Star Trek movies feel. Nearly 
 everything is not from even movies and great battles from movies are not even used really much. 
 Online mode federation ships are overpowered of course with Borg Cubes what most overpowered from 
 them all is Tactical Cube.
  
  After one time finishing campaign and playing few matches multiplayer you can throw this game away 
 and not touch it ever again because enough soon here is no community to play with or if is it is 
 most pure Star Trek fans mostly who play this or players who are just trying multiplayer mode.
 
  
  Multiplayer mode is biggest mistake. Too simple and no real energy management etc even in solo 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hicklebird
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I don't really need to review this game cause once again a company doesn't understand the Star 
 Trek Universe. When Bethesda first annouced a Star Trek game I was all ecstatic because as we know 
 Bethesda makes great RPG games, Oblivion for example.
  
  But they blew it.
  
  Any Star Trek fan will tell you Star Trek is an RPG game. Bethesda is sitting on a gold mine. All 
 they have to do is create a Star Trek Universe of their own making based on Gene Rodenberry's work. 
 Someone new, something new, doesn't have to have Picard, or Kirk, or Deep Space Nine, or even Admiral 
 Janeway. Just based on Star Trek. The Star Trek Universe needs something new and Bethesda is the 
 company to do this.
  
  Just do us fans one favor. Hire a Star Trek consultant. As one creates something new in the Star 
 Trek Universe there needs to be someone to say, no, you can't do that. , or yes, you can do that 
 under these circumstances. , or even yes, definitely do that. , and will also keep the technology 
 in check.
  
  Bethesda, you are sitting on a gold mine, now let your designers for Oblivion loose upon the Star 
 Trek Universe. Later,
  
  Richard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrsson
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  What can I say... As a life long fan of all the Star Treks, I waited with baited breath until this 
 game was released. Installing it was a little disappointing, but not all companies bother making 
 the loading of a game interesting. Then the game. The graphics looked excellent, and that's where 
 it all went wrong. The controls are terrible, the game play poor, the fleet commands impossible, 
 and the experience one that has put me off buying any games involving Ubisoft or mad doc! Come 
 on guys, what were you thinking?!?!?! I, of course, use that word in it's loosest sense, as I can 
 only imagine that going on the evidence presented it is something you have all given up on! I am 
 impressed that you kept putting the game back to make sure it was right, but I am concerned you 
 designed a game for the Bargain Buckets of the world. All I ask is that you do not blacken the 
 name of Star Trek any further, and maybe that you just give up the whole gaming thing. I hear McDonalds 
 are looking for staff... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  I reluctantly picked this game up, I have no idea why, everything I've heard about it was bad, 
 and it scared me, but I read the controls were inversed. W is down, S is up. What's wrong with 
 this? That's how you fly an airplane in Flight Simulator. The up arrow is down, and the down arrow 
 is up. Why couldn't similar contorls be applied to a space flight game. Guess I was just used to 
 it, the controls aren't that bad at all in my opinon. Sure you may have to stretch your hands occasionally, 
 and the ship can do some weird things but the controls are workable.
  
  The gameplay can be a tad repeative at times, and I found myself a little loss in a few missions 
 but eventually found my through. The storyline isn't the best, but I found myself mildly intrigued, 
 ready to find out what happens to next. The voice acting is okay, even from these seemingly seasoned 
 actors. It just seems everything in this game was sub-par. Nothing is perfect. There is a lack 
 of upgrades to ships, and while the fleet control is nifty, you could therotically play the entire 
 game without even touching it. (However it will be a spiffy challenge)
  
  Multiplayer dosen't seem to work, even with the patch I installed, though I haven't put much time 
 into trying it. Skrimish mode always seems incredeibly favored toward you, and if you try to make 
 it challenging the odds are so against you that you have little choice. And remaking some Classic 
 battles is near impossible.
  
  However, the game is fun, a lot of fun. I was delightfully suprised about how much fun I was having 
 with this game despite the bad reviews. A Star Trek fan will easily spend hours in skrimish mode 
 flying around in his or her favirote ships, and the campaign mode made keep coming back for more.
 
  
  Really if you have a good computer, and have a few bucks laying around this isn't a bad buy, if 
 you don't mind learning backwards controls then you'll be fine. This game is good at it's center, 
 the develops should have put some more into it, if they did they could have the best Star Trek 
 game ever on the shelves, but sadly it misses everywhere, and if you're expecting greatness, you 
 may have to look elsewhere for now. Perhpas the devs will learn from their mistakes and make the 
 next Star Trek game perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The constant use of the in my review seems to help me keep paragraphs
  
  The Star Trek series has many fans, however when it comes to video games they get the short end 
 of the stick where as the Star Wars series enjoys successive hits. You can't blame the developers 
 for this as the subject matter contained in the Star Trek series mostly revolves around the Exploration 
 and Morals, while this is not true of every episode I think we can all agree it is less action 
 focused than your typical Star Wars movie. Legacy has chosen to focus on the combat contained in 
 the universe with a plot that spans all the different generations, rather than being a more focused 
 diplomacy and exploration game. However what we have here isn't a new Knights of the Old republic, 
 it's Star Trek Legacy and it is what it is.
  
  Without giving away too much, the plot in legacy starts with Captain Archer's ship at some point 
 after the last episode of enterprise, you'll continue through the generations with Kirk and finally 
 Picard. The main campaign will have you controlling the captains in their respective ships, this 
 makes 5 in total including the Stargazer and Sovereign class. Thankfully you'll not just be restricted 
 to just controlling these captains through the single player game as you'll have the chance to 
 purchase a fleet as you advance through the missions. Each time you finish a mission you earn points, 
 with which you can purchase a rather large choice of Federation ships that are appropriate to the 
 era you are playing in. Once you advance through an era the older ships will no longer be available 
 to you, however your fleet will stay with you so you'll be trading in your old ships for newer 
 models. Although the choice is large and different ships specialize in different areas it becomes 
 quickly obvious that the quickest way of progressing is simply to save your money and buy a beefy 
 expensive ship, having a fast ship with good scanners is all well and good, but when they get hit 
 by a dreadnaught with 6 photon launchers their edge quickly disappears. 
  Legacys typical mission goes a little like this... Warp into sector, fly to a point, plot plays, 
 get attacked, destroy target. Each mission is not very memorable but fortunately the overall plot 
 isn't too bad. When it comes to the combat (which is something you'll have in each mission) things 
 get pretty basic, you can assign power to 3 different subsystems (shields, engines and weapons) , 
 but the majority of the combat involves your ships just rolling and turning trying to get a lock 
 on your target which can be no easy matter thanks to some rather clumsy controls. You do also have 
 the option of sub system targeting, but unless they improve this system's accessibility it's not 
 worth mentioning as a feature as it's so clumsy and hard to use your better off just hammering 
 at a ship until it explodes. 
  Graphically Legacy comes across pretty good to begin with, showing off some pretty nice lighting 
 and effects, however the performance really isn't that great compared to what you are seeing. Worst 
 of all is when you get up close and see that the textures aren't of the same standard as some of 
 the modifications people have put on bridge commander, it's sad to see that a fan made mod of a 
 nearly 5 year old game surpasses something that a professional development studio can put out. 
 Apparently the graphics engine is the same as the older Mad Doc game, Star Trek: Armada II, however 
 I do not know for sure if this is the case. If it is the same engine then it's definitely been 
 improved from how Armada II looked 5 years ago. 
  The sound has to be the greatest thing about this game, the voiceovers by the captains are excellently 
 done as you'd expect, some nice orchestral music playing in the background and you have the usual 
 phaser/photon sounds. Although the captains do a great job with there voice acting there are a 
 few occasions where voice acting from other cast members goes terribly wrong and it makes you wonder 
 how they were selected to work alongside the greats. Also when dog fighting you will often find 
 that you'll be taunted with the same witty remark from a Klingon/Romulan/Borg several times during 
 the same mission. It's excellent to hear a game with William Shatner, Patrick Stewart, Avery Brooks, 
 Kate Mulgrew and Scott Bakula all doing their voices but these other letdowns aren't easy to ignore. 
 
  I am a big fan of the Star Trek series it's it's hard to give a low review to a game that I was 
 hoping to bring about a 'Trek revival'. Hopefully the forthcoming MMORPG, Star Trek online will 
 bring about a new trend, as it definitely wont be started by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  I have no idea when I bougt this game, guess I tought it was a game wich could not be bad. For 
 example Birth of the Federation was very badly rated in a magazine I read a long time back. I still 
 play that game! As soon as I started playing the game, I started drooling. After 10 minutes of 
 playing your drool will become tears. Believe me when I say the tiers are not because the game 
 is so great. You will find out this game is just graphics and that's all there is to it. The biggest 
 battle you are fighting are the controls of the game wich are just plainly insane. It's just a 
 very plain straight forward ill produced console to pc conversion. If I was a shopkeeper I would 
 probarly rather throw this game away then making me customers suffer. I know this sounds extreme, 
 but it's true. I thought probarly just as anyone, fans of the series have been craving for a new 
 game. This is the first game to cover all the series and has all captains voices in it. Also did 
 I not expect Bethesda willing to ruin their good name on a game like this. Bad parts of the game, 
 Very, very sluggish controls clearly designed for a console not pc.
  No colliosons at all
  Dull sounds
  Very, very long campaign missions without save wich are easily **** up wasting 40 
 minutes of playing. No clear tutorial in the game, wich helps you actualy learn to play the game 
 100% (there is one wich teaches you about 80% but it's easy to miss) Taking damage is so far of 
 the series if it exploded you probarly wont hear it. (You can easily survive 5 warbirds firing 
 on you in the NX  01 for 10 minutes, well maybe not but close)
  The game itself is filled with unexpected crashes and glitches, making the campaign even more annoying. 
 Very repetative. Good parts of the game. Voiced in by all the captains of the series ofcourse.
 
  Highly detailed graphics.
  Uninstall option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackerjohn
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  It didn't take me long to decide I wasted my money. This is probably the first time I rushed out 
 to get a game before seeing reviews on Gamespot. I think I learned my lesson. If I read the review 
 Gamespot and many users gave it I would not have bought it but I did and I am unhappy. My favorite 
 outer space game has been Homeworld. That has been out for several years and you would think by 
 now someone could surpass it. I am sure it will be eventually but it won't be with this game. I 
 did try using a console instead of the mouse as another user said and it helped a little but... 
 I just can't see me playing this very much. Too awkward and too boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfl707
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game plays fine to me. Any trekky should apreciate it and if you dont like star trek but continue 
 to bye the games then shoot them down in the reviews, shame on you. go play your overrated gears 
 of war and whatnot and stay out of the nutral zone. If you don't like the controls get a game pad, 
 easy fix, but like anything once you get used to the game everything is fine. what I like best 
 is how they made the different eras of ships so different, it may seem unbalanced but its how it 
 should be, and the way they did the phasers for the tos refit classes, like how they were in wrath 
 of kahn, i didnt think they'd be able to hit the nail on the head like that but they did. I am 
 overal impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MmirageE
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The large amount of different ships to choose from is great and the details are amazing. The game 
 also features the voices of from the captains of each of the series. The story is also quite interesting 
 containing fights with Romulans, Klingons and of course the Borg. The chapters from the different 
 captains are also linked together in some way which I wont mention because of spoilers. So if your 
 a Star Trek fan you should try this game IF you have a very good pc and are willing to spend some 
 time trying to play it.
  
  The game is a bit of hard to play because the controls aren't that obvious. I find myself often 
 pressing the wrong buttons on the wrong moment. (could be just me) And sometimes if you fly around 
 a planet or a large borg cube you seem to get stuck or move incredibly slowly. So in order to manoeuvre 
 normally you have to take a large distance, making your phasers less effective...
  
  But only IF you have a very good pc since this game seems to have a lot of issues as a program 
 itself. The system requirements (found on this website) are the following:
  
  Minimum System Requirements
  System: Intel Pentium 4 2.66 GHz or equivalent RAM: 512 MB Video 
 Memory: 128 MB Hard Drive Space: 5000 MB
  
  I have:
  
  An Intel Core Duo which would be about 2.7GHz if you would compare it with a Pentium 4.
  RAM: 
 1024 MB (DDR2)
  Video Memory: 512 MB (ATI)
  Hard Drive Space: 20.000+ MB
  
  So you would think the game would run ok, though considering cpu on lower settings.... uhm not 
 quite. There are certain dark blue and orange nebula's in the game which for some reason produces 
 terrible frame rates. About 2 frames per second. At least I believe the nebula's is the cause since 
 in normal space or some other nebula's I have no problem. Even when I turn everything to the lowest 
 settings this happens.
  
  On the XBOX 360 which a lot of people consider powerful I read about similar problems, resulting 
 in terrible frame rates. Adding this to the harder game controls I some times get frustrated getting 
 blown up simply because I can't respond to attacks... however I do find the story from the campaign 
 interesting enough to keep me pressing forward.
  
  Another thing I find odd is that sometimes, for no apparent reason I cannot move the cursor and 
 I can't look around. If you press ESC a message shows that a save was successful, then still I 
 can't press ok and I'm not further. If you at the save screen press the down arrow once or twice 
 and hit enter I get to the menu and finally am able continue shooting borg in to scrap parts.
 
  
  All these things combined can spoil the fun because you can't fly a ship the way you want it.
 
  
  There is a patch for correcting multi player issues but I hope they bring a new one to solve some 
 of these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgmail
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Now this is typical. Make a great trailer based on something everybody likes and then you rush 
 production and basicly produce Crap - and sell it - no matter the quality. I am a huge star trek 
 fan - but this game is crap. Graphics is great but that's really all. Battle is really really really 
 crappy. So I am glad to say that I downloaded this game and now I am happy that Bethesda Softworks 
 didn't trick me into buying such crap with there nicely produced trailer. - This i why I say: First 
 try, then buy.
  
  Now this is typical. Make a great trailer based on something everybody likes and then you rush 
 production and basicly produce Crap - and sell it - no matter the quality. I am a huge star trek 
 fan - but this game is crap. Graphics is great but that's really all. Battle is really really really 
 crappy. So I am glad to say that I downloaded this game and now I am happy that Bethesda Softworks 
 didn't trick me into buying such crap with there nicely produced trailer. - This i why I say: First 
 try, then buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy. Play through all of the ages of star fleet. As you uncover how the borg were 
 born.. Play as captain archer, captain kurk, and captain picard. You must track a vulcan through 
 the ages who uses logic to create a species bent on perfection. The Borg. As hard as the captain 
 try she always seems to get away. And the borg become a larger threat to the galaxy.
  The graphics in the game of pretty amazing. No place is the same as before. The game is pretty 
 buggy and the objectives are pretty repeating. along with the enemys throughout the game it get's 
 kinda old.. The sound recieves my highest score. You can tell where the different sounds come from 
 and how fast they are approching. Very good especially with surround sound. The gameplay is also 
 a little lacking. At times you must man alll ships and try to control all of them at the same time. 
 The starfleet. AI is not as up to date as it should be. They will stop moving or attack targets 
 that are not a threat. leaving the battle in the hands of one or two ships. This makes the game 
 rather difficult, along with the many bugs and other glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Most of the games I purchased this holiday season have awful control and save game schemes based 
 on the almighty console crowds needs. A scenario for how this game goes and how it could have been 
 much better. Work your way through a scenario and get down to one last task, target specific components 
 on three ships and stop them. Problem is, the targeting controls work so so and I end up losing 
 the scenario after 10 minutes or so of finishing all other goals. Back to the drawing board and 
 do the whole thing over! BS! I should be able to save wherever I want so I can work on the twitchy 
 controls until I get it right and finish the scenario. What make game developers think I want to 
 play one frustrating scenario over and over? And all they had to do to make this a fairly good 
 game. MAKE IT FOR THE PC! There were 2 other Star Trek arcade games made specifically for console 
 play, this was the one that was supposed to appeal to PC gamers, with depth and complex gameplay. 
 Oh well, won't be fooled again. Never buy any multi platform games until the reviews come out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I was under the impression that there would at least be some exploring 
 involved. I knew that most of it would be fighting, but I had hoped for some exploration since 
 one of the features mentions the ability to explore the star trek universe. Well, there is no exploration 
 at all. It is a 100% linear space combat sim with multiple ships. All of the missions are the same 
 3 types of missions, Scan the objective, defend the objective, and destroy the objective. No matter 
 how many effects they put in there and no matter how many voice-overs by popular people they stick 
 in there, the game's missions are all about the same. It gets boring very very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashnburnexe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  The game could have been made with easyer controls or the addition of user assigned controls would 
 have made a great deal of improvement , but once the player get past the unusually high learning 
 curve the game is great , ive spent hours playing this trying to perfect my game. once i got it 
 down i cant stop playing it. The graphics are great but take a mean machine to play it well. I 
 couldnt ask for better sounds they match every era perfectly. the number of ships to choose from 
 is stagering. The idea of creating a fleet of vessels and being able to remotely control them is 
 a great idea , they should have done a better job of showing the player how to use this. i didnt 
 even know how to get them to target something untill i just stumbled upon it. I accually had to 
 play the first few missions 3 times through to learn how to control the ships the way i wanted. 
 in concluseion . If the player gets frustrated easily or is looking for quick and easy shooter 
 dont buy this game. If the player gives this game a chance and learns the controls it is a great 
 game .If the player likes a challenge and isnt turned off by all the negativity surrounding this 
 game by people who oviously havnt givin it a chance and is a star trek freak like me he/she should 
 by the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkreitz
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Star Trek: Legacy, I thought that this was going to be one of the best 
 games in the Star Trek Franchise. Instead of being one of the best of the bunch, it is a lukewarm 
 title at best. That is very disappointing to me as I grew up with TNG, DS:9, not such a huge fan 
 of Voyager or Enterprise.
  
  I was hoping for a game that brought the best elements of Starfleet Commander 3 and Star Trek: 
 Bridge Commander together. Unfortunately, it would seem that most, if not all of those features 
 that Bethesda was talking about were cut from the final game (ex. customizing your ship or ships) . 
 Also the controls for the PC are horrible, It's not intuitive at all. It's a game made for the 
 consoles first and ported to the computer as an after thought. So disappointing! I would rather 
 have had them take longer on the game if it meant bring out a qaulity game compared to the crap-tacular 
 game we ended up getting. It could have been a great title, if only Bethesda hadn't rushed it out 
 for Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics in Legacy is good - nice effects, highly detailed ships models, normally 
 nice explosions, just about nothing else is.
  
  They use the original Star Trek captain's voices as well, but since you only really hear it during 
 missions and not during combat (it would be nice to hear combat chatter ) it also sort of misses 
 the mark (at least they're there though) .
  
  Now that I've got the aesthetic elements out of the way I can give my true opinion of Legacy - 
 BAD.
  
  When I got it I expected an action/strategy extravaganza with Bethesda's usual flair and ability 
 to impress, and all the hype didn't help much either.
  The controls are clumsy, especially in combat, and although I tried to enjoy the combat I couldn't 
 - it quickly becomes tedious.
  
  The story is the sort of thing you'd expect from a Star Trek movie - long, far-reaching, involving 
 the Borg, and does suit the Star Trek image quite well.
  
  Just don't get it unless you're a rabid Trekkie who has to have all things Star Trek. Even then, 
 don't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Intially when I first heard about Star Trek: Legacy I will pretty excited, some of the static screenshots 
 looked like it promised some great battles using some of the famous ships from the series and some 
 extra bonus stuff thrown in for good measure, however come time to actually play the game, well 
 alls I can say is that i've not been this disappointed for a long time. The worst problem is the 
 dodgy control method that just doesn't work for the game, either have pure player control or just 
 go with point 'n' click.
  
  Could have been a true classic but instead, I think Legacy is little more than a quick flash in 
 a sea of stars, theres far far better space sim/shooters out there, this is confined to the bargain 
 bins - basically just a huge let-down for ST fans.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Intially there pretty good, but once you get past the wowsers factor, and start seeing the corrupted 
 graphics, weird explosions and other general graphical glitches, all of which let the game down 
 - not to mention the game lags pretty seriously in some places.
  
  Sound:
  
  Not too bad, the actors voices help generate some of the Star Trek atmosphere but some of the phaser, 
 and other sound effects sound a little too fake but at least it more or less works.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Dire, terrible and all of the above. The missions are so badly designed, frustration 
 quickly becomes a normal feeling. Skirmish missions have huge bugs too, quite a few times you think 
 you're doing great when your ship just mysteriously is destroyed with a warp core breach even if 
 your stats are green all across the board!?! Very weird indeed and whats more annoying is you can 
 replay the mission with the same settings, you have to quit to main menu and repeat the whole process. 
 Online is just as bad - if you could actually find anyone playing that is.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextalio
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  After the Enterprise-E left the Briar Patch in the movie Insurrection , everything has gone downhill. 
 The last movie, I dare not mention its name, was horrible, the books since then have all branched 
 off of that terrible and embarrassing plot, not only for the franchise, but moreover, for the fans. 
 I wished when this game was first announced months ago that the Publisher Bethesda Softworks , 
 would have picked a game and made it both X-BOX and PC worthy like its astounding game Elder Scrolls: 
 Oblivion. But what came from its corporate belly was a mass of crap. The game at first look on 
 the computer screen looks like an X-BOX game for Middle School arcade gamers, which is all it really 
 is, an arcade game. I remember when I was in Middle School (early 90's) and there was a Star Trek: 
 The Next Generation computer game, the name I can't remember, and there was space combat, but so, 
 so much more. As the game included exploring new planets and solving Star Trek like puzzles and 
 the plot was very intricate. Star Trek is not just about battle and politics, but about exploring 
 new worlds and new civilizations, and to boldly go where no man has gone before. I feel as if this 
 quote has gone silent and star trek is no longer an adventure, but a fast food like , if you will, 
 style arcade game. Put away the phasers and torpedoes for a moment and raise up the communicators 
 and tricorders. Build a plot based on science fiction, not on an action movie. I want to have the 
 experience I had in middle school, not only in computer games, but in the movies and books as well. 
 Best wishes to Star Trek and its future, but I feel dismayed when the only Star Trek left is in 
 overpriced almost silly books and on Spike TV re-runs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlatkoZ
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I consider myself a Star Trek fan, ive watched everything from the original series to enterprise, 
 and i've occassionally played some of the better known star trek based games. Elite force, Klingon 
 Honor Guard, Bridge Commander and many others.
  
  When compared to it's earlier cousin Star Trek: Bridge Commander, in all honesty there is not much 
 difference in how the two games perform and react. They are both space simulation adventures where 
 combat is a major part of the whole experience, and that is partially where most of the problems 
 begin.
  
  Aside from the fact that some of the audio work is mediocre and that the AI is simply the DUMBEST 
 ive ever experienced in any game ive ever played, and the obviously flawed combat, all you are 
 left with is a non-canon story line which seems to defy anything that has been showed in the series 
 or the movies.
  
  The gameplay as previously mentioned is seriously hampered by the idiocy of the AI system. For 
 example: When you absolutely NEED the AI to attack enemies or asteroids, or weapons platforms, 
 and need to do something yourself on the side, when you switch the ships, they simply stop working. 
 Yes, they do not attack or do anything for that matter, other than circle their target.
  
  This can be very VERY annoying in missions where it's imperative that they pull at least 25% of 
 their weight, you are forced to warp to a complete different side of the map to do it yourself, 
 or switch to their ship. Either way, the AI is completely worthless.
  
  The overview map of the galaxy is no better either, for some strange reason it is easily the choppiest 
 part of the entire game, meanwhile it is a simple 2d overlay over the map which you can use to 
 order units around (not that that will do anything, as they dont attack) .
  
  Problems dont end there either, there is a lot of uninspiring battles which seem to pit your 4 
 ship crew against what seems like hundreds of enemies of comparable ship classes from other species.
 
  
  Missions seem to revolve generally around the typical star fleet shows, defend against the enemy, 
 distribute some kind of miraculous cure to a distant planet and other things of that sort.
  
  The voice acting, i have to give them credit for, they tried. It doesnt necessarily say that 
 it's good per say, but it's not bad in terms of you know which captain is speaking.
  
  The enemies seem to be able to taunt you, even though you havent allowed them permission to hail 
 you, nor can you hail them.
  
  A lot of the options that are available such as Scan , Hail , Transport and other stuff would be 
 a lot more interesting if they worked when you arent TOLD by the computer to use them. For example: 
 If i want to scan a planet that isnt part of the story line, shouldnt i get a report on what kind 
 of climate it has, or how many inhabitants are on the planet? Etc.
  
  There are also a lot of problems with basic commands to your own ship, when you double click on 
 an enemy or object that is directly above you, your ship will take a nose dive for some strange 
 reason and keep going downward until you intervene with the w or s keys.
  
  That is another thing, there are NO changeable controls. This might not seem like such a big deal, 
 but considering how idiotic the AI is, it is a necessity to help you change their stance, to let 
 them know who to attack and when to hold their fire.
  
  Strangely the game has a lot of performance issues as well, it's earlier cousin, which mind you, 
 did not look a hell of a lot worse ran as smooth as butter, but with legacy it's a different story. 
 Often when looking at nebulas or pretty much any background that isnt the dark black solidness 
 of empty space, your computer WILL have it's frame rate drastically reduced.
  
  Overall, this game was a nice distraction from the normal trend of WW2 based first person shooters 
 flooding the market, but it is in no way the right thing to do when trying to re-introduce a franchise 
 which seems to be struggling to find it's fan-base again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I had just high hopes for this game but deep down inside I just had this feeling that I simply 
 could not shake. You know the feeling I am speaking of, its a low gut acke that just keeps you 
 on edge enough to know that something is wrong, but exactly what it won't tell you.
  
  Well in this case I found out exactly what that was. I cannot play this game because I simply want 
 to beat my key board and mouse into little tiny peaces. The controls of this game are by far the 
 worst I have ever seen since the orginal Star Fleet Command way back when Interplay had the title. 
 (I loved Interplay and would turd from them knowing its a turd any day of the week.)
  
  Why game developers always fall back on Hum lets design a new control system that no one else has 
 ever thought of before, and lets make it so darn difficult to use that it frustrates players to 
 the point that they uninstall our fine game and return it to the store for an instore credit where 
 they buy another game. 
  
  The plot is interesting and I don't want to spoil it for you. It kind sorta seems plausable but 
 still as a fan of the Star Trek franchise it might seem a bit odd.
  
  The ship models look very good and despite the horrible control system, if you invest enough time 
 to over come the huge learning curve you just might find yourself enjoying this game.
  
  There are some serious speed bumps to over come and I do hope that the developer will be able to 
 address those in a patch. That is assuming they will be allowed to work the bugs out of the game 
 now. As we all know Star Trek game developers, from Microprose to Interplay, have a weird and all 
 to familary tendecy to go out of business without ever issuing fixes for the games they sell.
 
  
  I liked the game despite the set backs and hope that future updates come that address many of the 
 games failings. Over all this is a good game if you willing to over look clumsy furstrating controls 
 and the occational What the? experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaggot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  1) Use a console controller to steer the ship. All of the previous criticisms of the game's pc 
 control scheme are well taken, but easily addressed if you use a console controller. Suddenly steering 
 the ship makes sense. I'm hoping Mad doc can address this issue with a patch.
  
  You can use the mouse to control the strategic map and the tactical camera
  You can use a keyboard 
 to issue commands.... but I had a very hard time steering with a keyboard.... no wonder Riker used 
 a joystick to fly the Enterprise E in ST: Insurrection.
  
  Another control option is a kind of manual cooperative bridge commander situation. You steer the 
 ship and holler orders while your patient girlfriend locks phasers, engages impulse engines, engages 
 warp drive, fires photon torpedoes etc. If you don't have a girlfriend (a distinct possibility 
 as this is a Star Trek game) , a 9 year old will do as tactical officer and ops.
  
  Still with all the complaints... I think the game makes it easier to control and command four starships 
 than a previously thought possible.
  
  Since the PC game is 20 bucks cheaper than the 360 version, I didn't mind spending the 20 dollars 
 to get a console USB controller.
  
  2) Update your system and be mindful that minimum system requirements are not recommended system 
 requirements. I have an Athlon 64 X2 4800+ with Nvidia 7900 GTS SLI (Not top-of-the-line but a 
 fairly beefy system nevertheless) and the game runs well, but still pauses every once in a while 
 during the heat of battle as if trying to catch up with all the pixelated annihilation.
  
  3) Update your windows and driver software first....
  
  With those caveats I give this game 
 a 9.5. The ship graphics are a 10. Rick Knox Rocks. The ships are actually better and higher resolution 
 than in the movies. You can scrutinize them in all their hi-poly count glory as they fly by. These 
 models are literally an order of magnitude better than the models in SFC or Armada. (Quantitatively, 
 the poly counts in these models is about ten times the poly count in sfc models and it shows.) 
 These models are also much better than the complex Bridge Commander models too, however. I guess 
 they've learned a lot about making star trek ship models since the days of ST Armada.
  
  The station explosions are way too blocky, but they have ever been thus since SFC and I'm used 
 to it. The ship explosions are spot on. The damage effects are good too. The game sounds and music 
 are terrific. The voice acting and story are pretty good too.... except they lose a tenth of a point 
 when Archer exclaims early in the game It's so simple, it might just work! I just about busted 
 a gut.
  
  I've just gotten to the original series section of the game and find the story engaging and interesting. 
 So far it's less like playing a game and more like playing a Star Trek Movie.... I guess that's 
 the highest praise I can bestow on a Star Trek game.
  
  I'm having a great time and can't wait for the modders to get a hold of this puppy to make it even 
 better.
  
  Cheers,
  
  Maggot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdrikari
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: Borrowed from friend, not actually purchased with my own money.
  
  Pros: It's very pretty. Weapon effects and sounds are pretty good. Has all five major captains 
 voice acting in it. Some diversity of missions... well not really.
  
  Cons: Interface blows. No-in mission save which is frustrating on missions that can go about an 
 hour. Shatner sounds every year of his 75. Sisko sounds dead, or bored, hard to tell. Rumour has 
 it that it is very buggy on some systems, didn't have any issues on mine. Missions involve bringing 
 as much firepower to the table as possible. Little sutlety here. But that's ok. We're here to kick 
 ass and chew bubble gum in the ST universe. 3D combat is very clunky, esp for anyone who played 
 through games like the Homeworld series. Some graphics are very dated. Borg cubes blow up into 
 big chunks. One reviewer said he saw a cube blow up, then a little cube appear in the middle of 
 that and blow up, etc. It's fairly short (~10-12 hours) . You do get to see pretty much all the 
 Canon ships plus some of the fan ones like the Constellation class. I stayed Canon, as they appeared 
 to be the best bang for the buck. New ships are purchased with 'Command Points' you earn by killing 
 enemies and completing objectives. Max four ships in your fleet. Played with NX-01, NX-01 era Battleship 
 (forget name) , Original Constitution, Refit Constitution, Starfarer, Galaxy, Ambassador, Sovereign, 
 Defiant. Recommend having one Defiant for last mission. Didn't play with Miranda Refit (Reliant) 
 in the game. Would have been fun, maybe. Weapons systems are true to era, even down to how the 
 various era phasers look and sound. Music is taken from a variety of Trek and is good overall. 
 Playing through on Ensign gives a satisfying shoot 'em up and you don't get too wrapped around 
 the axle about the interface.
  
  Not worth full price. Might be worth bargain bin or playing like I did.
  
  Not Recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead_rogue9
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  When this was announced couldn't wait, for it be released.
  
  However after buying this I wish they had have carried on development till next Christmas!!
  
 
  As the main review states this has an very high learning curve, the controls are terrible, and 
 you will have either a very bad head or a damaged wall depending.
  
  But this still is a fantastic looking game just plain frustrating. Hopefully though they may be 
 able to make fixes on the fly with patching, alternatively maybe a recall and a re-release, but 
 hopefully they will play test any further titles before russing it out the door.
  
  I wish they had finished this as Legacy will now be remembered as a game that could have been 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boytoy2005
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  For any avid game figuring out and mastering the movment and commands via keyboard and mouse is 
 still difficult to learn and not be frustrated to death with. though ive hooked up my madkatz controller 
 however and find the commands and the game a bit out of wack but much more pleasant to interact 
 with so i suggest u wait for the x-box version or buy a controller :-)
  My feeling aswell as other reveiws ive read state that this game was designed to be fun to play 
 and not some epic strategy game. I think the reviewers that are bashing the heck out of it for 
 not being an epic strategy game are off the mark, or wanted this game to be something that it wasn't 
 designed to be therfore anyone whom really has had a hard time playing should shell out the 19.00bucks 
 for a controller and then try it.. or wait for x-box to release thier version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  I have little good to say about this game, for a huge swelling pot of material bethsoft manages 
 to make a game that is simply broken and not fun.
  
  First the control scheme is horrible- no ability to remap the keyboard is unforgivable in this 
 day and age and smacks of laziness on the part of the programmers. The over all controls are unresponsive 
 sluggish and most of all non configurable so your stuck with defaults like it or lump it.
  
  Graphics- not much better in this department, starships do not accurately reflect serious damage 
 so there will be no blown off parts to add to the drama or visual appeal. Starship models are well 
 rendered but as one reviewer put it when he seen a borg cube explode and then a graphical glitch 
 produced a second one which exploded and this repeated 3 times really stinks of a lack of experence 
 programmers and proper beta testing prior to release on this project
  
  Sounds- forget awesome Star Trek sound effects some of the effects are poorly rendered and not 
 actually from the series.. example the defiants pulse cannons sound nothing like they do on the 
 series thus shattering the illusion of Star Trek. Granted some are acturate but some are not. The 
 voice acting is moot at best, I'd rather they spent more time on making a playable game than wasting 
 time on voiceovers.
  
  In short this game is awful and is best passed up even by hardcore Star Trek fans.... if your looking 
 for a Star Trek starship simulator pickup Bridge Commander or StarFleet Command 3 both titles are 
 much better and much more worth their price, heck they are even worth full price where this one 
 is a 9.99 bargin title only, if even that!!!!
  
  AND do not think I am bashing cause I hate Trek cause I am a serious Star Trek fanboy but this 
 is not about Star Trek this is about giving my review of a title that was not worth purchasing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  This game had the most complaints I have known in recent history. Star Trek will receive a black 
 eye for this poorly done title as well as the poor trekkie fan who paid 40 buck for a very dissapointing 
 game. With patches things may get a little better, but the concept of Star Trek game as a purely 
 clumsy shooter is stupid. For any Star Trek game to be sucessful it must include space exploration, 
 the use of science, problem solving, diplomacy, and a nice dose of interstellar war.
  This game only inculdes one aspect and alot of ships. Bethesda failed miserably to deliver a game 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0nk33
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Where to begin....
  
  The good -
  
  Graphics:
  Great graphics. The models of the ships look great, I appreciate the details, all the way down 
 to the damage and and the leaking plasma. The wormholes, nubula's all look great, A+ on the graphics.
 
  
  Sound:
  Great Sound, its fantastic that they were able to get the cast members to do the voice overs for 
 the game. All the sounds are just as they are in the movies/tv shows. A++ on the sound. There were 
 a few glitches though, but it was minor and should be fixed in a future patch.
  
  The Bad -
  
  Gameplay: Ouch. Very clunky controls. Simply put, this game was designed for the 
 Xbox 360. It has the standard move the center cursor over target, press button for menu of options, 
 select option control scheme. This is always a terrible idea in my opinion for PC games. We have 
 a keyboard and a mouse, give is a nice command hud with options, don't neuter us with a console 
 port.
  
  The Review - I am a Star Trek fan who was looking forward to this game for quite some time. Once 
 I got past the terrible controls of the game (and yes it was hard for me to get past the controls) 
 and embraced its handicap the game was playable and quite fun.
  
  So far Legacy has done the standard run of the mill RTS missions. Attack enemies, rescue a ship, 
 defend a star base, capture an enemy vessel, use the cloak on enemy vessel to spy on enemy without 
 getting caught, etc., etc. The only thing keeping me playing this game is the Star Trek license 
 and the fact that I'm in control of the Enterprise obliterating Romulans, Klingons and Borg.
  
  There really isn't much to review, my bottom line is this. ONLY buy this game if you love Star 
 Trek. If you are looking for an immersive RTS space game, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasco_
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  If only they hadn't rushed it out before even a single beta tester saw it...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 . . .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . ... . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . 
 . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . ... . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . .. . .. 
 . .. . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . ... . . . . .. . . . .. 
 . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincentgdg
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I love space games and I love Star Trek. So this should have been perfect for me.
  
  The graphics look quite ok, but the handling is the worst I have seen for years. You really have 
 to press a key and then choose an option on a wheel that pops up. They seem to never have heard 
 about action bars that are standard meanwhile.
  
  After the first two or three missions I had reached the limit of four ships. But of what use is 
 a super duper starship if you cannot manouver it to track your target? I was in constant trial 
 to get those opponents in front or behind my own ship, rotating all the time.
  
  There are none of those preprogrammed attack patterns that are used in Star Trek. I would have 
 expected a kind of fly by the oppenent and stay xxx away from it while I shoot on it. It seems 
 you are the only person on the ship  or better, on all four ships. Everything must be done manual, 
 even repair orders in-fight. You have to switch to the other ships, give the repair orders, then 
 turn back to your ship.
  
  There are no cinematic sequences between fights, no story, just one mission after the other.
 
  
  After little more than one hour I had seen enough and was extremely frustrated -&gt; uninstall.
 
  
  Cheers
  Thomas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briandap
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  First off, I am a fan of the shows, not the conventions, so playing this game is actually really 
 cool. The graphics are up to spec, it's not a buggy as the review says. Is it worth the purchase? 
 Mmm maybe, depends on how much money you have burning in your pocket.
  
  The combat is quite nice, because it's CAPITAL SHIPS and most of these other people can't get the 
 hint that they are not Tie Fighters and X-wings. Capital ships don't move and do flips and do trench 
 runs. Rate the game for what it is, not for what you want it to be.
  
  Bottom line, if you are a fan of the shows then get this game. I think it has enough content that 
 will make trek fans happy. Although, it's no Halo (i hate when people compare every game to Halo, 
 so that was a joke) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoMatrixOC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  First off, if you are thinking that 'Legacy' is going to be a sequel to Activision's awesome title 
 Bridge Commander' you are wrong (dont feel bad, so was I) . I know there was a lot of talk in the 
 community that this title was going to be sequel to Bridge Commander using all the newest graphics 
 technology. Well, we were all 'Half' right! Legacy does use some of the latest and best graphics 
 technology available at launch, and you see it as some of the best 'Eye Candy' since the release 
 of Half Life 2. Do not feel bad that Legacy is not the sequel we thought it was going to be, because 
 what it IS blows away Bridge Commander. Legacy has one distinctive difference from Bridge Commander; 
 instead of commanding just one Starfleet warship, you command up to FOUR! That is right, you can 
 command four different starships, or four of the classic Enterprise if you wish. That's not all. 
 You can not only command each of the four starships individually, you can control (command) all 
 four from one ship (Your 'Flagship') . This adds a level to Legacy that Bridge Commander (BC from 
 here on) never had. Strategy, Legacy is going to require a lot more attention and concentration 
 than BC, but rewards you with longer more involved play. The control on the ships in much more 
 exacting, as well, and this just adds to the realism. The visuals, well they are what you would 
 expect from a current generation space combat game. Nothing short of incredible. If you have an 
 older rig, or just an 'Non-Direct X 9' video card, please do not spend your money on this game. 
 It will run, but not deliver a satisfactory experience. However, if you DO have a current video 
 card (Radeon 'X' series or better) then RUN and get this game and turn the graphics up FULL, settle 
 back and get ready to get blown away. Bottom line? Star Trek: Legacy is a fantastic game, a must 
 have and will not disappoint! Enzomatrix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Agent923
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Come on Star trek lets get a good game going for a change, how come Star wars can do it and you 
 can't!?!?
  
  Even when I saw the trailers for this game it looked like it was going to be another shotty game 
 in the long line of dissapointing trek games!
  
  Every star trek game has been a disappointment, except maybe the old trek games on DOS (judgement 
 rites, etc) . You would think a star trek game would actually be good for a change. Hopefully they 
 can turn this around when Star Trek Online comes out in 2007!!
  
  Don't buy this game you'll just be disappointed the first time you play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is a travesty to all the loyal fans of the Trek franchise! How the development team could 
 have dishonored this once proud franchise is beyond me. They betrayed the gamers who waited a long 
 time hoping that this would be the great game they had hopped for. We all had high expectations 
 but I would have been satisfied if it was just an average game. But what they did with this game 
 is just pathetic and is a spit in the face to the fans and Gene Rodenberry. Oh man, he must be 
 rolling in his grave right now. From screenshots and videos you might think this is an awesome 
 game.. yes it sure does look good but just like GM cars, it is merely a pretty outer shell to cover 
 up piss poor mechanics. This game is just broken. Missions are frustrating, controls horrid and 
 unintuitive, many game breaking bugs and a barely existing multiplayer game.
  
  I just cannot believe that such an impressive looking game is flawed deeply in every other way. 
 I also feel bad for Bakula, Stewart and Shatner for having been put through many hours of voice 
 work. I'm sure they could see this game was going to be crap long before it came out and you can 
 tell by how tired and bored they are.. Put them back in a friggin movie!
  
  Anyway here is my advice... avoid this game like the plague, speak with your wallet and show the 
 devs that Trek fans need a quality game and if they don't deliver, they are going to go bankrupt 
 producing this garbage.
  
  If you haven't already, go get Bridge Commander or Starfleet Command III, those are the two best 
 Trek games there is and do the franchise proud. Or you can hold out for Star Trek Online MMOG. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coxxon
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Ships are pretty
  Lighing is inaccurate/not-realistic (compared with other modern games)
  Space is Too colorful Special effects are nothing special - in some cases a step back
  Game controls 
 are horrible
  Feedback is horrible
  Missions are frustrating
  Multiplayer/Skirmish - anemic - just some plain ole wornout deathmatch
  No editor for modding
 
  
  Regardless of what fanboys might say, this game is the spiritual successor to Bridge Commander. 
 It fails badly. This games console roots show badly and it makes for a horrible game. I own a 360 
 - (and thought about initially purchasing that version as well) now I'm not even interested in 
 buying this game for it at this point 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sukhanh
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  14.95 Or less anyone? The only outstanding quality of this game was graphic and sound, which is 
 piss poor basing unless yer dead or alive series but this is not. Mechanics are very important 
 for any space shooter or RPG. I highly recommend you just save your money and spend it on Star 
 trek DVD's then this piss poor excuse for a game. The defining quality will be how aggravated you 
 will be while understanding the concept they thrive from star trek series and how in the world 
 they fall so far from it. Game wise if they just change the ship textures for something totally 
 out side of star trek wise, just maybe a few may accept the half hazardly throw together of a game 
 but they chose a renown title and flopped.
  
  Thank god I didnt fall for it. Played on my Friends PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting that this game would have been one of the best star trek games but it falls way 
 behind the birth of the federation, armada, bridge commander or even Starfleet command III.
  
  Legacy puts you in charge of up to a four-ship task force of Starfleet vessels, from Enterprise 
 to the next generation. The good things are that the graphics are pretty okay and the game can 
 be run at high definitions without needing to have the latest PC. Battles may spectacular sometimes 
 and we have the acting of the original captains of each series.
  The bad things are the controls, you can tell it was ported directly from the 360 and you can't 
 even reprogram them, the space debris and all the bugs. Multiplayer just simple doesn't work.
 
  
  It is not an horrible game but definitely not one of the best either. Not worth $40 bucks but at 
 least is cheaper than the $60 of the xbox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKokopelli
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  A good sign of whether a game will likely be bad is the release of a patch before the game is in 
 stores. Like previous titles in the past, this theory has once again proven true with Star Trek: 
 Legacy.
  
  The control system has to be one of the most unfriendly systems I have ever had the displeasure 
 of the using. While it is not horrible, it is far from intuitive. One would guess the key for targeting 
 is T. Well, this is not the case with Legacy. To target a vessel, the player is required to press 
 and hold the spacebar, and then use the mouse wheel to select the target. What this menu does not 
 display, are the distances each target is in relation to the players ship. On top of that, the 
 information is not displayed unless you are facing targeted ship. If the player wishes change the 
 controls, they have either to edit the control file, or buy a 360 controller.
  
  While I have heard this improves the control system, adding an additional $40.00 for a 360 controller 
 is a bit ridiculous after already dishing out $40.00 for a broken game. Unfortunately, it is almost 
 necessary with the sluggish mouse system. Changing power levels is a crapshoot, as nine times out 
 of ten, I have to repeat the steps. Using the tactical map is more of a try to get the little 
 ship close to where you actually want to be. This is usually away from where you want to be.
 
  
  While the control system is shoddy, the physics are pathetic. If you fly your ship into a planet, 
 another vessel, or an asteroid, you simply bounce off it with no damage taken. I am not asking 
 for real astrophysics here. We do not need the players ships being sucked into the gravitational 
 pull of a gas giant. However, if they hit a piece of stellar debris, they should take damage. This 
 moves along to the destruction of large objects, like space stations.
  
  It is pathetic for a game in this day and age. I do not even believe the old Wing Commander series 
 from the mid-90s were this pathetic. It is as if the developers hired a freshman high school graphics 
 class to do the animation. They appear as large chunks, cut cleanly, that now manage to defy all 
 laws of physics. However, with the ability to slam into a planet at full warp, this really does 
 not surprise me.
  
  The campaign was already mentioned in the Gamespot review. However, the skirmish mode was not. 
 It is your typical skirmish mode: select opponents, race, era, money, time, etc. The players can 
 only choose their own ships and the battle commences. However, if you make a mistake, say you did 
 not choose enough money. Alternatively, you wanted a one on one, but accidentally selected three 
 on three. Instead of simply going back a screen, you have exit out completely, and return to the 
 main game screen. Upon entering the skirmish mode again, you have to start entire process all over.
 
  
  Overall, the game had a good idea. However, the developers missed the boat hard on this, especially 
 with the pitiful excuse on the PC port. (hey Devs, take some tips from UbiSoft) While I am not 
 a console player, I do not even see how this kind of menu system would be intuitive on the consoles. 
 For the past week, I tried to remain positive on the game. However, I cannot help but hang my head 
 in disgust at the thought that I actually spent money on this. If that was not a bad enough taste, 
 here is something worse. I have beta-tested games and software that were better developed than 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vlad_an_impaler
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  After TES4, I thought I simply had to grab this one... YIKES!! I have to totally agree with the 
 Gamespot reviewer on this one. Controls are really a nightmare to get used to. Once you do, The 
 Gameplay Mechanics of the game frustrate you so bad that you start getting angry. Only good thing 
 I can really say about this game is the good storyline, great voices, and the space battles are 
 pretty good. However like the Reviewer mentioned... the scale of the ships compared to the planets 
 and stars are like a matchbox car against a grapefruit. Should you run into one of these heavenly 
 bodies, your ship will simply rub its way around it instead of crashing or burning up in the atmosphere 
 as it should. I am really shocked at you Bethesda, for ruining what could have been one of the 
 best Star Trek games yet. Please check your bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enterprise-E
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek : Legacy is a very fun shooter but beyond that there is nothing here. For us Star Trek 
 Fans and fans of Star Trek Bridge Commander this is a totatly let down. The graphics are very well 
 down as for as the Ship Models go and one thing i will say that Defiant Model is the best . The 
 controls for this game are very poorly mapped unless you have a Xbox 360 Controller and that might 
 help with control issue . From the moment you start playing you get the feeling that this game 
 was being tailered for the 360 and the PC version is just a port. This game had lots of potential 
 and considering the last Q&amp; A said that you could upgrade old ships as the time line goes on 
 like having the NX class to have sheilds and more advance torpedoes but that never made it in the 
 game. The single player game lasts about 5 to 8 hours but each mission seems runs about 10 to almost 
 30 mins. As for the multiplayer game just sucks because you can't get into a room and start playing 
 because of two reasons. 1. Host has a different version of the game and 2. You get discounted alot 
 too. Now the skrimish mode is the only saving grace for this game. The Skirmish mode allows you 
 to select any of the eras or you can just select all eras. The skirmish mode is alot of fun and 
 quick and matches you create range from big to very large maps. There are two game modes Deathmatch 
 which is self explainatory you select your fleet and you duke it out with other fleets. Sometimes 
 certian maps give you a Repair station where you can repair you ships. Then there is Coop where 
 you and 3 other fleets with a Starbase take own wave after wave of baddies untill the timer runs 
 out. Overall this game was rushed and afaird to say that they are milking this franchise which 
 explains the poor quilty of this game. Having all the Captians doing voice work really adds to 
 the feel to this game but it is overshadowed by the many problems you will run into to with this 
 game. So maybe in the future the Mods will be able to save this game but only time will tell. In 
 all this is a total let down for Star Trek fans but might when some people over who have an Xbox 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richrod01
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  ST: LEGACY the death of a franchise, So-so graphics, horrible targeting for a space sim. Okay story 
 line but lots of bugs in the application. Granted you're fighting in space but movment, motion 
 and direction is hard to judge in this game. You have yaw, no roll control and for pitch, you cant 
 do a loop maneuver. Your stirke force, Haaah -haah; AI is horrendous. Your crew is insubordinate, 
 passing commands down the chain and responce is slooow and cumbersome. When your fleet responds 
 to what you had ordered, you'vre failed the mission. This game has a lot of potential but it looks 
 like it was rushed for distribution, If you have ST: Bridge Commander, dont buy this game. I hope 
 the next time they get all 5 captins in a game they do a better job. SAVE YOUR MONEY!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfhawkins
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  If you're a Star Trek fan and you have waited for a space battle game with Star Trek ships, this 
 is a good game for you. The models are excellent.
  
  This isn't a game like Bridge Commander or Starfleet Command, but that's not what the developers 
 promised us with this game. This is a space shooter and it fills that roll well.
  
  The controls can be a little overwhelming at first, but once you get the hang of them, they work 
 out. This game might be better suited to a console, so it might be a good idea to wait and see 
 how GS reviews the Xbox 360 version.
  
  Surprisingly, after over a week of being on the shelves, this game still hasn't been reviewed by 
 GS staff... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananaJello
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Sad, sad, sad. I'm getting tired of waiting months in anticipation for games, especially in the 
 genres that interest me, aka Star Wars and Star Trek, and buying the game on the release date, 
 and getting ripped off. Over and over again. Actually, this is only the second Star Trek title 
 I have owned, Armada being the first, and I was expecting a tactical simulation/strategy game, 
 more like a cross between SFC and Armada. Alas, it's a cheesy 3rd person shooter, with broken AI, 
 annoying controls, and ship physics that date back to the early 90's. The graphics and the voice 
 acting are good, but the game itself is the same old first person shooter crap. Find this, kill 
 this, find this, kill this, protect this. Ehhh, bite this. I am so fed up of companies releasing 
 a hastily done product that is obviously unfinished or a port, because they want to try to get 
 it out before a major holiday. ( Remember Star Wars Galactic Battlefront II anyone?) . It really 
 seems like the game companies don't care about things like player satisfaction or making a quality 
 product, they just want the $$. Who cares if the game is only played once and then sits on a shelf 
 or ends up in a trade store somewhere? Thank you, Bethesda for ruining a wonderful franchise and 
 burying all hopes we have in ever seeing a quality Star Trek Product, especially if this is any 
 indication of future works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloak124
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Great success! Wow wuh wee wah! Just kidding. Is this game really worth 40 bucks? If your a trek 
 fan, you should probably buy the game. If not, your wasting your hard earned cash. The game has 
 classic sound effects and great voice acting. I mean, come on, to have Ben Sisko's deep and gregarious 
 voice commanding the Defiant is a fully exhilarating experience. To give this game a 1 is a frigan 
 joke. Calm down game nerds and take a second to fully appreciate the trek experience. The multiplayer 
 skirmish battles often lag, but are surprisingly entertaining. This game is decent and thats all 
 I got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adarga12
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Legacy's strengths are its ship graphics, voice work, and three dimensionality of the battlefield. 
 The ships have a lot of detail and I haven't seen them look better in a Trek game. The voice acting 
 by the 5 captains is solid, and for the most part doesn't feel mailed-in. I also give the game 
 props for NOT adopting an Armada/SFC 3 type of playfield (3D ships in stuck on a 2D plane) . The 
 sound effects are spot on, and the weapons look more authentic than ever before. Some concessions 
 were made for gameplay's sake, but the sound and visuals have never been truer to the source material.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the weaknesses currently outweigh the strengths. The story, from what I gathered 
 from the bonus videos, looks intriguing, but the game as shipped does an extremely poor job of 
 presenting it. If you're familiar with the motion pictures and watch the videos, you can piece 
 together most of it. But you shouldn't have to do that. The game is not challenging, either. For 
 the most part, get the toughest ships you can afford and just plow into the enemy. Run away when 
 you're low on shields/hull, then finish the enemy off once you've recharged. Tactics don't often 
 enter into the equation -- you may target subsystems, but it's never required, and I never found 
 it useful. Most players can easily get through the entire game in under 10 hours; I believe it 
 took me about 6 hours on normal difficulty. The controls work well if you have an XBox 360 controller. 
 Using the keyboard/mouse is not nearly as precise or responsive. While the graphics are mostly 
 very good, the battle damage looks chunky, and jarringly out of place in the game. It's also overdone 
 most of the time. After a couple of exchanges, your ship looks as if it was thrown down the garbage 
 disposal. Damage could use a lot of refinement to make it fit aesthetically.
  
  In conclusion, the game is fun for a little while, especially as a Trekkie. At times it nails the 
 Star Trek feeling perfectly. I didn't try multiplayer, mostly because I wasn't impressed enough 
 with the single-player to spend any more time with the game. The game crashed once on my system, 
 but otherwise the game seems stable. The camera does have some issues locking on target sometimes, 
 and the AI isn't particularly strong for enemy ships (although better than the friendly AI for 
 your fleet) . I have a tough time recommending Star Trek Legacy in its current state. Some issues 
 may be fixed in a patch, but others I think are here to stay. The gameplay doesn't feel challenging, 
 the story is chopped to pieces, and the campaign is too short. Pick it up when it hits $20 and 
 patches are released that smooth out the rough edges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skennedy8
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game for many months. Since it was being published by Bethesda I had 
 the beautiful graphics of Oblivion on my mind as well as intuitive controls and a great storyline.... 
 Alas it wasn't to be. The graphics are just OK, the gameplay is a blatant port from the XBox 360, 
 and although the storyline is admittedly interesting it gets lost in the repetitive and uninspired 
 combat. At the end of the day voice acting from the actors of Star Trek is NOT a good reason to 
 buy a game. I'm glad I saved my money and tried out the game before buying.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheapkill
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Well This is the first review for me and I only did this to WARN the others. You know what they 
 say... to boldly go where no one has gone before... something like that... well this game is just 
 like that. It is the WORST piece of **** that I ever played. Why dont they make games like Star 
 Trek: Birth of the federation, well that was a great idea... and great game thou the graphics and 
 fight in battlemode where special . Now to the game, I will take the positive first because the 
 list is so short:
  1. The voices are super, all are there Janeway, Picard, Kirk ... just great
  2. The story is 
 quite fascinating
  
  now the negative:
  1. The Graphics: the ships run into each other, explosions are like farts in space,
  specially 
 when u are blowing a space station and you go throu the rubble is is horibble... so I started avoiding 
 doing this and leave this to the other ships and turned arround, further on damage on the hull 
 of your ships ... just horrible.
  The second part is that there are no graphic setting ... huh... well...
  
  2. The AI: no AI torpedoes 
 spin around the ships like crazed dogs for their tail quite funny but lethal when you turn around 
 and believed that u just destroyed the ship and you can focus on the other but instead it continues 
 to fire on you`r ass with 3 torpedoes swirling around... I admit it is very funny... The worst 
 part was when you send your ships to a part of the map and instead that they shall attack the enemy 
 they sand there and look stupid and miss the fact that they are under attack and perhaps they should 
 shoot back. Sometimes it happened that the enemy ships did not engage me att all well after I shot 
 a couple of torpedoes and emptied my phasor banks. If you are behind a planet then the AI does 
 not get it to warp around the planet and that it does not work to warp through the planet... yeaaaa 
 warp speed ...
  
  3. The controls: well if I was playing on a console ( perhaps atari 1600) with a gamepad... ok otherwise 
 ... bite me
  
  4. The story part two: The beginning was ok but then they cut it short and the game was over to 
 quickly... and instead of focusing on the different eras they completely jumped over some 5. The 
 ships: no configuration possible no pasers management... u know nothing from star trek starfleet 
 command :- (
  
  Finally: This game is a pice of garbage. If you buy it then you suck. I bougt it because I allready 
 have all star trek games so I am a sucker for daisies
  
  Ps: if this is the legacy of star trek .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SVoyager
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is my first review of a game here but ill try to keep this short. There might also be 
 a few spoilers in there but nothing much.
  
  The good: 3d space, not limited to 2d pane like in many other games. Nice nebuelas, attempt at 
 innovation.
  
  The bad: bugged, rushed out, bad tought out controls, crappy ai, not much intrigue...
  
  Ok, 
 first my history with startrek games is that i pretty much tried all of them with the exception 
 of a title here and there. As for the watching of the series and movies, im not someone that will 
 know evry episode or evry little thing that happened, nor do i have posters of the crews around 
 the house or that i keep track of the stardates. I just enjoy watching the series without going 
 crazy about it.
  
  Now this game i heard for a while and was expecting it to be good, however i didnt went on the 
 forums to read for days on to get the hype up so i dont know what was scrapped during the devloppement. 
 I just picked this one up when i heard that it was released.
  
  My first impression was a positive one with the ability to have the ship move in 3d space and not 
 be limited on a 2d plane. The graphics seems somewhat good while ive seen better and worse. Now 
 while going tru the first mission, i was impressed overall and once i rescued the ship in the nebuale 
 i was real impressed by the rendering of that nebulae, that was one of the best ive seen so far.
 
  
  Things started to go wrong as soon as i was showed the command screen and had another ship at my 
 command. The control system was clearly flawed. One such flaw is that you have to hold F to get 
 some sort of command wheel and then click on the command you wanted and release F . Thing is, F 
 is also a general move or attack command so as you choose the command you want on the wheel, the 
 command gets executed and as soon as you release F , that command is overritten with the general 
 move command issued by the releasing of the F key, bravo design team, yea good job. So one way 
 for me to let the command execute is to keep holding F until that said command has been done. Not 
 nice, big flaw, bad QA. This is the most obvious flaw of the game and at that point, i realised 
 that this game was rushed out and that there was a poor QA.
  
  With that in mind, evrything went worse. Poor AI that tends to keep fighting at full speed (lowering 
 to half impulse or quarter impulse improves turning ability and better shooting opportunities, 
 they should relax the engine a bit and turn some more sometimes) . AI not always warping when asked, 
 AI ending up not where you want them to, difficult targetting of the ennemy you want to, ships 
 bouncing off eachother, ships bouncing off planets, unable to fleet warp propedly (the first ship 
 to turn to the right direction will warp first, arrive first, and get shot first) , endless combat 
 no intrigue, bugged mission scripts, etc. (one of the funny bugs were that i needed to disable 
 some ships containing toxins while a station would charge some beam to blow them. The ships, once 
 disabled, would repair their engines after a while and start moving again. The really bugged part 
 was that I had first disabled the ships then i saw one of them blow (no beam from the station was 
 seen!?) then the other 2 ships blewup a few seconds later at the same time (hmm, nice recharge 
 rate for that station!) , but the funnyer part was that, some of the ships somehow repaired their 
 engines when blowing up so, as the final scripted portion of the mission was running, the first 
 sentence of scripted voice story was being said then one of the ships has repaired its engines 
 message and then another part of the story being said and another engines repaired message. In 
 short, it was a free for all with the scripting. Thats one example, there are a few more examples 
 like that and i didnt even went tru the game.
  
  One more thing that dissapointed me was the combat. I stopped at the first mission with the constitution 
 ship. The combat is simple. Shields, hull, phasors, torpedoes and probably cloaking later on. You 
 drain the shields (its a global shield, there is no strategizing at all here, it doesnt matter 
 if its the front or rear or anything else) . Once the shields are down, you fire torpedoes and keep 
 the phasers going and the ship will pretty much blowup in a few shots like that. Torpedoes has 
 some extreme turning abilities sometimes and they tend to get buggy and spin near the target point 
 for a few seconds to finally explode on target. I also found a very annoying thing with combat. 
 Just the sheer amount of ships you blowup. Is it me or the romulans seemed a bit more of a threat 
 in the series than they are in the NX missions? I mean, in one mission i get to blow 10 ships or 
 so and thats in matter of a few minutes. Whats the problem here, im used to seeing one romulan 
 ship being a huge threat in the series but in this game i blow them up by doing 2-3 alpha strikes. 
 You blow ships up at the same pace that you kill bugs around a campfire on a hot, humid day.
  
  The WASD controls are not too bad, some hate them, some like them. To me its pretty much in 
 the middle. The visual damage is not too bad here too, you dont get to see that so often in trek 
 games so im happy with it. One thing howver is the explosions of ships and stations. Bad, just 
 bad. Stations blowup in big very ugly chunks with barely 5 polygons per pieces, damn guys todays 
 graphic cards can take more than that or your 3d engine is really badly done.
  
  Voice acting, and sound are the big points here, very well done. I am ashamed however that such 
 voice acting is being faded away by a poorly conceived bugged game. You get all the big names here, 
 so far, since i stopped at the first constitution mission, the voice acting of NX ship with archer 
 is excellent, it would go in my top 10 of best voice acting. Perfect.
  
  The biggest problem i have with this game is with the general feeling of the missions always begenning 
 on red alert . By that, you always gotta get your fire button ready cuz there will just always 
 be a firefight. Its been like that with most of the trek games so far but a very few that were 
 playing on old pentium1 rigs. Startrek is not necessarly weapons free all the time. Its intrigue, 
 its the searching of a solution, its the dealing with anomalies, with planets and its population 
 etc, its not always phasers and torpedoes. In this game, so far there is scanning and transporting 
 kind of things, stuff that takes about 1 minute to accomplish and once you done that, it always 
 kind of trigger some sort of enemy that didnt liked the easy findings you got and wants to take 
 you down.
  
  Finally, (damn this review is not really structured heh but im speaking my mind here) for those 
 of you wanting to buy a gift for xmas, stay away from this title. Like another revewer said somewhere 
 in here, go buy a futurama dvd for more enjoyement. Dont give your money to a company that clearly 
 doesnt deserve anything with such a product. For me, this game endups in the pile of unsuccessful 
 trek game..... what next??? Lets see how the online trek game under devloppement will endup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long time since a Star Trek game has graced the gaming world, and not belly floped, 
 in terms of playability. The game is just as it says, a tactical space combat game and you are 
 an Admiral in control! You'll control a maximum of 4 ships, during a mission, and depending on 
 how you do in a mission you'll get more or less command points, thus allowing you to buy a better 
 ship.
  
  Well I'll skip the major details of how the game works, you can read the offical review if you 
 wan't to know how the game plays. The game started off bumpy, I'll admit the first five missions 
 are the hardes, and it gets easyer from then on. The book actualy has the wrong controls in it, 
 and I was supprised to see Bethsoft make such a durr mistake. The book and Titorial are sparse 
 at best, and from time to time have the wrong buttons (one even tells you to use the LS=Left Stick 
 for the X360... but the game was on PC lol) . Aside from a few bugs like that (which I'm sure Bethsoft 
 will fix in a patch) the game runs smoth and my PC was only around the minimum requirements.
  
  In short if you wan't a solid and well done Star Trek game, than this is defently for you, 
 I will warn you though the game is a bit short and took me only around 10-12ish hours to beat the 
 single player, but it has an interesting Multiplayer and Bethsoft will be adding content to Multiplayer. 
 As I mentioned if your a Trek fan go for it, and heck if you even want a large ship space sim, 
 this is also for you. Overall I'd say the game is very solid, and aside from the odd controls (if 
 you go to the Readme file you'll get the actual controls) and the length of single player its a 
 solid buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobaFett2040
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing how a company that could put out a game like Oblivion, which was an amazing game, 
 could put out such a piece of garbage. One, it lacks the ability to customize your video settings. 
 Two, it lacks a load menu. Three, it lacks a save option. Four, it lacks playable controls. Five, 
 poorly designed tutorials. This game is one of the WORST games I ever played. It's like they're 
 just trying to use names, Bethesda Softworks and Star Trek, to make money without actually haveing 
 to work for it. It's companies like that complain about software piracy, yet they put out games 
 that are a waste of money. Eventually it's going to get so bad that even pirates won't waste thier 
 HDD space on it. I lost about an hour of my life that I can't get back. If anything they should 
 pay ME to even INSTALL this game. Because of software laws I can't even get a refund. At this point 
 I'm rooting for the software piraters, at least when they get a crap peice of software they don't 
 loose thier hard earned money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlepad
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong. I like Star Trek. I might not have posters of Shatner and Stewart on my 
 bathroom walls, but i've had my share of make it so in the past, sometimes more than i wished for.
 
  
  So, now that we made it clear that my review is in no way based on some ancient prejudice. My review 
 is based on a simple and a very solid fact that this game is as bad as those alien females that 
 Kirk used to roll in the hay with.
  
  Let's start with the good things, which are plentyful, and yet are not enough to save this game 
 from crashing head-on into a gas giant. The graphics are stellar, as expected. Space crafts, weapon 
 effects, nebulas and whatnot - crisp and beautiful. I did find it strange, though, that space crafts 
 bounce off each other like rubber balls when they clash. Future technologies i guess.
  
  The voice acting is top notch, no complaints there. The storyline is solid, but nothing to remember. 
 All together, the looks, the music and the storyline manage to immerse you very well into the Star 
 Trek universe. What makes this game such a flop is the controls.
  
  Space ships are not cars. They are not planes in pc games back from the early 90-ies. They cannot 
 be controlled properly by the typical WASD control. And yet, the developer, in his ultimate wisdom, 
 decided to ignore that. That is why you will find yourself repeatedly bashing your keyboard on 
 your beloved Klingon dictionary, frustrated beyond your belief. The game is unplayable. As simple 
 as that. Trying to manouver during battles in 3d is just... let's put it this way - if any of the 
 Star Trek captains had the WASD controls, the series would have been very short. Speaking of battles, 
 and AI - as soon as you add ships to your fleet, you realise that the Academy prefers to enlist 
 lobotomized captains. Friendly AI is as basic as Commander Keen (which was a great game, better 
 than this one) . You will find them wandering off very often, in the heat of battle, instead of 
 firing on those damn enemy ships. Battles usually revolve around you hitting the WASD controls, 
 the firing button and cursing the command screen map that dances around and you have to be very 
 patient, and better yet, have superpowers, to be able to send your ships where you want them to 
 go. Battling the controls, the AI, and the whole simplified version of Star Trek should proove 
 too much for all but those who speak Klingon and DO have Shatner's posters in their bathrooms (???)
 
  
  Since no control configuration is possible (a typical console port) , some options will be discovered 
 by you only by sheer accident, such as cloaking. Ignore the manual, it's incorrect on half of the 
 commands anyway. I could continue this for another 4-5 paragraphs, but i feel that this experience 
 has drained too much of my energy already. My final advice to you - save this money to buy a Futurama 
 DVD set. At least you'll get some laughs that will not originate in frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telroan
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This is very obviously a game that was developed with the X-box 360 in mind. The PC version's interface 
 is extremely unwieldy. There are no upgrade features as were originally promised. The bright points 
 are overall good voice acting and pretty good visuals. This reminds me an awful lot of a computer 
 version of Starfleet Encounters, the only real difference is that you get have four ships at once, 
 although getting them to function as anything other than ways for your ship to effectively be in 
 four places at once is far more annoying than it should be. It is still fun to play but paying 
 $40 bucks for it is kind of a rip off, wait till it falls to $20 at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I might be used to playing faster paced games. When I first popped this one in i was almost immediately 
 disappointed by the lest than next gen graphics. The world really doesn't feel alive. That could 
 be because you don't see a single person. The only real interaction is via ship to ship com that 
 you dont participate in. The whole time I played this game i felt like something was missing. The 
 ship to ship combat is not robust enough to make it a whole game. I keep imagining that this could 
 be one part of a much larger game. Fly around and fight in space ships and also beam your dudes 
 down to a planet to kill some stuff or solve a puzzle would be sweetness. After a while my brain 
 slowed down to the pace of the game and i started to enjoy the space battles and a little exploration. 
 But all in all the game is severely gimped. Poor control and the fact that you can never really 
 maneuver in full 3D make the flying less fun than it could be. Lame graphics and no characters 
 to love really bring this one down to the next disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_dancer_66
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I ain't gonna spoil any suprizes in the storyline in here... At the first glance this game seems 
 good.... that is if you're playing it on a high end Pc of course, as the graphics (sometimes neglected 
 in many of the series games) are up to the year 2006, models are great (althrough damage effects 
 areen't as detailed as the ones in Klingon Academy) and the enviroments fit well in the Star Trek 
 Universe... However the few customization options in the video menu will scare low-end pc users 
 away... The sound is one of the best chapters of this game, original voices of the starship captains 
 from the series were used (voiceacting integrates well with the action) , the sound effects are 
 credible and the music (remixed sometimes) keeps up with the gameplay adapting to the situation..... The 
 bad part comes in some control issues, as the game frequently alternates between arcade and simulation 
 control types and ship handeling, confusing the player.... some keyboard lag as a legacy of the 
 console 2 pc conversion is present adding more confusion as sometimes the ship's response time 
 is low,.... However you can't really expect for a ship that size to react like a F22 at a single 
 tap of a key, making power drifts in space or turning itself while stopped, like a Challanger tank.... the 
 FMV sequences are a bit outdated, Bethesda opting for the old Homeworld series type of videos (animated 
 narration) but the in-game cutscenes are well made... The storyline is well ballanced although it 
 still has weak points, sometimes it lacks a detailled background or the gameplay that it's supporting 
 it has flaws in implementation... Another weak spot may be considered it's liniarity, it's gameplay 
 mechanics that tend to repeat themselvs, the old boss at the end of the level concept beeing more 
 specific to console games and not PC simulations.... Btehesda tried not to create a Starfleet Command 
 4 desquised under the Legacy flag (althrough they initialy feel alike) and adopted the so much 
 criticized WASD keyboard configuration... it does speed up the gameplay during battles but it also 
 makes you feel more like the guy at the helm or the gunner, than the captain of the ship (ignoring 
 the control problems and all) .... some say that you may get lost in the 3d combat, but there is 
 one key there that puts the camera behind the ship automaticly, just to correct the viewing perspective 
 ... The allies AI is not bad but sometimes just can't keep up the pace, or engage themselvs in a 
 series of complicate manouvers like long range attacks or close combat laser fights, confusing 
 the player again and creating the feeling of no backup or sitting duck ... consider the fact that 
 most of the times the ship you command is the best on your fleet and you will understand why, sometimes, 
 the enemy AI has the tendency of picking you out from the crowd... They react good (the enemy AI 
 i mean) , sometimes giving you the feeling of anticipating your moves (maybe that's why there is 
 the control lag :) ) , their attack tactics are pretty credible and by the end of the game you can 
 clearly see the differnce between an experienced enemy AI and a Rookie one.... It is not a bad 
 game, it can still bring hours of fun, the addiction level rises as you get used to the clumsy 
 control style, but it doesn't offer the strategical detail of Armada, the captain control in Bridge 
 Commander, or the simulation in Klingon Academy..... The MAJOR problem is that it can't be fitted 
 in one category, simulation or arcade style space dog-fighter, as the mutant genre Betheda tried 
 to create lacks both the detailed control of the first, or the intense fast-paced action of the 
 second category..... However the game will be remembered among the series fans as a major refference, 
 leaving behind a legacy of outdated graphics games and stepping into the new era.... Don't judge 
 it as compared to Armada, Starfleet Command , Bridge Commander or Klingon Academy and you won't 
 have problems playing it..... Just judge it as a simulation of a space dog-fighter in Star Trek 
 universe and you'll enjoy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LenLen006
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Everything being said already is true.
  
  The graphics wowed me initially to see the ships, space, and after watching the Next Generation 
 series on my iPod at work for weeks, I was imagining great new stories, creative battles, and at 
 worst, a few bugs.
  
  ST: Legacy is almost all bugs. The camera goes into convulsive spasmatic fits that make me worry 
 my cameraman is trying to hold steady while a live wire is stuffed where the sun don't shine. It's 
 too close, and when targeting (ha) , it can't seem to make its mind up.
  
  Controlling the Enterprise in battle is like a arthritic challenge with a new puppet. Between fighting 
 the camera to center on one target, and trying to get your ship to turn is futile. Firing on enemies 
 is very awkward, they have to be in front or back of the ship, and above it. Technically that may 
 sound easy but the enemies move much more freely and quickly than you do, and being able to blow 
 enough alien asses up feels like your shooting range is a small blind spot in comparison.
  
  The music is ok, but forgettable, and the acting is by the actual actors, so passable.
  
 
  If you have been waiting for a decent new Star Trek game to fill the void without a show to watch, 
 the bad news is you're in for a longer wait. With all of the out of work Trek writers out there 
 that consistently made entertaining episodes, you'd think someone could muster up a little talent 
 for a Trek game. and for science's sake, someone get some trek beta testers for the next try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiendishMuffin
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Being a tremendous Star Trek fan, I was anxiously awaiting Legacy. When it was delayed several 
 times, I began to worry that something was wrong. Usually multiple delays is a red flag that the 
 game is being rushed. After playing Legacy for the past few days, my fear has been confirmed. This 
 game sucks.
  
  First and foremost, when you put in the disk, you are not treated to any bells or whistles one 
 might expect from a production value game. You are instead greeted by a Windows install screen. 
 Pretty boring. There isn't even an intro cutsceen when you start the game. These are all polish 
 pieces that clearly were not implemented due to time constraints.
  
  Even without polish, the game itself looks fantastic. Playing the game on full detail, the ship 
 models glow and shine with near show quality glory. And for many, that's all you need (I definitely 
 thought so) . But once I began the single player campaign, I quickly got bored. The voice acting 
 is terrible, which in itself wouldn't be so bad if IT WASN'T THE ONLY THING CARRING THE STORY. 
 You will sit and literally stare into space while you listen to the story unfold via terrible voice 
 acting. Would have killed Mad Doc to consider cut scene CGI? The ships are pretty, but they're 
 not that pretty.
  
  I was hoping for a very immersive ship battle experience complete with realistic battle damage 
 and era specific match-ups. Even on this most elemental part of the game I was disappointed. Battle 
 damage looks ugly (i. e. VERY pixilated) and does not noticeably affect gameplay. You got a chunk 
 missing from your warp engines? No problem, you can still go to warp no matter what. This is just 
 one example of several aspects of ship combat that simply doesnt feel right. Finally, the story 
 is slow, uninteresting and frankly a stretch for Trek fans. Where are the classic moments from 
 the Trek franchise? Where is the Khan battle? The Dominion? I was certainly scratching my head 
 wondering why there are so few skirmish options and a bunch maps that are nothing but unfamiliar 
 locals. This entire game is a disappointment on all fronts, some more than others. It delivers 
 on gorgeous looking ships, but little else. This is not the Trek game we were waiting for or deserve. 
 Bethesda/Mac Doc: Leaving it up to the modding community to finish your game is lazy and unacceptable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordansomers
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I think they are taking kickbacks from bethesda. Really.
  
  This game is just horrible. It might be ok for a console but on a computer it is quite simply garbage. 
 I deleted it after 3 hours of play. I am not a dedicated trekkie, but i do like the mythology, 
 and this was obviously just an attempt to make a buck. No love was put into this by the developers. 
 and i seriously think that the reason there is STILL no review ( EVEN THOUGH GAMESPOT IS CARRYING 
 THE 1.1 PATCH!!!!!!!) is that bethesda paid them to not slam it ( which they will do, just wait) 
 until more parents buy their children an extremely dissapointing christmas present. FOR SHAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemoura
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  It seems that Star Trek fans will wait a little longer to play a good game aboard the Enterprise.
 
  I've waited for this game expecting that it could rescue the Star Trek from the last failures 
 but it seems it became another one.
  First of all lets talk about the positive points of the game. The graphics are very good, you have 
 a huge number of ships to choose from and the voices from the captains of the series are also a 
 good addition and in the end it become the only real thing that approaches this game to the series.
 
  Besides that the game is very boring and the only thing you do is push a button to fire your phasers 
 or torpedoes and watch you ship fly around your enemy.
  The lack of strategy is another bad point, you dont have to plan or create anything to accomplish 
 the missions, the only thing that approaches to a strategy is the energy system which you can boost 
 your weapons, energy or shield system.
  You might like this game if you are a big fan of the series, otherwise its not recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundmonster
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  As many have noted already, this release is very dissapointing. The lack of mapping control is 
 totally inexcusable. I am on of the 10 percent of the population who are left handed and the WASD 
 just doesn't work for us. The first thing I do in every game is re-map the controls. I mean most 
 people have their favourite layout for controls anyway, so it's not just a left handed thing.
 
  
  Also, many of the fuctions require a two step selection process where a mapped single control justs 
 make sense.
  
  Ship movement is awkward and slow, especially turning the ship. There is very limited control, 
 no rise or fall, pitch or roll.
  
  The graphics are ok, but by todays standard they aren't great. The number of particles are rediculously 
 low. It's such a shame as the Star Trek francise is so popular with great characters and stories. 
 This francise cries out for an imaginative game and the technology is here now for a great game. 
 But even with the real voices (some) the gameplay is so poor that I really don't want to keep playing 
 it.
  
  Maybe I'll reload FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I looked forward to this game from the earliest announcements. When I got it I couldn't believe 
 how good it looked, but after a couple of hours and three missions I became somewhat disillusioned. 
 The game is fast-paced all right. The Romulans kept zerging my little armada and taking out either 
 the research center or the Vulcan ship while my ships didn't seem to be able to effectively combat 
 theirs. I tried several different ship types, settling on the Enterprise, Cota and two Minuteman 
 destroyers. I was able to hold my own, but they still killed off the research station. And what 
 was the poiint of the repair base if you aren't going to be able to use it?!? Every time I tried 
 the Romulans aggoed whatever ship I sent there with two ships, sending the rest afer the research 
 station... totally ignoring my other 3 ships. This should have been a distinct advantage, but my 
 ships were never able to do enough damage to them to make a difference. The AI on both sides leaves 
 a lot to be desired. Starfleet captains should NOT have to have their hands held during an engagement! 
 That's like Nimitz personally guiding each individual plane and ship in both task forces at Midway. 
 I want to see a REAL Star Trek game, like Bridge Commander, where you go on missions not a pretty, 
 but dumbed down Starfleet Command! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fifteenhundred
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Story
  Star trek Legacy (STL) follows the story a Vulcan obsessed with perfection. The story is revealed 
 throughout the single player campaign which begins in Archer's error and carries on to TNG era. 
 You play several missions as Archer, Kirk and finally Picard.
  
  Missions:
  The missions are combat heavy. They usually involve alot of ships after the first mission of each 
 era. The first mission seems to wet your feet for each era new era. I have to say these are hands 
 down the best designed missions for any trek combat sim ever. They are long, involving, and set 
 a good atmosphere, and include elements of transporter use and other stuff such as tractor beams. 
 You can tell careful planning and attention to detail went into preparing these missions, they 
 are fun and engaging and never boring. There is one mission I remember being tedious, (it involved 
 asteroids) but that wasn't so bad. A unique mission.
  These engaging missions make you want to play through the campaign. My only disappointment and 
 I think it needs mentioning is that while Sisko was seen in one mission you never got to play as 
 Sisko in command of the defiant in the campaign and since all five captains were build as lending 
 there services you wonder why not? I really was shocked when the game ended and I had not played 
 as Sisko. So all he basically did was lend his voice for a couple lines in one mission and some 
 order commands when piloting the defiant class ship.
  
  Combat:
  Combat is very fun, very engaging and very star trek. It's fast paced, it does and can involve 
 a lot of strategy and tactics. Since most people seem to know much about the combat and the complaints 
 about it and compare it to other games I will do a direct comparison for this part of the review. 
 While I liked the starfleet command series, I always found it annoying that weapons took so long 
 to charge, it was unlike the show where you could fire at will, and it was annoying; even though 
 I liked the game for what it was, MadDoc have struck the perfect balance of being always able to 
 fire your weapons and still having the battles last long enough. Also the closer to your target 
 you are and the length of your phaser blast, helps to increase damage. So that means that short 
 bursts fired from far away won't help ya. Shields also recharge quickly so that you don't have 
 to wait for ever to rejoin an engagement if your shields are knocked out. It isn't arcady to me, 
 it's a perfect balance. For the more star trek persons among us, this game is the closest to trek 
 combat I think any game will ever be, which is what they designed it to do as they stated. People 
 have complained that torpedoes pass through shields, I remember many times on Deep Space Nine and 
 others where torpedoes were fired at fresh ships (meaning there shields should still be intact) 
 and have destroyed or exploded against their hull.
  
  As for tactics, your ship is protected by the infamous shield bubble, and has one energy bar for 
 shields. They do recharge quickly and hammering down shields or a more heavily shielded ship requires 
 good tactics maneuvering and timing, especially if you are in a lesser armed ship. Because you 
 need to keep concentrated barrage on the enemy for as long as possible to get their shields down. 
 Also, one thing I have found while maneuvering is, if you scroll your mouse wheel all the way down, 
 while at full impulse (which brings your set speed down to 0 and your current speed is now falling 
 fast) You bring your ship into its peak turning speed, a careful balance of pushing the mouse wheel 
 forward again so it doesnt drop below its peak speed and thus starts going back up, makes for a 
 nice quick turn ala near emegency turn similar to other games, and really helps out the slow bigger 
 ships. Maneuvering is a big key.
  
  Persons have complained about power management, you press the E key, then as you move the mouse, 
 the power goes where you want it. It is effective intuitive and creative and easy to adjust in 
 the heat of battle, its simple to just press and hold E and move your mouse and watch the circle 
 that your mouse controls move toward the desired systems. You don't have to look at it long, after 
 a while you'll know the top is shields, the left is weapons and the right is engines, you can quickly 
 move your mouse to set the power dot to the desired area either for a mix of tranferring more to 
 two systems or concentrarting all on a single system. It is a must for some of the missions to 
 transfer energy to engines to get out of situations quickly and save your ship from death and to 
 help complete certain things which require speed. Sometimes if you are near a planet or other THING 
 you cannot warp, so if you find your ship dying, you gotta get him outta there. If you lose too 
 many ships and you won't be able to afford a good enough 4 ship fleet for the end. Need to have 
 as much command points as possible.
  
  The tactical view. This is a great feature and a heavily used and relied on and a must use to pass 
 the missions and control your fleet. It is easy to use, gives a clear view of everything. I can't 
 say much more than that this game would be a pain without it and it is certainly an excellent tactical 
 map.
  
  Graphics:
  The ship graphics are gorgeous, weapons etc, I found the space backgrounds a bit off, sometimes 
 beautiful sometimes not. Sometimes it looked as if an mspaint spray paint was used to spray a brown 
 patch across the screen. It is lovely to see a torpedo strike your bare ship hull and watch as 
 desbris blows away from it, and leaves either a hull breach or a severe black burn mark. After 
 playing through the entire game I still cringe every time I see a torpedo heading for my unshielded 
 huill and cringe at the impact on my bare hull.
  The damage display is lovely, it is better than Klingon Academy.
  
  Sound:
  I found the sound 
 effects to be excellent non cluttered and very loud. Hearing the torpedo impact your hull is just 
 on par with seeing it, the sound effects are great and with alot of ships in the mix, I never heard 
 any clutter or overlapping or looping sounds. The music is excellent, but needs more variety. The 
 opening music is rather nice, more tunes along that would have been great.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Played two matches after I beat the game and had a blast, especially the first 
 one where we seemed to win against bad odds. It was me with two defiants and my teamate with 3 
 cruisers in TNG VS 2 Borg Cubes and a guy with three Lakotas. We all dove into the mix together. 
 My first defiant got hammered and I cloaked him and sent him on his way and forgot about him and 
 his cloak ran out and he died. My second one I was more careful with and I managed to destroy two 
 Lakotas. We were able to destroy the Borg cubes as well, though I don't know how I think my teamate 
 handled em good. It was a blast, if a little laggy... but it was fun.
  One thing I don't do is warp all over if I am the only one left, if I can win, I might try it like 
 if there is one person left and I am badly damaged and want to repair for a fair final fight, but 
 not against persons with more ships than mine. I either selfdestruct next to them or just fight 
 till I am dead. But the combination of warping anytime cloaking etc was fun, even if you can't 
 cloak for ever. Balances were made, such as no warp and repairs while cloaked which is understandable. 
 Warp is excellent, goes to warp instantly and drops out instantly. no wait or build up like previous 
 games.
  
  Complaints
  
  Single Player:
  Campaign too short, did not involve Sisko or Janeway as playable.
  
  Gameplay:
  Torpedoes, 
 torpedoes chase ships and loop around or bend back and curve toward a ship it has past. I believe 
 this is because torpedo speeds are too slow. If the torpedoes go toward there target at a high 
 rate of speed when fired they'd never have to loop back around or turn to finish the hit on a locked 
 target, and it would solve this problem, the problem is they travel slow, and a ship then moves 
 a bit but because they have been given a hit they go after em till destroyed. Doesn't detract too 
 much though
  
  Fleet Management:
  While the tactical map is an excellent tool and one you cannot do without, there should also be 
 some commands available while on that map that you could select to give your selected ships. Like 
 attack target. For those that don; t know. When you select a ship and right click someone it warps 
 there, when you left click it goes there on impulse, so you don't really need move to commands, 
 that would just overcomplicate the speed of the tactical map, clicking on a move too then clicking 
 on a locaton, when you can just click the location already. You can also click on a target and 
 it will sometimes lock the target in my experience, But other times it will fly to the area and 
 sit down. So it needs to be fixed where if you right click on an object or left click it goes to 
 attack it if its enemy. Also escort it if its friendly, or follow it.
  
  Also ships do not repair themselves if damaged, you have to switch to them and then do so, which 
 is a quick process but annoying. I think someoine has made a change to one of the files which fixes 
 ships not repairing themselves, but I prefer an official patch.
  
  Depth/Replayability
  I know they designed a combat sim, but there is no depth to it, the story is too short, and there 
 is little to no replayability. Yes there are skirmishes, but you cannot select exactly which enemy 
 ship you wish to make up the enmy fleet, given enough command points they choose the best, but 
 if you want something very very specific, you will not get it. This needs to be changed. There 
 was a map editor included with the game, a dev mentioned this could be used to create custom battles 
 with the exact ships you wanted, however, I have seen no map editor. I know that they say you have 
 to do this, X Y AND Z on legacymods. com to get access to it, but it was a built and included program 
 I don't see why we should have to alter anything to be able to use it. The next patch should make 
 it available to be used without having to access something hidden.
  
  Multiplayer
  Best multiplayer experiences have good communities and chats online. With Legacy you join a game, 
 play the game then the only option available to you on exit is main menu, you should be able to 
 go back to the room you were in with the players and launch another game if you wish. Also the 
 chat area is too small, it has scroll bars but only two lines of text are visible at one time and 
 the arrows to scroll are almost out of the screen, I can't see it being very difficult to improve 
 the viewable lines of the chat area or change where the area is located. This game also begs for 
 gamespy support or some sort of lobby which I doubt is practical now that it has been released 
 this way as that would require major changes and testing.
  
  Overal I give the game 7/10
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay Funfactor 10/10
  Replayability 3/10
  Multiplayer 6/10 (affected 
 by bad interface to multiplayer)
  Sound 10/10
  Star Trek Feel 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  At first, Star Trek: Legacy looks nice. The gameplay is as I expected, and can be fun at times, 
 but a poor control scheme and glitches make it frustrating to play.
  
  The games graphics are good, but not as good as I was expecting it to be. The space environments 
 are bland, but the ships are well done. One major complaint I have about the game is the camera. 
 It is permanently stuck at one distance away from the ship. You can swivel the camera around, but 
 it is way too close to the ship and sometimes makes combat become confusing and twitchy.
  
  The sounds and music in the game are good. The voice acting by the captains is fair. I thought 
 it could have been better. Each captain from each era of Star Trek is in the game, and I thought 
 they would have more effect on the quality of the game overall, but that was not the case, maybe 
 because of all the other mistakes that were made in this game.
  
  Gameplay is mostly ship combat. Occasionally you must scan planets and ships, transport personnel 
 to space stations or other ships, and escort missions. Altogether, I would have really enjoyed 
 this type of gameplay if there wasn't so many bugs and other annoying things that went along with 
 it. Several times my camera got stuck behind a ship and when I moved it, the screen blinked and 
 shook. The problem was solved by switching to the tactic map and then back to my ship, but it really 
 interrupts the game. Another major problem I had was movement and generally commanding ships in 
 my fleet. There are only 4 of them so you would think it would not be such a headache, but it is.
 
  
  The key assigned to select all ships works, but when you issue an order to all of them, you're 
 lucky is half of those ships obey the order. Most of the time, I find a ship or two in my fleet 
 just sitting idle, because it failed to carry out orders, while my ship is taking a beating without 
 support.
  
  I can't give the game a good score because fundamental things such as control really make is frustrating. 
 It is a shame because in the short times that everything works fine, it is really fun. It is definitely 
 in need of some patching, and then I would recommend trying it out, but right now, I'd say that 
 this is not a very good game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrules
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game was supposed to put Star Trek Gaming back on the market. The screenshots where looking 
 wonderfull and the gameplay even better but after playing it entirely i can say that i`m kinda 
 disappointed.
  
  The graphics are not so bad but not what it could have been. They where supposed to be as cinematic 
 as the movie but all i see is a bad attempt and artwork. The explosions should have been more spectacular 
 than they actually are. The motor of the game look's like a bad remake of Star Trek Armada. Sure 
 the ships look's good but again the damages are badly done. The Ships name are repetitive on every 
 ship which is a lack of imagination.
  
  The gameplay is buggy. Tractor beam has often to be ordered twice before working and sometime in 
 some case you happen to fire phasers as well at the same time. Target locking has also a huge lack 
 and is often not working unless you chose the target yourself. The controls of the ship are often 
 working improperly. The directionnal buttons are ok but sometimes for no reasons the ship stop 
 to 0 and doesn't want to go back to any speed. Unless you order him to move to warp to somewhere 
 else. Talking of warp... sometimes it takes a long time for the ship to go to warp where you want 
 him. And the Micromanagement lacks. Sound and Music: The music is repetitive and the sound as well. 
 The soundtrack is not even close to what we used to have in Star Trek.
  
  In conclusion, I had some fun playing the game but i could have been much more than what i`ve seen 
 there. It's desappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brodieman316
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  On a stick. I was so disappointed it was almost anger. When are they gonna get it? We as players 
 of games and fans of Trek, would rather they wait until they have a polished, well-designed, and 
 all around solid product before pushing it to market so as to beat the Holiday deadline. I say 
 Damn You Christmas. Bah Humbug. Guess it's gonna be another 3 years before we get another Trek 
 game that leaves us unfulfilled and unsatisfied. I got an itch that needs scratchin and it looks 
 like I'll be dusting off Bridge Commander and calling it my back scratcher. You know, the only 
 thing that could have made this game any worse is if William Shatner had directed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankienickel
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  FIRST OFF - Star Trek Legacy is a port from the 360 - it is first and foremost designed from the 
 ground up to play on the 360, not the PC. But what any decent game developer does with a port is 
 spend time optimizing it and adjusting the gameplay mechanics to work with the PC... not Bethesda 
 Softworks. Basic PC features are noticably absent, IE: remapping controls. This rush to Christmas 
 release has brought about huge flaming on the Bethesda Legacy forums - something the developer 
 will have to deal with in the months to come if they want to regain any hope of marketplace respectability. 
 I'm sure as I write this review programmers are working on patches to at least make the game stable. 
 Can you believe at time of launch multiplayer didn't work? Shame on Bethesda - shame. The graphics 
 are by my estimation at least one generation (maybe two) out of today's new release standards. 
 But maybe I'm spoiled by playing Total War 2 and Company of Heros lately. Star Bases break apart 
 in to three or four large chunks rather than a great explosion with hundreds of particles spreading 
 across the galaxy. The ship models are okay, but not what you would expect from a next generation 
 Star Trek game... no word play intended:) The voice work of the captains is okay too, but nothing 
 great. Noticably absent is NO PATRICK STEWART who at the last minute pulled out of the project. 
 No doubt Patrick asked to play the game and decided it would be better for his career if NOT be 
 part of this sub par product. Did I mention yet that you can't remap the controls? You're stuck 
 with W, S, D, A to steer the ship - that's it. You can't remap to use a mouse - although you can plug 
 in a 360 controller and it will work apparently. But for those of us who only play PC games, it 
 totally sucks that you'd be forced by shell out for a 360 controller just to get the flight sim 
 feel of the game back. And that's what Legacy feels like, a flight sim in space. No barrel rolls, 
 no doubling back on an enemy who is behind you (flipping around) . The flight engine they picked 
 for Legacy feels wrong. These are huge capital ships, but it feels like I'm flying a jet plane. 
 It's ironic that as I type this, there is an advertisement just to the left for MS Flight Sim X. 
 Go figure. The sound score is okay, but nothing to write good things about. Sound is there and 
 it works. Legacy's user interface is fuddled and confusing. To bring up command functions like 
 scan or transport you have to hold down the F key and use your mouse to pick a function. Doesn't 
 that sound doable? Well, in practice, because there is usually a lot going on, your mouse tends 
 to be going all over the place - so clicking on the desired icon isn't the most intuitive process. 
 I mean you can do it, but the smart answer is to map a quick key to those function... oh ya, you 
 CAN'T! NOTE: Star Trek Gamers have been consistently let down by PC games in the past and I think 
 they (and by they I mean me) expect too much sometimes. With that said however, I know what a decent 
 PC game feels like and Legacy is not one of them. It was obviously rushed to market to try and 
 capitalize on the holiday shopping season. Below is a quote from a well thought out forum post 
 for the game:
  
  1) Am I crazy, or can my starships not do 360 degree loops?
  
  2) no ability to roll.
  
  3) no ability to lock a target. Targets will be lost upon warp. They 
 will also seemingly be lost randomly during combat.
  
  4) Torpedo targetting system is unbelievable. It's an absolute crap shoot as to whether your shot 
 will hit, regardless of how close those arrows are together. Add to that the fact that ships have 
 to be in DIRECT los to your tubes to even start a lock.
  
  5) As far as I can tell, no subsystem targetting. 6) No ability to remap controls. **** ----- INEXCUSABLE 
 ----- ****
  
  7) Damage display is enough to make you cringe. All it displays is hull damage, your weapons could 
 be 1 hit from going offline and you wouldn't know it. The actual way in which it shows you hull 
 damage is laughable. An icon of a ship getting progressively more red.
  
  8) No accurate information about your status. No % level of your shields or hull (did worf yell 
 out shields being at 50%, or shields being half-red?)
  
  9) The grouping system is either worthless, or simply unintuitive. Groups will not attack the same 
 target even if you select them all then start firing on a ship. 10) No follow command (/boggle) . 
 This might have made the game playable at least, letting you rely less on the horrible interface.
 
  
  11) Slow and unreliable interaction with non-enemy objects. Scanning a target requires you keep 
 your cursor on target and hold down the F key for a bit. Better hope another ship doesnt fly in 
 between you and your target, or that you have the time to be hanging around waiting for the option 
 to start scanning.
  
  12) The lack of ability to lock targets means a lack of ability to cycle targets. Sure, you can 
 cycle targets in a crude I have my camera point at different targets kind of way, but quickly moving 
 to different targets requires you have their hull damage memorized, because thats all the information 
 you get in the cycle menu.
  
  13) Fleet starship selection is a joke. I can't imagine why anyone would buy anything other than 
 3 battleships. You could try arguing that the little ships are more maneuverable... but good luck 
 with that.
  
  14) Rerouting power has no discernable effect on ship performance. It probably does have an effect, 
 but since there are absolutely NO accurate displays (damage output of phasers, recharge rate of 
 shields, maximum possible speed of engine) it becomes unnoticable.
  
  15) No ability to remap controls. **** ----- INEXCUSABLE ----- ****
  This one deserves two entries 
 because of how absolutly insane it is that they thought this was acceptable.
  
  16) Uninteresting battles. When I fly in with my 4 battleships, I ponder as to how my enemy thought 
 it's 10 starships would be enough. 2 to 1, 3 to 1, even 4 to 1 odds are a walk in the park. I guess 
 they need to be since the control interface is so horrendous, but that seems like curing the disease 
 by killing the patient.
  
  17) No in-game save. You want to make the game hard? Fine, then make it hard. What you *shouldn't* 
 be doing is making it unenjoyable to play. Me running a 40 minute mission then dying because I 
 couldn't control my ship, THEN having to restart from the beginning does NOT make me want to buy 
 your game.
  
  END QUOTE
  
  Also, I found the game play balance to be WAY OFF. My fleet of 4 star ships took on over 30 Romulan 
 vessels and I took out everybody without breaking a sweat. I mean common... lets get serious. Overall, 
 I agree with this post 100%. In the end, if you are a hardcore treker then go out and buy Legacy 
 and hope for the best in terms of patches and faith in the modding community. If you are a regular 
 PC Gamer, then stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrealhk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy is a bridge commander type game, but takes a more fleet oriented approach. You 
 have to command a fleet of ships and co-ordinate them to complete each mission. You start off as 
 Commander Jonathan Archer commanding the NX-01 and as the story progresses you move along the whole 
 Trek timeline. For each mission you earn command points which you can use to upgrade your fleet 
 of ships which you command, as well as customize you team for a particular mission. You can outfit 
 a group of destroyers for a combat mission, or scouts, for quick scans of systems.
  The game mainly plays through an outside view of the ship, but has a flat 2D tactical map to help 
 you control all your ships and see the whole battlefield .
  This game is not perfect but it will not disappoint the Trek fan. For a non trek fan, this is like 
 a more linear mission based X3 or Dark star one .
  Graphics: The graphics are very detailed for the ships and the developers put a lot of effort into 
 the ships. At high resolutions, you can read the names of the ships, even when they are not right 
 next to you. However this cannot be said for the rest. While the ships are detailed, all other 
 graphics are pretty standard . The drydocks at close up looks flat and the galaxy is nowhere near 
 the beauty of say X3 . However it is acceptable.
  Sound: The sound is OK, and the main actors give quite a good performance. However the sub characters 
 such as Rick of the Coto does sound a bit dump and overacted. The musical score is very Trek like 
 and has a good orchestral atmosphere but not memorable. The sound effects are also clear and OK.
 
  Controls: The controls really need a lot to be desired. Star Trek Bridge commander offered a clear 
 and concise way of controlling your ships. Legacy does not have that. It would seem a lot of emphasis 
 was put into a design compatible with consoles, at the expense of the PC. Using a single key for 
 multiple purposes may work for a game pad but not for a PC. e. g. F to move the ship in the general 
 direction of the view, and HOLDING down F for a list of functions such as scanning, transport etc. 
 What is worse is you cannot remap the keys. I think the controls are the worst part of the game.
 
  Gameplay: As with the controls, there seem to be something wrong with the gameplay. It may be 
 to do with the interface, but I just cannot put my finger on it. The battle screen seems to work, 
 but at the same time confusing. The damage is just like a health bar etc. However, having said 
 this, the objectives are clearly accessible and when in combat which ship you have selected and 
 what target it is aiming for is pretty clear. Warping is simple and most common tasks are easy 
 to perform.
  Story: I cannot say much as I have not completed the game. However, from what I have seen, it is 
 a typical Star Trek story. Mystery, suspense, not just good and bad guys, but a few different aliens 
 all with unrevealed agendas. It is nothing special, but interesting enough to keep you playing.
 
  Multiplayer: Not player, not tried it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenoBrain
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The game feels very dumbed down as compared to the far superior Nexus. The two games a very similar 
 in concept and gameplay. It feels like they took the aforementioned titles and sucked a lot of 
 the fun and depth out of the gameplay. Not only that, the writing is decidely subpar, you favorite 
 star trek captains come across as whiny teenagers, or with all the personality of a cardboard cutouts 
 of their former glorious selves.
  
  Graphics are very shiny and colorful, with a good bit if post-proccessing effects applied. Ship 
 models look great, albiet covered in flat, not especially detailed textures. In this day and age 
 when our computers and even our consoles can generate real-time graphics that are *better* than 
 any star trek tv series put forth, our ships should look as good the the genuine article!
  
  Sound effects are good. Ships have the right hum and phasers and torpedoes sound as they should. 
 Some more processing, like doppler and occlusion effects would've gone a long way though.
  
  Ratings breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 7. There is some entertainment value here for the right 
 person. If you're a star trek geek and your allergic to games with a learning curve and just want 
 to jump in a watch the fireworks, this may be a good game for you.
  
  Graphics: 8. Nice to look at, very colorful with lot of effects. Ship models look good, surfaces 
 don't.
  
  Sound: 7. Good effects, effective music, but needs more work on production.
  
  Value: This is tough to gage as I haven't beaten it yet. Tenatively 6, because it's entertaining 
 one time through, but I won't be replaying it. Bump to a 7 if the game is a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeymantjg
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legacy is a next gen game that spans the eras of all Star Trek television shows. This 
 is not a good lead in to a game that took so much of other games and put it into a glitchy horribly 
 controled game.
  
  You cant even change the controls you are force fed a weak control set that is unforgiving and 
 slow. you have to hold down Q for a bit before you jump into warp. I was constantly fighting with 
 the auto pilot while trying to attack and out maneuver a ship. Audio controls are limited to volume 
 control and video ( graphics ) control is very limited to presets and anti aliasing 1 through 4. 
 Hopefully Startrek online doesnt disappoint as much as this game crash the inner trek fan in me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Phax
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what I was thinking. The minute I heard this game was coming out, I though Wow! Klingon 
 Academy on steroids! Now that I had a chance to play it, I'm somewhat disappointed. I was lucky 
 enough to have a friend who was able to lay his hands on a copy. The first think I noticed was 
 the lack of options for the game. It's pretty simplistic and you really can't tweak it. I then 
 noticed that you don't fight on a bridge like in other ST space combat games. The control over 
 ships functions is rudimentary at best. Then came the interface and control of the ship. It is 
 pretty bad. The camera flies all over the place and you have to keep moving the mouse around to 
 see the environment. i wish it was more like Klingon Academy where you can use a joystick. While 
 the controls are bad, the game should appeal to newcomers who haven't had a taste of the good stuff. 
 Those who've played Klingon Academy and Bridge Commander will probably not like this game as much. 
 It's probably worth one play-through and then you'll forget about it. All that good voice acting 
 and this is all we get?
  
  Shadow-Phax 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spond
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  First, let me get everyone on the right foot. This is exactly what was promised by the devs. Unfortunately, 
 there has been a lot of build up and expectation surrounding the software release; therefore many 
 individuals have been let down by the game.
  
  It is important to judge the game on its own merits. Judging this game as a part of the SFC series 
 or a BC2 will only set one up for disappointment.
  
  Legacy is all about a 2  4 ship Star Trek combat sim with some campaign scenarios during single 
 player mode. Think more along the lines of Sid Mires Pirates. When one enters the game with a clean 
 slate they will truly appreciate the fun factor it offers.
  
  Once one steps away from their previous Star Trek gamming baggage theyll see that many of the 
 functions that made the aforementioned games great wouldnt necessarily work in Legacy or would 
 just be an unnecessary add on.
  
  With that said, the game graphics and ship battles are great. The controls need some work but one 
 can become accustom to them over time and making those issues dissipate. The skirmish mode is a 
 little quick for my tastes but with the overall set up, thats what Id expect.
  
  Let downs: There could have been a conquest mode with some random reoccurring missions. Ship upgrades 
 would have been nice but most of the time people fully load out their ship within a couple of fights 
 making this function more of a perfunctorily feature over time. Multiplayer could have more individuals 
 than 4, and lag issues exist.
  
  Conclusion, this is a Star Trek combat sim with 4 ships. Thats all and nothing more was promised. 
 If you can buy and play this game with this comment in mind youll have a good time (as long as 
 you like Star Trek) . Last, the modding community may have some other positives in store for this 
 piece of softwares future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InTheShadows161
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legacy is a pretty good game and it takes the gaming interface up level, most star trek 
 gamers are used to the simplistic controlls of bridge commander, however this game provides a more 
 challenging and well developed interface. It's gameplay is unmatched with cinematic special effects 
 and a story line that makes you want to see whats going to happen next. It will take you about 
 20 minutes to beat every mission, but you will definately not notice the time. You start the game 
 of in the NX-01 Enterprise and you work your way through time.
  
  The rest is up to you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The previews and interviews presented for this game were fantastic. The developers had only to 
 match, not surpass, what their own people had stated as being in the game to have make this a great 
 game. Unfortunantly, this did not happen. The ship models do look very nice, but the overall demands 
 are so high you need a very high end system to maintain any decent playability. The minimum requirements 
 as a joke, as my own system surpasses these, while by a small amount, yet the game is still so 
 jurky it is very hard to play even with all graphics settings at the very minimum, and the resolution 
 below what I play any other game at. The controls are not well thought out at all. I would not 
 have expected such poor planing from a company with Star Trek game experiance. This uses some of 
 the worst game control setups I have ever seen. The plot is great, yet some of the missions are 
 rediculously hard while others are so simple it feel like you forgot something. To top things off, 
 some of the very ideas set out from the start, such as not only getting new ships but improving 
 your ships with better weapons was cut from the game, making all ships cookie cutter and command 
 points only usable for replacing ships in your fleet. This truly had great promise, it is a shame 
 that the company decided against producing the game they had promoted and decided to make a PC 
 based console game instead (Even the help screen lists console controller commands!) . This needs 
 MAJOR work with patches or mods to have real value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0crates
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I tried finding reviews before buying Legacy but couldn't, so I decided to roll the dice. Like 
 a few other reviewers, I grew up playing the strategy board game Star Fleet Battles, and I cut 
 my teeth on the related PC games.
  
  Now, this is nothing like that, but I don't think it's quite like a FPS either -- flying a starship 
 here is more like piloting a catamaran. It takes a while to figure out how to manage 4 ships at 
 a time, but they do a decent job of managing things on their own. The zoom-out tactical map is 
 one of the game's better features, because it enables to you get a quick overview of the action 
 and give out orders quickly.
  
  Voice acting is adequate, but the script and story are all too standard. It's pretty hokey when 
 you're dueling Romulan War Birds to occasionally hear the same hackneyed taunts over and over. 
 Surely they could have done better. Or was this project deliberately sabotaged?
  
  As for the graphics, the good news is you can max out all the settings and still get fluid motion 
 on an average system. The bad news is these graphics are about 3 years behind the curve. Space 
 battles in Star Wars: Empire at War are much, much richer, and they're not even as good as they 
 should be.
  
  There are no sound options that would allow you to take advantage of the Creative X-Fi. There are 
 just volume controls.
  
  Not being able to save in the middle of missions is a major pain. It's just a cheap trick to stretch 
 out a limited campaign.
  
  As of this writing, online play simply does not work. You log in and see a bunch of hosted games 
 with one person waiting for others to join. Whenever you try to join a game, you get a message 
 saying the host has another version of the game. This happens whether you have the out-of-box version 
 or if you have applied the patch. That is totally unacceptable.
  
  I was really looking forward to the ship customization described in interviews with the designer, 
 but as far as I can tell there is no customization whatsoever. This is plain fraudulent. This is 
 the kind of game that might be fun for a newbie gamer for a few days, but it offers basically no 
 enjoyment for gamers looking for any amount of substance. Disgraceful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vizhonary
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Normally I'm long winded, but this game doesn't deserve a full review. It's buggy, the controls 
 are clunky, the graphics dated, the story uninspired and the interface unfriendly. Worst of all, 
 though they licensed Star Trek to use in the game, they used it only in graphics and names, because 
 the plot they present has a harder time fitting into the Star Trek timeline than the entire series 
 of Star Trek: Enterprise. Appearantly we met Romulans long before Kirk and Q had nothing to do 
 with introducing us to the Borg, making the game a HUGE what if that will never be a part of the 
 Star Trek canon. This has to be my most unenjoyable Star Trek Experience to date and I thought 
 nothing could be worse than ST: Away Team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champripper
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  After playing Star Trek Starfleet Command 3 and Star Trek Bridge Commander for so long I was really 
 happy to hear of Star Trek Legacy. Well let me tell you Star Trek Legacy is a mediocre game probably 
 more suited to a12 years old kid. It lacks complexity, it has way too many bugs, and the most 
 annoying is the whole targeting, firing weapons. Even the menu is bugged damn
  The gameplay its fun for a while, but when you think about it and you look back to Bridge Commander, 
 Klingon Academy or Starfleet Command, you come to think this game really sucks, I was expecting 
 more, more complexity, more, just MORE
  I cant really complain about the graphics, they arent as great as I expected but they do fine 
 I guess, compared to other Star Trek games.
  The sounds sometimes really suck or they bug out and you keep hearing phasers firing at you when 
 theres really no one actually firing at you, or when you turn you camera around your ship you 
 hear the exact same sounds, same intensity, it doesnt matter if youre next to the engines or 
 300 meters farther away. Some of the engines sound like jet plane engines I dont recall hearing 
 that in the movies they said it will be canon but ye right shielded cloaked ships and torpedoes 
 arcs that act really weird or swirling torpedoes around a target or even torpedoes that get past 
 a target and then do a 180&ordm; and go back after the target I wouldnt call that canon.
  The only nice thing I can say about the game is that I like the story, and that they got the voices 
 of all the film captains, well thats pretty cool. But I guess I would like any new Star Trek story, 
 since its been a long time we had any new Trek movie..
  Some say that a patch or some mods might make the game better but I seriously doubt it, the whole 
 console concept downs the game way too much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_4
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  i rented it first and their right:
  
  THE GAME SUCKS
  
  at first every1 was like wow bethesda making a startrek game its gona pwn
  
  but after playing 
 it for an hour it thought oke this is not startrek whatsoever
  they just use the voices and ships the rest is plain bad....
  you start out with the enterprise 
 and another ships joins because of the story
  but after each mission you can buy more ships with command points 
  up to 4 ships in your fleet
 
  
  the combat is slow and boring (taking down just 1 ship takes up to 5 minutes)
  the only challenge to the battles is to not freak out of annoyance cause your ship wont turn the 
 way you want to.
  
  even a basic element as the camera is done awfuly
  if you want to select another target it twitches and glitches all over the place
  
  if you 
 want to set a course on the nav map you hard to keep the mouse where you want to go.
  same as changing power input to weapons hull or engines
  
  conclusion:
  they just put a bad 
 space fight sim in a startrek cover and try to rip all the trekkies off
  
  advice:
  dont buy this game, if you want to see for yourself simply download it and trow it away after 1 
 hour cause it will start to get boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outsider1580
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I myself along with many others were waiting for a near perfect Star Trek game for years. I seriously 
 thought with all the hype that Legacy was going to be that game. I was wrong. The missions were 
 sub-par and the story ridiculous. I am very dissapointed with not just the single player aspect 
 of the game, (I beat the game and had it for 1 day. ) but the multi-player was your same old Skirmish 
 mode. There was nothing new or innovative about it. The soundtrack wasn't even close to that of 
 a Star Trek atmosphere. Legacy was a hybrid of Bridge Commander, and Star fleet Academy with very 
 little redeeming factors. The only good thing about Legacy was that all the great Captains lended 
 their voice talents. I also feel I was let down with the promise of utilizing massive fleets, Star 
 Trek Armada series was more closer to massive fleet usage then Legacy ever could be. I certainly 
 did not think 4 ships under your control was massive. Even Star Trek Dominion Wars in my opinion 
 was a better game then this. Man oh man oh man, I hope one day we will finally be graced with a 
 Star Trek game as good as the Classic Birth of the Federation. However more and more I see this 
 happening close to never! But if you like FPS games like the old Descent then this game maybe up 
 your ally, otherwides stick to the classics like BOTF and Armada II and wait once again for someone 
 to get it right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aphenicus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  As long as your not looking for a Bridge Commander 2, This is a great game.
  
  Gameplay: The story line is quite addictive, and has a good plot. The story lines, for the time 
 I've been playing it, ties in to the other missions of the same era pretty well. Though, I did 
 not rate this that high, because the controls take a while to get used to.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. Ship models look nice, though some of the damage and explosion 
 graphics aren't that great. The backgrounds look nice, but could be better.
  
  Sound: Sound wise, this game rocks. The acting seems like Im hearing the TV Show, except for the 
 supporting actors. They seem just like most games, kind of crappy compared to the Captains. Ship 
 sounds are great, though not the best.
  
  Overview: Those who thought this would be a BC2, will be disappointed as this is a completely different 
 game. On the other hand, people need to remember, BC was not the greatest game in the world when 
 it came out, but now, after all the modding, is one of the best ever,. This game looks like its 
 got lots of potential once the modding community sinks its teeth into it. If you want a good Tactical 
 ship-to-ship combat game, pick this up, just be prepared to get a little stressed out with the 
 controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HmChkn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legacy... known already for having the license to pretty much all of the Star Trek universe. 
 Bethesda Softworks... best known for their work in the Elder Scrolls series (by the way, Oblivion 
 rocks hardcore!) . MadDoc... one of those publishers with its ups and downs. But when you put those 
 three together, you get one amazing game.
  
  With an amazing blend of RTS and FPS, Legacy takes the Star Trek gaming to a whole new level. I, 
 for one, am glad to see it. It seems to me the last good Star Trek game was Armada 2, so this is 
 a welcome change, to be sure.
  
  I wish I could say that this game released bug free, but just days after ship, there was the first 
 patch. So at least we can say this about Bethesda, they are quick to respond to problems.
  
  Allow me to get to the nitty-gritty. The graphics are top-notch (and my computer sn't even 
 all that grand) . The sounds are alright, in my opinion... mostly you're stock Star Trek stuff, nothing 
 extraordinary. Although the voice overs make me very happy! Gameplay, as I said before, is FPS 
 meets RTS meets Star Trek, and I love it. In a sense it's like Armada crossed with Away Team, and 
 a dash of Elite Force. A great mix, if I do say so myself.
  
  The fact that this game goes from the Enterprise prequal series all the way through the universe 
 that is Star Trek, amazes me... and makes me happy in my pants, as it were. What I've seen when 
 I played a little of the multiplayer and watched some of the extra videos just means that I want 
 more. I truely hope to see an expansion... perhpas one that lets you play as the Borg, or Klingons... maybe 
 even the same story line just on the opposite side of each era.
  
  There are truly endless possibilities, and I hope that MadDoc and Bethesda fully explore them! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  What can be said that hasn't already been covered about this very sad (strategy) game. The camera 
 is chaotic, the controls are hard to follow, and the overall gameplay is just sad and damn frustrating. 
 Save yourself from this God awful game. If your searching for a great trek game to bring the series 
 from the ashes, this is definitely not it. DO NOT BUY IT! Someone should make a petition to send 
 into mad doc to get our money back or release a new game! This is probably the most dissapointing 
 things in my life since I found out Santa Claus wasn't real two years ago. So Virginia that is 
 not a true star trek game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ledoubleu
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I actually bounced NX-01 off of a planet in the 3rd mission. I couldn't believe what I saw. I expected 
 much tighter gameplay given the Bethesda name attached to it. Some controls don't seem to work. 
 I still have not been able to selectively target subsystems as decribed in the book. If I could 
 take it back I would. I even bought a second game to send to my son overseas. I'm almost embarrassed 
 by that now. Maybe this is why GS didn't review the game??? At the time of this posting only user 
 ratings were showing. Oh well, I've bought rotten games before, I just know now to watch for other 
 clues to see through the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixDs24
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I do like this game. It's a lot of fun. Despite that, it could have been amazingly fun, and an 
 incredible game. There are some things missing that leave you feeling a bit disappointed at what 
 this game could have been.
  
  The control scheme takes a little getting used to. It also doesn't help that the game manual is 
 incorrect about some of the controls. For instance, it labels G as being the control in the command 
 panel, however in the game that seemed to be pathed to F. Also, the overall control setup can be 
 unwieldy at first, and took me quite a while to get used to. Once I figured it out, it wasn't actually 
 that bad.
  
  The friendly AI is pretty stupid. You'll probably find yourself switching between your ships often 
 because the AI can't seem to figure out how to kill opponents. Also, they have an annoying tendency 
 to sit around and do nothing at times.
  
  Another thing I've found issue with is that individual ships don't seem to be able to feed data 
 to each other. In another ship is engaged with enemy vessels beyond your own sensor range, you 
 won't be able to target those ships. You must first move your own ship to that location, which 
 can make plotting intercept courses somewhat annoying at times.
  
  The biggest gameplay failure, however, is the lack of ability to upgrade your ships, which was 
 a fairly highly touted feature while the game was still in development. While the game is still 
 fun in spite of its lack, its inclusion would have given the game a lot more long term value and 
 made it far more interesting, as now the only thing you can do with command points is buy new ships, 
 and after a certain point, that becomes useless, if you're good about keeping your ships alive.
 
  
  The sound is very good. It gives the game a genuine Star Trek feel. The phaser and torpedo sounds 
 are great, and the inclusion of the captains from the shows makes the game really feel authentic. 
 The other voice acting is only OK, however, and the enemy radio taunts get somewhat repetitive.
 
  
  The graphics look very impressive. As long as your ship doesn't have holes blown in it. The damage 
 effects, other than the scarring details that leave your hull blackened, aren't that impressive 
 looking (about the same level as Bridge Commander) , and the ship explosions when they're destroyed 
 could look more impressive. It is possible to have parts of your ships blown off (as I discoevered 
 in a skirmish when my Akira lost its right nacelle) , but that's about the most interesting damage 
 effects in the game. The warp speed acceleration looks authentically Star Trek, and the ship models 
 are quite attractive. There have been a couple times when I've noticed background space textures 
 looking a little wonky. Once I distinctively saw a large square that looked like it was hovering 
 in space and looked nothing like what was around it.
  
  The campaign is decently fun, though the missions can be annoying at times. If you're not interested 
 in protecting other ships and having a few other boring objectives, skirmish play is for you. I 
 actually find myself playing in skirmish mode much more than the campaign. You'll get a lot of 
 hours just flying around blasting other ships.
  
  As I stated before, this game could have been so much more. All it would have taken was for the 
 developers to deliver on their promises. While what they gave us is still an enjoyable enough game, 
 it's not the instant classic it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antony
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting something more from Bethesda and Mad Doc for a game that uses the Star Trek brand. 
 However, the game is seriously lacking features that are going to be unforgivable in the game market. 
 The graphics of the game are not what you would expect from a 2006+ game with textures looking 
 washed out and starships lacking detail. In contrast the graphics of Bridge Commander are by far 
 the best and we are talking about an older game. Gameplay is surely console oriented and it seems 
 as though they had to built the game for the PC as if not to lose target audience. Sound is good 
 but not anything extreme and the acting from the big names their voices you hear are not that interesting. 
 In the end the game is only for serious Star Trek fans and for people like me which just want to 
 have easy fun with the game which MIGHT be the games winning point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmbone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. i dont get all the bad reviews, the graphics could be a little better but 
 for the most part are great. The controls are the same as bridge comander (GREAT GAME) unless you 
 have a game pad similar to that of the play station or xbox. The sound is some of the best ive 
 heard in games. could have had a little more ship wise for the other races but for whats there 
 is awsome. The skirmish feature is good as well you can chose what race you wanna be and than pick 
 your ships for your fleet. Was gonna give it a 9.5 but the graphics drop it down a notch. If your 
 a big trekkie fan this game is a must!!! BIG WHITE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: formaldehyde27
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  I don't know what people expect, I got to give the game a 8.4 and i was going to give it a 9.0 
 but i i say all the bad reviews. Perhaps i haven't played it long enough yet. I've got though the 
 first mission played a few skirmishes and i haven't really found anything i hate about it. I guess 
 peoples expectations were up there. It reminds me of that Star Trek game that came out on the SNES 
 years ago. I Loved that game and i think i'm going to love this game. I'll dis a game if it deserves 
 to be dised but i see people giving this game a 4 or less, I think if anything it deserves a 7. 
 If you were considering buying it, look for a demo of the game first and give it a try before you 
 decide not to. I like the game. I play games like Battlefield 2142, Oblivion IV, Titan Quest, and 
 other hardware bashing games. This game deserves a second look from the bashers that gave it a 
 4 or less. Thats my 2 cents worth :P.
  
  T. Reign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Wow Legacy is BAD. The controls for the ships are terrible. There is no strategy whatsoever. If 
 you were looking for an Armada type game you will not find it here. Instead the game is like a 
 bad shooter with starships that are frustrating to control to say the least.
  
  What were they drinking when they thought up this game? This game is a major letdown with wonky 
 console controls and no ability to save during missions so you end up replaying the same escort 
 missions over and over because the AI assigned to your ships is completely missing.
  
  This game couldn't even be saved by a patch, unless that patch rewrote the entire game. I don't 
 mind the premise of more of a tactical shooter as opposed to a strategy game like Armada, but when 
 they try and make a Starship drive like a FPS it just ruins the whole premise. More disasters like 
 this and no developers will want to touch the franchise for fear of a flop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axess68
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with the expectation that it be a decent Star Trek experience. What I ended 
 up with was a game that is a constant grind of the exact same types of engagements repeated each 
 mission ad nauseum. Star Trek is about exploration and only about combat when it is absolutely 
 necessary. I knew this was something of a combat sim. But, at the same time, I thought there would 
 be some variety. I enjoyed the game a heck of a lot more when I hooked up the Xbox 360 controller. 
 It seems like this game was merely a port from the Xbox 360. It's also nice to see the classic 
 ships and current ships in action. Bearing down on a Klingon D7 with your refit Constitution Class 
 Starship is quite a thrill..... But, it gets old when it is repeated each mission with different 
 objectives!! The Repetitive gaming trend is getting boring. Constant dungeon crawling, repetitive 
 flying missions with only different objectives ---all this has been done and done again. Where is 
 the innovation and interest? Where is the exploration? None of this is here in Star Trek Legacy. 
 It's just a space combat sim using Star Trek ships! There is a thin storyline that ties all the 
 eras in together. But, it is so weak a storyline that it could have been used in a single mission! 
 This is sad. This is not Star Trek. Bethesda just published this game and didn't program it ---and 
 it shows. Oblivion was, and still is, an excellent RPG with TONS of depth and excellent player 
 modding.
  
  Perhaps modding will save this game? I certainly hope so..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmh1924
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  after a 4 year absence of any new star trek games. Well where to start about this game. If this 
 release was just for the Xbox 360 then it might have lived up to its hype. But as a PC game this 
 game has some very serious flaws. So Where to start...
  
  The Good... The graphics are acceptable, menus once you are able to access them are very overly 
 simplified. Back ground music is ok
  
  The Bad... Sounds: voices seem to be very mumbled, controls are really design to be used on a gaming 
 pad and do not play very well as a keyboard set.... game overly uses certain keys like the F key, 
 for example if you wanted to scan a planet you will need to place your cross-hair on the object 
 press and hold the F key then mouse over to the scan icon and click on it.
  
  The Ugly... in the tactical map its almost impossible to use with a mouse to select destinations 
 or other things because the mouse moves in huge leaps and is overly sensitive to movements to include 
 small ones.
  
  What i have stated here are only a few things about the game that I like and found wrong.... This 
 game was totally designed as a console game and then was attempted to be converted into a PC game, 
 using game console commands. The programmers did not even try to take advantage of a pc and its 
 many capabilities. The game is really a total failure as a PC Game. If the programmers and developers 
 took the time to properly develop this as a PC game first and then convert it to a console game 
 it might have been a better game for all. I will predict that as a XBOX title it will do the star 
 trek franchise justice.... But as a PC title is just another disappointment in a long line of failed 
 star trek titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darks1ayer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not totally sure as to why there have been many negative user reviews on this game. Sure the 
 controls take about an hour to grasp, and the game has a few rough patches, but for the most part 
 this is the best Trek game I've played, and one of the better games I've played this year. Graphics: 
 The ship models are beautiful with strong Post/HDR lighting effects and a nice amount of high resolution 
 textures. The ship explosions are colorful, but the spacestation explosions look downright cheap 
 looking. This could have been done a lot better. The backgrounds vary between very pretty and kinda 
 on the ugly side. Again, that could have been done better, but I feel the high level of detail 
 the starships have outweighs any of the lesser graphics.
  
  Sound:
  The voice acting feels straight from the show, minus the support actors (which are kind of... uh... 
 B-quality... but tolerable.) . The sound effects are well done and feel right at home in the Trek 
 universe. The music is simply wonderful. it sets the mood of the game quite nicely. Controls:
 
  This game does take some getting used to with regard to the controls. It's not impossible, but 
 give it time. It will become second nature.
  
  Gameplay: The ship-to-ship combat is every Trekkie's wet dream. Not only is it exciting to watch 
 from a cinematic standpoint, but it does take a fair amount of tactics to win the battle. Enemy 
 ships are crafty, and will attempt to out maneuver you to get a better firing arch. But obviously, 
 you do the same to them. Its nice to play against decent A. I. for a change. Also the missions and 
 story are fairly good, if not totally original. Play it for the combat. This is a combat simulator 
 of sorts afterall.
  
  How did it run?
  Although the onbox requirements made my eyes bug out (2.66ghz P4 or better, 128mb GPU, 512mb RAM, 
 5 GB free HDD space) , the game ran smooth with setting maxed out (1280x1024, 4xAA, Very high details) 
 on my AMD Opteron 165 based system (duel cores @ 2.75ghz each) w/ a 7900 GTO (700mhz core clock/1600mhz 
 memory clock) and 2GB PC4000 memory (for non-techies, this is a solid and fairly affordable computer 
 at the time of this writing) I would imagine that this game would run well on computers close to 
 the minimum specs for the game if the Anti-alising quality is turned down. Overall, it seems to 
 be a well programed game from a technical standpoint.
  
  PROS: Strong ship-to-ship combat, breathtaking ship models, fantastic music, voice actors from 
 the series.
  
  CONS:
  Controls take time to get used to, game design feels unorginal, explosion effects (of space stations) 
 are poor quality, supporting voice acting is of low quality.
  
  The Bottom Line: A Godsend for Trek fans, and interesting combat sim for non-Trekkies. Minus the 
 issues as stated above, this comes as recommended to anybody who is intrested in games involving 
 space battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspeckman
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I almost bought this last night, but I have been caught up in the hype before, so I decided to 
 wait for reviews. So far nothing except bad user reviews. I am a HUGE Bridge Commander gamer, loved 
 most of the other games as well. I even liked Starfleet Academy . But to hear about the gameplay 
 on the PC being button mashing, no Cardasians???, I am sad to see this happen to my beloved Star 
 Trek franchise. I saw how long it took for the Star Trek franchise to grow and really flourish 
 in the light of Bridge Commander, SFC3, and Armada II. Well, I guess I am waiting for Supreme Commander 
 to come out now. :....- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I, ve only played 1st couple of levels but so far I like it. I didn't like the graphics till I turned 
 down the brightness and made everything darker..... like it is in space. Once I did that, it looked 
 great! The controlls are a little to qwerky for my taste. I think the $40.00 price point for this 
 game is right-on (i don't think it would've worth $50.00 or more) Overall, I like the game, but 
 hope a patch or two come out soon to fix some control issues and mabey throw in a new ship or two (has 
 plenty of maps for me) ..... or three!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greywolfe615
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited for this game. All five captains. All three eras. Pretty much every ship you 
 could ever want. (Well, except for Dominion and Cardassian ships, but I'm not going there right 
 now...) Supposedly brand new state of the art graphics. Multiplayer.
  
  Maybe all of those things would be good, if they actually worked. First off, the gameplay controls 
 for PC are awful. Why simply moving the mouse should unlock the camera from your target is beyond 
 me, especially when the mouse is the most convenient way to control your weapons and speed. The 
 space-bar targeting doesn't work most of the time, and the F button targeting, while it works okay, 
 is annoying because it's also a go-to command. Furthermore, playing as the Borg is a nightmare 
 with the free wheeling camera, because you can never tell if what direction you're moving in, or 
 where you should turn. (Yes, I know that is partly because they have geometric shapes as ships -- but 
 without the free-camera movement, it would be easy to keep the camera locked behind you or on target, 
 one or the other.)
  
  The other huge let down is how terribly buggy this game is. I still haven't completed even the 
 second campaign mission because it has crashed four out of five times I've tried. (And yes, my 
 computer meets all the game requirements.) Multiplayer games aren't really listed -- there is a list 
 of them, but they all always say 1/4 players are in the room, and games that have already launced 
 or are already full still are listed the same way. You get no information on the game list screen 
 as to what the settings for a particular multiplayer match are going to be either. Gameplay on 
 multiplayer is terribly lagged, even when all four players are on high speed connections. The nebulas 
 and other graphical goodies perhaps just slow the thing down too much?
  
  All in all, a big disappointment. I'm sad that such fine actors like Avery Brooks, Patrick Steward 
 and Kate Mulgrew, and good guys like Shatner and Bakula will forever have to be associated with 
 this unfinished, hurried, utterly disappointing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilidog_128
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Having played such great Star Trek licensed games as the Star Fleet Commands and Bridge Commander, 
 I naturally had my expectations set rather high as I finally decided to purchase this game. I failed 
 to account for the cross-platformality of this particular title, however, and should have realized 
 that Legacy would lean heavily towards arcade-style action rather than starship simulation.
  
  As the game began, I was struck by the beauty and detail of the starship models and space environments. 
 My appreciation was cut short, however, as the first cutscene ended and I began to captain my first 
 vessel. I could find no way to lock onto targets or waypoints in any sort of permanent fashion, 
 nor could I command the ship to follow a target or maintain distance. The command scheme is purely 
 WASD, and is very wonky considering that the game tries to impart of a sense of the massive scale 
 of the starships by making the vessels turn very slowly.
  
  The first instance of combat was a messy affair, as I tried to keep the target in my vessel's firing-arc 
 using both mouse and keyboard. The entire combat involved no more strategy than turning the vessel 
 and pushing my mouse button whenever the phaser capactor was full. This control scheme was mastered 
 in Star Fleet Academy, years ago, but at least that game had silly live-action moments of drama. 
 I also had an extremely difficult time managing my fleet when more vessels were added to my command: 
 unless enemies were actively attacking them, they would just go in a straight line. I couldn't 
 even order them to Follow me or Cover me. I had to actively fly them into areas of combat,
  
  The voice acting is great, the sound effects are great, the visuals are awesome, but, at least 
 for me, these do not outway my displeasure with the controls and the overall lack of tactical depth. 
 Mashing buttons and Star Trek just don't mix. As I look to the right, I see that the similar games 
 listed are Starfleet Command 3, Bridge Commander, and Independence War 2. This is unbelievably 
 false; games similar to Star Trek Legacy are Starfleet Academy and Mechwarrior.
  
  Giant starships do not mix well with arcade action. If I wanted arcade action in space I would 
 play Star Wars Alliance or Tie Fighter or Wing Commander.
  
  Certainly people are going to enjoy this game and disagree with me. I just wanted to take a moment 
 to state, overall, that I have been playing computer games for a long time. I have played some 
 revolutionary games, and I invariably judge all new games against the great ones. Star Trek Legacy 
 falls short, and I regret purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Druedain
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  As I read through all the current reviews I am surprised that people keep complaining that this 
 isn't Star Fleet Battles. As an older game player, I remember well, the good old TT SFB days unrolling 
 my hex grid and painting my lead based ships. Later on I really enjoyed the SFC Computer games.
 
  
  I think the gamers that refer to this game as being Arcade like are right on the money. However, 
 why does this have to be a bad thing??? I have put in about 4 hours in the game so far and am about 
 half way through the Kirk era. I find the tactical nature of the game mildly interesting... mostly 
 it involves using the tactical map to throw you crap into specific areas and then taking control 
 of key vessels. AI is acceptable except for is not handling damage control. I think of this as 
 a feature making me keep my eye on my fleet. When a ship is heavily damaged... I pull it back for 
 repairs and then have to rethink my coverage in the current battle. I do which there was a better 
 way to assign commands to ships in my fleet.
  
  As far as ship effects, I thing the shield/photon/phaser effects are OK. They could have done more 
 with them, but they are reasonable. Explosion effects on large objects are OK but debris is awful. 
 Repair effects are still screwed up a bit. Sound is about what I expect out of any Trek product... 
 some good, some bad, some really campy. (Which is OK in my Trek book)
  Ship modeling is top notch and they got the naval style of battle pretty close. A little more cumbersome 
 movement would have been a nice touch.
  
  My feeling is that this game was designed to be fun to play and not some epic strategy game. I 
 think the reviewers that are bashing the heck out of it for not being an epic strategy game are 
 off the mark, or wanted this game to be something that it wasn't designed to be. I would always 
 recommend playing a game before buying it so shame on anyone that is **** about loosing their 40 
 bucks. Some stores like EB Games will let you return the product. Take em up on it. (At least they 
 used to... haven't checked in a while.)
  
  Over all I think this is a half way decent fun game. It doesn't break any ground but tells a good 
 story and is entertaining.
  
  Long live Battlestar Galactica! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackypixel
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  So bug ridden and so nasty you'll want to wash your mouth out from the bad taste.
  This game has everything going for it, 5 captains, eras spanning star treks history, and one destiny... 
 down the toilet. After seeing video reviews of the Mad Doc himself talking up how great this game 
 was. I am certain that he actually had no idea what was going on with this project. I mean, if 
 he did, he wouldn't have put his companies name on the box. It really feels like another nail in 
 the coffin for the Trek franchise. The graphics and ship selection as well as some of the voice 
 acting are about all that save this game.
  
  At best this is an Arcade like port meant for the Xbox, not the hard core RTS fans had been anticipating. 
 With no ability to customise your ships shields, engines or even weapons load outs like the star 
 fleet command series, Legacy takes a giant leap back to A, B, C arcade action. I mean you would 
 have more difficulty strategising your way out of a wet paper bag. Customising the ships is a major 
 part of the enjoyment in this kind of game. Testing out new builds etc etc.
  
  The control structure reaks of console with little thought for PC users. I have a 90 buck joystick 
 sitting gathering dust with this game. The lack of user ability to control this game makes handling 
 ships feel like you are driving a bulldozer in reverse with to rear vision mirror.
  
  No custom keys... it makes R. T. S mean a whole new thing... think Really Thin Strategy. or Return 
 To Store.
  
  The list of gripes can go on. Read other posts. the word buggy springs to mind. This game had the 
 ingredients for brilliance, and failed horribly in the creation. I feel utterly disappointed, betrayed, 
 and ripped off. 40$ could have been better spent saving the planet from the pollution created from 
 creating the DVD materials and countless energy wasted on this game.
  
  Well congratulations Mad Doc, you managed to take a potentially amazing game and franchise and 
 drag it backwards through the mud kicking and screaming. On the bright side.. you released before 
 Christmas. Did that make the Execs and share holders happy?.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apostolos22
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  The most recent Star Trek game to hit the market, Legacy had high hopes put on it. Maybe they were 
 too high, but the hype made it sound like we should expect some good things. Sadly, that wasnt 
 the case. I am 35. I remember playing the pen and paper Starfleet Battles game. I still have rule 
 books and errata that quite literally stacks over a foot tall just in rule books and modules alone. 
 That type of depth and detail is what most of us old school Trek fans come to expect when it comes 
 to anything Trek . That might not be what is considered main stream, but you get the picture. I 
 am also a PC gamer. I do not even own a console. My thinking is why spend all that money on a console 
 when I have a killer PC already? Now on to the review! IMHO the very first industry standard that 
 any PC game has to follow (ok after it needing to run on Windows OS maybe) is the ability to configure 
 the user interface. Honestly, name one halfway decent PC game that does not have that feature. 
 Yes, I know modders can do wonders to games these days, but such a feature is as much an industry 
 standard for a PC title as anything else. Legacy doesnt have it. The keys it assigns are what you 
 are forced to use, like it or not. Once you come to accept having to play a game with a feeling 
 of one hand tied behind your back you have the documentation. The game manual is small, rather 
 limited and even conflicts with in-game help tips on occasion.
  (Just one example off the top of my head is when the in-game tooltip says to use the LS button 
 to enable sub system targeting while the booklet says its the T button.) The booklet also is rather 
 vague at times. It says to use the right mouse or the Q button to warp to your destination. After 
 piloting my ship for for a while I repeatedly hit my right mouse button to no effect. Only after 
 playing a few missions did I finally understand that the right mouse 'warp' command is only for 
 the tactical map screen. The next thing you notice are the graphics. Lets just say up front that 
 they are bad. Extremly bad. 1920 x 1200 Nvidia G8800GTX and its like I am watching Saturday morning 
 cartoons. Its such a waste. This ties directly into the dumming down of the gameplay. Yes your 
 ships take visual damage and at times its kinda cool. The only problem with that is that the game 
 is so dumbed down that you can repair any ship to full combat strength an infinite ammount of times 
 during a mission all while looking at holes and burn marks scorched across the hull. Combat damage 
 has absolutly ZERO impact on gameplay. It us purely cosmetic as far as I can tell. No, I have not 
 had a nacell blown off, but then again if any of my ships get to 80% damage I just warp them away 
 from the combat and repair while the rest of my ships finish fighting. You also never control more 
 than 5 ships at any one time. I have also not seen any upgrades at all besides trading in ship 
 A for ship B. You cannot modify any ship sub systems (or I have not seen it yet and Im about halfway 
 done w/the game) In game decisions also had very little impact on the game, which further added 
 to the dumbing down feeling. There is one mission where ships start appearing and all your doing 
 is blowing stuff up . There is zero reason to hail ships, scan them or anything other than what 
 is specifally listed on your objective list, which makes it hard to feel as if you have any control 
 over the story line besides following orders that the game spoon feeds to you. Voice acting: Top 
 Notch. I have played this game for a little over 5 hours and have completed the Archer era and 
 am at least halfway through the Kirk era. I have also seen the first half of the online video showing 
 a mission led by Cmdr. Cisco. I was extremly impresed by Mr. Shatner's voiceover work. He did an 
 awesome job. Summary: Legacy is nothing more than an XBox title that plays like an arcade game 
 designed for young kids. If you are looking for any depth at all, look elsewhere. If you can get 
 past the poor documentation and lack of interface control for the PC and just want a mindless space 
 flight/combat sim, then you might enjoy this to some extent. I did like the voice work and it helped 
 make you feel like you were watching the TV shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrowsun
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  I will say that I looked forward to a great game here. The hype of videos and screen shots made 
 me break one of my video game buying rules which is wait for the reviews to save 40 bucks. Read 
 the other players' reviews to get the whole story here. Impossible to control ships make completing 
 any mission annoying. Not real group commands as promised in the manual. The lasers come from the 
 ship and no visible phase cannon. The planets are big balls in the way of objectives. Only FOUR 
 (4) ships can be controlled at a time. I mean does that really count as a fleet? When your ship 
 is damage and repaired, it remains the same on graphics. I just hope that one day someone spends 
 40 bucks to warn me not to buy a game. SOL until STO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batleh
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Controls- Okay, first things first. This is an X-Box game that was ported to the PC. It's controls 
 assume you have an x-box controller, and almost punish you for trying to use a keyboard/mouse. 
 An example? Directional Control is handled by WASD , while targeting is handled by the Spacebar 
 . However, Spacebar + WASD = commands to your fleet. So if you want to target something, you have 
 to stop maneuvering. Plus, it doesn't seem to handle multiple keys being pressed unless they are 
 a pre-configured command - if you want to shoot something using the keyboard, you have to stop 
 maneuvering. The interface is, simply, horrid for a PC game. You can't hotkey anything. You can't 
 easily select anything. Basically, it's hard to control much of anything. In this day and age having 
 unmapable controls is just plain lazy, sloppy, and inexcusable.
  
  AI - The computer AI is fairly decent in picking targets and handling blowing things up on it's 
 own. However, you'll find yourself popping back to the map to pull one of your ships out of combat 
 to save it before it gets blasted to bits just about every fight. Also, the AI can only handle 
 blowing stuff up. You can't order them to do anything else. If you need something tractored, you 
 have to take control of the ship and do that. Need to send over an away team? Take control of the 
 ship. Need to beam over supplies? Yup, you take command. Now, while this might not seem to be a 
 huge deal, there are several missions where you need to have multiple ships doing something non-destructive 
 at the same time I lost one particular mission 3 times because the AI kept blasting the things 
 I was trying to use to complete the mission!
  
  Graphics- They've done a really nice job modeling the ships in the game. They look very good - 
 until they get shot. Damage, for the most part is handled pretty well... you can blow bits off, 
 phasers leave scorch marks along the hull of your target, torpedoes blow bits out of your hull 
 when they impact, your ships will burn and smoke as they get more and more damaged, even the ship 
 breakup animations are done well (I love watching federation ships spin and break apart!) . It's 
 also not handled well... damage can punch holes in the model that the damage system can't deal 
 with... many times I've been able to look through my ship, or had my ships skin turn inside out 
 because the damage system couldn't quite figure out how to paint up my ship. Overall, they've done 
 a nice job - it's just little details and lack of polish that hold them back.
  
  Sound - So the sounds from the game seem to be a muttled mix of samples from the various series. 
 Phasers, engines, torpedoes, all sound fairly decent, but really lack depth to make them tangible. 
 The voice acting for the main characters is as you would expect from the actors who play the parts 
 - and as always Shatner. Talks. Like. Normal. The big problem is that the rest of the voice work, 
 and there's plenty, sounds a bit hollow in comparison. Granted, I can somewhat understand that 
 maybe after you've said [Ship Name Here] ready for orders 30 times, you can fall into a bit of 
 a vocal rut. On the bright side of that rut is the fact that each ship class comes with multiple 
 names, which are all actually used in the voice work, so your 2 Apollo class ships actually will 
 call themselves something different. It's a nice touch, actually that shows someone was paying 
 attention. However, it's things like this that really make the rest that much more disappointing.
 
  
  Game Flow - Oh dear this is the 2nd worst part about the game. Cut scenes.... dear god do they 
 love cut scenes! Start a mission - 2 minute cut scene - fly upto something - 30 second cut scene 
 - finish an objective (say, blow up a target, while you're still in a fight) - 30 second cut scene. 
 The game constantly interrupts you with them. Luckily, it actually pauses the game, so you don't 
 get blown up during the cut scene, but we could use a little less of them. Other events inside 
 the game are handled just as poorly. Events can overplay each other - more than once I've had 2 
 voice overs running at the same time trying to describe 2 things that just happened. Archer's trying 
 to expound on the nature of life, giving away the secret of the universe and I can't understand 
 him because the game is also playing the sound file telling me that my away team has captured the 
 starbase. Again, the game just lacks polish.
  
  Summary - I can only hope that Mad Doc reads this, and the other postings that I'm sure are streaming 
 out onto the net at this point and feels embarrassed enough actually take the time to address these 
 issues. Give us mappable keys at least :-) Activision got rid of the trek license because well, 
 the world was a bit Trek'd out and the series had lost it's luster. It's been a few years, and 
 most of us have been waiting for the next great trek game. Unfortunately, we get to keep waiting. 
 Trek Games, just like the series, have lost their magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer_1
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't just say that lightly. Remie had a great review of this game and he hit the nail on the 
 head I think.
  
  I just want to point out the things that are bugging me.
  
  CONTROLS! I can't stress that enough. Its accually painfull to play with these controls. I have 
 to get an Xbox 360 controler to play it.
  
  The manual is useless. Its thin and has very little GOOD info in it.
  
  Too many cut scenes.
 
  
  Voice work is poor.
  
  The graphics are ok but nothing special.
  
  You can't choose what ships you fight in skirmish mode.
  
  Weapon arch sucks.
  
  Lack of 
 Cardassians, Jem Hadar, Ferengi, Xindi and all the other races for skirmish or campain is dissapointing.
 
  
  It doesn't feel like your flying a ship. Point and click fest more like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remie
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  No ability to blow parts of ships off
  outside textures looks great, the second you cause any damage, you will get really cheezy looking 
 spirites showing damage and REALLY bad damage textures, kinda like from Klingon Academy... and 
 that was 10 years ago. The controls just plain suck
  the manual incorrectly states what buttons do what
  you cant collide with planets
  you cant 
 collide with other ships
  you cant tractor hostile ships
  you cant force enemy ships into a planet
  the nebulas are a joke, they serve no tactical function 
 other than to annoy you and cause your cpu to crash cause they put too much misc crap in nebulas 
 causing comps to slow down too much
  the cinema is choppy
  did I mention you cant blow stuff off ships
  cant randomly fire weapons
  cant attack neutral 
 targets or structures
  the squad commands blow
  usually your squad ship hangs back while you give the order to engage an enemy and you dont notice 
 until you get blow to bits by 4 or 6 enemy ships
  torpedos bypass shields... rofl since when
  most of the time when you destroy a enemy ship, its 
 shields are still up........
  the mechanism used to aim torpedos is FUBAR
  
  good things
  its highly modable, maybe some guy will fix the stupid game for bethesda
  you 
 dont need a cd to play
  no serial numbers
  quick install
  uninstalls very fast too :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faryn
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Let us get straight to the point. I bought Legacy in the hopes that it would the next Star Fleet 
 Command, or some equivalent. I was expecting starship combat, where I could control my starships 
 with some level of precision or strategic depth. Power, damage control, maneuvering, etc. At the 
 very least, I hoped for an experience similar to Bridge Commander's level of control. Instead, 
 what we have here is a poorly designed, clumsy Xbox 360 port. This is an arcade shoot 'em up with 
 a thin coat of Star Trek. For the older gamers in the room, I invoke the name Star Fleet Academy 
 . For the rest of you, read on, and prepare to weep. The control scheme is obviously more at home 
 on a gamepad, with a quick change in button assignments to work on a keyboard and mouse. It is 
 awful, plain and simple. There is no sense of strategy, besides circling your enemy, and clicking 
 the mouse (left mouse button for phasers, right for torpedoes) . There is no sense at all that anything 
 you do effects the battle. You are a button pusher. Point your ships in the right direction, and 
 starting clicking. Your view of the battle is tied to the ships. Not in the cinematic way that 
 Star Fleet Command is you're stuck with the ship filling up your screen, and the ability to orbit 
 the camera around it. Strategic view? Sure, hit TAB, and look at the tactical map. Of course, using 
 that to play is just painful, because the mouse doesn't actually move the mouse pointer. Remember, 
 this is a console port. Therefore, moving the mouse slowly moves the entire map. The graphics are 
 dated, the sound is terrible, and the voice acting is embarrassing. Really though, it all comes 
 back to the feel of a Star Trek combat simulator. This isn't one. Not even close. It's an arcade 
 shooter designed for platform gamers. If you want real Star Trek, go find a copy of Star Fleet 
 Command III, Bridge Commander, or heck, for that matter even Dominion Wars. DW isn't any more complex 
 than Legacy, but at least it's nice to look at. I just threw away $40. Please, please, save yourself 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Wow what a let down so far this has been. Gameplay: Boring. There are way too many cinematics and 
 cut scenes that break up the fluidity of the game. So far the missions have consisted of starting 
 off with a cinematic then you fly to a checkpoint, que the next cinematic. woops there's some bad 
 guys time to fly around in circle and press the two mouse buttons to fire at them. Wow to target 
 all I do is press the space bar... this is pretty boring... ok they're all dead and now its time 
 for the next cinematic. Rinse, wash, repeat... You have minimal control over the systems of the 
 ships and no feeling of actually even being on a crew. You feel more like someone with a remote 
 control.
  
  Graphics: OK DX10 is about to be released and this is the best they can come up with. The ships 
 look pretty OK, not great but not bad. Beyond that its bargain bin generics across the board. It's 
 sad that these graphics seriously don; t look any updated over the last Star Trek title. Oh, and 
 wait until you see a ship or anything for that matter explode.... WORST EXPLOSIONS EVER!! The ship 
 breaks apart into large chunks that glow on the edges, very pathetic for a current title.
  
  Sound: Generic on-board sound is wasted on this game. There is so little sound coming from 
 anything that you almost wonder if its broken. Explosions sound tinny and weak, there is no bass 
 in this game. I have a 5.1 that I normally have to turn the sub to its lowest setting, on this 
 game I maxed it out and still never heard a decent boom or thud. Value: Depends on how long this 
 campaign ends up being. This game is a serious disappointment. Do yourself a favor and wait until 
 its in the $19.99 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0st_S0ul
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I've spent about an hour with the game so far. I've played thru a few skirmish battles and started 
 in on the campaign. Playing the game on a dual core 2.4ghz dell laptop with the crappy Nvidia Quadro 
 512 videocard. I can bump all of the detail up to high but I have to play the game at 800x600 on 
 the laptop. I also had to turn the AA down all the way before the menus were usable. there is not 
 a lot of configuration changes you can do and there are definitally macros that are not described 
 in the manual. I was disapointed with the keyboard commands. if you try to play without a mouse 
 you will quickly find out that you can only have 2 keys pressed at one time. This meant usually 
 that I would have to stop manuevering in order to fire the weapons. It really works better if you 
 just use the mouse to fire the weapons though. I'm trying to get used to the interface but there 
 is still a lot I don't understand about what all the displays are trying to tell me. I'll get used 
 to it with time. Graphically things look pretty decent considering how crappy my laptop is playing 
 it. I can't wait to get it home and check it out on my main pc. The only thing that is really kind 
 of upsetting to me about the graphics is the damage modeling and the debris that is created is 
 all very generic once you destroy something. The debris just looks bad and I seriously doubt that 
 will get much better. It looks no better than Klingon Academy.
  
  Sound wise it's good. I've only heard Archer so far in the campaign but it was pretty convincing. 
 The other guy he talks to is pretty bad though. I'm having a good time with it so far but I don't 
 think it's everything I was hoping for 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
