-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/starwarsgalaxiesjumptolightspeed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 SWG now feels like Star Wars.
 Multiperson craft with gunner positions.
 Good visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not very new-user-friendly.
 Space combat can be very repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 765 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Sony Online Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Oct 26, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jump to Lightspeed has been designed to reward dedicated SWG players rather than appeal to new ones, 
 and that's exactly what it does. 

  It's been more than a year since Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided launched, and in that time, 
 the game has undergone a lot of major changes. Vehicles, mounts, player-created cities, and new 
 dungeons have been introduced, while professions have been revamped, and Jedi players have become 
 a relatively common sight. The most significant and eagerly anticipated addition to the Lucas-inspired 
 massively multiplayer online role-playing game, though, is space flight, which finally became a 
 reality when the Jump to Lightspeed expansion pack shipped. Star Wars Galaxies is undoubtedly a 
 better game now that it features X-Wings, TIE Fighters, and all the other starships that have been 
 conspicuous in their absences from the game for the past 15 months. However, Jump to Lightspeed 
 isn't an expansion that can be recommended unreservedly -- not yet, anyway.  

          Space flight finally arrives in Star Wars Galaxies in the form of the game's first expansion 
 pack.     

  If you're familiar with Star Wars Galaxies, you'll know that the preexpansion game boasted some 
 30 different character professions, many of which (although not horribly out of place in the Star 
 Wars universe) have very little in common with the movies on which the game is based. There have 
 always been plenty of combat-based professions in the game, but if you've played during the past 
 15 months, the chances are that -- at some point -- you might have contemplated a career as an architect, 
 dancer, musician, tailor, doctor, or chef. If you have scout skills, you might have even spent 
 some time milking wild animals before killing them for their hides, bones, or meat. Jump to Lightspeed 
 adds four new professions to Star Wars Galaxies: shipwright, freelance pilot, Alliance starfighter 
 pilot, and Imperial Navy pilot. The shipwright profession works in much the same way as the existing 
 artisan professions, and, as such, it requires you to spend a number of your character's 250 skill 
 points if you wish to pursue it. The pilot professions, on the other hand, are free of charge (as 
 far as points are concerned) , although for obvious reasons you'll only be able to pursue one of 
 them at a time.  

  You'll have to decide which of the three pilot professions you're interested in the first time 
 you play Jump to Lightspeed, and, although it is possible to change your mind at a later date, 
 doing so will cost you all of your hard-earned pilot experience points. Furthermore, since each 
 of the 21 starships in the game can be used by only one faction, any ships that you own will no 
 longer be of any use to you -- with the exception of the Sorosuub luxury yacht that you'll be given 
 as a veteran reward if you've been playing Star Wars Galaxies for at least 180 days when you log 
 in with Jump to Lightspeed enabled.  

  Once you've chosen your pilot profession and one of three different planets from which to fly your 
 early missions, you'll be assigned to a non-player character trainer. Next you'll be given a starter 
 craft (which can't be upgraded or, since it lacks a hyperdrive, flown between planets) , and then 
 you'll be offered some relatively easy missions (which consist of, for example, shooting down enemies 
 that can be seen by everyone but only destroyed by you) to complete while you familiarize yourself 
 with the starships controls and earn your first pilot experience points. Jump to Lightspeed can 
 be played with a joystick, gamepad, or mouse, but you'll also need to memorize plenty of keyboard 
 controls as your experience points afford you access to additional equipment and space combat abilities. 
 Starship combat in Jump to Lightspeed is far more twitch-based than anything that has appeared 
 in Star Wars Galaxies to date, and it initially comprises little more than targeting an enemy craft 
 with the push of a button, pursuing it with the aid of an onscreen arrow and radar, and then shooting 
 at the intelligent crosshair that appears ahead of the target, which actually takes into account 
 the target's speed and direction of movement as soon as you're within range of it.  

          The act of blasting away at foes in outer space is reminiscent of classic space combat 
 sims, but it becomes numbingly repetitious.     

  Later, the enemies will become much more challenging, so you'll need to put every skill you've 
 learned to good use if you're to succeed. Since you'll need to earn a lot of experience points 
 before you can get your hands on new craft and before you can employ new abilities, the learning 
 curve in Jump to Lightspeed is very gradual; in fact, it's  too  gradual. You'll literally have 
 to destroy hundreds of enemies at the same skill level as you before you have enough experience 
 points to learn each new skill. While defeating enemies that are significantly better than you 
 theoretically rewards you with experience more rapidly, you'll quickly discover that the tier ratings 
 assigned to enemies refer primarily to the strengths of the crafts that you're facing rather than 
 the skills of the NPC pilots. If your ship's weapons aren't up to the job, you'll often find it 
 difficult to penetrate your target's continually recharging shields, let alone inflict any real 
 damage -- even if you have no trouble keeping the enemy in your sights.  

  Player-versus-player combat is exactly the same, incidentally, and no matter how skilled you are, 
 it's unlikely that you'll ever defeat a player who has unlocked significantly more skill boxes 
 than you. This is not because he or she is a better player; instead it's because his or her ship 
 will be equipped with superior components that afford more-responsive controls, more-powerful weapons 
 and shields, and special pilot commands that -- depending on the pilot's faction -- will allow him 
 or her to carry out repairs midflight, call for ammunition from a reload ship, or even request 
 assistance from friendly NPC craft in the vicinity, for example. Fortunately, unlike the ground 
 game, player-versus-player combat in Jump to Lightspeed is purely consensual, meaning that you 
 can attack as many enemy NPCs as you like... but without becoming a viable target for other players. 
 If you wish to dogfight with other players, you'll need to visit one of your faction's space stations 
 and switch your faction status from covert to overt, much like you would if you were planning to 
 assault an enemy base on the ground. The downside of this system is that it's not unusual to see 
 players in TIE Fighters and Rebel starships paying no attention to one another as they pursue non-player 
 targets, which is clearly not in keeping with Lucas' universe.     

  The combat that makes up practically all of the gameplay in Jump to Lightspeed is actually quite 
 enjoyable, but it's also  very  repetitive and not nearly as fast-paced as the old X-Wing and TIE 
 Fighter games. Like just about every other aspect of Star Wars Galaxies, space combat is best enjoyed 
 (and safer) as part of a group. The downside to grouping with other players is that you'll often 
 end up chasing after the same targets, and, because it can be tricky to communicate with one another 
 effectively while flying, your interaction with teammates can often be limited to trying to avoid 
 collisions with them and perhaps expressing your displeasure at the fact that they're getting all 
 the loot from fallen enemies because they have a better ship than you.  

          Though Jump to Lightspeed introduces some compelling, new gameplay elements, it's mostly 
 suited to experienced players.     

  One of the most enjoyable ways to play Jump to Lightspeed is in a multiperson craft, such as the 
 two-man Y-Wing, in which you can have a second player man a turret while you perform the flying 
 and firing of your fixed weapons. Playing as the gunner can be tricky, because you're never quite 
 sure what your pilot is going to do next. However, there are few things more satisfying than shooting 
 down an enemy who has taken up a position behind you, particularly since he or she can be difficult 
 to shake when flying solo. Larger ships, such as the freelancers' YT-1300 upon which the Millennium 
 Falcon is based, boast three gun positions and are actually big enough that you can leave your 
 pilot seats to walk around.  

  Of course, getting your hands on a craft like the YT-1300 (there  are  Rebel and Imperial equivalents) 
 is no mean feat. Not only will you need a  lot  of experience points before you're certified to 
 fly one, but also you'll need the money to pay a shipwright player for the blueprints, in addition 
 to paying more money to pay a non-player ship broker to turn those blueprints into a chassis. Moreover, 
 you'll need to pay even more money for a number of components (which can be purchased from shipwrights 
 or looted from enemies) that turn your chassis into something that can actually be flown. Ship 
 component types in Jump to Lightspeed include reactors, engines, capacitors, weapons, armor, shields, 
 and countermeasure launchers -- all of which are essential if you want to get in to space and then 
 last more than five minutes once the fighting starts. Flight computers and astromech droids are 
 less important, at least in the early stages of your pilot career, but you'll certainly want them 
 eventually. And, as is the case with everything in Star Wars Galaxies' player-driven economy, you 
 can expect to pay through the nose for high-quality goods, unless you're fortunate enough to have 
 befriended a kindly shipwright.  

  Ship components can be likened to the weapons and armor that have made millionaires of so many 
 crafters in the preexpansion game. However, only the most skilled, conscientious, and well-equipped 
 shipwrights will be able to craft components considered good enough for serious player-versus-player 
 encounters, and only pilots who have previously made their fortunes on the ground (space combat 
 doesn't pay terribly well) are going to be able to afford to outfit their ships as well as they'd 
 like, in addition to paying for repairs every time they're shot down (not to mention tipping doctors 
 and entertainers who can heal the wounds sustained by your character whenever you "die" in space) . 

  If you've not played Star Wars Galaxies before and have become interested since the launch of Jump 
 to Lightspeed, the bad news is that space combat is so expensive in terms of in-game credits that 
 it's really not possible to participate in it without first spending a significant amount of time 
 on the ground earning money (alternatively, some players have resorted to purchasing in-game credits 
 in exchange for real-life currency -- a practice that violates Sony Online's terms of service) . The 
 same can also be said of the shipwright profession, since experienced artisans with other players 
 working for them are already stockpiling all the best raw materials needed for starship construction, 
 as well as establishing starship vendors in player-run malls and even using droids to advertise 
 their services at major starports. Of course, you won't need the very best raw materials to build 
 functional ship components, but since it's true for almost every other product in the game, it 
 seems inevitable that, in time, there will really be only two markets for the components you make: 
 one that offers bargain-priced parts for new players and one that offers items crafted from rare 
 "ber" materials that carry price tags beyond the bank balances of all but the wealthiest 
 of experienced players.  

  Although it can be a lot of fun swapping different components in to and out of your chassis to 
 come up with the best ship configuration possible (without exceeding mass and power restrictions) , 
 it's unfortunate that Sony Online Entertainment didn't see fit to make the Jump to Lightspeed expansion 
 easier for new or relatively inexperienced players to get into. As a result, first-time players 
 will not really be able to compete with hardcore players on level ground -- or "level" space, anyway. 
 Shouldn't Rebel and Imperial craft adhere to certain fixed specifications? Should Rebel and Imperial 
 pilots really have to purchase and maintain their own craft? The shipwright profession is every 
 bit as enjoyable to pursue as the other artisan professions in Star Wars Galaxies, but its very 
 existence is what makes Jump to Lightspeed's space combat less accessible and skill-based than 
 it might otherwise have been. As a result, the expansion is difficult to recommend unreservedly. 

          Your love/hate relationship with Star Wars Galaxies may carry on for a while longer thanks 
 to Jump to Lightspeed.     

  Predictably, the expansion pack also launched with its fair share of bugs, and although the development 
 team has already addressed a number of issues that survived the beta test, there are still plenty 
 of players forking over credits for blueprints and chassis that simply fail to generate a ship 
 for them, for example, and the non-player enemies you encounter will more often than not decide 
 that their best course of action is to collide with you head-on at some point. (That is, if they're 
 not too busy getting caught up in asteroid fields.)  

  If you've been playing and enjoying (or tolerating) Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided for some 
 time, then Jump to Lightspeed really isn't difficult to recommend. The expansion pack boasts great-looking 
 ships and planets, it features authentic  Star Wars  movielike space combat sounds and music, and 
 it basically makes the game  feel  much more like  Star Wars  than it ever has previously. Jump 
 to Lightspeed also does away with the need to wait for a shuttle every time you want to travel 
 to a different planet, and it  will  keep you occupied (though not necessarily entertained, especially 
 since leveling up can still feel like a grind) for as many hours as you're willing to invest in 
 it. If you're thinking of getting into Star Wars Galaxies for the first time, though, Jump to Lightspeed 
 really isn't reason enough for you to do so... at least not yet. The fact of the matter is that, 
 although it offers newcomers two brand-new species to play as, Jump to Lightspeed (like so much 
 of the content added to the game in recent updates) has been designed to reward dedicated, hardcore 
 players rather than appeal to new ones, and that's exactly what it does.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TomNationwide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  SWG has gone through a ton of changes over the years but the current incarnation of the game is 
 and altogether rewarding fun time. From PvP and the GCW Reward System, to the Collection System, 
 to the Heroic Encounters which give you tokens (BoJ for the WoWheads) for epic loot this game delivers 
 on many different levels. The resource system is second to none, crafting is an involved process, 
 and combat is easy yet very engaging. constant tweaks and balances have made stats that actually 
 matter and a combat system with a nice depth to it. With the new patch which now re-adds Loot Enhancements 
 for Weapons this game is back on the path it was on years ago as a true Star Wars experience. Add 
 to this the recent influx of returning players and you have a truly fun experience for any real 
 Star Wars fan. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzalesski
Rating: 1
Date: May 11, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  What's the point in a multiplayer game with no players SOE called it the CU/NGE, the Combat Update/New 
 Game Enhancement, and it drove nearly everybody out of the game. Nobody plays this game anymore 
 because it is horrible. BUT, people who will never play again and haven't played in years still 
 have houses and structures all over the place that are abandoned ghost towns. (I have three, I 
 quit too)
  
  Here is a quote;
  "Over the past month, countless longtime Galaxies players have quit playing the popular online 
 take on the ubiquitous film franchise. Their grievance: a controversial, sweeping redesign of the 
 structure of the game that they say has ruined the fun -- and made irrelevant the years of work 
 they have invested into their in-game personas. 
  
  "It's now a shoot'em-up game for adolescents, not at all conducive to our play style," says Carolyn 
 Hocke, a web technician for Saint Michael's Hospital in Wisconsin, whose character A'thena was 
 mayor of an in-game city on Tatooine and owner of a bustling shopping mall. "People who we grew 
 to know over the last couple of years are gone. Cities are ghost towns, guilds are gone. My galaxy 
 is gone, my game is gone.""
  http://www. wired. com/gaming/gamingreviews/news/2005/12/69816 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Jump to Lightspeed is the best expansion pack SWG ever got hands down. I loved this expansion for 
 ages... And I still enjoy it a good deal after the NGE. The ships look great, the gameplay is good, 
 and overall it's just a lot of fun. Space combat does get a bit reptitive, there's no doubt about 
 it, but still this expansion is fun.
  JtL showed what an expansion should be! New content, new player races, new vehicles, new clothing, 
 new professions, and even a completely new combat system expanding the core of the game. Unfortuantely 
 it would seem SOE forgot how to make good expansions after JtL launched.
  
  JtL is a great expansion, it really is. One of my favorite things about it are POB (Portalized 
 OBject) ships such as the YT-1300, Nova Cruiser, Decimator, SoroSuub Luxury Yacht, and the later-added 
 Y-8 and YT-2400. I still enjoy going up in one of my POB ships and floating around space, and relaxing 
 inside my completely decorated ships. No other MMO I've played has been able to match this. Sadly 
 SWG itself is a horrible game now thanks to the NGE. As luck would have it the NGE did little to 
 change JtL and lets hope it stays that way... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (9/10) : 
  
  
  
  Game play in JTL (Jump to Lightspeed) is hard to pick up. There are a lot of different buttons 
 that you have to learn and getting to know all of these buttons takes time. However, once you learn 
 the game plays very smoothly. You can either use the keyboard/mouse to control, or you can hook 
 up your joystick/game pad and play with that. Although starships in-game cost a lot of money, theyre 
 relatively easy to launch and manage. You can launch them from most starports, where you can also 
 manage them, and have them repaired. To buy a starship, you first have to get the chassis from 
 a shipwright. Next, you go to a chassis dealer in a major starport (Coronet, etc.) and exchange 
 money again to finally get the chassis of your starship. Then you can go to the starship terminal 
 in the starport, and add on an engine, reactor, shields, a weapon, and other cool stuff. To fly 
 you must have an engine, reactor, and you probably want shields and a weapon. 
  
  
  
  Once in space you can fly around and shoot things. This will probably get boring after a little 
 while, so you can go to your faction recruiter and get a mission. Your first mission will be fairly 
 easy, just flying to points, and killing a few of the enemy. But as you advance, you get harder 
 missions, and thus when you get XP, you can buy better ships. 
  
  
  
  There are lots of different ships available for flying in JTL. Rebels have access to the X-Wing, 
 Y-Wing, A-Wing, B-Wing, the Y-Wing Longprobe, and the Z95, while Imperials can fly the TIE Fighter, 
 TIE Bomber, TIE Interceptors and other variations on the TIE from the Star Wars universe. There 
 are also a few Hutt starships and ships for neutral characters. Lastly, there are two multi-player 
 ships, the YT-1300, inspired by the Millennium Falcon, and the luxury yacht. To get the luxury 
 yacht, you have to be a veteran player, but anyone can obtain a YT-1300 with the proper flying 
 skills and money. You can then group up with your friends and fly missions. In the YT-1300 you 
 can have separate people manning the turrets, flying the ship, and just milling about the cabin; 
 its simply amazing. 
  
  
  
  Another great aspect about flying around in space is now you dont have to pay all the money to 
 fly to a different planet. Just go to a shuttleport, and launch your starship. All starships, except 
 for the beginning ones you get from your factional recruiter, will have hyperdrive on them. With 
 this you can press H while in space and bring up the hyperspace menu. Pick the planet where you 
 want to go to and then in about 15 seconds, you will venture into hyperspace to the space above 
 the planet you chose. To land, just talk to the space station of that particular planet, and choose 
 a starport to land. This saves some time and money. Be aware though: if youre riding in a combat 
 equipped starship, enemies may attack you. Dont worry, though; they will be the same level as 
 you are. 
  
  
  
  The game also brings in two new playable species, the Ithorian, a big long-headed alien species, 
 and the Sullustian. You must have JTL to play with either of these characters. Another new thing 
 the game brings in is about 200 new emotes that a player can do. These enhance the game and make 
 it a lot more fun to play. 
  
  
  
  Graphics (9.5/10) : 
  
  
  
  The graphics in JTL are simply amazing. The starships look real, space is real, and when youre 
 looking out the windows of your starship, its not the same thing every time youre seeing your 
 surroundings. All of the ships and space stations are detailed down to the finest screw or bolt. 
 Except for that occasional run into a space station that you havent quite reached yet, the graphics 
 in this game are simply breathtaking. 
  
  
  
  Value (9/10) : 
  
  
  
  Other MMORPGs are no match for JTL. With thousands of people already playing, even more will be 
 attracted to SWG by this added adventure into space. This game has all of the chat aspects that 
 you would expect from a MMORPG: the ability to communicate privately (with /tell) , in groups, between 
 your guildmates, and even with other people currently on the planet. JTL is the sequel to SWG, 
 which has a unique skill-building system in which you gain "boxes" and go up in your rank from 
 Novice to Master. 
  
  
  
  Sound (8.5/10) : 
  
  
  
  The sound in JTL is very well done. Its rich and can be heard at all times. The sounds of the 
 ship boosters, the blasters of an X-Wing, or the screeching distinct sound of a TIE Fighter make 
 the top of the list. The music is nicely done, although it gets repetitive at some times, and can 
 get into your head. Its the same music over and over, but I guess you learn to live with as in 
 all MMORPGs. 
  
  
  
  Tilt (9.5/10) : 
  
  
  
  This game is well worth $30. I bought it and I was instantly addicted to it. The new aspect of 
 space truly makes the Star Wars experience come true. The gameplay is fairly complex, so for the 
 hardcore gamer its fun to play, but the game is still easy for a casual gamer to pick up and play. 
 I warn you though, the game will get you addicted very quickly. There is no "Final Stage" or "Game 
 Over" ; like all MMOGs, its a game of personal gratitude and wealth. It has bugs, but they will 
 be worked out with time. All this said, JTL is a very solid game that met most of the expectation 
 set for it by the MMORPG community. It adds the space aspect to the game, whose origins are from 
 a movie laden with space combat. The game also has many things that look like they will be added 
 on to. A good example of this is when you are wandering around in the SoroSuub luxury yacht. You 
 will come up a mysterious black hole in the lower decks. At this point in the game, this black 
 hole does nothing. But, if you think of the future, that black hole could be a docking point for 
 smaller ships to dock with the yacht. There are just so many possibilities for this game, you cant 
 look at the future of it and see bad things. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This once expansion pack is now given freely to the players of the starter kit or the NGE. There 
 is a reason for this, it is not a very good flight/space sim. The graohics are somewhat in line 
 with the other SWG expansions and original game. They are, however, less detailed and less appealing 
 to the eye. The HUD is also somewhat deceptive. You can switch from first person to third person 
 but it doesn't help with the controls of the game. This has to be the most exasperating part of 
 this expansion pack. In my opinion, you need to have a stick to play this part of SWG. I tried 
 everything from changing mouse sensitivity to inversion- no luck. While I eventually got some minor 
 control over the ship, I was getting torn up in dogfights- the bulk of the content. If you have 
 any interest in this expansion, get yourself a stick. Jump to lightspeed did have tons of content. 
 I know players who live in space. There are also cross ground space missions to get some cool loot. 
 Overall, since it is free with the new game, I can't really say don't get it but I hope you have 
 better luck than me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeddahwe
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  The latest update that took place last November, 2005 has changed the game completely. The so called 
 enhancements were done under the banner of attracting a wider audience by balancing the professions. 
 Balancing professions is a great idea and a must for any MMO to succeed. However; what has happened 
 is weapons and armour stats are broken. Meaning what you see on the screen is incorrect. What has 
 happened is that protection and damage is based on combat level. You max at level 90. So if you 
 use a pistol with damage of 50 -100 and another pistol with damage of 100 - 150 you would kill 
 the creature in exactly the same amount of time.
  
  Gaining experience to level (xp) is now all quest based as apposed to the previous destroy mission 
 system. Quest based xp is fine, however quests give such a low xp it is not practical or enjoyable 
 to do. For example, if you need 600k to go from 88 to 89 and the quests gives 1000 xp and about 
 30 minutes to do minimum. Well, you can see what I mean.
  
  So, one of the most fun factors in a MMO for my self is the ability to customise my character. 
 No one wants unbalance, but if you give a proffesion an ability then other professions need to 
 be able to counter it. That is balance. But making us, essentially, all the same is not balance, 
 its utter boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussVR6
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  THEY DONT CARE ABOUT THE PLAYERS AND HAVENT STOPPED CHANGING THE GAME... WASTE OF MONEY. SOE HAS 
 RUINED THIS GAME AND AFTER PLAYING 1000'S OF HOURS AND GETTING A FULL JEDI THEY CHANGE THE RULES 
 ON ME AND LEAVE ME A ROBE AND A CRYSTAL FOR THE DAYS AND WEEKS AND MONTHS OF GRINDING... I WILL 
 NEVER BUY ANOTHER SOE PRODUCT AFTER THIS TERRIBLE EXPERIANCE = ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( IT WAS LIKE SOE WANTS US 
 TO QUIT TO BRING IN A NEWER YOUNGER CROWD BUT WE ARE THE ONES WHO HAVE BEEN PLAYING IT SINCE IT 
 CAME OUT AND NOW ITS NO WHERE NEAR THE SAME GAME I BOUGHT WAY BACK WHEN.... BAIT AND SWITCH.... 
 YOU DONT CHANGE A GAME THIS MUCH AFTER RELEAESE, THAT IS WHAT BETA TESTING IS FOR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Through the years Starwars galaxies has gone through many changes. At first it was all good (when 
 I started they were releasing new content every month. Those of us that played then remember waiting 
 for a shuttle to another planet for 10 minutes at a time due to Darth Vaders Blockades/Inspections 
 on ships) .
  
  While it did add realism usually, it was a pain to play as a game with things like what I mentioned, 
 the XP and profession gain system was boring to be honest, and PvP was kept in the realm of those 
 that had the Uber template. Those of us that liked to PvP but have something different were labeled 
 non factors by the 1337 nerds (as I call them) and could never win at PvP unless we had FOTM templates 
 backing us up (Ive been a Master Commando + other things relying heavily on my commando for the 
 better part of 2 years now, for those that dont know we have had our share of horrible professional 
 skills) . Through it all, though, I have laid back and played the game, never resulting myself to 
 get mad at other players or get into the politics that surround those that DO play this game to 
 seriously. (Im not talking about RPers either they play a part and its not the same)
  
  As I grew threw the game, and came to know it, Ive been in many guilds on Bloodfin (my home galaxy) 
 and I eagerly awaited (as others did) the amazing CU that would fix everything and bring balance 
 to the Universe. Well, silly me, I had to leave the game before it came out, and when I returned 
 I found they added new icons (not very good ones but i didnt have a problem with these) a supposedly 
 new gameplay mechanic that only seemed to really revamp the profession SP usage, and other silly 
 useless doo-dads that I enjoyed for awhile but missed alot that used to be in the game. DOTs from 
 aggros was gone, aggros attacking each other was gone, AI got severely dumb, and all in all Grinding 
 money was all I could do anymore because I had no want to be anything but commando.
  
  Also, commando supposed balance was not there, while we didnt spend our time on our backs, without 
 the use of skills from other professions our usefulness in PvP was still non-existant. But I still 
 stuck with it. I liked how the game was, I have enough people in the guild I started to run to 
 PvP with, and I had enjoyment knowing the ins and outs of a game I had played for a year and a 
 half (up to that point) .
  
  Then the bomb hits. The NGE as us players know it, and I was furious to hear about it in game. 
 Taking away our diversity, shot me in heart, taking away friends that I had that did not like the 
 ideas of the NGE (which are now gone) , shot me in the heart, adding a combat feature to attack 
 a target but have no way to lock on and no way to attack while prone or kneeling or even behind 
 cover like a real FPS. I still play currently, but I dont know how long. Those that mock it have 
 the right to do so, but alot havent even played nor do they voice there opinoins maturely (presumably 
 because they are not mature) . I dont point fingers, this was bound to happen with all the 1337 
 Jedi whining and all the care bear whining. Add them together and the DEVs will no longer listen, 
 and give you what they fill makes everyone happy.
  
  Yeah they added loot drops ( i like em) , they fixed balance ( i like that Im still commando altho 
 with CL90 being the new Master im no longer master but i am an elder) , They added stats (i like 
 em but honestly no matter how high they are they dont seem to make you any better in combat) , yeah 
 they will eventually establish certain things to make the FPS more enjoyable and good I suppose. 
 But, if youve played just about all the TooW stuff before NGE was releaed theres nothing to do. 
 I did most of the Newb quests (just finishing em up) and I'm working on the Bugged Obi Wan quests, 
 but I fear my time in this game is drawing short. I no longer feel the magic in this game like 
 i did when I first chose to set foot on Correllia (when I started you got to choose where you started 
 among the base planets)
  
  I realize this is going under JTL, and I assume Im doign something wrong because of it, but I wanted 
 to say to those thinking of playing this game that are adult and mature... Its still a good game, 
 but it is phasing out its Veterans. Theres enough content for you right now, but not for us. I'll 
 continue playing and decide eventually whether i can afford to keep playing a game that has been 
 dragged thru dirt twice now, but I dont know anymore... I'm just a Non-Factor Elder Commando. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obi2329
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Sony dumbed down this game to cater to the new players while alienating the original player base. 
 As a casual player I felt behind the eight ball, because they kept bringing changes faster that 
 I can get used to them. There was no loyalty to their orignal player base who brought the game 
 environment to life. I have played the game since it first came out and manges to enjoy it at first, 
 but then just hanged on due to the attachment I had to my character. I have recently canceled my 
 account due to SOE undecisiveness and lack of respect for the player base. If the game remains 
 afloat it will all be due to the Star Wars name and story not the game mechanics or the Dev. team. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeep03
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  Horrible UI. Lack of character customization. everyones a cookie cutter toon.
  
  Bugs, bugs and more bugs. My last apt had less bugs than this.
  
  can't advance past 80 unless 
 you have 50 years of your life set aside.
  
  worst customer service I have ever encountered for a MMO. Servers are losing population no one 
 around to group with. Game has been redesigned twice in past 8 months its gotten worse each time.
 
  
  I'll stick too eating gum I find stuck on side walks, rather than staying in and playing this anymore.
 
  
  Currently I would recommend for a Star Wars game Battlefront 2 thats just great. Jedi Knight Jedi 
 Academy, outcast all great games. SWG is kibosh 
  bad mannered game, and developers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tfmep
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The new roll out of SWG completely changed gameplay for the worst. Very Buggy, its like playing 
 a BETA version atm. Interface is now difficuly to play and no longer support persons with disabilities 
 to play. Quests are bugged and not complete and do not support all levels of play. Customer support 
 is almost non-existent. This should have been a new game all together not a patch to the current 
 game. The customers that have been playing this game for over 2 years now have been completely 
 left out in the cold on this one. Save your money and Play battlefront 2 its about the same as 
 SWG now , and it at least isnt full of bugs and broken code. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_grrl
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  This would be a great gift for your prepubescent nephew or niece. There took out the strategy to 
 combat and took away all the perks the veterans of the game has earned. I'm not bitter, I just 
 left after almost 2 years of playing. Most of the veteran community has left, so it should be all 
 new young blood playing this game now. Basically you point and click your target and keep clicking 
 as fast as you possibly can to defeat your target. Be careful what server you pick when starting 
 this game fresh because very many servers are now empty, and hundreds of ghost towns remain in 
 this game. I forsee a server merger happening, maybe even several server mergers. One positive 
 for new people to the game is they get to have two characters per server on one account. This perk 
 use to be reserved to those who completed padawan trials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwinDragonslady
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing for 2 years plus. Many meny hours and game changes. The NGE (new Game Enhancements) 
 Really is not for either new players or veterans. Do to the (lack or Poor planning) on SOE/ LA 
 part. And they dont mention to get your levels you have to have the NEW expansion Mustafar expansion 
 to even level. Little thing they for got to tell you. There is a demo out try it the first part 
 is cool. 
  
  Leveling: 
  
  New tutorials and such but really bad group exp. for instance you need 300k for level lets just 
 use this 70-71 now just times that 3000000 for just that 10 levels and you only get solo 500 exp 
 or so off ea kill. Next set from just 80 -90 example 80-81 you need 600k 6000000 exp. like I said 
 you can do quests the repeatable tiring boring same quest on mustafar killing lava flees to get 
 35k exp for killing 15 of them.
  
  Combat/UI
  
  1. Its now first person shooter where you click and shoot your targets. 
  2. Hard to control 
 you toon. The UI is only 70 percent customizable. :- (
  3. The damage your weapon says and the damage you do is 2 different numbers. Example your hammers 
 max damage is 500 you hit something your same client level you only do 40 points. (Not shure If 
 its Intended to change?)
  4. No mater the level you fight does about the same about of damage as higher ones do. (Depends 
 on the planet I guess)
  5. You have to click to type to you friends and such making a quick cry for help in combat very 
 hard.
  6. You have a healing timer that heals your ham at cl 90 4500 and a cool down timer of 30 seconds 
 or less. But you get hit for 6k so you tell me when fighting a cl 90. (Your ham at 90 ranges on 
 proof clothing 12k-11
  
  Professions: Ill list the ones i've tested and the cl level
  
  90-Curently Jedi: have no armor stats Die Easy nothing special. 
  
  90-Bounty Hunter: Well 
 rounded can stand your own for a bit.
  
  80-smugler: Cool you can steal credits from npc's but you still pull agro might as well kill them.
 
  
  1-armorsmith / wepon smith: Armor crafting is the same. Weapon crafting its new such as the guns 
 that use to be 1k max is now 80max. And armor is limited to proofs not to big of selection.
  
  80-0fficer very funs for grouping give group buffs ant such
  
  Support:
  
  LOL scale 
 of 1-10 id give -1000 their top answer is file a ticket.
  New people its c+h and figure it out he he.
  PS the game is always broken. Quests and such!
 
  
  Well not too much else to say! Well may be but you dont want to hear about it just read our forum 
 boards and test the game youll c for your self.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaraphel
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  I have played Star Wars: Galaxies for 782 days according to the /getvet command. I have purchased 
 all of the expansions out to date. I was considering creating a second account. As of 11-17-05 
 my account is cancelled. The New Game, also known as the Starter Kit, is the third version of SWG 
 and it is riddled with bugs and incomplete. It is a far inferior product to its previous versions 
 as well. The NG was released after being kept secret for an unknown period of time and allowing 
 players only a two week notice of it being published. Even less time was devoted to it being tested 
 by sources outside of SOE. Trials of Obi Wan and the NG were released in such a manner as to call 
 into question SOE's and LA's ethics. As represented by the employees who post to the forums SOE 
 and LA are uncarring, glib, and/or vastly out of touch with the player community.
  
  Most of these are not new complaints. However, with the release of the NG these problems have escalted 
 to such a degree that the game is no longer playable. While some are content to merely switch games 
 I am not. Simply changing the direction of the flow of money to SOE and LA will not get their attention. 
 I am boycotting all products created by Sony Online Entertainment and Lucas Arts. I encourage others 
 to do the same.
  
  I do not think my actions alone with effect SOE or LA one iota. In fact, I doubt anything will 
 change their policies. The fan base for Star Wars and other properties is sufficiently numerous 
 to mitigate any discontent portion. While some have predicted that the NG will cause the collapse 
 of SWG I believe otherwise. It will lose many current players but those will be replaced by SOE's 
 and LA's new target market. SOE and LA will later use the negative comments and future subscriptions 
 numbers to prove that they were right all along and to dismiss anyone who opposes them as being 
 knee jerk reactionaries who are against change just because they don't like change. Because most 
 likely the next expansion will also bring a new version of SWG as SOE and LA attempt to copy whichever 
 game is doing better then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horizon66
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Sad to say after 3 years of playing the game, it has finally been dumbed down to a level that is 
 no longer a challenge, lots diversity, and frankly is no fun. This coupled with abysmal developer 
 communication and no response to feedback is an equation for destruction for this franchise. I 
 strongly recommend you look elsewhere.
  
  Lets look at diversity. With this new expansion comes the loss of 23 professions. Crafting professions 
 are worthless
  
  Lets look at communication. One day after the new expansion (Trials of Obi-wan) started, this dramatic 
 change was introduced nullifying a majority of the content offered by Obi-wan.
  
  People are fleeing this game just look at the individual server forums for examples of that. The 
 community response overwhelmingly is negative yet the press-releases from Sony lie that the resopnse 
 is positive.
  
  There are many MMORPGS that appreciate and respect their customers, but this company is not one 
 of them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeHunCara
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Star Wars fan since 1977 , so , when , 2 years ago , I got wind of an online Star 
 Wars universe where all fans of this life changing epic could come together , naturally I joined 
 in. It sticks in my craw to say it has not lived up to its promise and has been a constant let 
 down by soe ever since , broken promises , virtually non existent customer care , no communication 
 to the games community , awfully buggy , constantly missing the targets and ignoring what the players 
 want , its surprising its lasted this long?? I could go on and on , lets just say that apart from 
 jump to light speed , the 2 other espansions have been questionable , and after the combat upgrade 
 earlier this year , we have now been subject to soe's latest brainchild , the nge (new game experience) which 
 has landed on a very shocked swg community out of nowhere , and to all intents and purposes , is 
 complete rubbish , it has ruined what could have been a flag ship , master peice of a game , RIP 
 SWG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesr_avfc7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  this is it ,the expansion ,the 1st expansion, Space Combat, rather than the ground "click and watch" 
 combat, this has easy control if you own a joystick, and its a much easier profession to level up, and 
 theres even a medal for mastering the pilot professions.
  the 4 new professions are rebel pilot, imperial pilot, privateer (smuggler) and shipwright.
  even 
 the ships are good, there are some multiplayer ships were groups of up to eight people can go on 
 and operate turrets and such, one is the same model han solo used for the millenium falcon, one for 
 each faction, so if you're a master privateer ,you would recieve qualification to fly one of them.
 
  overall, this is the best expansion pack yet, it gives a truly authentic feel to the star wars galaxies 
 universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FukMnky
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:16 am PT
Review:  well - they've done it again. SOE/LA has decided to 'revamp' the game again. and in doing so - 
 condensing 32 rich (albeit lacking in content) professions into 9 (apparently identical) professions. 
 
  
  The new Expansion that was released on November 1 was only live 24 hours before the announcement 
 was made to scrap the core game. 
  
  Numerous profession perks advertised in the expansion are now rendered useless as the professions 
 no longer exist.
  
  This sounds like a case of 'Intent to Deceive' .
  
  Save your money - play WoW or Guildwars. Or wait for the Gen3 games to be released. Avoid this 
 stinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I will just cut to the chase. If you own Star Wars Galaxies, then you MUST have this expansion. 
 The Jump to Lightspeed expansion pack adds so much to the game: space sectors, starships, new starship 
 related profession.
  
  Once you begin playing with the Jump to Lightspeed expansion, you will wonder how you ever possibly 
 played the game without it.
  
  Gameplay: This can be summarized with one single word: Great! The gameplay and controls for the 
 ships are great. The controls work seamlessly with the new ships in the game.
  
  Graphics: Same as the original game, which is pretty good for an MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3dRuM2k5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  -Overview-
  This Game Is Great And Its Online And You Have The Freedom To Live In The Star Wars Galaxie And 
 Do What You Want From Cooking For A Living Maybe Catching Some Bountys For Jabba Or Learning The 
 Way Of The Force.
  
  -Story-
  Its Star Wars Need I Say More
  
  -Battles-
  They Are Great If You Ever Get Into Some Big One I Have Seen Big Battles Best Part Of The Game
 
  
  -Missions-
  They Seem To Easy And Pointless
  
  -Enemy-
  Every Star Wars Bad Guy Can Be In It How Awesome Or You Can Be Like Them
  
  -Abilitys-
  You 
 Are Able To Do Basically Anything In This Game Thats For Sure
  
  A Must Have Game Yes A Bill But Worth It If You Like Star Wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper200
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2005 7:32 pm PT
Review:  From snappy characters to 1000's of people this game and the makers have done it all. From flying 
 a space ship to meeting Jabba which is only on of the many things you can do. This game packs your 
 bags for you. Like any other game this done have its faults. But the game overall is a good game. 
 From the world of the movie to a game the makers of SWG went big i would have to say on this game. 
 Not only did they apply features of the movie. But they went big beyond what they had to. They 
 added new features that will blow your mind. 
  
  From the in town vendors were you can BID or instantly buy anything you want. I mean anything. 
 Cars, Ships, Fishing poles, the list goes on. Its basically a ebay/amazon in game. But the best 
 is yet to come. You don't have to buy from in town, If your adventurous you can leave and go find 
 a vendor out side of town. 
  
  Game play is there. But it could be better. I would like to see more attacks rather then just haveing 
 the monster bite my butt and i get hurt. How about a nice leg bite that i can see. The fighting 
 in game can be tough and if you walk on the wrong propertie you may get pwned. Like any creature 
 these too have there own land and they dont want you on there. 
  
  You know one thing that blew me away was the in game graphices. I've not seen much of this for 
 a while. I mean yeah come on we got CSS but that sucks compared to this. Anyways, Everything is 
 not textured the same in this game which i found to be awsome. Something that you might find right 
 when you walk in there is scenery. IT IS OUT OF THIS WORLD. Not just the regular one type of plant 
 setting. NO they have so much stuff it will blow your mind. 
  
  Now i found this game a bit laggy then other MMORPG's out there on the market. Some cities will 
 cause you to lag out uncontrollingly (is that a word) But you know with a little tweaking of settings 
 you can get that lag gone and out. Now the downside is there are no set system requirments. They 
 give you this "You may have to upgrade your system over time" Well this doesn't set with me. From 
 the 15 dollar a month fee i shouldn't have to upgrade my comp. 
  
  If you plan to play this game be careful. IF you play the demo you will not be able to buy them 
 game and set your new KEY on that demo account. Another thing is that you might want to pick a 
 name that you dont like. This is cause even if you delete your character. the name is still in use. 
 So beware. 
  
  Now space is a different setting. Because your in a ship you may experience a good time. The lag 
 doesn't apply to space. The experience in space rocks your socks off. The fact that you take people 
 in your ship (when you get a max cap ship) Just rocks right there. The grahpics are friggin awsome. 
 Its not a plastered image. Everything is 3D in space. Now like any MMORPG flying around killing 
 Rebles can get a little boring.
  
  
  Thats it for me. I have given you the basic on what i think is a good game. I have it a eight even 
 though i would like to see some changes. There are still some bugs floating out there so beware 
 again......
  
  OOO yeah. Untill you know you want to like play it alot. Dont go ordering 6 months of subscription. 
 
  
  Until next time this is reaper and 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAJY_FILTH
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2004 6:08 am PT
Review:  SWG has alot of problems still but JTLS has really improved the game to me!
  
  It hasn't saved SWG but it's a really nice addon and something extra to do Before i found myself 
 doing linear missions all the time for credits and xp, even tho alot of the jtls missions are the 
 same it's really fun Seems like your playing a whole different game and just what Swg needed to 
 make it feel like a Starwars game! 2nd best expansion made for a mmorpg game After eve-onlines 
 Shiva expansion (cause it's free) 
  
  Thanx for the Expansion great work 9/10 
  
  
  Hasn't saved the game but it should do if they balance the skills rite ;) Everyone who owns swg 
 should buy this expansion! Amazing work and makes a change from horrible expansions like Corecombat 
 for Planetside 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visualsee
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 9, 2004 1:05 pm PT
Review:  That about sums it up. You kind of feel like you are driving your landerspeeder in space, with 
 a spacesuit on... the game is pokey and doesn't have that seem feel of speed as other recent SW 
 themed single-player space games. Heck, even Freelancer had more of a feeling of speed and danger. 
 Sure, the AI in JTL is acceptable, but do I really need to pay $15 a month for it? I say not.
 
  
  I was in the beta and had fun my first few days. I stuck with it until it went to release. Unfortunately, 
 I realized that the expansion is very shallow. It's just yet another grind... but in space. And, 
 once you hit a mastery of a pilot profession... what is there left to do? Eh? Oh, I can get into 
 a PVP zone and shoot human players or I can continue to shoot at mindless ships and loot more parts 
 for my ships.
  
  If you are a new player, don't bother starting this game just because of the expansion. The player 
 based economy is out of whack and unless you buy credits on EBay or hook up with a friend that 
 can toss you some credits, you will be bored stiff. Actually, you may have fun with the space expansion, 
 but unless you do a LOT of combat and sell a LOT of stuff, you'll never be able to afford any customizable 
 ships.
  
  After playing SWG for over a year, I was really hoping this expansion would excite me. It really 
 hasn't. I'm moving on to some other good online games coming out this month.
  
  JTL does have a few saving graces:
  
  - Veterans get a ship that is capable of hyperspace... 
 as a result they can travel just about anywhere without having to mess with shuttlecraft and the 
 infamous 5 minute waits. Avid SWG fans can splurge and spend $30 on the expansion just for this 
 luxury.
  
  - The graphics are pretty good. As a matter of fact, the graphics are the only saving grace for 
 this game.
  
  - If you like PVP, it seems like PVP is the only thing you can do once you master out the pilot 
 professions. At least you can be on a more level playing field in space without having to worry 
 about some twit who has 24 hours a day to play a game and loot the uberest of equipment just so 
 he can shoot you with his mind poisoning uber CDEF on the ground. At least in space it's more about 
 your skill with a joystick or mouse (well, and a little bit about the type of equipment you can 
 afford for your ship) than it is about skill trees and what skill tapes, buffs and enhancements 
 you have.
  
  I say pass on this game. Yea, the fanboys will tell you that this game is the best thing since 
 sliced bread... but there are so many other online games coming out (and a few great single player 
 ones) ... why waste your time with this dull attempt at a game?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2004 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Although many have judged Jump to Lightspeed against other Star Wars based space simulators like 
 X-Wing and TIE Fighter, these comparisons are inaccurate, and fail to address the true nature of 
 JtL. JtL, unlike a first person space combat simulator, is an expansion for a MMORPG. Judged as 
 an expansion, JtL excels, but as a fix to SWG, JtL is a mere band-aid applied to a slit jugular 
 vein.
  
  One can quickly get into space and begin earning experience in advancing in the different pilot 
 professions. The combat is quick, but relatively simplistic and easy. The ease of combat is a perfect 
 balance between those looking for an arcade level of reality versus those looking for a realistic 
 level of simulation. The AI is decent enough to provide a challenge to experienced players of space 
 sims, while not dramatically stopping those who are not good at twitch based games. 
  
  The high points of this game are truly the sound and graphics. The sound is as good as any single 
 player space simulator. Laser blasts, engines, and rockets all sound like the movies. The graphics 
 are excellent on higher end machines and the explosions of destroyed ships are reminiscent from 
 the movies, as well. Players with slower machines may have to disable some of the higher-end graphics 
 to have smooth play, so this could be a drawback for some players. However, nothing is more satisfying 
 than destroying a TIE fighter and watching it explode like in the movies.
  
  Power gamers may find JtL to be too short and lacking content as one could master a pilot profession 
 in a long weekend if constantly playing. Gamers who can devote a few hours of week to play will 
 have enough content to last at least a few weeks. Average gamers may be at a disadvantage because 
 of the money required to purchase and outfit player-crafted ships. This is the key problem that 
 JtL faces. 
  
  The expansion must integrate with the ground game and the local economics of each individual server. 
 Until the market for ships and their components calm down, prices fluctuate greatly with some crafters 
 charging considerably more than others. Without a vast amount of capital, it will be difficult 
 for most players to afford to purchase high-end products from shipwrights. Moreover, because excellent 
 components may be dropped as loot from destroyed ships, the market is also competing with looted 
 components as well. Those in guilds that have a resident shipwright should have an advantage over 
 those players who are not affiliated with a guild.
  
  Unfortunately, because of the problems SWG has as an overall game, the final question one must 
 ask is: Can one very good expansion save an entire game? The answer, unfortunately, is probably 
 not. Although JtL is very enjoyable for the current players of SWG, it would be next to impossible 
 for a new player to jump in and enjoy the new expansion. While JtL does dramatically increase the 
 feeling of Star Wars within the game, the inherent problems of the ground game within SWG make 
 JtL difficult to recommend to anyone not currently playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 3, 2004 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a visually exalted, content deprived expansion. You need money, and lots of it, in order 
 to get a good ship. If this expansion is the reason you decided to get into the Star Wars Galaxies 
 universe, run, do not walk, as far as you can away from this abysmal expansion. 
  
  The controls are a mess and the interface is just not what it should be. This is nothing like what 
 a flight simulation would look like, and to say so is an insult to the developers of simulations.
 
  
  If you have already played the original game, the missions are truely the same thing as they were 
 when you were walking on ground, but now you are flying in space. No real emphasis was put into 
 making the missions fun, just time consuming.
  
  I had been disappointed since the time of the release, and I was hoping that this would help out. 
 The expansion leaves more questions as to how new players are supposed to enjoy the space conversion. 
 It rewards people that have already amassed a huge amount of money within the game than it does 
 to bring new life into the universe, which this game desperately now needs.
  
  With the possibility of new MMOs, like Everquest II, The Matrix Online, Guild Wars, Middle Earth 
 Online, World of Warcraft, etc., the developers need to find ways to attract people to the game, 
 not ridicule them because they did not play the game before the expansion.
  
  This game continues to suffer from bad decisions that should not have ever came to light. In my 
 opinion, this 'expansion' should have been included in the original release of the game. How can 
 you even fathom the notion of bringing the Star Wars universe into the MMO arena without space 
 combat? It is called 'Star Wars' for a reason.
  
  Perhaps the original game should have been called ''Terrain Wars Galaxies: Empire Divided,' then 
 it would have been made since to call this expansion the name it has been given.
  
  If you are new to the Star Wars Universe and want to get right into some 'decent' space combat 
 or exploration, unless you have an unlimited income to go waste real money on for Star Wars credits 
 on eBay, you will be extremely perturbed. You do not want to get this idea in your brain ascertaining 
 the thought of 'the expansion has come out, now is a good time to jump into this MMO.' If you do 
 not know of anyone or any guild in the game, getting a good space vehicle will be near impossible. 
 If however, you are already in the game and have money, then spending real money to get this expansion 
 is still not a good idea.
  
  Nonetheless, if you were, and still are, bored with the monotony of fighting critters in the deserts 
 along Mos Eisley, then maybe it is time to get bored with something with a little eye candy called 
 Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2004 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I think the negative slant Gamespot put on this expansion doesn't do this game justice for new 
 players. I played a year ago but stopped to wait for this expansion. I'm glad I did. It finally 
 feels like Star Wars. Sure, missions can get repetitive but show me an MMOG that doesn't have repetitive 
 missions. There is so much to accomplish in the game and never does it hold your hand to reach 
 your goals. This can be related to the skill rather than level based system the game employs. To 
 me, this is the first MMOG since UO that has created a living fantasy world that you can live out 
 a virtual life without spawn camping and level grinding to advance the game. Wether it is working 
 toward master pilot, bounty hunter, experiencing the movie content, or the ultimate goal of being 
 a light or dark jedi you advance your story when you want to. Or you can just be active with a 
 fun guild and enjoy your play time. If you were ever interested in living the virtual Star Wars 
 experience then I say give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njvenge
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 29, 2004 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This is no way the best expansion ever. While it adds some more value to the SWG empire, it does 
 nothing more then add a new form of the same grind. 
  
  Visually this game is well done. The models and the feel of space are done nicely, but the game 
 suffers from a poor UI interface that is tough to keep track of where you are getting fired upon 
 from. The controls of the ships were actually more realistic in the early beta, but the last big 
 push before the retail release kind of dumbed down the combat and controls.
  
  The action of this game is pretty fast paced, while they try to say it's more like a FPS, it really 
 isn't. The combat of the game can be fun, but does grow weary after a few weeks of playing it (yes 
 I was in the beta) . The missions are pretty much the same type you would find from the ground game, 
 with a space twist. 
  
  The shipwright profession and the ability to customize your ships components seem to be the only 
 true bright spot in the game. SWG has always had a detailed crafting system and the shipwright 
 lives up to that. Customizing your ship with components was time consuming but gave you a feel 
 like you had control over how you wanted to run your ship.
  
  Overall though, I would not deem this a true expansion as it really does nothing to fix the core 
 game. It is just a ruse to cover up the fact that there are still lingering bugs from the original 
 SWG game that have yet to be fixed from release. If your only interest in SWG from the beggining 
 was to fly ships, by all means feel free to pickup the expansion, but if you were expecting this 
 expansion to save the ground game, I wouldn't waste my money on this expansion.
  
  Most "Great" expansions build upon the core game and add new features that keep the user interested 
 for months to come. This doesn't do that for me as I can only see this giving me about a month's 
 worth of joy if that.
  
  In my true opinion, this should have been a free expasion upgrade as most SWG players will tell 
 you, we've been beta testing the game since launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duane_woods
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2004 2:05 am PT
Review:  People can say what they want, this is hands down the BEST expansion pack for a MMORPG, there isn't 
 an expansion pack out there that adds a completly NEW playing platform with outer space travel 
 and fighting, it truly is like playing a completly other game, this truly helps to make SWG a whole 
 game. I helped to beta test this game and I am so happy to see what it offers to the SWG experience. 
 the gameplay is very good, you can definately see and feel the difference in the way each ship 
 travels, they all definately do not play the same way. Graphics are awesome, the lag get's bad 
 on my computer at times because of all the people near the starports, but that's to be expected, 
 we're all trying to get to outer space, but there is NO lag in outer space, which was suprising 
 to me. Sound is also good, but more music would be nice. but over very good job SOE, you all should 
 be commended!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddalet
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Look for my post in the PC forums. This game is terrible. Awkward controls, removed combat, nothing 
 but pretty visuals and novelty kicks.
  
  dont buy into the self-propelled hype that the game has come a long way since launch. If anything, 
 the game is significantly worse off than it was then. Consider the following facts:
  
  
   The devs, with complete disregard for community priorities, devoted three month to the development 
 of the jedi profession, whilst the combat system was and remains in shambles.
  
  
   The devs added Diablo style loot to the game, then removed it, fundamentally skewing PvP combat 
 towards those who were lucky during the time period this loot was in the game.
  
  
   After having dedicated resources to revamping jedi, they have failed to uniformly keep the jedi 
 population in check, effectively ruining the experience for non-jedi players. As a player jedi, 
 I can honestly tell you, the Jedi profession was better off before the revamp. Youd be hard pressed 
 to find someone who played a jedi before and after the revamp and would post revamp profession.
 
  
  
   Next to zero additions in terms of content that is non-jedi related has been added in the past 
 five to six months.
  
  
  
  
  
  I implore you to surf the official forums a bit and learn about the community sentiment towards 
 the game. The devs insist that only whiners come on to the forums. Any fairly informed person will 
 tell you that this is next to impossible. There is no silent, satisfied majority. What you see 
 on the forums is a statistical sample of those in the game, and by statistical probabilities, forum 
 members represent a fairly accurate view of the members of the community that dont participate 
 in the forums. 
  
  
  
  
  
  At very best, JTL is an average game. It is not the PvP savior it has been pitched to be. It does 
 have nice visuals and great effects but those will carry it only so far and at what price?
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
