-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: State of Emergency
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/stateofemergency/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: VIS Entertainment
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Jul 29, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game's technical strengths, satisfying displays of comically overblown violence, and budget 
 price make it worth a look, provided you own a good dual analog gamepad. 

  State of Emergency is an arcade-style action game that puts you in the shoes of a rebel fighting 
 against an oppressive corporation that has become a sort of de facto government. While State of 
 Emergency's arcadelike objectives and somewhat simplistic fighting system can make it feel a little 
 shallow, the game's technical strengths, satisfying displays of comically overblown violence, and 
 budget price make it worth a look, provided you own a good dual analog gamepad.  

          You just don't normally see that many characters running around onscreen.     

  State 
 of Emergency was originally released over a year ago on the PlayStation 2, and a handful of changes 
 have been made for the PC version, which mirrors the more-recent Xbox version's set of features. 
 For starters, the game's graphics are sharper, and, provided your system meets the game's recommended 
 system specifications, the game will usually run at a smooth 60 frames per second, even though 
 you'll constantly see tons of people running in every direction in the game's riotlike environments. 
 Secondly, a handful of four-player multiplayer modes have been added, though the lack of any player-matching 
 in the game makes finding a game nearly impossible. And finally, some new power-ups provide you 
 with temporary bursts of unlimited ammo, extra fight power, resistance to bullets, or even a posse 
 of AI-controlled gang members that help you take down your enemies. While no one improvement causes 
 the PC version to leave the PS2 game in the dust, they add up pretty well.  

  State of Emergency, like just about every game that has tried to bring the beat-'em-up formula 
 of the arcade classic Final Fight into a 3D world, has its share of problems. For starters, the 
 camera requires constant baby-sitting, forcing you to frequently hit the aim button to swing it 
 around behind your character or use the touchy manual camera controls to adjust your perspective. 
 Even still, the camera gets hung up in tight corridors, and you'll often find yourself walking 
 around corners blindly, only to find a large enemy force on the other side that opens fire before 
 you even have time to reposition the camera to see them. The game also controls terribly with a 
 mouse and keyboard and all but requires a dual analog PC gamepad -- or better yet, a PlayStation 
 controller hooked up via a USB adapter -- to be played as was originally intended.  

  Additionally, the basic gameplay is extremely simple, almost to the point of feeling stripped down. 
 You have a punch and a kick at your disposal, and mashing on the buttons will execute combos. Hitting 
 both buttons together allows you to grab opponents for throws and other holds. But the game is 
 perhaps at its best when your character is armed. There's a wide variety of weapons in State of 
 Emergency, starting out with simple batons and baseball bats. The game also features a nice selection 
 of firearms, including a pistol, an Uzi, an AK-47, an M16, a shotgun, a minigun, a flamethrower, 
 a grenade launcher, and a rocket launcher. You'll also find some blades, namely a hatchet and a 
 sword. Finally, many objects found around the environment -- park benches, for example -- can be picked 
 up and thrown. You'll need this large arsenal to keep the corporation security forces and gangs 
 at bay. As you proceed, the enemies will rush you with larger numbers and better armaments.  

 
          The game has online support but no way to find players.     

  The game's main mode is called "chaos." Chaos' main selection, confusingly called "kaos," plays 
 similarly to Sega's Crazy Taxi. You are given a limited amount of time to earn points, but you 
 can earn more time by picking up time power-ups, which are usually earned by killing enemies. The 
 idea is to strike a balance between rioting to earn points and fighting to replenish your health 
 and time. As you play, various bonuses switch on and off. For instance, on occasion, you'll earn 
 10 times as many points for destroying objects as you normally would, or there will be a five-times 
 multiplier on window breaking. Also switching on and off is the civilian kill penalty, which costs 
 you points if you mow down bystanders when it's enabled. When the penalty is off, you can freely 
 unload your weapons into the crowd, though it should be noted that you never actually earn points 
 or bonuses by killing civilians. The point of chaos mode is to earn points. Once you reach a certain 
 score plateau, the next level is unlocked. In addition to the push and pull of the kaos selection, 
 there are also variants with fixed time limits. Completing these unlocks the "last clone standing" 
 selection, which puts you in the level with 200 defenseless drones and asks you to kill them all 
 in the fastest time possible.     

  State of Emergency's storyline seems like an afterthought that attempts to provide a reason for 
 the rioting -- so much so that the game's main mode doesn't contain any story elements whatsoever. 
 In the not-so-distant future, the government is overtaken by a large corporation that is, of course, 
 evil and extremely oppressive. As things reach Big Brother-like levels, the populace, full of fear, 
 begins to riot. You are a member of Freedom, an organization bent on overthrowing the evil government 
 and getting things back to normal. The story only appears in the game's mission-based revolution 
 mode. In this mode, the scoring and time limits of the chaos mode are replaced by various task-based 
 objectives. Here, you'll advance Freedom's cause by blowing up buildings, killing corporation executives, 
 and guarding people and places that are friendly to the resistance. Weapons are a lot harder to 
 come by in this mode, as they're usually only given out for specific missions, rather than found 
 on the ground all over the place.  

          Chaos' main selection, confusingly called 'kaos,' plays similarly to Sega's Crazy Taxi. 
     

  There are a ton of missions in the game, and each one must be completed to move forward. Some of 
 the missions are well designed and fun, but most of them are either mindlessly simple tasks or 
 frustrating trial-and-error endeavors that force you to find the path of least resistance through 
 a given map. In the end, the mission mode seems more like busywork than anything else, and it definitely 
 deserves its secondary status. Though, advancing in this mode does increase the selection of playable 
 characters, which starts at two and grows to a total of five.  

  The game's multiplayer option lets you play with two to four players in a variety of cooperative 
 and competitive games. Deathmatch is your basic player-vs.-player mode, and there are also variants 
 on the single-player game's last clone standing and kaos games. Survivor mode is a last man standing 
 sort of game that ends when only one player is left alive. The multiplayer modes are a good addition, 
 though they aren't quite as fleshed out as they could have been. And again, the lack of in-game 
 player-matching makes looking for a quick match online impractical to say the least.  

  State of Emergency was a pretty amazing graphical achievement when it came to the PlayStation 2 
 last year -- you just don't normally see that many characters running around onscreen at once. The 
 Xbox and PC versions clean things up a bit and improve the frame rate, though the game's crisper 
 look betrays its rather simplistic geometry. But considering how smoothly the game runs and how 
 many people are packed onscreen at once, the game is still pretty impressive. Without the ability 
 to put this many people onscreen, State of Emergency would lose a lot of its impact -- there's nothing 
 quite as satisfying as launching a rocket or grenade into a huge crowd of people and watching the 
 blood and limbs fly like something out of some demented cartoon.  

          State of Emergency isn't the deepest game on the market, but it makes for a good budget 
 title.     

  The sound effects throughout the game are good, and they effectively convey the feeling of a riot. 
 You'll hear people shrieking as they run around like lunatics, and the weapon fire is done well. 
 Unfortunately, there seems to be a bug in the game that causes some sound effects to simply cut 
 off. The music consists of fairly generic-sounding techno and rock tracks.  

  State of Emergency isn't exactly the deepest game on the market, but with its timers and its high-score 
 lists, the game is definitely shooting for shorter, arcadelike play sessions. While it might be 
 a bit much to ask players to pay full price for a port of a year-old PS2 game, the PC version's 
 new features and bargain-minded retail price make it a good deal for anyone looking for some mindless 
 fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zombie765
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  State of Emergency is kind of a stupid game. It's just fun in a dumb way. Throughout the whole 
 game you are running through some sort of urban area doing a buttload of missions to destroy "the 
 corporation." The game doesn't really make sense a lot of the time. But then again, it wasn't really 
 made to make sense. If you get past the whole ridicolousness factor in the game. Then you will 
 have a great time. It's all very fun to be able to throw grenades through windows to destroy stores 
 and to beat up armed guards with baseball bats and park benches. The simplicity of the game is 
 what makes it fun. However not all of this game is fun. Sometimes in missions you might find yourself 
 facing enormous crowds of enemies armed with only a baton or worse. The game can be much to overwhelming 
 at times. Also the camera angle can constantly piss you. It is way more fun destroying your enemies 
 when you don't have to wrestle with your view. All in all this game isn't all that bad as long 
 as you don't have high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kr00k3d
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  State of Emergency is another heavy game frum rockstar games and is probably the only equivilant 
 to the classic final fight series on super nintendo the fighting is crazy and out of control and 
 playing with a control pad gives it a feel of arcade like entertainment. its a superb game with 
 not many glitches and easily displayed objectives the simplicity is a factor in todays gaming world 
 of intricate plots and trial and error based missions but having one game which is as simple as 
 this brings back the nostalgia of when gaming used to be just 2d side scrolling. so all in all 
 it's a good game so buy it or download it beacause it has been many years since it's release so 
 it is probably not available now so get it and play dissapointment is not what you will receive. 
 das ma review so peace out homiez. yeeeehhhhhh!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzrulez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  State of Emergency is very fun and exciting to play because you get to beat up lots ans lots of 
 people such as civilians and guards. The graphics in this game are very good and the people look 
 very detailed. The sound in this game is good. I enjoy hearing the sounds of weapons being fired 
 and the chaos being caused in that level. The value of this game is good because you will have 
 a lot of fun beating people up. I recommend you get this game if you like violent games such as 
 the grand theft auto games or dynasty warrior games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I bought state of emergency thinking it would be like Grand Theft Auto, but this game couldnt be 
 further from Grand Theft Auto than it is now. I did enjoy State of emergency for about an hour 
 or 2 but then i realized how repetitive and pointless it is. Even though there is missions in State 
 of emergency you will never know it because you will be to busy firing machine gun rounds into 
 a group of people and throwing molotov cocktails at looters. The graphics are more blah than a 
 Diane Keaton movie and the game rarely makes you want to keep playing it. If you can find this 
 game for less than ten bucks then you should pick it up, if you cant then stay far far away from 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
