-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Steel Beasts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/steelbeasts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 44 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: eSim Games
Genre: Tank Sim
Date:     Sep 24, 2000

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Steel Beasts combines both simulation and wargaming elements to produce a superb gaming experience. 
 

 Hard-core military simulations and wargames are generally shunned by large game publishers, who 
 prefer to release games with broader appeal now that computer gaming has evolved from a niche hobby 
 into mainstream entertainment. As a result, the burden of maintaining these genres has fallen on 
 smaller, independent publishers, such as Shrapnel Games. Fortunately, these genres are apparently 
 in good hands if Shrapnel's recently released tank sim, Steel Beasts, is any indication. It combines 
 both simulation and wargaming elements to produce a superb gaming experience.   

  Steel Beasts is a modern tank simulator that focuses on the US M1A1 Abrams and German Leopard 2A4 
 main battle tanks. Both of these machines are fully drivable and are reproduced in painstaking 
 detail in the game. In addition to these tanks, Steel Beasts models a number of modern armored 
 vehicles such as the Russian T-80, the German Marder, and a variety of armored personnel carriers. 
 Steel Beasts lets you assume the tank commander's or gunner's seat in the Abrams and Leopard 2, 
 as well as move to an external camera view in each vehicle. The variety of units in the game (including 
 infantry) allows for a wide range of different scenarios. You can't assume the driver's position 
 per se, but as the tank commander you can issue directional orders to your driver, as well as indicate 
 speed.   

  The level of detail in Steel Beasts is simply amazing and is a result of the fact that while the 
 game was essentially programmed single-handedly by Al Delaney, he received the input and advice 
 of a team of experienced tankers. The end product re-creates the different aspects of modern tank 
 warfare like thermal imaging, laser rangefinding, varied ammunition loads, and gun stabilization 
 in such detail that playing the game is almost as if you've joined the armed forces. Steel Beasts 
 can be controlled with the keyboard and mouse or with a joystick, and although neither one of these 
 completely re-creates the controls in a tank, the overall experience is still impressive. It also 
 illustrates how difficult tank gunnery actually is. Like your real-life counterparts, you'll spend 
 a lot of time on the gunnery range (almost a game in itself) honing your skills.   

  Steel Beasts is a perfect chance for anyone who claims to be willing to sacrifice visual appeal 
 in exchange for exceptional gameplay to put his money where his mouth is. Steel Beasts is practically 
 a textbook example of the strengths and weaknesses of independently developed and published games: 
 Specifically, the graphics are not 3D accelerated, and they may seem rather drab and uninspired 
 for those accustomed to the latest in hardware-pushing technology. Yet while Steel Beasts looks 
 a bit like a throwback to several years ago, it is by no means ugly, and it actually does well 
 in creating a believable environment. While the effects vary, for the most part Steel Beasts succeeds 
 in presenting a visual environment that complements and enhances gameplay and never detracts from 
 the superb atmosphere.   

  Steel Beasts isn't just a simulation. It's also a wargame, thanks to its detailed planning phase 
 where you, as the mission commander, choose routes and waypoints for your units and issue contingency 
 orders. Because it's impossible (and undesirable in a sim) to be in control of every tank at all 
 times, the orders you give to your units at the beginning of the battle can have a huge effect 
 on your chances of success. You can order a tank platoon to hold a certain position until it takes 
 a certain number of losses and then to retreat to a holding position that you specify. The dynamics 
 of battle in Steel Beasts are both complex and easy to manage. Sometimes menu selection can be 
 a bit fidgety in the heat of battle when you're trying to attach a unit to your platoon, but for 
 the most part the administrative part of combat isn't a burden.    

 One element in which Steel Beasts excels despite its small production budget is its manual. While 
 many games from independent publishers resort to electronic manuals that you have to print yourself, 
 Steel Beasts comes with a comprehensive 80-page printed booklet that carefully explains not only 
 how the game functions, but why. The descriptions of how various instruments work in an actual 
 tank, and how that has been transferred to the game, make for fascinating reading and provide tremendous 
 insight for those simulation fans hungry for details about their favorite real-world weapons.  

  Because the game tries to simulate the gunnery functions in the Abrams and Leopard as closely as 
 possible, Steel Beasts is not an easy sim to get into. The learning curve is quite steep, and it 
 consists of far more than just jumping into a tank and cranking up that big gun. Although a tank 
 simulation has to model less technical detail than a flight simulation, staying alive on a modern 
 armor battlefield takes just as much skill as keeping a plane in action. For this reason, newcomers 
 are advised to take advantage of the plentiful tutorials that go step-by-step through the tanks' 
 weapons systems. Even simulation veterans will find themselves cursing their poor gunnery skills 
 until they've had a good bit of practice with Steel Beasts. Getting really good at Steel Beasts 
 takes time, and it is a measure of how rich the gameplay is. Gunnery mechanics, command decisions, 
 and mission planning are all skills that need to be mastered, and that mastery won't come easily. 
 Expect to see your tanks go up in flames a lot.   

  Steel Beasts would be a failure if all this detail didn't translate into an engaging experience 
 that reflected some of the intensity of battle. The best thing about Steel Beasts is that while 
 all the attention to detail and simplicity of the interface are welcome, it's the thrilling gameplay 
 that you'll remember above all else. Searching for a target in the trees while hoping no one is 
 lining you up in his crosshairs, or getting into a gun duel with a platoon of enemy tanks while 
 hull-down in the open, is so nerve-wracking that it's like very few other simulation experiences 
 available today. You can still fight if your laser rangefinder has been knocked out, and this is 
 where those hours of practice on the gunnery range come in handy. Steel Beasts can get so intense 
 that sometimes you'll want to just sit back and let your battle plan unfold while you jump from 
 vehicle to vehicle in the external camera view and simply watch the outcome of the battle. Because 
 of the power and flexibility of the map screen and mission planner, you can do just that.   

  Besides the mediocre graphics, Steel Beasts does have a few other drawbacks. Most notably, the 
 game doesn't have any kind of dynamic campaign. While the individual missions do have a fair amount 
 of replay value, thanks to the fact that enemy placement and behavior vary between playings, it's 
 frustrating to have so much tactical control over the battlefield in the planning phase and not 
 be able to extend this to some sort of ongoing battle. Another drawback is the lack of aircraft 
 (either fixed-wing or helicopter) , which does detract somewhat from the sense of being on a real 
 modern battlefield, where these weapons are so important and powerful. But the absence of these 
 elements just goes to show how effective the rest of the game is, because Steel Beasts still succeeds 
 at drawing you into the experience.   

  Steel Beasts also excels as a multiplayer game - when you're facing a human opponent, the combination 
 of advance planning, tactical coordination, and gunnery skill is put to the ultimate test. While 
 the computer's artificial intelligence is very good, nothing quite compares to a head-to-head duel 
 where both your forces and those of the enemy are controlled by live players. This sort of competitive 
 play, which is so effective in flight sims, translates just as well to Steel Beasts' world of ground-hugging 
 metal monsters.   

  Steel Beasts is only available online through Shrapnel Games and is packaged as a CD and a manual 
 with no box or fancy extras. However, despite its simple appearance, you'll soon discover the game's 
 high quality.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 1, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Do not confuse this tank simulator with a computer game. It has to be the most thorough tank sim 
 I ever took the joy of trying out, and it is all in here. If you fancy learning not only about 
 the nifty electronic gizmos that power two high profile main battle tanks, but also don't mind 
 to resort to the manual overrides once the electronics get knocked out -- like aiming the barrel 
 by hand -- you'll love this trip. Two very competent models of the Abrams and the Leopard II are 
 on offer, the M1 is definitely familiar territory by now, so it is nice to see the developer also 
 included an alternative.
  
  In my opinion they might as well have dropped the M1 and gone for another exotic ride, like the 
 Leclerc or the Challenger, the M1 has been simmed to death, but arguably never this good. A nice 
 touch is the language packs, that allow your tank crew to use terminology from other countries. 
 As a Swede, I was absolutely amazed at hearing the crew speaking my own language. As any other 
 simulator it has the potential of getting repetitive, but it is rather normal for a game of this 
 type. I'd heartily recommend this to any tank sim enthusiast, except maybe those who prefer titles 
 like Armoured Fist or Spearhead. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
