-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Still Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/stilllife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-crafted atmosphere.
 Accessible puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Conventional to a fault.
 Dated graphics.
 A little on the short side, with little reason to revisit.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.6, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,350 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Microids
Genre: Adventure
Date:     May 4, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its slavish dedication to convention will scratch the methodical, cerebral itch all diehard adventure 
 game fans have. 

  This shouldn't come as much of a surprise, seeing how the game is published by the appropriately 
 named Adventure Company, but Still Life is an adventure game tailored to the specific needs of 
 established adventure game fans. Think back to good old Gabriel Knight (if the name means anything 
 to you) and you're pretty close to the style and tone that Still Life aims for. Its slavish dedication 
 to convention will scratch the methodical, cerebral itch all diehard adventure game fans have. 
 As a genre exercise, though, it exerts little energy to draw in new players.  

          Death follows the McPherson family through the years in Still Life.     

  Still Life 
 revolves around the brutal, serial murders of prostitutes in two different cities during different 
 eras. You start the game in modern-day Chicago as FBI field agent Victoria McPherson, who is young 
 and darkly energetic, with a certain disaffected cool and penchant for crackin' wise that is almost 
 a mandatory trait for adventure game protagonists. Victoria's inability to stop the killer starts 
 getting the better of her, and she finds herself collecting her thoughts while sifting through 
 her dead grandfather's belongings in her childhood home. This brings us to Gustav McPherson, Victoria's 
 grandfather, who is a private detective in Prague in the late 1920s. Gus is more personally haunted 
 by his case than Victoria, and the story arc in Prague carries more weight and feels creepier because 
 of his emotional involvement.  

  The game cuts back and forth between the two stories, treating the murders in both eras with the 
 same grim professionalism of a forensic procedural like  CSI , though with less flash and thicker 
 atmosphere. The biting cold of Chicago in the winter is nearly palpable, and it is reinforced by 
 the sagging structures of abandoned buildings and empty municipal offices. The game does an equally 
 good job of presenting the aged feel of Prague, with crumbling old-world architecture, murky waters, 
 and some heavy fog effects.  

  It's the atmosphere that carries the experience in Still Life, so it's unfortunate that the mood 
 is undermined by clunky visuals. The characters themselves look fine when they're standing still, 
 but they move rather mechanically and have awkward mouth animations that make them look like ventriloquist's 
 dummies. More care was taken with the backdrops, which are all prerendered, but much of the detail 
 and overall fidelity is lost to what appears to be overzealous image compression. You don't really 
 get a sense of the scale of either of the cities, and each location you visit feels less like a 
 place firmly rooted in reality and more like a painstakingly arranged set.  

  The whole game goes about its business with a certain efficiency, giving room for enough expository 
 and incidental dialogue for the benefit of the mood and the narrative, but rarely dawdling. All 
 of the dialogue is spoken, usually with detectable traces of Canadian mannerisms. It's not too 
 bad during the parts of the story set in Chicago, but when you're chatting up Turkish beat cops 
 who sound like they grew up in Ottawa, it's distracting and breaks the mood. But, aside from the 
 occasionally mismatched accents and some odd inflections, the voice acting is competent. Nice background 
 music further complements the game's mood, and it ranges from a jarringly schizophrenic industrial 
 theme to a more low-key noir vibe.  

          It's capable as an adventure game, which makes it suitable for adventure game fans, but 
 unsuitable for most others.     

  Most of the interaction you have with other characters is in service of the game's puzzles, which 
 are all pure boilerplate adventure game fodder. You'll have to scour environments for items to 
 combine, play around with a variety of sliding panels, dabble in some featherweight cryptology -- and 
 yes, boxes will be pushed. Despite the constant sense of dj vu brought on by these familiar puzzle 
 types, they work within the context of the game more often than not. The puzzles are usually spelled 
 out pretty clearly, cutting out some of the frustration brought on by the deliberate vagueness 
 that passes for challenge in so many adventure games. This isn't to say there won't be times in 
 Still Life where you'll find yourself wandering around three or four rooms, unsure of what it is 
 you're not seeing, but a dash of perseverance is all you need to solve even the game's most challenging 
 puzzles.  

  The amount of time it'll take you to solve the murder mysteries of Still Life will hinge on how 
 many snags you hit while solving puzzles, or how willing you are to fall back on walk-throughs. 
 Either way, though, it's a pretty brief experience that doesn't lend itself to multiple plays. 
 Adventure game fans will be more willing to forgive the game's technical shortcomings than anyone 
 else, but it's hard to believe that anyone who is still devoted to this style of gaming will find 
 a lot in Still Life that they haven't experienced already.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: smith_velocity
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  First of all been a member here for quite a while, and this is the first review i am writing, because 
 this game has the most unjustified score EVER
  
  well i guess i am gonna get a lot of "thumbs down"... but neways here's why i thought it was so 
 great
  
  this game was the first point and click adv game i had played...
  Me and my friend played this games 3-4years back and had a blast, the suspense, the intrigue was 
 like no other, the puzzles were awesome, though some were too difficult
  
  Even today when we play games like gta4, fallout3, assassins, and all the other games, we always 
 remember this game as the one we has the most fun playing...
  
  Even though KOTOR is a completely different game, i put this game on the same pedestal because 
 these two games are the ones i remeber the most, and had fun the most while playing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lady_Seph
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'm an "avid" adventure gamer, I've played a lot over the years and I can honestly say 
 that I found Still Life nothing to write home about.
  
  On the positive side, at initial appraisal it at least looks very nice. The background art is very 
 well done and adds a certain degree of atmosphere. Animation is a little sloppy which detracts 
 from things somewhat. Character movement is intermittently robotic with sprites running into scenery. 
 This is disappointing and a shame considering how much attention has been paid to the way things 
 look over all.
  
  This game pitches itself as a very adult interactive story, but anything it arguably achieves in 
 the story department is unravelled by the unintuitive way puzzles are clumsily dumped into the 
 mix.
  
  You will find yourself encountering very dull and very familiar fare playing this game. The story 
 is interjected by "filler puzzles" that are either incredibly easy or so badly designed that solving 
 them is a matter of random clicking. Even worse they seem to have no logical reason for being in 
 the places that they are. I consider that a very cheap way to add play hours to what is a very 
 short and uninspiring offering.
  
  The main character is stereotypically dull, replete with snotty and childish dialogue- badly delivered. 
 Secondary character Gustav is more palatable and thoughtful but he is also sadly, more elusive.
 
  
  I really must mention- at one very memorable point in the game, you will find yourself asked to 
 complete a puzzle so painfully nonsensical and inappropriate to the storyline, that words simply 
 fail me at the stupidity of it. It is the most dire puzzle I have ever seen in all my years of 
 gaming. I was so disgusted that I almost gave up playing the game at this juncture. I will not 
 add a spoiler but you can compare it to Agent Starling stopping her hunt for Hannibal Lecter so 
 that she can sit down a knit a nice jumper. 
  
  The worst of it's crimes is that still Still Life is a horribly horribly boring game, not at all 
 chilling or even surprising. There are many adventure games that are over a decade older than this 
 one, and are far and away better, more innovative and more immersing.
  
  Give it a miss unless you are easily amused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Decent thriller adventure games were almost impossible to find up to three or four years ago. Then 
 along comes The Adventure Company, and all that begins to change. Within a genre presumed dead 
 a few years ago, comes something every adventure gamer was praying for: Developers releasing great 
 games every year, with highlighted emphasis on what really matters to us: the plot. With Still 
 Life, it's never been so evident.
  
  Never mind that pretty much every single game that adventure company releases looks exactly the 
 same. No, the scenarios and characters aren't alike, they've just maintained the same formulas: 
 Beautiful, gleaming scenarios that manage to stand out even amongst the most gruesome situations, 
 with skinny, occasionaly bland characters that, while not particularly well made, are surprisingly 
 charismatic in their own way. Still Life is no exception, and unless you expected it to be, it 
 is under no circumstances a let-down. Even better, the in-game cinematics are simply fantastic, 
 with sorrowful passages packing as much of a punch as the harsh, tense action sequences portraited.
 
  
  The game's punch, as a matter of fact, is its engrossing plot. The plight of, Victoria, an FBI 
 agent on Chicago as she strives to put a top-hatted serial killer behind bars, only to find out 
 every bit of crime has a bigger motive, a 'larger picture' involving her dead grandfalther, Gustav, 
 a P. I. looking at a similar case in early century Prague. The plot switches between the two expertly, 
 each end of a chapter leaving a sweet taste for 'more' that will urge you forward, in hope of unlocking 
 the killer's identity, both present and past.
  
  With that purpose in mind, you'll struggle your way through dozens of different puzzles, some using 
 old formulas (sliding tiles... every adventure game has those damned sliding tiles) , and some trully 
 original, as one involving rings and a key, near the end of the game.
  
  So, with all that... an 8.0 score. Yes... Why? Because while the puzzles are varied enough, they 
 don't often come with a logical explanation for its solution. Little more than trial and error 
 can lead you 'safely' through a simple task as baking cookies, and some memory/riddle puzzles will 
 ask that you have pen and paper by your side, so you can avoid running back and forth between rooms. 
 Still, it's nothing adventure games aren't accustomed to.
  
  So, Still Life falls short of a perfect score, less due to its flaws - they exist, but in no way 
 overshadow the gaming experience - and more due to it being simply part of a whole. Still Life 
 II will come out soon, and I'll, as usually, buy it and spend hours in front of my PC screen trying 
 to figure out the "pupil's" identity. But until that day arrives, Still Life is not a classic. 
 It has a great plot, and while it may never be considered a classic, the series has everything 
 to be just that. Be it two games, three, four, five, The Adventure Company has presented us with 
 another winner. Who cares about its shortcomings, when its positives are that entertaining?
  
  Right now, I'm crossing my fingers, hoping that this is but a wonderful stepping stone, making 
 way for a perfect sequel.
  
  Still Life II can't arrive soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brioli
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Positives: This is a fun game with beautiful graphics. Story line is great and easy to navigate. 
 No camera angle difficulty. The game is very suspenseful. Excellent cut scenes. This game is very 
 spooky and mysterious. If you have an admiration for art, then you will like this game. There are 
 plenty of paintings to admire, and they are tied into solving the game. This game has a very laid 
 back pace, and overall was very enjoyable. This is one of those games you should try first through 
 a demo, or borrow someone else's before purchasing. This game is not for everyone.
  
  
  Negatives: Puzzles not easily solved and strange ways to accomplish solving them. Game is not clear 
 about ways in which to solve these puzzles. You're unable to get items that you need for future 
 use, until you actually need to use them. The ways you discover you need to use them are not user 
 friendly ways. You spend a lot of time going back and forth in the same areas. There is a lot of 
 needless traveling over the same areas. Disappointing ending, but prepares you for the sequel. 
 There is very strong language which I personally can do without.
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperflobo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Some may argue that the graphics in Still Life is outdated. I think it gives the game a murky atmosphere, 
 which suits the story perfectly. Alongside is the "soundtrack" witch blends beautifully and all 
 together delivers an absolutely thrilling and entertaining game.
  
  The voice acting is questionable, but it does the job and don't stand out.
  
  Playing two characters 
 in two different decades gives the game a nice variation, though I must say the story is brutal 
 and bloody, at some point a little too much.
  
  On the negative side I can't understand why some rooms and items first "unlock" as the game progresses. 
 Why not just take the item the first time you encounter it, saving it for later use? Instead you're 
 running past it 800 times wondering what the heck it's going to be used for.
  
  Furthermore the game was a little too easy. The places you can explore is limited and the dialog 
 is just a click with the mouse button = no challenge. The puzzles wasn't that hard either, although 
 one of them can curse headache (comes from banging you head into the wall countless times) .
  
  Conclusion:
  There is no doubt; Still Life is a good game. If you're into adventure games, 
 this will leave you screaming  if not the game itself, then the ending will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Adventure games have always been a good medium for storytelling. We've seen proof of this many 
 times, with games like The Longest Journey, the Broken Sword series or some of LucasArts' old classics. 
 But lately things haven't been too great for this genre. It has been struggling to find some form 
 that fits into today's gaming market. And this brought all sorts of weird experiments, like the 
 light on interaction Dreamfall, or the cinematic yet clunky Fahrenheit. What I'm reviewing today 
 though, is an adventure game that follows (almost to a fault) the true and tested formula of point-and-click 
 adventuring. So lets delve deeper into Still Life and see what it has to offer.
  
  First thing you'll probably notice about this game is that it still uses a 2D engine and that it 
 is limited to a resolution of only 800x600. Yeah, tragic, I know. Thankfully, most of the environments 
 look very well and exhibit a high level of artistic creativity. I've seen in Still Life some of 
 the best interior decorations I've ever seen in a game, but also very good use of textures and 
 lighting. And unlike a real 3D game, the cost in terms of resources is quite small, the game will 
 easily run on most mainstream or low-end systems out there. The only fault the game has in terms 
 of graphics are the character models, which are three-dimensional, but need better animations. 
 Better luck next time I guess.
  
  Right then, let's move on. Sound is up next and this one is a bit of a mixed bag. Take music for 
 example: it's dark and atmospheric and it fits the game like a glove. On the other hand, the voice 
 acting is a bit inconsistent: for the most part it does the job quite well, but sometimes it will 
 strain the ear by throwing at you some failed attempt at humor that just doesn't fit the tone of 
 the game. There's also the matter of ambient sounds, that, while good, are kind of small in number. 
 Overall, try not to be discouraged by some of the less fortunate dialogue lines, Still Life is 
 a great game that's well worth a bit of patience, specially at the beginning.
  
  So what is Still Life's best part? The answer is the story. What we have here is a pure-blood psychological 
 thriller, and a very good one at that: we have suspense, mind games, stream of consciousness and 
 some of the best (and most chilling) cinematics this side of the gaming industry. Specifically, 
 we follow the story of FBI Profiler Victoria McPherson, who is investigating a series of brutal 
 murders, the subject of which are always women from the lower ranks of society. We start off by 
 checking out the crime scene of the fifth murder, we gather evidence and after some work at the 
 office we head for Victoria's home, where she stumbles upon her granddad's case log. Turns out 
 her grandfather, Gustav McPherson, worked as a private detective a long time ago. As Victoria reads 
 on, her granddad's world comes to life and we're transported to 1930s Prague. There we investigate 
 a series of brutal murders that are very similar to Victoria's case. And from here on you'll experience 
 the story alternatively, from both perspectives. Victoria's world is a mirror of the alert, stressful 
 life we all know and love, while Gustav's world looks like something you'd see in a classic noir 
 movie. The story is complex, well paced and has quite a few memorable moments. One scene in particular 
 was really memorable and heavy, but it fits the overall theme well. The game does not spare you 
 any details either, you'll see blood, violence, nudity and suggestive themes. So play it only if 
 you're of the proper age.
  
  While Still Life manages to offer an excellent story, it also needs to offer solid gameplay to 
 make the whole experience feel complete. Putting aside the facts that the story is pretty much 
 on rails and that the game is also a tad short, the gameplay is actually good. You're going to 
 interact with the game world like you do in most adventure games: point and click. You'll also 
 have an inventory, a lot of different items and the possibility to combine them. What Still Life 
 also has is a journal that keeps track of your steps, but also acts as a file cabinet for all sorts 
 of crime scene reports, books or notes. What's really great about the gameplay is that it's firmly 
 planted in reality. When checking out a crime scene you'll use all sorts of tools that would normally 
 be used in such circumstances. The puzzles you come across are fitting, they're not forced or lacking 
 context. There's also a large variety from this point of view: some puzzles require you to analyze 
 environments and objects, some to combine objects while others require you to solve some logical 
 puzzles, like lockpicking for example. Looking back, I guess I can say that most of the puzzles 
 were easy although at first some of them seemed a bit complicated. You'll see for yourself if you 
 pick up the game. Suffice to say that Still Life, although not breaking any new grounds, offers 
 solid gameplay and a good variety of puzzles.
  
  So what more could I say? This game is indeed short and has little replay value but honestly, if 
 you like a great story then you need to pick this one up. There's not much in the way of closure, 
 but I guess that's good news since Still Life 2 is in the works. After experiencing this one I'll 
 be sure to pick that one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeric-Ho
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I was not expecting much from this game as i read the reviews and it is rated as a 6.7, which is 
 not really great, but i liked the look of it and i am a big fan of adventure games, sepecially 
 point & click ones, and i was actually quite impressed, and its not at all as bad as some people 
 say it is.
  
  I liked the dark story and feel that the game has, and also i liked the link between the murders, 
 the new murderer was killing people in the style of the paintings from the original murdered back 
 in Victorias Grandfathers day, who was also working to find the original murders, before being 
 set up and blamed fo the murders himself so went on the run.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty damn good, apart from Victorias head sometimes glitches and you 
 can see the sections of her head, but other than that it looks good!
  
  Puzzles are very interesting, and are of a good difficulty i felt, none were too hard that i got 
 annoyed and wanted to stop playing, most of the answers where written down somewhere in the form 
 of a clue for you, and if not then the puzzles were self explanitory!
  
  I do hope they make a sequel to Still Life as the ending does leave some things un answered and 
 left to your imagination, basically the present day murderer was related to the original murderer, 
 his son if i recall and was following is fathers grim footsteps and murdering present day prostitutes 
 or call girls.
  
  Good game, would recommend it to anyone who likes point and click adventures and likes a nice dark 
 story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallrob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the general atmosphere of Still Life. Mystery forensics mix is pretty good. The timeline 
 shifts from present to past are also great. But the gameplay is old fashioned, point and click 
 everything you can see, solve puzzles, that can take so much time, you no longer feel involved 
 in the larger story... not always well integrated into a more nauturally experienced game mystery. 
 Puzzle solving has always been the "portal" to take a player from one stage to the next in the 
 story but by now there have been far more successful adventure/mystery games that have managed 
 to integrate story and puzzle in a more seamless experience. Lot's of dead ends in action and events 
 or info that just won't be available without following the "on the rails" order of each pitstop 
 you must hit, with no room to wander, in the story or environment. Good characters, good story 
 telling but bad game challenges that feel somewhat unsatisfying, when all they add up to is a basic 
 code solving to get a simple item, in order to continue the story. If you enjoy a brief murder 
 mystery, with a decent story, but not much flexibility to play, than enjoy it. But an imersive 
 game experience, it is not.. For mystery buffs, this ones too easy to solve, by about a third of 
 the way into the game. It's just that you'll have to do a lot of predictable click and point to 
 get to that mystery, even when you know, where to go, how to solve and who to question. A let down 
 as a invovling game, enjoyable as a story told well, if you have the patience for the invisib le 
 walls, character behaviour that relies on your having a specific object or clue, usable oblects 
 abound, if the game would let you use them when it made sense to grab them. If it's not done in 
 order of storyline, than don't look for alternatives. there's one way to solve, one way to walk 
 through the story and unfortunately a weak non ending that relies on a sequel that still hasn't 
 delivered from the game developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagano
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Altough i only played demo. At least the demo was so interesting, that i want to play full version 
 now. Some things were quite hard. Graphics were horroble, and there was almost lack of sounds, 
 but that was not a disturbing thing. I guess to a crime investigation fan it doesn't matter if 
 it's a DOS game or a high quality, expensive and soundfull game. To a fan like me, THE MOST IMPORTANT 
 THING IS how you have to solve those clues and what kind of tools you have, how much you get help, 
 how many chances you got to undo your mistakes and so on.. In Still Life there is quite many helpers. 
 But you will have to do most of the work by yourself. You have to listen what people say about 
 things and are they norvous or sad or happy. It will help you solve those murders better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YouAreInvisible
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Story
  The year is 2005. You are Victoria, an FBI agent on the tracks of a serial killers whose victims 
 are prostitutes. After investigating the crime scene of the 5th victim, you decide to go over your 
 dad's place to relax. It's there where you discover an old chest containing your grandfather's 
 personal items. Among the items, you find his diary, and upon reading it you discover unsettling 
 similarities between your case, and a case that he was working on in the 30s in Prague. Coincidence? 
 Unfortunately, Still Life fails to deliver its promise of a strong story, and that's mainly to 
 the reason that the game's story is incomplete, as posted to a forum by a alleged member of the 
 game's developing team. The company apparently had financial problems, that led to its closing 
 just before the game was released. Quote: -- but I'm curious as to what you had planned and what 
 might have been scrapped due to time / budget / reality constraints. Any chance you can tell us 
 what was supposed to happen at the end? There was the entire part in LA 1954 and 2005 and Chicago 
 1932 and 2005. We played Gus again but in Chicago of the 30s; Gus chasing Mark. This part would 
 introduce LA 54. The LA 54 part would explain the link between the murderers. Look closely at the 
 painting The Pupil. In the original script, there were two endings. It was more of a choice really. 
 The player could choose between arresting the killer or putting a clip into him. Now thats closure. 
 The player decided the fate of the killer. I really liked that idea simply because I thought it 
 could be fun to empower the player with how he or she wanted Vic to end her story. -Se7en
  
  Graphics
  The game's graphics are on par with other Adventure Company titles. Beautiful prerendered 
 backgrounds and satisfying 3d characters. I especially liked the water and fog effects, they really 
 gave the scenes life. As for the characters, despite their basic design, they appropriately blended 
 with the backgrounds. The only problem I noticed were some funky skin-toned lines around Vic's 
 hair when viewed from a distance.
  
  Sound
  I don't have any complaints about the music. The electro-mysterious style fitted perfectly on those 
 moments when you are close to a startling discovery. The sound effects were also satisfactory. 
 The voice acting on the other hand, was mediocre to terrible. Vic sounded more like a college girl 
 than an FBI agent in a serial killer investigation. On a particular scene, after having a fight 
 with the killer, she falls unconscious. When she wakes up, I expected her to sound nervous and 
 dizzy. I nearly laughed when I heard her talking like she was shopping at the mall. Gus was even 
 worse, as he sounded exactly like he was reading his lines straight from the script.
  
  Puzzles
  Here's where Still Life falls flat on its face. Almost all of the puzzles are there 
 just to increase play length by stalling the player. Rarely does a puzzle have any relation to 
 the plot. Most of them are some kinds of slider puzzles which take less time to beat by trial and 
 error than by plan. The rest are inventory puzzles, and while some are interesting by having to 
 examine them in 3d in your inventory for example, there are some that are made easy, if not completely 
 given off, by the fact that the game signals you when you are standing next to something upon which 
 you must use an item you carry. The best puzzle of the game, the lock-picking, was too difficult, 
 but was actually the only one that required planning. All in all, it gave a good feeling of achievement 
 after solving it, and it was one of the two memorable puzzles of the game. The other one was the 
 cookie baking puzzle, although for completely different reasons. This puzzle was probably the worst 
 player-stalling, totally unrelated to the plot, puzzle I have encountered in any adventure game 
 in my entire life.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is smooth. There are no path-finding problems, and fortunately the characters can 
 run by doubleclicking. The character you control alternates between Vic and Gus in each new chapter. 
 Controls aside however, there is a major problem that is much common to new adventure games. There 
 are a lot of transitional-only screens. You can't click and examine anything while on those screens, 
 and once you pass them you don't return to them again. It's more than just a waste of artistic 
 design. The lack of items/hotspots to click upon and examine, getting the feedback of the character 
 you control, while making the game somewhat easier by most of the times leading you exactly to 
 what you need to do, actually halts character development, and seriously reduces the player's connection, 
 empathy and identification of/with the character. Extending further from those transitional screens, 
 the only items you can click on on regular screens also, are those closely related to the plot. 
 For example, just imagine what Sam &amp; Max would be if you couldn't click on anything else than 
 other characters and items you can pickup and use, without the random comments about everything 
 you encounter.
  
  Conclusion
  Still Life left me expecting more. I can't easily recommend the game. If you are an adventure junkie, 
 and want to solve some puzzles while engaging in an interesting, yet somewhat incomplete story, 
 then you should probably get it. But if you're looking for a strong story-driven game with great 
 character development, you'll be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The opening scene in Still Life was a masterpiece. Set to Mozarts Dies Irae it just set the whole 
 mood for the game. Rarely do games accomplish this from the very beginning.
  In this tale of gruesome murder and S &amp; M clubs you play agent Victoria MacPherson and her 
 grandfather Gus MacPherson. You are on the trail of a serial killer who is now on his 5th victim 
 and you still have not had a break in the case. Your boss is getting annoyed with you and the pressure 
 to find this guy is all on you. You do however come across a file that your grandfather Gus had 
 stashed away for 75 years. This file has to do with one of his murder cases in Prague that is very 
 similar to the case you now have been involved in. What is going on? Could this be a copycat? Its 
 up to you to unravel the clues leading to the real identity of this killer. Overall the game was 
 very immersive, the characters you play are not annoying and you end up caring about them. Now 
 lets talk about the game play. It was smooth and flawless except that clicking on an exit point 
 did not take you directly to the next area. You are stuck watching the character either walk or 
 trot across the screen to finally get to the next screen. It was a bit annoying but I guess the 
 gamers did this on purpose (I hope) , so it would feel more like you were part of the game instead 
 of just moving the character around. I would however have liked to have seen less of the interior 
 of the elevator; youll see what I mean. Anyways, the characters on the most part were very well 
 done. I say most part because as you will see a few characters that Gus encounters who look a bit 
 cartoony. Pay close attention to the hands and you will see what I mean. Puzzles were on the most 
 part easy to figure out except I did have some trouble on two that I dont think I could have gotten 
 past without some help. The puzzles and items you collect do not stray from the purpose of the 
 game except that a bit confused as to what baking cookies has to do with anything. They blend in 
 perfectly so your not sitting there going what does this have to do with that etc. The music was 
 well done and blended in the background so well sometimes I did not even notice it. It is just 
 there to set the mood, which it does very well. As a side note I did not find the gore/violence 
 to be all that gruesome but maybe Im just conditioned from all those horror movies. This game 
 however is definitely not for anyone aged under 17. Some cut scenes are graphic and very well done; 
 they are so well shot that you may want to watch them over again, which you can. There is an area 
 in your menu where once you have unlocked a cut scene will store it there for your viewing pleasure.
 
  The storyline is well thought out and it slowly unravels before your eyes. You play as two characters 
 but the game mostly centers on Victoria. Gus (her grandfather) is a back story. The storylines 
 however intertwine seamlessly as you will see while playing. This game is a great addition to anyones 
 adventure library and must be played. The ending was a bit of a let down, but only a bit. That 
 is not going to deter me from giving this game 8 out of 10 stars. Play it if you dare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbego
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Just finished this game and don't quite know what to think. Having played Syberia (great!) and 
 Syberia-II (good) recently, I found this one mentioned in some player reviews and bought it on 
 eBay for a low price.
  
  You do get drawn in to the story and it brings you through a lot of twists. As an adventure game, 
 it deserves mixed reviews. A lot of the exploring and dialog works very well; however, at times, 
 it seems like walking around, followed by cutscenes, followed by a difficult puzzle. Solve the 
 puzzle (or look up the solution on the net) , then repeat. This part I found weakened the game a 
 bit. You don't feel like you have puzzles or challenges on your mind all the time -- like in some 
 games where you're always thinking I wonder if this will help me with that thing I haven't figured 
 out yet . In this game, when you come to a puzzle, it's a matter of solving the puzzle; there is 
 no point looking elsewhere or doing any other exploring -- usually, you're at a dead-end until 
 you click all the right things (and some of them are long, tedious solutions.) So instead of helping 
 the story, the puzzles feel like roadblocks (about a dozen of them total) tossed in to the story 
 to make it a legitimate adventure game, but not really integrated with it. This can be contrasted 
 to Syberia-I where most of the puzzles worked to further your experience in the story.
  
  More frustration comes when exploring scenes for useful items. In this game, you can look at the 
 same item several times, and not be able to do anything with it, even though you think it might 
 be useful. Later on, you will need this item, then.. you need to go back to it, and suddenly, you 
 can look at it, or pick it up, etc. This is very frustrating because things have to happen in a 
 certain sequence. Even if you know you need this item, you'll get nothing at first.. you need to 
 go to the place where you need it, be told you might need to use something... then go back, now 
 suddenly the item is available to you. Why couldn't I pick it up before that? So be aware that 
 many things have to happen in a very linear way, and you will have to do backtracking to make the 
 sequence happen the way it's written. In some cases, I already had reached the place where it was 
 obvious to me that I needed an item -- but until you actually click on the right things to make 
 it tell you you need something to solve this, you can't go back and actually pick it up.
  
  A final point that shouldn't be ignored: THIS GAME INSTALLS THE VERY CONTROVERSIAL STARFORCE PROTECTION 
 SYSTEM DRIVERS ON YOUR SYSTEM. If you don't know about this, search the net to find out how damaging 
 this can be to your system. I would never install this software on a system I cared about. It shouldn't 
 damage your hardware (though some claim otherwise,) but will leave your system in a state where 
 it will not perform well and is more vulnerable to hacker attacks... and, it can't be easily removed. 
 I. e. once you install this, consider that you will have to totally re-install Windows to make your 
 system clean again. I put this on a game system that I had recently purchased, and planned to re-load 
 the OS from the restore image after I was done with this game. Is that a lot to ask of a game player 
 ??... YES, that's why starfoce has fallen into disfavor amid lawsuits and boycotts, and companies 
 like Ubisoft [not the publisher of this game] are trying to restore their tarnished image by vowing 
 never to use software like this again (or face more lawsuits, presumably.)
  
  I don't really want to count this last point against the game developers, because things like this 
 are usually out of their hands. It's the publishers/distributors how are responsible for this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  I think you guys underrated this one, i am a big fan of adventure games, and so far, of all the 
 games i have played this one is among my favorites and above all it sort of continues the Postmortem 
 game which is a great game if you ask me.
  
  The graphics are great , the sounds also great, the gameplay : well point and click what do you 
 expect? A great story, a cop story and a creepy one. If you are a fan of Syberia series , you'll 
 love this game, the voice acting is well done also the story line. You will play with her (the 
 main protagonist) and her grandfather (in the past) on the same killers trails or a copycat :D 
 ... you decide.
  
  Great puzzles, not too difficult and not to easy, just perfect, and in this game you'll find my 
 favorite puzzle: the kooking puzzle!!!
  
  Play it , it's a great game.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymoussss
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  The adventure game is my favorite video game genre. Period. And there are three things that are 
 most important to me in any video game:
  
  1) Plot
  2) Voice acting
  3) Graphics/cinematics
  
  And Still Life nails all three. As funny as it may seem, the puzzles 
 in adventure games aren't the most important factor for me, as every adventure game has similar 
 puzzles anyway. And in any case, I had fun with the puzzles I had to solve in Still Life. Exploration 
 is fun, and piecing together info is gratifying.
  
  I'm not going to reveal too much about the plot, but I will say that it is among the most interesting 
 adventure games I've ever played. Call me crazy, but I love a female protagonist who kicks ass. 
 Of course, you also get to play Post Mortem's Gus McPherson in certain 'flashbacks' as Special 
 Agent Victoria McPherson (our female ass-kicking protagonist) peruses her grandfather's memoirs, 
 which is equally interesting. The plot revolves around a serial killer and it is creepy as much 
 as it is fascinating. And to combine art with it! It's so original! I'm only sad that it was so 
 short, though I would definitely love for a Still Life 2 to be released.
  
  I was very happy with the voice acting, as I am always about quality. Sure, the American characters 
 have Canadian tendencies (accent-wise) , but it didn't actually bother me all too much. The occassional 
 'aboot' had me laughing sometimes (I watch too much South Park) , but the voice talent is there, 
 so the accent is forgiven. Victoria can say sh*t pretty damn convincingly.
  
  As for the graphics, they could be better, but they also could be worse. They're good enough for 
 me and the characters look, overall, detailed. Only when they talk, does it get a bit irksome. 
 Just a bit, because some actually look like they're literally puppets (the way their mouths work) , 
 but this is only for two characters (that I noticed significantly) . And I'm so busy reading the 
 text anyway, that it does not make a great difference. The environments, however, were simply wonderful. 
 They really felt real.
  
  Now, the cinematics were, in a word, awesome. Simply awesome. I consider cut scenes the bread and 
 butter of a good video game and the Still Life cut scenes were done with great care. There was 
 one particular cut scene, titled 'The Chase,' which was very movie-esque, combined with very fitting, 
 very great music, that gave it a very fitting, creepy, exciting feeling. There were other cut scenes 
 that were also exciting to watch.
  
  The puzzles weren't anything too special, I'd have to say, but I still enjoyed solving them. They're 
 mostly pretty easy to solve if you have the patience, although there were a few that were pretty 
 darn frustrating. Locks. That's all I have to say.
  
  To sum up, the characters and plot were simply fascinating. You really start to care about both 
 protagonists, their fates, and their friends. A story about serial killings could have been unoriginal 
 and hackneye, but it's not, and only adds to the mystery and suspense Still Life offers. The graphics 
 were decent, environments dazzling, mouth movement, slightly annoying. Voice acting -- great. I almost 
 didn't buy this game because of gamespot's 'Fair' rating and review. I'm so glad I disregarded 
 it.
  
  And personally, anything that opens with Mozart's Lacrymosa and ends with the Confutatis from his 
 Requiem Mass in D minor, is all right in my book.
  
  Some other adventure games that I absolutely love (to compare tastes) :
  - Grim Fandango
  - 
 Monkey Island series
  - Indigo Prophecy (except the end!)
  - The Longest Journey series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigFalo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Still Life it's dark, immersive, logical, thrilling, action packed, and all of that just using 
 the mouse. The best time of graphic adventure games may have gone, but this days we have some exception 
 like this one. I like this game, and i recommend it to all of you who looks for some hours of entertainment 
 with a good story and characters. It; s not a perfect game of course. Some puzzles are difficult 
 as hell, and the frustration element it's there for some parts of the game, and yes, i do recommend 
 the strategy guide ;) The ending it's another letdown, but believe me, it doesn't kill the game, 
 but harms it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_horus
Rating: 3.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  i don't know ... first i loved the game .. but it turned to alot of conv. with not much clues ... and 
 most of them r so hard and annoying ... once u make a mistake ... u have to start from the begining 
 !! also the end of the game won't encourage me to buy the new part .. coz the game sucks!! ... clues 
 like lockpick and the chapel safe , really don't knw how they want ppl to solve them .. the first 
 1 took from me about an hour and the second i knew it cuz iam arabic ... many of ppl don't know 
 the secret :) .. the secret is simply the number of angles in each shape :) try in the numbers (1.2,3...) 
 btw these r the arabic numbers .. at last.. i think a game like syberia will be much more better!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldancer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Few words first, BEST GAME EVER!!!! Ok myself being a biiiig serial killer fan, I found this game 
 perfect. The value of the game is not puzzle-wise, but rather Story wise, and Mystery wise. The 
 game is partially about Jack The Ripper, taking place in modern time and the ripper's era at the 
 same time, the story is very catchy the events are very mysterious, and u can't help getting deeply 
 immersed, this game reminds me a lot of 'From Hell' the movie, if u liked it or similar movies, 
 u will love the game, I also recommend seeing it b4 playing for extra enjoyment. Basically if u 
 like this type of thing pursuing serial killers, but not like the CSI type, or the strict detective 
 type, but rather the two of them combined together. The Music is Perfect!, and thats that, orchestra 
 like stuff in videos, the intro song is freakin awesome, very very matching with the opening. And 
 a killer piano track in certain parts of the game, I haven't seen a better music that matches a 
 game like this. So now, the puzzles, unlike most games, the puzzles here are very very easy, but 
 u have Main Puzzles, don't remember how many, but not that much, those main puzzles are hellishly 
 hard, other puzzles in the late game are mainly moderate to easy, but as I said before its not 
 about the puzzles, this game's main attribute is story and events sequencing. Which NEVER I repeat 
 NEVER leaves u bored, and the story never gets weaker, it gets stronger by the moment, and consequently 
 u will find yourself more and more immersed into it. The game also have a very surprising element, 
 which is ART, not very related to the game, but for those who appreciate art (not big art fans, 
 but just ppl who appreciate it, like myself) , will find it very appealing, and the mix between 
 Serial Killer, Sophisticated Music, Killer Art, And very minor poetry I can't think it can ever 
 get any better than that. Although the game is a sequel to post mortem, playing post mortem is 
 anything but required. And the investigation that took place in post mortem is completely unrelated 
 to still life. The only similarities is the detective (since you play as the detective from post 
 mortem during the game flashbacks) , and few locations that were featured in post mortem. Other 
 than that I don't see another connection. That was purely my opinion, I think GameSpot are lacking 
 at rating adventure games, it is very obvious through out many underrated and similarly overrate 
 adventure games here, I don't think they appreciate or understand the genre, because gaming is 
 one thing, and the adventure gaming scene is something very separate, adventure gamers are like 
 evolved gamers community -hehe-. Other people giving it bad scores are definitely rating the puzzles, 
 and taking it only from the pure adventure point of view, not weighing the story and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  I liked Post Mortem a lot so i was very happy to play its sequel. It stands up to its predecessor 
 and it even tops it. I read that the cause of the disappointing ending is that they ran out of money, so 
 you can't blame them that much, but you can blame them for the recipe puzzle witch is their fault 
 and they should learn from their mistakes.
  
  The graphics are good, a solid story line, and a soundtrack that fulfills its purpose enhancing the 
 thrilling atmosphere in this dark adventure. Combining the world of Still life with the world of 
 Post Mortem was a great idea making it possible to enter the role of the old school detective once 
 again.
  
  I hope they get a sponsor in the near future because this game really deserves a good ending at 
 least. Its a great adventure game combining the storytelling, very good, with the puzzles. The crimes, the 
 music, the untold truth all contribute to the thrilling atmosphere witch is the strongest argument 
 this adventure has.
  
  Its a must for adventure fans, no doubt. I don't really know why its so underrated, but i guess its 
 because of its ending. What i don't understand is how come a game like this is underrated for its 
 endind and Indigo Prophecy is not?! Well, thats that.
  
  I know that i will be one of those few witch will be very happy to enter this dark adventure once 
 again, and hopefully more then once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkanda
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Music and graphics are nice; however, lots of static hard puzzles that makes the game boring. Adventure 
 games have to take people inside the game but this game has lifeless scenes. You just look around 
 and click here and click there... 
  
  If you have the same opinion with me that grim fandango and full throttle adventure games are really 
 great, this game is not for you guys, but f you like lots of puzzles this game may fit you.
 
  
  In my opinion, lots of puzzle (some of them were just bored) does not mean that the game gets better. 
 I finally see this in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfpost
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Intriguing story about an investigation of a serial murderer with top-notch voice acting and cinematics.
 
  
  The graphics are well done especially the cinematics that give you a kind of movie feeling to it. 
 Main character's running looks a bit choppy but isn't anything to be annoyed by.
  
  The voice acting is very well done to my surprise and they don't hesitate to use the f- and s- 
 word some times, but it fit is in the context so don't worry.
  
  Puzzles are logical and varies from easy to moderate in difficulty.
  
  I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who wants to hear an exciting story that will keep you stuck at your computer wanting 
 to know how it ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilgamesh45
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I don't know about you but for me this kind of games is dead. I don't exactly understand why, I 
 know that I love adventures games and I've played a lot of these but know it just doesn't attract 
 me so much (a pleasant way to say that it bores me a lot) .
  
  All you have to do in these games is to parse the screen with the mouse and click where the cursor 
 shape changes. Ofcourse it is suppose to be fun, imaginative, to put your brain to work but is 
 it really. Many times what the developers thinked doesn't match your way of thinking so the game 
 reduce to a simple screen serch for clues.
  
  There is nothing to say about the game itself, it's a fair one but with absolutely nothing special. 
 The only good thing is there is also nothing really bad about it also.
  
  And one more thing for the producers: you finished the game without revealing something (no spoilers) , 
 hoping maybe that there will be room for a follow-up. Well not for me, baby, not for me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Just transferred from New Orleans, special FBI agent Victoria McPherson is confronted with a serial 
 killer in Chicago. While studying the murderers profile, Victoria stumbles upon an old journal 
 from her grandfather, Gustav McPherson. The journal tells about a case Gustav was working on as 
 a private detective in Prague and the case resembles her own case freighting closely
  
  
  The game
  
  The game manages to set a nice scary atmosphere. This is for a large part due 
 to the music in my opinion. You start out as Victoria McPherson, as said before, a special FBI 
 agent who is assigned a case of a serial killer. You follow Victoria as she hunts down the killers 
 murder scenes in search for clues, hoping to be in time to stop the next murder.
  However, Victoria finds an old case file of her grandfather at her fathers house and she starts 
 to read it. Because of this, from time to time, you will take on the role of Gustav McPherson, 
 the grandfather of Victoria, who is working on a case in Prague in the late twenties of the previous 
 century. Therefore, you actually have to solve two cases. The weird thing is, that both cases show 
 distinct similarities. Does the killer Victoria is hunting down know about her grandfathers history 
 and is she dealing with a copycat?
  This is also one of the bigger flaws in the game. Everything points to the fact that Victorias 
 killer knows about her grandfather, but nowhere in the game you find a definite answer to this 
 supposition. This could of course mean an opening for a sequel (there are more hints for this) , 
 but I still find this to be rather careless. This issue however, doesnt really hinder the rest 
 of the story, although one keeps wondering throughout the rest of the game why these similarities 
 are present.
  There is however, another annoyance and that is the relevancy of some of the puzzles youll have 
 to solve. Let met immediately mention the most obvious (and perhaps troublesome) one: the cookie 
 baking puzzle. At a certain point in the game youll have to bake some cookies and youll have 
 to find out how to make the recipe exactly. However, what on earth baking cookies has to do with 
 catching killers eluded me. The puzzle has absolutely nothing to do with the story and as I said, 
 the puzzle is pretty annoying, because youll end up with trial and error and one error means starting 
 all over again.
  A third thing that troubled me a little bit was the personality of Victoria McPherson. On overall, 
 shes one though agent who does not avoid colourful language, but at her fathers house she wears 
 bunny slippers! I mean, for crying out loud! In fact, in the game a remark about this is made to 
 try to justify these differences, but it just isnt credible. A bit of a shame, in my opinion, 
 because besides this, the depth of her character is quite good.
  But apart from these minor annoyances I found the gameplay to be very attractive and I certainly 
 thought the story was good, apart from (and this is also the last thing that I found unattractive, 
 although it is a pretty big issue) the abrupt ending of the game. Not that the game suddenly stops 
 or anything, but when you near the end of the game, the story suddenly leaps forward. Let me put 
 it this way: you have no idea that youre nearing the end of the game and suddenly events take 
 place that launch you towards the ending of the game. There you are, expecting a few more hours 
 of gameplay, when in fact it is about one hour, two at most. Like I said, the storys good, but 
 it could have been much better.
  The controls 
  You can choose how you control the main character; with the mouse or with the keyboard. I would 
 advise you to use the mouse, except for one part of the game, during some sort of mini-puzzle. 
 Youll know it after a few times when you get there and believe me, using the mouse to solve that 
 puzzle is nearly impossible.
  Apart from this switch, both controls are pretty straightforward. When there is an object/character 
 you can use/manipulate/pick up/talk to, the cursor changes, so you cant go wrong there.
  The inventory of the game is somewhat more extensive than your average inventory in the way that 
 you can examine objects more closely. This only means that you can zoom in on objects in your inventory 
 and turn them in several ways, nothing more.
  However, both Victoria and Gustav both keep some sort of diary, which you can also access through 
 your inventory. They both also have a separate space for casefiles/books/papers in their inventory.
 
  At some points you have a mini-puzzle in the game where the controls are somewhat different, but 
 in those cases the controls explain themselves. 
  
  
  The graphics
  
  The backgrounds are fixed, but very nicely done. What I liked most about the background was the 
 atmosphere they radiated. Although the characters are in 3D while the backgrounds are fixed 2D 
 images, you absolutely do not get the feeling that the characters are pasted in the surroundings; 
 they really fit.
  So as mentioned, 3D characters. I thought they looked good, although I found them to be a bit poor 
 in detail, apart from the main characters and some other more important characters maybe. And there 
 were also a few characters which looked more like they came from a comic book than they looked 
 realistic. This is obviously done on purpose, but I didnt like it too much.
  On overall the movements of the characters are realistic and the few in-game cutscenes that there 
 were, were really beautiful. So I would say that the graphics arent state of the art, but they 
 are certainly up to the mark.
  
  
  The sound
  
  Although you may find that the music is more something like a weird sound that is played constantly, 
 I found it to be one of the strongest points of the game. It is just that good in adding atmosphere 
 to the game. Playing this game without the music should be considered a crime, because you will 
 miss out so much on the gameplay.
  The voices are on overall very good too. There are a few voices of which Id say that they could 
 have been done better, but that doesnt go for the main characters; those are well cast.
  
  
  Overall
  
  A very nice adventure game with an eerie atmosphere, which could have been much 
 better if the game hadnt been finished with such apparent haste. Graphics are very good, sound 
 is great, so apart from the minor annoyances and the abrupt ending of the game, its a great adventure 
 game and I would certainly recommend it, although you may find it a tad short. But that could just 
 be me, because I always find adventure games that I like too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 9, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I don't know about you but for me this kind of games is dead. I don't exactly understand why, I 
 know that I love adventures games and I've played a lot of these but know it just doesn't attract 
 me so much (a pleasant way to say that it bores me a lot) .
  
  All you have to do in these games is to parse the screen with the mouse and click where the cursor 
 shape changes. Ofcourse it is suppose to be fun, imaginative, to put your brain to work but is 
 it really. Many times what the developers thinked doesn't match your way of thinking so the game 
 reduce to a simple screen serch for clues.
  
  There is nothing to say about the game itself, it's a fair one but with absolutely nothing special. 
 The only good thing is there is also nothing really bad about it also.
  
  And one more thing for the producers: you finished the game without revealing something (no spoilers) , 
 hoping maybe that there will be room for a follow-up. Well not for me, baby, not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rendarian
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Microids is a game company that has put out some quality titles in the realm of the adventure genre. 
 I'm sure many people looking into this game will be aware of the fantastic game Syberia and it's 
 not-as-fantastic sequal Syberia 2.
  
  If you've played earlier Microids games, I'm afraid you're not in for very much of a surprise and 
 this marks my biggest problem with the game. From the opening animation sequence the game screams 
 MICROIDS.
  
  Now, dear reader, you are probably wondering what I mean by this. What I mean is that the style 
 is exactly the same as any other Microids game. The animation looks the same, the menu looks the 
 same, the fonts are the same, etc, etc. Those awful faces that were too teethy in Syberia are still 
 present and so forth.
  
  Overall, the story is a decent one but nothing too exciting. There are definitely plot holes and 
 loose ends that don't get tied up but all in all it was decently put forward. Several areas could 
 have been expanded in usage instead of having just one or two puzzles.
  
  The graphics were decent, but nothing spectacular. However, as is the case with most adventure 
 games this was made up by some amazing level design. However, some areas felt like they weren't 
 complete or real. For instance, the police station had a great Art Deco style elevator and nice 
 floor but overall it didn't resemble any police station I had ever been in.
  
  Sound was good with so-so voice acting.
  
  Play time was a decent amount but far too short, 
 IMHO. If you're going to create a beautiful world, let me explore it.
  
  This is somewhat of a short review for me, but the game gave me a thoroughly overall 7/8 feel and 
 I finished it a few weeks ago. Perhaps I will expand these comments if time allows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoscot
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game quite a bit. Immersive and intriguing. Some of the puzzles a little out of 
 place. The graphics were superb, the sound was great. The translations, on the other hand and the 
 realism of the conversations... Well, lets just say they weren't quite there. At one point, in the 
 police lab you need to use a device they called a "Plastifier" When I realized what they were talking 
 about I laughed out loud. The device, in English, is known as a Laminator. Also some of the converations 
 with the boss, were not realistic. Most people would never talk to their bosses that way. 
  
  I loved the flashback playing, with her Grandfather. And I enjoyed the relationships that were 
 developed. 
  
  ****Spoiler*****
  
  The ending left a bit to be desired........ If they don't do a sequel, we are screwed...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  StillLife in a breath of fresh air in the sad and decaying genre of adventure games. I, for one, 
 love this kind of games, but I got to be real about it - it has been in the dumps lately...
  
  The game takes detective work and mixes with some scary themes which just makes you move all 
 the way to the end of the investigation.
  
  Great voices make you play attention to the clues given to you, and you'll remember some of the 
 content after you finish the game, which is a rare thing.
  
  Just get past the sometimes ugly graphics and you'll enjoy a different style of game - different 
 from all the killing around: someone already did that for you here! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruze2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for those who enjoy die hard action. Some of it is preety grose so its not for 
 the weak heart.
  You can use different tools like tweasers, dust powder, and luminole to find latent prints, and 
 blood. 
  
  You ask characters different questions, and you have to keep a sharp eye for clues in order to 
 progress through the storyline. The plot if fairly linear with not much of a choice, but it is 
 still a very fun game.
  
  The graphics are preety good, but the gameplay is not ment to be a fast paced game and after a 
 while the "loading" sign will start to irritate you.
  
  I suggest you rent this game, because it doesnt take more than a few hours to finish, unless your 
 stuck on a hard bit, and then I suggest you buy it.
  
  Cant wait till a sequel comes out...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Adventure used to be one of PC gaming's strongest genres; however, over the past several years 
 it has been common knowledge that adventure games have been on a steady decline. The cerebral style 
 of this old school format has become less in demand relative to the "twitch" gamers' needs and 
 wants. Once in a while, we are treated to that exceptional title that still flies under the adventure 
 banner. Siberia by Microids was one of them. Still Life, a new intellectual property from Microids, 
 sets out to immerse gamers in a new and grittier setting, but falls short in meeting the criteria 
 for this to be a truly great title.
  
  Still Life does not argue with genre convention, instead it strictly adheres to it. This is not 
 one of my complaints as an adventure gamer is probably looking for most of these conventions otherwise 
 he would not buy an adventure game. In fact, the game starts out quite strong with an immersive 
 atmosphere and an interesting story. You play an FBI officer named Victoria McPherson investigating 
 a homicide by a serial killer in Chicago. Within this story line, you often play a flashback sequence 
 through the eyes of her grandfather, Gustav McPherson, in 1920s Prague. Gustav is a private investigator 
 and he is also pursuing a serial killer. Strangely enough, the two cases appear to be related. 
 The two worlds initially start out interesting; however, later on I found the grandfather's sequences 
 more captivating and was irritated by the switching back to Victoria's world which would always 
 take place during a climactic event. Implementing two scenarios is not a bad idea but if executed 
 poorly it can very well be - The Longest Journey is an example of how to do it properly: balance 
 is the key. Moreover, too many aspects of the story and character development were left unaddressed. 
 The way in which it was put forth would leave anyone to assert that it was done intentionally, 
 not by artistic flair, but rather by writing incompetence, lack of time/budget, or by a tasteless 
 method to inspire demand for a sequel. Still Life starts out promising but its inability to close 
 the deal seals it fate. It doesn't help that the game is short either as it can be completed in 
 less than 10 hours - and conventional adventure games are not known for their replay value either.
 
  
  The gameplay as was stated is fairly conventional. You have a journal to keep you updated and of 
 course an inventory where you store found items and various documents. I must say that for an adventure 
 game there is not as much reading to do as one would expect from this genre which may or may nor 
 be a good thing depending on the player. The puzzles are extremely easy and do not challenge the 
 player; however, some puzzles can be more of a test of patience rather than a test of one's deductive 
 reasoning skills.
  
  The graphics are not as impressive as one would have hoped but they are satisfactory. I did experience 
 a graphical glitch in the main character model's hair though which was evident through much of 
 the game. Microids did do a decent job with the soundtrack - it has a generally creepy atmosphere 
 that is well suited to the game and helps to keep you immersed.
  
  I must confess that I had some prior expectations for this game as Microids was responsible for 
 the excellent Syberia. Unfortunately, it fell short. This game may satisfy anyone who desperately 
 is seeking a somewhat decent adventure game (as there are so few these days) , but those looking 
 for more will not miss anything by avoiding this title. Those new to the genre have plenty of better 
 games to choose from that do the adventure genre justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Loved the soundtrack with the intensive Mozart Requiem as a prelude... it really sets the atmosphere.
 
  
  I was intially misled to think the game has to do with thesupernatural, but I was wrong. It is 
 a pure detective movie.
  
  Clever plot that switches between 2 detective stories from 2 different periods that are somehow 
 intertwined. Excellent cutscenes and immersive story. The puzzles, which is one of the most important 
 part of any graphic adventure, are logical and thankfully non-frustrating (I have accumulated experience 
 from over 50 adventure games over the past decade but even now, nothing frustrates me more than 
 illogical puzzles) . There is only one slightly tedious puzzle relating to cookie making (eh?!)
 
  
  Lots of people complained about the ending. Personally I accept it, but agree that it could have 
 been more explicit... but even as it is, I would still say I enjoyed playing this game.
  
  One note of warning is that certain crime scenes can be disturbing to see, but then, these are 
 only occasional and are not generally any worse than scenes from a lot of movies these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbbb
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  In the Beginning it's all good. But after that your on your own. You have no help from the game 
 anymore. Then, All of that work, the stupid puzzles (some are about impossible) if you don't have 
 a guide or are at least a highly intelligent person your screwed, and then at the end -what!! I 
 suggest buy something else. It just leaves you hanging and quite pissed that you did all of that 
 for nothing, or maybe just to buy the sequel. No satisfaction at all. RIP OFF. Who thought of this 
 game anyways and what were they thinking? It has lots of foul language and gory scenes, nudity. 
 Did i mention foul language? Lots of F words and GD's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADITHECOOL
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  Well lets face it .. we havent been getting some nice 'detective' times for some time .. but Still 
 Life takes it to the next level, the puzzles are awesome, the graphics are crisp and really real. 
 The 'in-game' movies are quite nice and the ability to roam around the place makes it more far 
 fetched. The story line is a bit dull but all is covered up well by stunning graphics and excellent 
 game-play .. 
  The difficulty is just perfect for the game .. when u feel like giving up .. something nice comes 
 along .. and the puzzles do make u think .. The sound really is nice and there are moments when 
 u'll simply jump in the air .. simply .. Worth a play .. ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragunova
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  When I tried the demo, I thought this game would be something like CSI. But it turns out that Still 
 Life is just like most point and click adventures.
  
  The highlight of this game is the story and the atmosphere. The gameplay is just typical point 
 and click. The graphics and voice acting aren't very good, and the ending is a rip-off. I haven't 
 found any replay value at all.
  
  With a static, non-3D background, you would expect high detailed object and character models. But 
 no, the models are mediocre, and the character animations are disappointing.
  
  The puzzles are doable. Although there are one or two that are a bit frustrating. I couldn't solve 
 one puzzle and had to look it up on the net.
  
  If you like games like this you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle solving, riddles and the sort. I haven't played a game like that since the "Ark of Time" 
 from the Playstation. It is a great game I must admit, although the reviews are not very forgiving, 
 I really like this game, much better than that "Longest Journey". You start as a detective finding 
 out a serial killer that kills mutiliates women. You have to use your investigation skills to find 
 out the mystery of this killer. 
  
  The story is intriguing and very interesting, you will want to know what's going to happen next! 
 Although a "speed" feature should be entered in this game since the character is REALLY slow and 
 all. It also gets frustrating in awhile but then again it's the story and puzzles that keep this 
 game going. 
  
  If you like this genre you should get this game, tease your mind a little and have a little fun, 
 you can also be a little CSI here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAcrima3D
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:30 am PT
Review:  I had a pleasure to play this game, it had a great atmosphere average soundtrack, quite interesting 
 story, and some beautiful cut scenes which is the most positive thing in this game in my opinion. 
 
  
  The game play was quite ordinary, comparing with other quests though it still was quite fun. The 
 storyline is interesting enjoyable and unpredictable, reminded a vidocq movie at some moments. 
 I have to admit that the environment is done quite well, there is a great amount of details, so 
 there are no leaks at this stage, just as in syberia... and yeah.. It's very obvious that it's 
 done by Syberia creators; because it's made on the same engine and lot of elements looks very similar 
 (even some fonts are the same) . 
  
  Overall Still life is a great game, it has a great story and it's interesting to play it and to 
 see what's going to be next... just like a great book.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This is the second game in this saga, even is the Adventure Company dont say it anywhere.
  
  The history is really amazing, even if the game dont have any replay value, but you keep asking 
 for more...
  
  If you need to fill some gaps about the murderer just play Nocturne, the first game oin the saga 
 and youll feel more comfortable.
  
  And one last thing, this is really a game that can be rated Mature, and this is the time that the 
 game companies begin to make games for adults.
  
  If you like dark plots involving Templars, order of Scion, and lost artifacts from the temple of 
 Salomon, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  STILL LIFE
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Still Life is an adventurous game with awesome puzzles to be solved & an impressive storyline with 
 a gloomy atmosphere. Its a very challenging game I ever played but it is a bit slow. Though the 
 game had bit of indecent scenes & words, I had fun playing it, solving the puzzles. I enjoyed the 
 story. The game consists of 7 chapters. The puzzle lovers will adore this game.
  
  Story:-
  
  The story starts with our heroine Miss. Victoria McPherson, who is a Special agent 
 from FBI Chicago, at the place of the 5th victim of the serial killer. And her Boss, Todd is behind 
 her all the time. Shes here to analyze the crime scene with the forensic tools, with the help 
 of her partners Miller, Caire & Tate. Here you'll need to collect blood samples & more importantly 
 first take pictures of everything before collecting anything. It feels like you are actually doing 
 all this. Shes on the assignment to solve a case of psycho serial killer or rather a copy cat........ I 
 say!
  
  Then after analyzing the crime scene, and visiting the FBI head quarters, she visits her fathers 
 house down in the suburbs to take rest as Christmas is near by, where she finds her grand fathers 
 memoirs. Her grand father Mr. Gustav McPherson worked as a Private eye Detective. Then from here 
 the game keeps switching to present & flashback alternatively. So you keep on playing the alternatively 
 between Gus &Victoria in Prague & Chicago respectively. Now its chapter 2 already. Then the game 
 proceeds as a flash black at Prague in 1930's where a similar serial killing is on the move. Here 
 Gus is hired by the local prostitutes for finding the serial killer. There seems to be some kind 
 of link between the present serial killing & the one in 1930.
  
  The game continues as a series of more murders by the serial killer & Victoria is trying to figure 
 out who will be the next victim of him. Once she had almost caught him with an awesome chase but 
 he managed to get away again. In Prague, Gus is roaming all over the place for clues, helping other 
 people & trying to put an end to the serial killing. But at the end Victoria wins the hard fought 
 Battle. I enjoyed Gus's story more than Victoria's.
  
  Game Play:-
  
  As you know its an Adventure game clubbed with puzzles. The puzzles in the game are really awesome 
 & challenging. Every puzzle has its own clue. So if you get the clue you can solve the puzzle with 
 a bit of effort & obviously......... common sense. The Lock-Picking & the VODKA puzzle is real 
 good. Actually the puzzle 'vodka' is not a puzzle at all, you just have to use of your smart part 
 of your mind, it goes like this how does a person type 'VODKA' in a mobile phone, he presses 86352 
 so this number is a secret code of vodka. How is that? There is a Cookery puzzle which can be 
 very annoying but still you get the clues easily, you can still solve it without any cookery classes! 
 At one point, you have to control a robot & dodge all the laser beams. Then there is "Spot the 
 Difference" type puzzles too.
  
  The game is really interesting with a dozen of puzzles to be solved and there is few object finding 
 & object merging things also in this game. And more importantly a person should explore the environment 
 around him thoroughly because in the later part you will need few things to do with the objects 
 you have seen. I mean you will have to use them.
  
  The game is never boring. But the game is kind of slow & the sound is not that great. Yet again 
 the Story-line & graphics fills the gap. So you can have days of fun, until you finish the game. 
 There no different levels of difficulty, there is only one mode to be played.
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The game consists of amazing Graphics without any 3-D acceleration. The level 
 of detail is pretty high. The cut scenes are really very good. The back grounds are pretty realistic, 
 the snow, the buildings, the car, the paintings and everything. Every thing looks so real. Yes 
 even the dead bodies too. So if you dont want to see the ugly murder scenes I wont suggest this 
 game for you.
  
  Sound:-
  
  The Sound is not great when compared to Graphics. It is not up to the expected mark but it is still 
 decent. However the background sounds and music are good. The sound & music in the cut-scenes are 
 amazing.
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  However the game cant be compared to the famous Half-Life 2 because it is a completely different 
 game. The graphic level, the story-line, the game-play & the sound of HL-2 are really superb but 
 still Still-Life is not a bad game at all. Yet again remember the puzzles of Still-Life? They 
 are fabulous! According to me Still-Life purely is the game only for puzzle lovers. The ending 
 was cool but who is the killer?? Is it Richard? It is a great suspense, may be the killer is still 
 alive! I cant wait to get my hands on Still-Life 2; I hope that they are working on it.
  
  Graphics -9/10
  
  Sound-8/10
  
  Gameplay-8/10
  
  Story-Line-10/10
  
  Over all-9/10
 
  
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guuthulhu
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 14, 2005 12:14 am PT
Review:  You play the role of Victoria McPhearson, an FBI agent in the middle of investigating serial killings 
 that are oddly similar to the killings her grandfather, a private dick, investigated in 1930s. 
 Throughout the game you switch between Victoria and her grandfather's investigation, gathering 
 evidence, questioning witness and doing all you can to end this string of murder.
  
  The games environments are well thought out and beautifully rendered, particularly those viewed 
 when playing the role of Victoria's grandfather. The sound provides excellent atmosphere to the 
 different settings, and the voice acting is good enough to listen to. As for puzzles, the most 
 difficult ones in the game aren't so much as difficult as they are irritating. Adventure fans may 
 find themselves at times wishing to just get the story moving than spending time solving a simplistic 
 puzzle with its lengthy solution.
  
  There's not much bad to say regarding gameplay, being point-and-click. The only reason it's not 
 perfect is late-game when controlling SWAT robots having to avoid lasers. They can't turn while 
 moving, so it makes that puzzle extremely irritating.
  
  The dialogue is well-written, but Victoria's humor feels overdone at times, especially when examine 
 simple objects and things around you. Some conversations and how events play out seem a little 
 far-fetched, but being a fantasy, it doesn't detract from the story too much.
  
  All-in-all, I found myself enjoying the grandfather's investigation more than playing through Victoria's. 
 I identified more with him and the start of his story felt less like being thrown into the situation, 
 which is where the game begins with Victoria, and a more natural beginning. I also was more interested 
 these murders and characters. To top it off, the ending didn't quite give me enough closure, even 
 though it gives a blatant opportunity for a sequel (be sure to watch the entirety of the credits) . 
 It has a very good story that adventure game fans will love or anyone who enjoys compelling crime 
 stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  Finally, another adventure series I can get behind. Still Life is a continuation of the very good 
 adventure game Post Mortem, and unlike so many second games of a series, this one is better than 
 the first. Gone are the clunky and confusing dialog trees  this game actually makes sense. The 
 puzzles were easy and hard, which is a good thing. The easy ones get you interested; the hard ones 
 frustrate you, but oh do they feel good when you finally get them!!!
  
  Now I am a nut for character development and plot in games. I thought the development of Victorias 
 character was forced. It just didnt seem to me like she had gone through *that* much abuse at 
 her job to justify her actions. After all, half the time her boss was right  she had stepped over 
 the line.
  
  However, the ultimate failure of the strangely gentle Gustav character was a stroke of genius. 
 In fact, I dont think Ive ever played a video game where one of the major protagonists had this 
 large a failure. Kudos to the story development team for letting this twist get by the happy 
 censors (i. e. the marketing department) .
  
  I also like ambiguous endings in games like these for two reasons. One, it forces one to exercise 
 ones brains as to the possible meanings of the ending. Two, and more importantly, it means that 
 there will be a sequel, which is an extraordinarily good thing in this case. And, by the way, I 
 wouldnt trust Victorias boyfriend as far as I could throw him 
::::::

::::::
UserName: questclub
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 6, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  OK, I'll be clear on this one. Still Life is still, dead and pretentious B-rated thriller.
  It's weak, poor and unimaginative attempt to combine a worn-out Post Mortem story line with some 
 kind of gameplay. It is possible, that Microids wanted to earn some quick money and threw a little 
 of everything from their previous releases, quickly made up some story with endless tedious dialogues, 
 invited people from the street for voice-overs, drew some crappy backgrounds and threw everything 
 into compiler.
  
  So, you have an ordinary looking female FBI profiler hunting a mentally deranged killer who cuts 
 whores to pieces in modern-time Chicago. And you have an American PI hunting a mentally deranged 
 killer who cuts whores to pieces in 1920's Prague. One family, two generations, one killer... Sounds 
 interesting?
  
  This is the only interesting thing about the game. The rest is a clumsy storyline tugging you behind 
 and throwing in some puzzles from time to time. Most of those puzzles have no relation to a plot 
 and are there just because they should be somewhere - to make cookies, for example. Graphics, music, 
 sounds from 1920's, story even older and if characters live in Chicago then it is the worst part 
 of it. Occasionally, Still Life tries to reanimate itself but fails on every level falling to ashes 
 towards the end.
  
  Still Life not the worst of games but not exciting either. Yawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  I loved Syberia 1 and 2. When I saw that Microids was coming out with Still Life I could not wait 
 to play the game. The graphics are good and the voice acting is good. That is where the good ends. 
 First of all there is an enormous amount of backtracking. Also if you do'nt have a user guide your 
 dead. Some of the puzzles are impossible. Why do they make you bake to go on with a murder mystery? 
 What made Syberia great was the storyline. Also the cut scenes with the automatons were beautiful. 
 Also the puzzles made some sense with the theme of the game. These puzzles feel like they were 
 thrown in to annoy you. I had to use my user guide time after time. I rarely had to use it in Syberia. 
 Hey you know something, go buy Syberia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGelGel
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 4, 2005 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game starts out big, the first fmv is awesome, with great music, and direction. The game itself 
 keeps up with it, and is very fun from beginning to end. The story is very engrossing, and you 
 wish to go on to the next part faster than the game lets you, but that is a good thing, because 
 it keeps you on your toes, and gives you real incentive to get to the next part. The game ends 
 long before you are ready for it to however, at least that was the case for me, and it could have 
 been much longer. The puzzles were all very good, they were challenging, but not kill yourself 
 out of frustration challenging. The artwork is amazing, and i loved how much the paintings in the 
 game made such a big impact. This game is highly recommended so long as you are over 18, and you 
 like movies like Se7en, Taking Lives, etc. you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typhoon89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good. The gameplay is very simple; just point and click. The sound is okay but 
 nothing to shout about, the voice acting can be a bit off at times. For 14.99 the value is excellent.
 
  There's the summary. I was browsing Gamespot for a new PC adventure game, and as I enjoyed both 
 Syberia games and this is from the same creator I decided to give it a go but I wasn't too optimistic... 
 I looked at the Gamespot score of 6.5 and thought "maybe this was a mistake..."
  After a long install and the game locking up on a new save being created (but I think this is a 
 hardware problem) I got into it and I thought the puzzles were very intriguing. This isn't the 
 typical type of game where it starts of easy and then the difficulty slowly increases, oh no. You 
 get to the loft and you hit the first real struggle, trying to unlock a chest. These get even harder 
 which can be a struggle at times and you find yourself referring to a walkthrough, but not all 
 the puzzles are this impossible, there are easy ones for us lazy people ;-)
  The  aspect is extremely cleverly done and fans of murder 
 mysteries and shows such as CSI would love this game.
  
  Now let's just wait for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 6, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  In Still Life you control an FBI agent named Victoria McPherson who is investigating a serial murder 
 case. The story takes place on two levels: in modern Chicago were you get to control Victoria, 
 and 75 years earlier in Prague, where you control her grandfather who is investigating a very similar 
 case. The storyline and plot is very good, something which is underlined by the good voice acting 
 and very nice CGi cutscenes.
  
  The game has some cool characters which are different from each other. Some of them uses humour 
 while other can be sinister or sarcastic. Unfortunately, the models of these characters are very 
 low-poly, which adversely affects the quality of the facial animations of the characters. The rendered 
 backgrounds are very nice and there is a lot of nice artwork in this game. But the game only runs 
 in a resolution of 800x600, so I'm thinking "are we still in the 90s"? I think that especially 
 character models and the resolution in adventure games should have come a lot longer by today's 
 standards. The puzzles are pretty good in this game, but none of them are especially hard to do 
 (except one, which is only annoying) .
  
  Still Life is a pretty good adventure game because it has an old-school style to it. Even though 
 I found it pleasant to play through because of the good voice acting, the artwork, and the CGI 
 cutscenes, the ending was a let-down. You do not find out who the serial killer is, the ending 
 has a big "to be continued when we make a sequel in another year+" label on it, which was not very 
 fun after following all the leads the killer put behind. Finally, this is a very short game, it 
 only lasted me about 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcerikson
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 5, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  Better graphics than those on Syberia 1 and 2, the plot and the story is better, still it has some 
 pretty harsh puzzles that makes you explode and frustrate you like the lock picking and the humor 
 is way ahead from the latest adventure games. This kind of game is the one that gives the adventure 
 point and click genere some air to breathe and i'm not saying this genere is bare surviving, no. 
 Check these upcoming games: Nibiru, from the producers of Black Mirror which i think was a great 
 game, i loved the atmosphere of the game, here's another one: Dream fall 2. And many others are 
 on their way. May it be another golden age for adventure games?.... well that's for us adventure 
 gamers to find out of course. But regarding Still Life, its a magnificent game with a well done 
 soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meyer2278
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 3, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Still Life is a game that could have been fun and interesting. The best part about the game is 
 the story. Unfortunately, that is the only decent part of the game.
  
  The gameplay is simple point and click with the mouse or you can opt to use the keyboard, which 
 is just pointless. Why use a keyboard if you can just use a mouse? I found myself actually excited 
 to play a simple game with a good story and involving characters. It has been quite a while since 
 i really got into an action adventure game. I love the entire genre. You can go to exotic places 
 and discover amazing things without having to kill a hundred people on the way. In this game, you 
 do not kill anyone; you try to find a killer as an F. B. I. agent. Wouldnt you know it; your grandfather 
 was a P. I. way back in the 20's. You also get to play as him; this is where the game goes straight 
 downhill. I enjoyed collecting evidence and such; I did not enjoy walking around the same places 
 in a completely dead environment. Remember Resident Evil, you move your character around in a sill 
 environment, you know, the camera never moves, you get one angle. It worked for RE but for Still 
 Life it just seems plain cheap. The puzzles are a guessing game and more annoying then anything, 
 there are some unique ones but for the most part, they are just plain stupid. Usually there is 
 a way to, Unlock a puzzle, or something you can do or see to make you understand or at least something 
 that can be deciphered so you can complete it. You will find something like that maybe once in 
 the game. The other times it is just a matter of how much patients you have while clicking away. 
 Now, all the puzzles are solvable just by taking your time and staring at the screen. It just never 
 seems worth it in Still Life.
  
  Graphically speaking this game is on par with the games of 1999-2000. It is not at all pleasing 
 to look at. I understand they were going for a dark murder mystery feel, but a little color, somewhere, 
 would have been nice. Just, not good.
  
  The sound is basically non-existent. The music starts up just in time to let you know something 
 is up. The voice-overs are at times decent, but mostly boring and just plain bad. You can definitely 
 hear someone coming; the footsteps are so loud you need to turn the SFX, but the takes away from 
 all SFX. No balance here.
  
  As for the value of the game, for $19.95, buy a different one. I would wait until this one goes 
 on clearance for seven or eight bucks before I would recommend picking this one up. On top of all 
 that, it is way to short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr8ive
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Looking at the lack of adventure games on the PC nowadays, Still Life is an entertaining game. 
 The game had many things going for it, good background story, decent graphic, excellent audio (can't 
 say the same applies for the voice acting though) , and most importantly, the lack of competition 
 in adventure games for the PC.
  
  Visually, Still Life is nice to look at, as with most adventure games, the backgrounds are nice 
 albeit a little too static for my taste. The most impressive parts of the presentation are the 
 cut-scenes, which have some nice touches that do well to make the gaming experience immersive. 
 The character models are decent, although they look a little stretched on my system (1600x1050 
 res) ; I wish Microids had included resolution for wide screens.
  
  Character movement is a point & click affair, the usual pixel hunting for clues. Traveling from 
 one to another location is done using icons on a map (GPS screen for Victoria and old fashion map 
 for Gus) that will automatically load when you enter your car or leave a location. Here lies the 
 first annoyance, the map opens instantaneously, the icons on the map on the other hand, activates 
 a few seconds later. It didn't really bother me the first few times, but after awhile you will 
 wish that you can just open the map and click the icons right away. 
  
  Furthermore, your character runs a little too slow. Normally this would be a problem if there are 
 many things to examine while she's walking, but since many of the locations require walking (manually 
 or automatically) across a screen before reaching a destination. For example: getting from the 
 police basement garage to your office and vice versa. Upon reaching the garage, you will have to 
 walk about 2 sliding-screen across just to reach the elevator, then you will have to wait for the 
 elevator, enter it, then select the destination floor, and wait while the elevator begins it's 
 ascend/descend and finally the game will load your destination screen. I could understand why the 
 developers made it that way, it does add realism to the game, but do we really need that much reality 
 in our games?
  
  The same goes for the game-play mechanics, many of the actions are trigger-event based, which is 
 fine for the flow of the game (theoretically) . At one point in the middle of the game, you have 
 to gather a piece of evidence with fingerprints on it, casual gamers will automatically do the 
 math, object with fingerprints + fingerprint equipment = result, right? Wrong! I was stuck for 
 awhile at the fingerprint dusting gear in the office, trying to figure out what the heck am I supposed 
 to do to make the game realize that I have an object that needs dusting to have the prints taken, 
 because apparently bringing the object to the fingerprint-dusting gear didn't work. 
  
  After many tries, I finally gave up and decided to go exploring around, and accidentally visited 
 Victoria's ex-mentor all the way down in the basement morgue. There, the event kicks in, Victoria 
 ASKED her mentor to help with the fingerprints, and was told to do it herself up in the office. 
 So up I went back to the office, and the game finally lets me use the equipment. IMHO, it is just 
 like being slapped on the face for thinking-trying to figure out how to solve the puzzle. There 
 a few events that are like the above, and it is pretty frustrating because they make us go back 
 and forth from one location to another just to trigger an event.
  
  The puzzles in the game ranged from very easy to "what-the-heck" level. Sliding picture puzzle 
 took a minute to solve, while picking a lock was quite a trial and error mess that took me almost 
 an hour to figure out (maybe it's just me?) . There's a maze mini game, reminiscence of the old 
 Indiana Jones: The Holy Grail, the question is why do we have to do the maze part using our keypads?
 
  
  The plot of the story is fine and very engaging; however the cliff-hanger ending was really disappointing 
 since there is no official closure. There are parts of the story that seems to be inconsistent; 
 then again it might just be me thinking too much. During the game, you will meet a coach-driver 
 who will provide you with a clue, he only appeared once. The thing about the coach-driver that 
 piqued my interest was that he claimed to have difficulty walking around, and yet he lives on the 
 second floor of an abandoned building.
  
  The bottom line is, Still Life is a decent game; even with all the small annoyances. I personally 
 find the story is pretty good (up until the very end anyway) , but the game itself could have used 
 more time getting polished. The game is very stable on my system, didnt even crash even once, 
 which is a luxury with most PC games today. If youre thinking about getting this game for the 
 story, then go for it, but expect the rough edges that come along with the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dault42
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 24, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a decent point and click, 3rd person adventure game, but it's puzzle difficulty is 
 too widely varying and the ending is very disappointing. When you first start you realize that 
 the language is out of place. Sure cops curse, and I have no problem with adult language in games, 
 but it feels so forced here. In fact most of the dialog seems forced. The voice acting varies greatly. 
 In general Victoria's voice actor does a good job, but some of the other acting is just painful 
 to listen to. Once you start solving puzzles you start to realize that mostly they are simple connect 
 the dot affairs. Do this, then do that, then you can continue. I don't even really consider most 
 of the game play puzzle solving. The real puzzles are few and far between and are fairly difficult. 
 This left me feeling cheated. Outside of this, the game play was exactly what you expect from a 
 point and click adventure. There was one action sequence, which was incredibly out of place. The 
 people that are still making point and click adventures (which I love) need to get it through their 
 heads that one action element is not going to attract action gamers to your game and it will alienate 
 your point and click crowd. If you are going to make a point and click, don't include action elements, 
 or at least make the action elements optional. The sound affects, music and graphics were all excellent, 
 but didn't make up for the conflicting game play and story. Oh, and the ending was awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagr3
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Still Life brings back classical adventure gaming at its best. It is a story of a serial killer, 
 spanning two worlds. Prague in the 1930's and present day Chicago. Your character is either Victoria, 
 a modern day FBI agent, or her grandfather Gus, an artist gone P. I. 
  
  The gameplay is standard for an adventure game and brings back memories of the golden age of adventures. 
 You can use your mouse or the keyboard, but the mouse is the way to go. Point & click to pick up 
 objects, start a conversation or select an inventory item to use. The game itself is divided into 
 chapters, usually ending in a cut-scene. The movies in the game are well made, though a bit dark 
 and short, but are instrumental in keeping the games mood of danger and mystery. The feeling of 
 nostalgia is amplified by the games graphics, which are well made 3D characters placed on very 
 well made 2D background. This game shows perfectly that you do not need amazing 3D environment 
 to make a great game.
  
  The core of every adventure are its puzzles and Still Life does them very well. Either just knowing 
 where to go and what do to, which item to use, or mini games, such as lock picking, or assembling 
 pieces of a painting. Most of the game is very logical, just think, what you would do in Victoria's 
 or Gus' place. This helps the gameplay to stay fluid, so you don't get stuck anywhere for long. 
 And everyone who ever played a bad adventure game knows how frustrating it is to find out, that 
 all you had to do was combine a wet towel and a monkey to get a cruise missile.
  
  The only minus I can think of for Still Life may be it's lack of information for some of it's problems. 
 Problems that are quite easy when you figure out what to do, but the info you get just isn't enough 
 to be of any use.
  
  In the end I can say Still Life is a great adventure that will impress those of us experienced 
 in the genre and hopefully make other gamers see that you do not need ten different weapons or 
 a top speed of 300 KPH to make a game interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Still Life is one of those adventure/investigation games that just hit the spot. You think you 
 probably have seen it all with the other games like the all famous Broken Sword series. But this 
 is an experience just worth all the money. 
  
  You'll play a female investigator that lives in Chicago and is working on a case with the local 
 police department. The beginning may seem just like every other crime game but that feeling will 
 soon vanish once you start playing along. One thing that really made a difference for me between 
 the other games and this one were the incredible cutscenes. The effects in them are just plain 
 great and really gives you that eerie feeling all investigation games should give you.
  
  The graphics are straightforward awesome. Of course you can't compare them to the ones in FPS games 
 but the ones in this game are defenetly a plus. They remind me a lot of the Resident Evil games 
 where the character was the only thing moveing around while the whole setting was basically just 
 a big photo. It reminds me of that but it's not the same. There is no way to tell the difference 
 between the character you play and the actual environment you are in.
  
  The sound directors did a really good job with this one too. In the beginning of the game the cutscene 
 will have great opera music going on and it will help a lot in letting you have that feel of immersion. 
 Sometimes in certain areas you'll feel a loud heartbeat that will make tension raise sky high because 
 you might think something is about to happen.
  
  Overall I really enjoyed this game. It lasted about 3 days for me. Some of the puzzles that you 
 will have to solve where pretty hard and often I got stuck. But most of the time you'll get a hint 
 of what to do next so that rarely happend.
  I'm not into this genre much but I get myself one of these every once in a while just for the heck 
 of it. I thought I had seen it all with the Broken Sword series but I was looking for a realistic 
 adventure game and this one just hit the spot. If you just love games like this then I defenetly 
 think you should buy it, its worth all your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  It has been some time that the words great game and adventure game have shared the same sentence. 
 There have been countless games that have come out recently that were less than mediocre for the 
 genre. Adventure games are known for their great storylines, and the sense of immersion into the 
 story that comes with that. But rarely are there such great adventure games as this one. Through 
 an incredible sound score, decent gameplay, and arstically splendid graphics, Still life does not 
 dissapoint. 
  
  As the opening cinematics begin, you are introduced to the main character in the story, a young 
 investigator named McPherson. The sound score in the opening cinematic is simply awe-inspiring 
 to say the least. It does a great job of setting the mood for what is to be one of the greatest 
 adventure games yet. Most of the atmosphere in the game relies soley on the musician ship behind 
 the sound score. The opera-esque music adds a sense of surrealism to the game. While at the times 
 the voice acting can be lacking in audio quality, the overall quality is quite decent. 
  
  The gameplay in this game is almost entirely based off of good old puzzle gameplay. Puzzles play 
 an integral part in the story, advancing it forward. Some of the puzzles are downright challanging, 
 while others make you laugh at their simplicity. The game does a good job of gradual build up of 
 dificult in this area. You start off with simple puzzles like finding your way through a barred 
 up door, to using a crane to keep from getting mauled.
  
  Adventure games aren't especially known for their graphics. What they do excell at, however, is 
 creating magnificant backdrops for the player to toyal around in. Still Life delivers in this area 
 as well. Some of the scenery adds to the dreadfully eeary feel to the game. 
  
  Overall, this game is an extremely great adventure game. While it is a little short, it does a 
 great job of delivering that good old fashion immersion of games like Grim Fandango and Bad Day 
 on the Midway. I've been the game, and overall this was definitley worth the 29.99. If you are 
 a hardcore adventure gamer, or someone seeking a great graphical novel, this game is definitly 
 for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
