-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stolen
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/stolen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun minigames add variety to the gameplay.
 Interesting platforming challenges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible graphics and bland environments.
 Weak characters and flimsy plot.
 Incompetent AI makes the game too easy.
 Combat system is laughable.
 Short game with no replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 251 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hip Games
Developer: Blue 52
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 22, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Stolen feels like a budget title being sold at full price, and with so many good stealth games already 
 available, there's simply no reason to play this one. 

  Stealth games are somewhat of an anomaly in the video game world. A game about hiding in shadows 
 shouldn't be nearly as exciting as a game about dispatching hordes of enemies with high explosives, 
 or cool-looking blade weapons. Somehow, though, when done well, stealth games can be every bit 
 as intense and satisfying as a good shoot-'em-up. However, due to the nature of the genre, when 
 done poorly, stealth games quickly become a lesson in tedium and frustration. Stolen, the first 
 and last game from developer Blue 52, falls into the latter category, with an undeveloped plot, 
 derivative gameplay, idiotic enemies, and boring presentation.  

          When she isn't stealing stuff, Anya trains for the World Limbo Championships.     

 
  In Stolen, you play as Anya Romanov, a female thief with no discernable personality and some goofy, 
 glowing glasses. She's supposedly the best thief in the crime-ridden Forge City, and she's in it 
 for the thrill of the heist rather than the financial reward. Anya is backed up by an ex-security 
 officer and tech geek, Louie, who designs all her stealth gear and coaches her during her missions. 
 The game opens with a cutscene of a newscast detailing the upcoming mayoral election in Forge City. 
 You aren't given much more of a backstory, and as you progress through the game you'll briefly 
 meet a few characters and discover the dirty motivations of the one overtly sinister mayoral candidate. 
 None of it matters though, because the story and characters aren't interesting enough to engage 
 you in any way.  

  Despite the lack of any plot development, you won't have a problem knowing where to go, because 
 the levels are linear and when you come to a new area Louie will chime in to tell you exactly what 
 to do. Usually the objectives consist of simple tasks like stealing a key from a safe in one room 
 to open a door in another room, or hacking a computer to shut down a security grid. There are four 
 levels, but they look so similar they might as well be one. You'll see the same room, hallway, 
 or air duct throughout the entire seven or eight hours it'll take you to complete the game.  

 
  The bland environments are made even worse by an abundance of dull textures and unsightly aliasing. 
 Hard edges are horribly jagged, and some of the lighting effects are misplaced. For instance, you'll 
 spend a lot of time hiding in shadows, but the shadows are exaggerated and conveniently placed 
 throughout the levels, whether a light source is present or not. You'll crawl through a brightly 
 lit ventilation duct, only later to be hidden completely in a shadow cast by a small bookshelf 
 in an otherwise bright-as-day room. There is no gradient to the lighting in Stolen; it's either 
 completely dark or completely light. There is even a gauge onscreen to show you just how concealed 
 you are, but it's pointless, because it's either off or on and there's rarely any middle ground. 

  In addition to the light gauge, you're equipped with a variety of other high-tech tools to help 
 you evade detection by the brain-dead sentries throughout each level. You can use a dart gun to 
 tag guards, shut down security cameras, or to plant decoys. You'll rarely need to use any of it 
 though, because you'll quickly pick apart the guards' patrol patterns and be able to move about 
 easily without being detected. The only difficult part about Stolen is finding the patience to 
 actually remain hidden when it's easier to just charge through the levels. The only penalty for 
 doing so is that the guards will immediately start shooting at you once you're spotted, but you 
 can easily lose them by running through the nearest door. You do have an option to fight the guards, 
 but you can't use lethal force, so you're left with a poorly implemented punch-punch-kick melee 
 combat system that looks and feels ridiculous. Once a guard is knocked out, you have about 30 seconds 
 to hide, hack a computer, crack a safe, or pick a lock before he wakes up. If that isn't enough 
 time, you can beat the guard down again and again to buy yourself time until you're ready to move 
 on.  

  The one good thing about Stolen is that it offers a decent variety of gameplay, at least until 
 the minigames and diversions begin to look the same. You will often have to pick locks, crack safes, 
 hack computers, and cut through metal panels to access key items or areas. Each time you do this, 
 a simple minigame is initiated. You can make as many attempts as necessary to get through the minigames, 
 but guards continue patrolling while you're completing the challenges, so you'll want to be as 
 quick as possible. In addition to the minigames, there are some platforming challenges where you'll 
 have to jump gaps, swing from poles, run up walls, and perform various other Prince of Persia-inspired 
 feats. The platforming and minigames do break up the monotony of creeping from one shadow to the 
 next, but they're brief, and they only get challenging when you have to wrestle with odd controls 
 or bad camera angles.  

          What's a stealth game without a beam routine? Good, that's what.     

  Each of the 
 three versions of the game has the same fundamental problems, but the PC version looks and sounds 
 better than the Xbox and PlayStation 2 versions. However, the keyboard controls of the PC are awkward, 
 and some of the minigames are difficult when using directional keys rather than an analog stick. 
 The Xbox version of Stolen is the worst of the three, with frequent loading times that often occur 
 in the midst of gameplay, along with controls that aren't quite as intuitive as they are on the 
 PlayStation 2.  

  Overall, Stolen just doesn't have much to offer to even the most diehard stealth fans. Once you 
 complete the game there's no reason to ever play it again. There are no difficulty settings or 
 interesting unlockables; there are only a few concept stills you can access by performing well 
 in each level. In the end, Stolen feels like a budget title being sold at full price, and with 
 so many good stealth games already available, there's simply no reason to play this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is nothing but AWFULL. I really tried to like it, but after I completed the first level, 
 I felt so RIPPED OFF. I brought it back the next day thank god. It now sells on PC for 1.29 its 
 so bad.
  
  pros: 
  
  nearly cool main character, flexy and sexy
  stealthy game
  use of wapons
  
  cons:
  awfull graphics
  awfull gameplay
  useless enemies
  so bad scenery
 
  glitchy
  a total rip-off
  
  please save yourself from buying this game. I love tomb raider and this game kinda looked like 
 that -but it's not even close to a worms game. It's awfull, really.
  
  Don't even rent it, buy sweets or somethings instead, cause this game is really bad. I laughed 
 at it..
  
  F 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_dreaming_1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a cross between tomb raider and splinter cell but only if both those games sucked 
 and I mean alot. The only good part about this game is that the main character looks hot in a tight 
 leather outfit with cool blue techno shades but that's not enough to carry a game. Believe it or 
 not!
  
  You're a thief, your job is to steal things. Hmm, this sounds familiar doesn't it? At any rate, 
 you use your skills of infiltration, hmm, this does sound familiar..... and climb boxes, jump around...... wait 
 a minute, I've played these games before! Don't bother with this title but if you get curious, 
 rent it or buy it at a bargain bin somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLuther
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Antes que nada, Stolen es un ttulo excelente para un juego que est, sin sutilezas, robado. En 
 lo primero que vas a pensar cuando veas a tu protagonista Anya Romanov, una habilidosa ladrona, 
 es en el Splinter Cell: tens un brazalete posmoderno y unos anteojos azul-brillantes que Sam Fisher 
 bien podra querer pedirte prestados. La facha es un elemento esencial en la infiltracin.
  Eso sin mencionar que controls tu velocidad de movimiento tal como lo hacas en el mencionado 
 Splinter Cell.
  
  Poco despus de empezar, el tutorial te pide gentilmente que saltes desde el techo a un tubo y 
 desde el tubo a otro techo, en un movimiento que nada tiene que envidiarle a los saltos ms locos 
 del Prince of Persia; aunque apenas vas a poder apreciarlo, porque las animaciones son TAN pero 
 TAN malas que hasta te hacen preguntarte si no es tu computadora la que est andando lento. Encima, 
 saltar las primeras veces te puede llegar a costar, porque los controles responden igual que cuando 
 le pido amablemente a mi perro que se baje del sof.
  
  Esconderse es importante en la vida de un ladrn, como bien saben los que jugaron al ltimo Thief. 
 stos veteranos de los juegos de sigilo van a reconocer rpidamente el indicador de luz que se 
 usa en el Stolen para saber cun visible sos, otro elemento afanado sin ningn remordimiento, pero 
 (al igual que todo el resto del juego) empeorado un poco para que no se note tanto el robo.
  
  Sinceramente, el indicador de luz est totalmente al pedo. Porqu? Porque la iluminacin de 
 los escenarios (que son todos ridculamente similares) tiene un rango curioso: desde oscuridad 
 total hasta luz cegadora salteando todos los posibles tonos intermedios. Hubo partes en las que 
 tuve que bajar el brillo de mi monitor para que no me rompiera las pelotas una lmpara!
  
  La oscuridad total no es ningn problema: no slo est estratgicamente distribuida para que puedas 
 esconderte siempre -- si activs la visin nocturna, te vas encontrar (en lugar del clsico tono 
 verdoso que podras bien esperar) que al usarla se normaliza instantneamente toda la iluminacin 
 y se restauran todos los colores, como si de pronto hubieras encendido unas cuantas lmparas en 
 lugar de ponerte unos visores.
  
  Cuando hacs esto, perds la percepcin de cun iluminado est el ambiente, as que para esconderte 
 de los guardias necesits usar tu medidor de sigilo. All vos, porque al igual que las luces y 
 pese a ser una barra bien larga, tiene solamente 3 niveles: te ven, masssomeno, no te ven.
  
  Por ltimo, para terminar de hacer mierda todo, hay veces que el indicador te muestra como 
 completamente invisible cuando ests parado en medio de un ambiente iluminado (pero en la sombra 
 de una mesita de luz que te oculta) , y veces que, en la completa oscuridad, sos perfectamente visible.
 
  
  Ah tens un problema, porque los guardias ni bien te ven (gatillo fcil le decimos ac) te empiezan 
 a cagar a tiros y llaman refuerzos, al mismo tiempo que telepticamente hacen sonar una alarma 
 por todo el edificio.
  An as, no es muy complicado esquivarlos, porque tienen el coeficiente intelecutal de mi hermana 
 (muy bajo) . Hay 750 policas? No hay problema, pods usar un practiqusimo emisor de pitidos, que 
 lanzs bien lejos de vos y activs provocando la siguiente situacin:
  --------------------------------------------
  Guardia 1: oh! escuch un sonido agudo! ... ya 
 se! voy a abandonar mi puesto ac junto a la puerta del depsito que contiene invaluables objetos 
 y caminar hasta la fuente del sonido. Pero eso no lo puedo hacer solo! EEEH TODOS! VENGAN QUE ESCUCH 
 ALGOOO!!!!
  
  Guardia 2: parece que G1 escuch algo. Ya mismo me voy de este lugar que estoy vigilando y camino 
 hasta ah, igual que mis otros 748 compaeros.
  --------------------------------------------
  Si activs el emisor de sonido a intervalos, pods 
 mantenerlos ocupados por un buen rato. Mejor as, porque al empezar el juego te vas a topar con 
 que si les hacs una llave por la espalda los dorms por (ms o menos) cuarenta segundos, y si 
 los cags a trompadas creo que todava menos. As que, salvo que en ese ratito puedas robar y revisar 
 todo el cuarto, tens que cagarlo a trompadas de vuelta y seguir en lo que hacas.
  
  Adems, pods ver a los guardias en tu radar. Parece que ste se lo robaste a Solid Snake, porque 
 es igualito al del MGS -- salvo porque, para ver a tus enemigos, les tens que tirar un rastreador 
 con tu pistola de mano, que obviamente no pods usar para matar a nadie. Igual no debe hacer mucho, 
 porque los cositos los tira tan pero tan suaves que los guardias ni se dan cuenta cuando se los 
 embocs.
  Como si fuera poco, deben conectarse al sistema nervioso del objetivo, porque adems de aparecer 
 en tu mapita el puntito correspondiente con su posicin, te aparece la direccin en la que estn 
 mirando y el rea exacta que pueden ver. Duh.
  
  Como sea, si te empiezan a perseguir muchos guardias tampoco es problema. Solamente tens que correr 
 y atravezar la puerta ms cercana! Que fcil es la vida del ladrn.
  
  Para colmo, robar cosas en un museo actual puede ser algo muy complicado. Eso si no fuera por el 
 hecho de que los mapas son COMPLETAMENTE LINEALES, no hay manera de que te pierdas o elijas mal 
 el camino; y por si las dudas, cuando llegs a un mapa nuevo tu hada mgica (Louie, dice llamarse) 
 te habla por las nanomquinas en tu oido que solo vos pods escuchar (permiso Metal Gear Solid) 
 y te dice qu hacer.
  
  Adems, Louie es tu high-tech advisor: te provee de toda suerte de elementos electrnicos que despus 
 no necesits, porque para esquivar a los guardias solo hace falta seguirlos con la vista y, en 
 cuestin de minuto y medio, tener perfectamente memorizado el recorrido de cada uno. Recorrido 
 que, obviamente, tiene suficientes defectos como para que puedas caminar sin ser visto.
  
  Lo nico que tiene de bueno son los minijuegos (mini-mini-mini) , por as llamarlos. Slamente me 
 divert en serio mientras abra cerraduras o hackeaba computadoras. La nica cagada es qeu son 
 cortos y demasiado sencillos, y despus de haber hecho algunos se vuelven montonos. El desafo 
 finalmente termina siendo luchar contra lo mierda que es la cmara, que en algunos momentos te 
 hace la vida imposible porque no te deja ver nada.
  
  Habiendo cubierto todo esto, me queda hablar de los grficos. Aaahhh, los grficos.
  Antes que 
 nada, tiene requisitos bien altos si quers ver bien: una Radeon 9600 Pro acompaada de un Athlon 
 3000+ y suficiente RAM tiene serios problemas con la calidad alta. De todas maneras, las ganas 
 de verlo con "calidad alta" se te van a ir bien rpido, porque las animaciones son MALSIMAS, como 
 si tuvieran 8 frames menos; y los que hubieran podido llegar a ser texturas masssomeno zafables 
 estn totalmente arruinadas por la iluminacin horrible e irracional.
  
  Por ltimo, tengo que agregar que la historia (historia??) es simple y poco atrayente.
  
  Mi 
 consejo: hay muchsimos juegos buenos de sigilo. No te gastes en tocar este y busc alguno de los 
 ttulos de las series Thief, Metal Gear Solid o Splinter Cell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codename47xxx
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Ils much less than I've expected. Than i've seen the intro, I've expected more action and acrobatics. 
 Ania can't kill, that', the original idea, but could have been done much better. Levels are too 
 simple (not too easy) . Lots of bugs. My PC meets medium requirements, but it still does not run 
 smoothely on better, than lowest detail. Interface is similar with splinter cell (thei couldnt 
 have think something better) . Game saving is something /.../, I don't know, you can save anywhere 
 you want, but that doesn't mean, that you will actualy save all your progress. Without any warnings 
 you'll start form last checkpoint (no clue where it is) . 
  The girl - thief, that can't kill is an original idea, and there is not much stealthy games as 
 FPS, or RTS, so the game could have been one of the best, but it wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jun 11, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was somewhat captured by this game, not only because of the girl character, 
 but the gameplay. Installation was a breeze. Starting the game, it felt like my computer was a 
 Pentium 1 with an early Voodoo 2 card. About a couple days later, the game developer released the 
 patch. But that didn't help. The game control was just too poor, the game interface was very confusing, 
 and the save feature was the final nail to the coffin. Anyways, $30 dollars would probably be spent 
 somewhere else better. Too bad for this game, I was really looking forward to it, but guess game 
 developers nowadays are in it for the money only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamsi3467
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I was worried after seeing a lot of the comments on the Web about Stolen. I picked it up yesterday, 
 and played it for a couple of hours last night. A lot of people are comparing it to Splinter Cell, 
 and I don't think that is fair. Sam Fisher has a different objective than Anya Romanov. Sam is 
 a soldier, and killing is part and parcel of his job. Anya is a thief. Stealing is her primary 
 concern. So, the fact that she doesn't kill isn't a showstopper for me. The graphics, I think are 
 quite good. The game appears challenging from what I've seen. The camera angles are a little cumbersome 
 at times, but you get used to them. The controls are a bit difficult, but the defaults can be reconfigured 
 to ones you like. And, of course, I'd rather look at Anya than Sam *grin*. I think if this game 
 it taken on it's own merits it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSiu
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 19, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game got quite high reputation in the previews. But after playing it, it was a huge disappointment. 
 The gameplay is like Thief 3 and the aspects are copied from splinter cell and metal gear solid. 
 I saw the trailers and all that, it looks quite good there but not in the game. The graphics are 
 not quite good and the shadows seems to be are kinda fake. And the Hi-tech gadgets are not as cool 
 as they look like. The camera countrols are fustrating. The movements are not free enough too. 
 Unless u are near a ledge, u can't jump foward. When u need to climb onto something, u have to 
 wait for a sign that 'enables' u to grab onto something. This feature is annoying cuz u can't do 
 your moves freely. There are no great bgm either. After all these, I don't think anyone should 
 bother buying it unless u don't have anything better. If u bought it, maybe u are not playing it 
 for long. So it's good to check the timetable for games and buy somthing better. Trust me, u are 
 not going to like this very much. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
