-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stormrise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/stormrise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting sci-fi universe.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Whip select control scheme makes choosing units a chore.
 Appalling pathfinding leads to micromanagement nightmares.
 Broken animations and missing visual effects.
 Total lack of important visual information.
 Tons of other annoying issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 30, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 3.2, 277 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 24, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This frustrating, broken mess is one of the worst strategy games in years. 

  Stormrise is one of those games that makes you wonder, "What were they  thinking ?" This real-time 
 strategy game is, from top to bottom, misconceived, frustrating, frequently broken, and rarely 
 fun. Developer Creative Assembly has built an entire product around a fundamentally flawed control 
 scheme and neglected almost every important facet of the RTS genre. Embarrassingly busted pathfinding, 
 infuriating interface problems, abysmal mission design, substandard visuals -- these unpleasant elements 
 and many others make the whole thing an unseemly mess. Furthermore, the game's console roots lead 
 to an even more awkward experience on the PC than on other platforms.  

  The control scheme in question is called whip select, and its Stormrise's most interesting idea -- and 
 greatest liability. The game eschews the standard top-down perspective, forcing you to view the 
 battlefield and issue orders from the viewpoint of an individual squad. This isn't a brand-new 
 innovation; a similar perspective worked to great cinematic effect in Tom Clancy's EndWar. To switch 
 to another unit, you rotate a line that emanates from the center of the screen by holding the right 
 mouse button, hovering the line over your target unit's icon, and releasing. This is whip select, 
 a control scheme that valiantly attempts to get around console gamepad restrictions but has no 
 place on the PC. While at first it may seem like an odd but semifunctional alternative to traditional 
 RTS controls, any initial fascination deteriorates rapidly into abhorrence, when the control scheme 
 collides with the game's delinquent interface and often nonfunctional pathing.  

  Your initial struggles will come when you start to spread units across the map. When a squad isn't 
 onscreen, it is represented by an icon displayed either in your field of view (when there are obstacles 
 between your current selection and your target) or along the edge of the screen, in the manner 
 of a space combat sim. When units amass in the distance, making an exact selection, especially 
 in the midst of combat, can be a nightmare. You'll waste precious seconds fiddling to make sure 
 you highlight the correct tiny icon before releasing the mouse button, or worse yet, choose the 
 wrong unit, possibly flinging your view you to an unrelated squad that happens to be positioned 
 in the same general direction -- but underground. Or you may land on the wrong unit simply because 
 you can't tell what the unit type is from the simple icon that represents it, wasting even more 
 time while you fumble your way to the squad you need most. Rather than enhancing the enjoyment, 
 whip select taints every action and hobbles the few moments where the game's burgeoning potential 
 peeks from underneath this specter. It's like driving through a thick fog, or running with a broken 
 leg. You can issue indirect orders, though this function is only mildly helpful, and like most 
 aspects of Stormrise, was not implemented well. You can issue such a command when controlling a 
 unit, but not when managing the power nodes that you must capture and upgrade, where the feature 
 would have been far more helpful. In fact, when your view is centered on a power node, you can't 
 even turn the camera, an inexplicable design flaw specific to the PC version.  

  From here, the problems begin to pile up, and the resulting tower of insanity crashes to the ground 
 in an astounding mass of broken and half-implemented features. The pathfinding in particular is 
 possibly the worst an RTS has seen to date. Units get hung up on everything: the environments, 
 each other, and sometimes nothing at all. You might watch some individual members of a squad move 
 forward while the lagging ones get stuck in the level geometry, and then teleport forward a few 
 moments later. Large units like the spiderlike matriarchs may walk directly into beams and just 
 keep walking rather than go around, and get stuck in jittery animation loops when they can't figure 
 out what to do or where to go. Squads won't get out of the way of oncoming units, often leading 
 to traffic jams that can only be fixed by manually leading away units one at a time until you can 
 bring order to the chaos. Interpretive dance routines are common in the ranks of your infantry, 
 and your warriors often choose to run about like buffoons rather than engage the enemy or find 
 a place to still their hyperactive feet.  

           Here, the camera offers its usual brilliant view of important events...      

  The 
 campaign's level design seems created almost to aggravate these issues. In the level that introduces 
 the anti-infantry vehicles called prowlers, these units must navigate through tight roadways, a 
 task they are clearly incapable of performing. In later missions, you must lead units down spiraling 
 set of walkways to take a series of control points, and navigate through incredibly confined underground 
 tunnels. The choke points in these areas create long, frustrating stalemates due to the resulting 
 stew of practically uncontrollable units. At least in wider environments, unit behavior inspires 
 fewer headaches, but these missions are simply abysmal, because bad pathfinding and unnecessary 
 micromanagement lead to losses that could have been avoided if your units would have simply done 
 what you commanded them to do. At least on the PC you can assign hotkeys to units, which lets you 
 get around the map a bit more quickly than in the console versions. However, you can group only 
 three (yes, three) units together, and doing so compounds the pathfinding absurdities.  

  Even should you overcome these roadblocks, you'll find that units are extremely slow to respond 
 to orders, taking their time to move out of the way as if they need to give it some thought first. 
 Want your hero unit to get out of the way when his health is quickly diminishing? Don't count on 
 it: he'd rather perform a series of useless animations, and then die -- which ends the mission -- rather 
 than actually follow your command. Not that it is always clear why your hero (or any other unit) 
 is losing health in the first place. All too frequently, you will watch a health bar slowly diminish, 
 yet the absence of bullets, lasers, or nearby units will make you wonder where the damage is even 
 coming from. This is because animations and effects often go missing. Enemy rangers might collapse 
 in a bloody heap, apparently from the fire of your hovering hunters -- but because these airborne 
 units are stuck in a jittery loop, you won't see any laser fire. In fact, Stormrise goes out of 
 its way to not give you important visual information. Once units are grouped, you cannot see their 
 remaining health, which is an enormous problem should you include a commander in the group. Should 
 you want a better look at the battlefield, you might try pulling up the overhead view, though in 
 doing so you will find the most useless piece of garbage that's ever been passed off as a map. 

  This smorgasbord of horrific design is all the more heartbreaking when you consider the game's 
 potential. Yes, Stormrise is brimming with terrible ideas poorly executed, but the grim, futuristic 
 setting and cool-looking units like the soaring rift worm show elements of real promise. Two factions, 
 the Echelon and the Sai, clash over the future of the planet after a cataclysmic environmental 
 disaster, and both sides' moral ambiguities give way for a few different twists and turns to the 
 tale. The story isn't always easy to follow, but emphatic voice acting and a few atmospheric touches 
 keep the narrative interesting, even if you aren't always sure what's going on. Sadly, poor production 
 values cast a shadow on these few bright spots. When masses of units collide, Stormrise can offer 
 a mild visual spectacle. Otherwise, low-resolution textures, poor lighting, and muddy, uninspired 
 art make the game look homely, even when you crank every visual option up to its highest setting. 
 It's hard to imagine why such an unattractive game requires DirectX 10 (and therefore Windows Vista) 
 to play.  

  The basic gameplay also showcases some decent core ideas. You must capture and link power nodes 
 to accumulate resources, and can upgrade them with shields and surprisingly effective turrets. 
 This concept isn't that new, but it's a solid one that keeps you pressing forward. And while utilizing 
 the terrain has been an important aspect of other strategy games, few offer Stormrise's sheer verticality. 
 You can place snipers (called infiltrators here) on ledges and move infantry behind cover, and 
 once you become familiar with each unit's attack range, careful positioning can open up some intriguing 
 strategic options. Sadly, knowing each unit's range is even more important than you would expect, 
 given that if you give an attack order, the unit will likely move right up to its target, rather 
 than attack from the most distant possible range, as in every other RTS. This leads to more micromanagement, 
 lest your rangers wander directly into their targets as if they just want a hug.  

           ... but if it doesn't show you what you need, you can always pull up this helpful tactical 
 overview.      

  Stormrise's multiplayer component gives rise to its greatest ideas. Before you head into battle, 
 you can customize your powerful commander unit with different weapons and abilities, which is a 
 nice touch that gives you the element of surprise. Up to eight players can battle it out, and like 
 World in Conflict, Stormrise offers drop-in, drop-out online play. At least here you can leave 
 behind the single-player campaign's oft-frustrating mission objectives and concentrate on capturing 
 power nodes while crushing the opposition. Multiplayer skirmishes offer the most hints at what 
 the game could have and should have been, and a few micromanagement lovers may enjoy exploring 
 their units' alternate attack modes (the matriarch's acid storm is fun to play with) . However, 
 you're still dealing with all the control and pathfinding issues, only now, you might get stuck 
 on friendly units that you don't get any direct control over. If you really want to showcase your 
 skills on the leaderboards, you can participate in ranked matches, but maddeningly, the game allows 
 uneven teams, which is just out-and-out absurd in a ranked contest. Not that tacticians on the 
 PC are likely to find many fellow players: at the time of this review, Stormrise's online community 
 is so tiny that you may have trouble finding so much as a single competitor.  

  There are more nightmarish issues, of course. Such as how the terrible enemy AI ignores your attacks, 
 or rushes past your powerful stalkers in endless, scripted waves. And how the broken checkpoints 
 (don't let the "saving progress" indicator fool you) and single save slot mean potentially saving 
 at an inopportune time, forcing you to restart a mission from the beginning. And the automated 
 rally-point function, which may send your units off in the most unhelpful direction possible. Suffice 
 it to say, Stormrise is a broken debacle that is in no way deserving of either your time or your 
 money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  When a huge strategy giant, such as The Creative Assembly, announce a new real time strategy game, 
 a lot of fans are going to be interested. This is especially true when they move away from a setting 
 they are well known for - in The Creative Assembly's case, the Total War series.
  
  What's even more interesting is that the development studio is also drifting from their PC roots 
 for their next game, Stormrise. Heavily focused on getting real time strategy games to work on 
 consoles, Creative Assembly has focused on creating an innovative control system to get around 
 the control pad limitations. However, the review will be based on how well the game translates 
 to a PC, and how these controls work on the keyboard and mouse, which are still the mainstay of 
 RTS controls.
  
  Stormrise is set in a post apocalyptic future. Scientists were commissioned to develop a solution 
 to address the environmental decline, which led to the creation of a forcefield. At first everything 
 seemed fine, but eventually nature had its way and vicious destructive storms ripped apart the 
 planet and its cities. Survivors were either locked into underground security structures or left 
 on the surface to survive. The surface dwellers ended up mutating and evolving into a new race, 
 which the game calls "The Sai." Once the danger had past and the underground cryogenic sleepers 
 had awakened, it was time for them to reclaim the planet. Echelon was formed, and the battle for 
 the planet with the Sai had begun.
  
  Taking control of Aiden Geary, a commander for the Echelon team, it's your job to fight off the 
 Sai. Stormrise isn't your typical RTS game as the player doesn't build a base; instead you capture 
 points and can use these points to build reinforcements to help your fight. These points can be 
 reinforced with defence, which you'll most likely need. If you lose these points, you lose your 
 ability to build anything if you don't have any other capture points in the level.
  
  Units are built using the energy you gain from capturing these points in the mission level. The 
 capture points can also have upgrades which will pump out more energy, so you don't have to wait 
 as long to build the unit you want. As the mission progresses, you get to the point where you have 
 so much energy coming out that you never really have to wait that long to build a unit, which keeps 
 the game interesting, at least when it comes down to the action on the battlefield.
  
  Now you're probably asking, "how do you manage to select the units you want if you can't see them 
 or move the camera?" With the control system that Creative Assembly came up with, you can still 
 select units, but it's a frustrating and a slow way of going about it. The focus of trying to make 
 the game for controllers has totally destroyed how it should play on the PC. The "Whip Select" 
 system allows unit selection by requring you to "whip" your view towards a unit to take control 
 of it. When you are in control of a unit, the camera is focused behind it, kind of like a third 
 person view. The game does allow you to spin the camera around the unit and also allows you to 
 do the most pointless zoom out. It's rubbish since it doesn't zoom out enough to be worthwhile. 
 The only way you're going to get a battlefield overview is by using an air unit, so you can see 
 from above from the sky. I can see what they were trying to do with the idea, but it's just not 
 practical enough to be in a game.
  
  Once you've got the hang of the camera system, you have to get the hang of the whole unit control. 
 Stormrise allows you to click using the left mouse button to move the unit you have selected. It's 
 also possible to look at another unit from the one you are viewing. Just click and drag from the 
 unit to force them to move without you having to actually jump to them, though this stills requires 
 you to get them into your line of sight.
  
  To let the pressure off a bit, you can group units of three together. This relieves a bit of the 
 whipping that you have to do all the time. There's so much whipping in Stormrise, that there's 
 even an achievement for whipping in a mission 250 times. I did this on mission 3, which is early 
 on in the game's 12 missions, which should give you an idea of how many times you've got to do 
 it. At least you can still link units to hotkeys, even though the game doesn't actually tell you 
 this in the tutorial part of the first level. I just assumed it would from trying it in all the 
 other RTS games out there, and to my surprise, it worked. This ended up becoming vital in selecting 
 units, rather than doing it the whipping way. You know there's something wrong when gamers try 
 to avoid using the intended mechanic.
  
  It doesn't help that when you've got a huge army of units that you need to control, you need to 
 whip to all of these to move them individually, even if you've grouped them into three. Three isn't 
 enough when you've got say 12 lots of these three-unit squads on the move. It's impractical and 
 nearly impossible to handle a huge army in Stormrise; even with hotkeys, you still have to move 
 these groups all individually, and from their camera point of view as well. When it all this comes 
 together with the whipping, it just makes you get annoyingly aggravated to the point where you 
 are hurling insults at the game. I did so numerous times.
  
  If you can't see units to whip to, a little icon comes up on the side of the screen in the direction 
 of that unit. Even so, you don't know where about that unit is on the map, so you need to memorise 
 it or use the radar map screen by pressing tab. Also having a large army throws so many icons on 
 screen that you end up whipping to the wrong unit. It's so poorly designed and results in nothing 
 but trouble for the player.
  
  The nuisances don't just end there during Stormrise. AI pathfinding is another problem that crops 
 up sometimes. In confined spaces the units have trouble moving past each other. On one mission, 
 I had around 15 buggy units on this thin stretch of road. Having grouped a couple of them together 
 to go on a scouting run, I watched them struggle to get past the buggies in front. They would either 
 not move or just spasm into the ones in front, and the ones in front would either move the wrong 
 way or get stuck in a reverse-forward-reverse loop. To solve this I had to move the front ones 
 out of the way, which helped put everything back to normal. It seems to happen more to vehicle 
 units rather than the infantry, but it still irritating.
  
  I've also noticed people dying when they don't seem to be getting hit by bullets. There must be 
 some collision errors, as one of my control points was killed by the opposing team's infantry shooting 
 underneath it - through thick concrete. As far as I know, you shouldn't be able to shoot through 
 walls in this title. All these errors really bring Stormrise down to become a bad game.
  
  Some praise can be awarded in terms of setting, but that's all about I can give it. The graphics 
 are respectable enough but there's some sort of frame rate drop or animation stuttering going on 
 with units, as they seem to skip animation or shake a bit while moving. I know it wasn't the PC, 
 because the game was running on a quad core Q9550 overclocked to 3.4 GHz with a 48702 ATI card 
 and 4GB ram. The audio and voiceovers are fine, though.
  
  I had a major problem with the game at one point. After my initial play, I returned on the next 
 day and it just would not start. It would come up with an error crash or restart my PC. After messing 
 with settings and everything, I found out that if you have the Catalyst AI option turned on in 
 the ATI control centre, the game will crash all the time. Turning it off solved the problem.
  
  Multiplayer is included, which has a feature World in Conflict had: the ability to join and 
 leave a game at will. The control and camera controls are the same, but instead of a mediocre single 
 player campaign fight, you've going up against human opponents, which is certainly a bit more fun 
 than against the CPU. Up to 8 players can play in a game, but really there's nothing that good 
 about Stormrise and it's still affected by the awful whipping system.
  
  A simple design idea for controllers created a massive chain reaction in how the game is played, 
 and frankly, it's for the worst. Creative Assembly should have transformed the game controls for 
 the PC version. Because of all these problems, Stormrise has ended up becoming one of the worst 
 RTS games I've experienced in recent memory. This is a RTS game you don't need to play, even if 
 you are a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samkeast
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking it would be something new and fresh, with a whole new way of RTS. WRONG! 
 The whip select system could have been a good idea if if wasn't the only way of selecting your 
 units. If you have units close together (which more than likely you will) it is impossible to get 
 the right one. You spend about 10 seconds getting this thing to point in the right direction, let 
 go of the button, and the camera zooms past your units to a different control post or something. 
 By the time you actually get to the right place, you find half your forces are dead... And even 
 then, it takes about 5 minutes to get the unit to move to the right place, when the whip select 
 problem starts all over again... Probably the most frustrating game ever.
  Another bad thing about the game is the graphics. They claimed that this was supposed to have really 
 good graphics for a strategy game... WRONG! although the graphics are OK, its nothing pretty or 
 better than any other RTS.
  So overall a very disappointing game. The only up side is that you can go on roofs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProfileth
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Stormrise a game I found out about 3 days ago, thought it might be fun. It turns out fun has several 
 meanings, and Stormrise fails to fit in most of them.
  The whip system works... this is good but why mess with a perfect system already on PC that is. 
 For Xbox 360 this could be amazing, but I have not played it and do not want to I believe RTS's 
 belong on the PC for many reasons and a nice old keyboard is one of them. The whip system does 
 not make much sense on a PC, why would you want to flip around when I could just select and then 
 tell them to move, also this could of been overlooked if the boring combat and horrible bugs did 
 not plague this game. 4 Times now it has crashed my computer, let me say that again it crashed 
 my computer, not the program my computer. The combat is so boring to watch you may aswell just 
 draw little people on your hands then have them poke each other until the combat is over. The guns 
 shoot and miss but still the enemy take damage, how is that fun to watch. Furthermore the inability 
 to mange multiple units makes it very hard to combat the many foes being flung at you by the computer. 
 I wonder if it has to use the whip system? I will end my review with a joke. What has boring, shallow, 
 and has no friends? Anyone who thinks that Stormrise is a very good game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfirestorm
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  After the atrocious Empire total war fiasco, I should have known better.
  
  The game itself could be good however it's totally let down by the inane and rather insane camera 
 views and the appauling Control System.
  
  The user interface is a complete and disaterous failure, camera views that leave you unable to 
 see where the heck your going or to get onto highground or use it effectively.
  
  It's so bad that by the time you actually manage to select anything your dead trying, even on a 
 console this system would be insane especially when you couple it with the awful camera view, which 
 makes playing the game like getting a pair of pliers and trying to pull your teeth out.
  
  Which is a shame because the premise of the game itself is good, although the graphics etc are 
 suprising mediocre considering it's a DX10 game.
  
  Units simply refuse to do what they are told promptly or even at all especially when using the 
 radial dial, for instance getting sentinals to deploy their heavy machine guns is pot luck, units 
 gets stuck on the terrain along with the camera so you can't see what the hell is going on.
  
  The whip elect system I think was named because anyone using it will want to select a whip 
 tehn go use it on the plonker that came up with it, with a game like this quick easy control is 
 Vital along with being able to move the camera around to see where your going especially when there's 
 so many high up places.
  
  Stormrise fails completly and utterly in this, the control system is anything but slick and functional 
 and totally destroys the play experience like no other game I've ever played in 30 years.
  
  With the release of Empire total war and now this offering it's clear there's a clear lack 
 of good design and common sence in CA at the moment, and it's pretty clear some faces need to change 
 over there and be held to account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreas133
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  Well, i have only played up to the 3rd mission and just getting there gave me a terrible headache 
 and took me 5 hours. 
  
  Why you may ask? Well for starters the camera is more than horrible since the game was exclusively 
 made for an xbox or ps3 controller (which i don't have since i never knew a game would need it 
 this badly to run) . Trying this game with a mouse will make you want your money back, be sure of 
 that, but you might find it a bit more enjoyable with a controller ( i don't know, don't really 
 believe so but whatever... ) . Units feel as if they were made from "good will and kindness" since 
 by the time they reach an enemy group you can expect more of them to be dead and you will find 
 yourself wondering "What in the name of ..... happened to my army?". Guess the whole point behind 
 this is that you have to pick 3 unit types that work well together and use them, why 3? Well, the 
 game is only so kind to only allow "3-unit" groups to be made and it's lacking the ability to select 
 more than one group at a time, which is frustrating when you are facing off many enemies or want 
 to move your whole army. So, you are stuck with those 3 units unless you believe your skills are 
 good enough to allow you to control more than 1 group at a time.
  
  Another thing i have to say is that if you are looking for an unpredictable, realistic AI... Do 
 not try this game the AI is as predictable as a baby in a room full of candies. and by that i mean 
 that even a 5 year old could grasp it's tactics.
  
  I'll just go ahead and write them here so you can decide on your own if the AI is worth it or not.
 
  
  1) If you capture a point the AI will keep sending wave after wave of seemingly infinite troops 
 (breed like rabbits i guess) until it takes it back.
  2) If if you take no action it usually takes no action or if you are lucky it might decide to keep 
 sending waves of troops your way to wake you up. (mostly basic units)
  
  Fear not though because once you upgrade a control point, something that usually takes a few minutes 
 to do (Shields, Turret, Refinery) you won't even need to keep an eye on the control point, with 
 some exceptions ofcourse.
  
  Enough with the cons though, so let's start with the pros, pittyfully few but they are worth noting.
 
  
  - Firstly, the story is pretty solid and it will probably keep you wanting to play the game till 
 you figure out what's going on.
  - Secondly, the two armies are well made, in terms of graphics and animation.
  -  And lastly 
 the whole idea about being able to fight at ground level and in buildings or rooftops is pretty 
 good. If you can ignore the horrible controls you might want to give this game a try. It's a good 
 idea but the controls make it look more like a drawback and might find yourself thinking "I wish 
 i had a nuke to level this darn railway (or whatever building it is) down!"
  
  So to wrap up, if you have money to spare and find this whole fully 3rd RTS idea intriguing then 
 give it a try. If on the other hand don't have money to spare and want a good game... spare yourselves 
 the annoyance and go buy something that's worth the money you pay for.
  
  PS. Wish they made a book out of that game the background, story, and characters could be turned 
 to a pretty good Sci-Fi series or just a novel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolban
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm over 40 and been an RTS gamer for as long as I can remember. I don't usually review games but 
 I wanted to make an exception for this one. When I read the previews that the game was going to 
 take on a 1st person vantage instead of the god-like views I was excited. We have seen that concept 
 before though. Both BattleZone I and BattleZone II (tank battle RTSs) had exactly that concept. 
 What made this game fresh was the idea that I could switch from one unit to the next.
  
  The game itself is very pretty to look at. The graphics are no where near "awesome" given the state 
 of the art these days but they are "sufficient". I have completed the 1st three levels of the game 
 (about 10 hours of play) and am enjoying the way my knowledge of the game unfolds. As the game 
 progresses you are made to think about new tricks and techniques. This is not a game that can be 
 won simply by hanging back and building up a huge force and then flooding everything forward. The 
 game is forcing me to build tactics and strategies. And that is compelling.
  
  Technically, the game has some pretty obvious bugs that simply make me cringe. The characters walk 
 into walls and continue to walk. My units get "clogged" up. For example, if I have a unit at the 
 back of the bunch and want that unit to attack, on occasion I have to manually move some forward 
 units out of the way to clear a path. I would want my units to get out of the way.
  
  The targeting on some of the nodes also seems hit or miss. When I hover my cursor over some enemy 
 nodes, they refuse to turn red indicating that they are attackable and I have to move my troops 
 into range in the hopes that they attack.
  
  I could go on and on in this vein. There are bugs severe and minor and you won't help but notice 
 them pretty quickly (for example, you eliminate some enemies behind a sand bag in Level 2 and all 
 of a sudden ... they "respawn" ... that shouldn't be possible given the story line) .
  
  So based on all this negativity, how could I possibly rate it an 8? The answer is that the concept, 
 although questionably implemented, does feel fresh and new. The controls will either be a love 
 them or hate them and you will probably read and hear more about the "whip select". Although unquestionably 
 cumbersome at first, I have grown to like them (am playing on PC with keyboard and mouse) . I think 
 I would have liked to have seen a more standard "option" for those who aren't going to like the 
 style on a PC ... but I'll live. The graphics ... are good but not brilliant, the voice acting 
 is good, the sound effects are average to poor. Out of nowhere "effect" music will start playing 
 even though I am not anywhere near a massive battle.
  
  Hmmm .... had to down grade from an 8 to 7 because of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulrich_meffert
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe I coughed up $50 for this and I used stream too... *sigh*
  
  Pros:
  
  Pretty... well that is if you have a beast of a computer that can run everything at max and with 
 the performance decrease of Vista as well as the driver problems with it. Other wise it is just 
 a like World in Conflict with better zoom with higher textures for closeups.
  
  Voice acting... one of the few things they got right.
  
  Nice Idea......
  
  Cons:
  
 
  For all that are interested in purchasing the PC version, make sure to read the Previews & Features 
 section and READ the part that says: "built specifically for consoles".
  
  Believe me it is so much so that the playing the PC port is a pain in the *** the new whip system 
 while useful on the console is almost painful to use with the mouse.
  
  The cover system well... not really much use for one the AI is so dumb that you could almost just 
 make a blind charge and win and also that the cover system is at best broken as your units are 
 almost afraid of using it. 
  (Cover is for "Girly-Men")
  
  The sound... ohh while the voice acting is good the rest can really grind your nerves after a while 
 IMO.
  
  The requirement of Dx 10 not really a worry for me but not everyone has or wants vista till they 
 fix the rest of the bugs.
  
  Ohh did I mention the dumb AI.
  
  Failure in execution....
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Nothing new just another potentially good game 
 that went down the toilet.
  Don't make the same mistake as me and wait for the bargain bin or if you are itching to try it 
 for yourself buy it from a store with a 7 day return or just rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antoniwar
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  Such a poor game.
  
  Controls are HORRIBLE.
  AI is stupid.
  You will encounter LOTS of animation / clipping bugs.
  The Tutorial is horribly designed.
  
 The characters are shallow and uninteresting.
  Couldn't play more than an hour before uninstalling.
  
  The idea sounds great in theory but 
 they failed to execute it. The mostly flawed thing about the game are the poor controls. You have 
 to "whip" to select the units... annoying as hell. The combat is pretty boring, "cover with buildings" 
 is pretty buggy as most units don't even know how to use cover, reach roofs, shoot from roofs, 
 etcetera.
  
  The voice-over acting is pretty decent I think... The characters are annoying as hell though, sound 
 and music is pretty ok also. The graphics are good too, nothing breakthrough though.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
