-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stranglehold
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/stranglehold/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Guns, guns, guns!.
 Environments blow apart beautifully.
 Tequila's got a good number of effective moves and abilities.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay does fall into repetition after a while.
 Some of the dynamic portions of the environment are more trouble than they're worth.
 Short single-player mode.
 Multiplayer is weak.
 PC version has some crashing issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,159 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Sep 18, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For as long as it lasts, Stranglehold delivers a satisfying, if somewhat derivative action game 
 experience. 

  It would be very easy for the average person to take one look at Stranglehold and write it off 
 as a Max Payne rip-off. That's because, in a sort of round about way, it is. Midway and John Woo's 
 video game sequel to the director's classic Hong Kong action flick  Hard Boiled  borrows very liberally 
 from the mechanics of Remedy's slow-motion, heavy-action franchise, which is a little ironic and 
 mind-bending because Max Payne was itself a tribute to John Woo's brand of cinematic action. Regardless, 
 if you're going to make a game based on a badass cop dodging, diving, and shooting all over the 
 place in slow-motion, there are certainly worse places to look for inspiration. Stranglehold effectively 
 takes the elements that made Max Payne fun and uses them to its own advantage, while sprinkling 
 in a number of original touches and gimmicks that give the game its own Hong Kong cinema flavor. 
 It's an interesting piece of work that's more fun than it isn't, and fans of  Hard Boiled  ought 
 to especially enjoy watching Chow Yun-Fat reprise his role as Inspector Tequila.  

           It seems sort of criminal that Midway didn't license that Champs song to play every time 
 you go into 'Tequila Time'.      

  Stranglehold takes place many years after  Hard Boiled , though Yun-Fat's Inspector Tequila doesn't 
 seem to have lost a step. He's still a rogue cop on the Hong Kong police force, and when a member 
 of the force turns up dead, evidently offed by one of HK's major gangs, Tequila steps up to deal 
 with the situation. What follows is a sometimes confusing and ham-fisted story of gangs double- 
 and triple-crossing one another. Somewhere in there, Tequila's former girlfriend and daughter both 
 end up being held hostage by one of the gangs. It's a decent crime tale that's certainly better 
 than much of John Woo's American work (though exactly how involved Woo was in this game's production 
 is debatable) , but there is still something about the whole story that feels very Hollywood. It 
 lacks the gritty feel of the original flick, and a lot of the film's cool factor to boot. Nevertheless, 
 the plot serves as an OK-enough motivation to get Tequila back in action and shooting people in 
 the face -- and really, that's pretty much all you need.  

  You will shoot a lot of people in Stranglehold. This game's body count is pretty staggering for 
 a game that runs only about six or seven hours. Enemies come flying out of every nook and cranny 
 of each stage, and always with guns blazing. Fortunately, they don't have the ability to jump and 
 dive around in bullet time like our man Tequila. Though the game refers to it as "Tequila Time," 
 this is really just the bullet-time mechanic from Max Payne given a fancy makeover. The one trick 
 is that you won't ever go into bullet-time automatically as a result of diving around, unless you 
 specifically have an enemy in your targeting reticle sights. There is also a specific button that 
 puts you into bullet-time completely separate from the shoot dodging, though it's rare when you 
 ever need to use it.  

  That's not the only ability he's got, either. Tequila can interact with practically every piece 
 of scenery in a level. If you run up to a table, you can choose to slide right over it, or kick 
 it over and use it as a temporary cover point. If you run up to a wall, you can dash up it and 
 dive even further than usual. If there's a rail nearby, you can run up or slide down it. See a 
 little wheel cart sitting around? You can jump onto it and roll around the area, blasting everyone 
 silly. Pieces of the environment can also be shot or otherwise destroyed for both fun and efficiency. 
 If an enemy is standing underneath a neon sign, shoot it and watch the sucker get crushed. Exploding 
 barrels are all over the place, and you can imagine the havoc they wreak when shot. There are even 
 occasional environmental puzzles that require wooden poles or planks to be shot out to create new 
 pathways for Tequila to traverse. These are arguably the game's weakest links, in that they're 
 often difficult to discern and sometimes take more shots than they ought to actually work. Fortunately, 
 about halfway through the game, the developers apparently decided to just give up on these distractions 
 and focus almost exclusively on the shooting.  

  There's even more on offer. Pulling off stylish moves throughout the game fills up a meter that 
 lets you trigger one of four different "Tequila bombs." These are special abilities that do everything 
 from recharging your health, to letting you spin around like a gun-toting whirling dervish, killing 
 all the enemies that surround you, all while doves go fluttering off into the sky (what would a 
 Woo production be without doves?) . These special abilities are all useful, though some more so 
 than others. One example is the accurate-shot ability, which lets you move a targeting reticle 
 in slo-mo to any part of an enemy's body, and then watch the bullet fly directly to its target. 
 Save for a few enemies who are especially vulnerable to this move, it's hard to ever really want 
 to use it when the next ability up the scale is an all-out barrage of invincibility and limitless 
 gunfire that usually lasts long enough to clear the room.  

  The last element of gameplay isn't so much an ability as it is a sort of minigame. Periodically, 
 Tequila will run into a group of enemies and end up in a standoff. These standoffs quickly snap 
 Tequila's focus around from one enemy to the next. Using both the A and D buttons to dodge and 
 the mouse to aim, you have to take enemies out one by one whil avoiding getting shot. It's tough 
 to do (tougher even than on the Xbox 360 version, given that the right analog stick of the Xbox 
 controller is definitely better suited for dodging) , though once you get the hang of it, it's also 
 quite amusing to watch Tequila dart from enemy to enemy while dodging bullets and unleashing hot-leaded 
 hits of his own. Granted, it's a silly contrivance to have only one enemy at a time firing at you; 
 if there are five guys, why don't they all shoot at once? But it  is  pretty fun, so it's a forgivable 
 contrivance.  

  You can't quite call Stranglehold a one-trick pony, given that it does have a few different things 
 going on at all times. However, all those things are fed directly into the act of shooting people -- and 
 shooting them often, to boot. Accordingly, it's good that the guns are appropriately satisfying 
 to shoot. There's nothing remotely realistic about the game's guns, mind you, though that's arguably 
 a good thing in the context of this game. Being able to shoot a guy from a hundred feet away with 
 a shotgun and still take him out is helpful when you've got dozens of heavily armed enemies running 
 around. Apart from that, you've got Tequila's default pair of pistols, along with assault rifles, 
 submachine guns, heavy machine guns, grenades, and even the occasional rocket launcher to play 
 around with. Each gun has its own strengths and weaknesses in power and accuracy, though they rarely 
 matter much. You get to carry only two types of guns at once, and normally you'll want the gun 
 that will do the most damage at all times. It's also worth noting that the PC version of Stranglehold 
 controls a bit better than its console counterpart. Aiming with the mouse makes targeting enemies 
 much, much easier, and it generally just feels better. Some of the character-movement controls 
 on the keyboard feel stiffer in this version, but the improved shooting controls make up for that 
 issue.  

           Oh, dude, your face...      

  By no means is Stranglehold an overly challenging game, but by the time you hit the third or fourth 
 level, you'll see a noticeable jump in difficulty. That's a good thing, because the early portions 
 of the game are a bit of a cakewalk at times, even while you're still feeling out all your different 
 abilities. Once you get past the point where the difficulty gears up, you'll actually have to use 
 those different abilities smartly to survive some sequences. Cover points are also helpful, though 
 you can rarely stay in one place for very long, as the environment around you tends to get destroyed 
 very quickly. Likewise, enemies are usually smart enough to run up and start shooting if you stay 
 in one place for too long. The Tequila bombs become a lifesaver in a few situations, though they 
 also tend to make a few of the boss fights overly easy. Turning the game up to the hard difficulty 
 level fixes that some, though not entirely.  

  As helpful as some of these abilities become later in the game, they're not entirely required. 
 In fact, for much of the game, you can get away with just diving around like a crazy person over 
 and over again, periodically ducking for cover for a second or two, and busting out with the occasional 
 Tequila bomb for good measure. In a sense, it makes the gameplay a foregone conclusion. It's not 
 that the gameplay isn't fun, because it is. But it's not so dynamic and over-the-top that you won't 
 ever find yourself bored due to repetition. It's enjoyable to shoot enemies and blast apart the 
 environment in the process, but when you end up doing it the same way over and over and over again, 
 you'll be ready to move on and hope something new comes up. It rarely does. Little of what Stranglehold 
 does ever feels like it operates outside of expected boundaries, and the few things that are original 
 aren't necessarily amazing enough to hold up the entire game. Again, the gameplay is solid and 
 even thrilling in spots, but it's probably not a bad thing that the game only lasts for a half-dozen 
 hours or so. It might have gotten stale beyond that length.  

  Apart from the short single-player campaign, there are some production bonuses to buy through an 
 extras shop (John Woo himself sits behind the counter) , and a multiplayer mode that's probably 
 not going to garner much attention. It's not that it's completely awful or anything, but it feels 
 very tacked-on. You can only engage in standard deathmatches or team deathmatches with up to six 
 players. Though the multiplayer plays a lot like the single-player game, it's not nearly as good. 
 Maps are a little on the condensed side, and though you can use the slow-motion mechanic in multiplayer, 
 its scattered execution in this mode makes it all but worthless. Essentially, it seems like you 
 can't go into slo-mo unless you and your opponents all have a full Tequila time meter. At that 
 point it becomes pointless to fumble around with it when you could just be focusing on shooting 
 someone, and it almost makes things even more distracting when it suddenly pops on. With limited 
 play modes, inconsistent, cramped gameplay, and the fact that there seem to be very, very few people 
 playing this game online, this isn't a multiplayer game to get excited about.  

  Stranglehold's presentation is mostly good, though it's not without blemishes. By far the most 
 impressive aspect of the game visually is the environments, and specifically how awesome it is 
 to watch them get completely destroyed. Whether you're in a gaudy Hong Kong casino, a lavish penthouse, 
 or a cold, sterile-looking history museum, it's great fun to destroy the scenery. It's really quite 
 impressive how much of every environment is destructible. It's also a boon for the gameplay, because 
 each cover point you hide behind tends to get shot to hell very quickly, which forces you to duck 
 and run. On the less positive side, character models are overly shiny and not especially detailed, 
 animations are limited, and the camera periodically gets in the way of the action when it snaps 
 to angles that are hardly beneficial to your survival.  

  Unfortunately, we experienced some performance issues specific to the PC version of Stranglehold. 
 On the first test machine we tried, a single-core Pentium 3.4 GHz with a gig of RAM, Windows XP, 
 and an nVidia GeForce 7800 GTX card, the game refused to run. Every time we'd boot the game up, 
 we'd get one of those delightful blue screens of death that force you to reboot your machine. On 
 a more powerful dual-core machine with 2 gigs of RAM, Windows Vista, and an nVidia 8800 GTX video 
 card, that problem ceased, though during gameplay, the game would periodically crash to the desktop. 
 Fortunately, the game autosaves after every checkpoint, so as annoying as this issue is, you won't 
 ever lose significant progress. At the very least, when the game ran, it ran very smoothly, with 
 no hitches or frame rate problems to speak of.  

           You can knock the repetitive gameplay, short length, and crappy multiplayer, but you can't 
 deny that stuff blows up real, real good.      

  Audio is more consistently enjoyable than the visuals. Chow Yun-Fat joins several other noted actors 
 for the voice cast. Dialogue is appropriately cheesy, especially when Tequila's boss keeps tossing 
 out every angry police captain clich in the book. Largely the voice acting is quite solid. Yun-Fat 
 dead-reads a few of his lines, but mostly he sells the character as well as he can while speaking 
 English. It is sort of weird that the sequel to a classic Hong Kong action flick would be entirely 
 in English instead of Cantonese, but considering the audience, it's also not really surprising. 
 The soundtrack is a nice mix of typically bombastic orchestral pieces and some Asian-flavored string 
 sections, and the game's sound effects are mostly top notch, from the gun sounds right on down 
 to the individual sounds of bullets hitting each and every type of surface.  

  Stranglehold isn't the sort of game that's going to set the shooter genre on fire. It's a more 
 than competent take on an existing formula that has enough unique moments and overall challenge 
 to succeed. Sure, it gets repetitive at times, its few forays into more action-adventure style 
 gaming over straight ahead shooting aren't much fun, and the multiplayer is borderline irrelevant; 
 but there's enough solid, exciting action here for any shooter fan to sink their teeth into. It's 
 a short ride, but an entertaining one while it lasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (65 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:36 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold delivers exactly what I'd expect from it: instant, somewhat shallow fun. Being one 
 that personally enjoys cop-HK flicks, the story and characters were familiar to me, and helped 
 to up the enjoyment level.
  
  Essentially throw in Chow yun-fat, John Woo, a bunch of guns and pigeons, and you have Stranglehold. 
 The storyline is typical for a movie of its genre, but there are times when it really does feel 
 like you're playing through a John Woo flick. 
  
  The most impressive part of the game is its slick presentation, ranging from cool menus to a nice 
 overall look. The graphics were pretty solid and the game was just eye-candy in general. For me, 
 it was one of the factors that stood out most. 
  
  Another cool feature was the gun-play. This game really does have some neat gun/special mode functions. 
 All of which are made to contribute to the John-woo-ness of the game (aka over-the-top flashy kills) .
 
  
  There are also many moments where you can take advantage of the environments and make it feel like 
 you're rambo-ing through countless numbers of enemies. This is probably the game's biggest strength.
 
  
  With all this said, however, Stranglehold is far from a perfect game. For one thing, sometimes 
 the storyline goes John-Woo/pigeon overboard. The story and characters are, in a nutshell, rather 
 shallow. There are -so- many cheap plot-devices in use that I lost count. Overall, it's just very 
 cheesy, and I found myself rather unmoved during its most 'emotional' moments. In addition, the 
 story really does feel like it's just there for being 'there'. And that's never really a good thing.
 
  
  In addition, the game is short. Like... very short. In a way, however, it's a good thing because 
 the gun-play would've started to get stale. Honestly, if the game were to continue for another 
 2 hours or so, I think that would've done it for me. In other words, the gameplay just has a whole 
 'been there, done that' feel to it. The special-modes seemed like they were only going to remain 
 novel for not much longer.
  
  Still, overall, the game I feel does what it set out to do: make you feel like Rambo-yun-fat in 
 a HK-cop flick. All the stereotypes are there, for better or worse, but honestly, this game is 
 not bad at all. It really had its moments, and shone brightest during its testosterone-pumped action 
 events. Though the story and characters were somewhat lame and Tequilla's voice just begged for 
 English subtitles, the John-Woo-ish visuals/gun-play kept the game enjoyable as a whole. The presentation 
 in general was just really neat-o. And it wasn't like I was expecting anything deeper to begin 
 with. So really, I'd say this is a great game to rent or play at a friend's house. It could amount 
 to quite a few hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmfd341
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold is a great game, it doesn't try to be what it's not, it's pure action all the moment.
 
  
  Well, graphics are good and after an intense combat, the environment can be pretty damaged, there 
 are a few weapons, your two pistols, a shotgun, a rifle, machine guns and a missile launcher, sub 
 machine guns and gold pistols, sound is also great.
  
  You play as Inspector Tequilla, a Hong Kong detective who got his daughter and ex girlfriend kidnapped, 
 and you start walking your path of vengeance. The story is similar to the 1992 action movie ''Hard 
 Boiled'', the story is enjoyable.
  
  
  About the action, controls are pretty simple, there's a cover system that lets you while on cover, 
 lean to right and left, but not up, to defeat your enemies, you have to use the slow motion feature, 
 it's a nice feature, and there are also a few places where you can interact, handrails, chandeliers, 
 and you can also simply jump and stop time. 
  
  There are four Tequilla powers, the heal, the sniper shot one (where you can aim at any place on 
 your enemy) , barrage, and the one where you spin around and kill all your enemies.
  
  Well, it's a short game, but on the couple hours you'll spend, you'll definitely have fun with 
 an intense action game.
  
  Multiplayer sucks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold is a nice looking game. It has good graphics and sound, and the presentation is nice, 
 but is a bit of a letdown.
  
  The gunfights are nice as in using carts and banisters to slide down to shoot bad guys, chandelier 
 swings and other things in the environment. The special power ups are a little to powerful such 
 as the barrage where you are invulnerable and have infinite ammo and shoots faster for 10 seconds. 
 The stand-off is neat, but gets old.
  
  Even though the gunfights are nice, its the same thing over again. Shoot 10 guys and go in a large 
 room. After that shoot at least 20 to 30 dudes. The boss fights get insane since they can at least 
 take 50 bullets to the head. The AI is nothing special, they just can take more bullets in the 
 head later in the game.
  
  The biggest problem I had on the computer was the camera and mouse control. The camera didn't move 
 fluently compared to other 3rd person shooters like Hitman 47 games and Max Payne.
  
  Overall it has some fun things, but it doesn't last for long. It's best to buy for under $20, or 
 rent it, if there is any store that rents computer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamzashah
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions 
 super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions 
 super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions 
 super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions 
 super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions 
 super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions 
 super graphics nice story what we want to more?
  
  Great stunning actions super graphics nice story what we want to more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CARWFMHITMAN
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  At first, when you see John Woo on the Box, you would say "Asian hard core action", like his moves. 
 For me, if you say so, you right, but you it's repetitive and I found it full of bugs even after 
 installing the patch.
  
  I think that Max Payne inspired this game, becuase of bullet time.
  But Max Payne is simply better, 
 a more stable game system, gameplay.
  
  I suggest that one should rent it first, then buy it, becuase at first it may seem great if the 
 bugs that I faced, aren't faced, but it sure feels like repetitive.
  If you like it, I surely suggest Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne, you'll simply love it, for 
 it's the inspiration for this game becuase I think that after 4 yrs after the release of Max Payne 
 2 it's still highly suggested and I think that everyone suggests to play it.
  
  The Specs that are shown, shouldn't be so problematic with my laptop, becuase my specs meet with 
 those of the game, but still I face the bugs. I regret that I bought it for this reason becuase 
 I got upset and uninstalled, and please, don't accept the excuse of "the latest drivers for your 
 graphic card", becuase I played 2002 like Silent hill 2 & ominusha 3 & call of duty 2 among others 
 and more recent than that and later games like resident evil 4, games which are the same release 
 time of this one like Kane & Lynch and Call of duty 4, and 2008 games which are released after 
 Stronghold, like Assasin's Creed, Quantum of Solace, Devil May Cry 4 & Alone in the Dark, in which 
 I didn't find such bugs & problems! So if you're worried about having problems about it, like bugs 
 rent it first, before you buy it, believe if you don't do so, you might regret it.
  
  If I would make a suggestion to the game developers I would like to say this:
  The delivery of 
 this game isn't that great, simply try something else a bit better, with better ways and innovative 
 ideas, for what you did in the game play is copied a great game, with better graphics becuase it's 
 later released, diferent storyline and good envirnoment gameplay use. I think that if you keep 
 the good environment gameplay and the graphics part, and do something less buggy (in my opinion) , 
 you would do better. This game had a great potential but didn't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  I have played Max Payne and Max Payne 2. I loved those games. It brought John Woo's big screen 
 movies into a video game. Flying through the air and blasting your enemy's away. 3D realms and 
 rockstar pulled it off perfectly with the Max Payne series. It captured everything a Woo movie 
 had to offer. Stranglehold is much the same way. If Max Payne 3 would ever come out i would imagine 
 it would be very much like Stranglehold. Stranglehold doesn't really bring anything new that you 
 haven't seen or played in Max Payne. It does however bring updated graphics, enviormments that 
 are highly destructable and can be used to your advantage. Like kicking up a table to duck behind, 
 or sliding down a railing killing everyone in sight. If this game didn't bring elaborate environments 
 to the "series" (I say series because its pretty much Max Payne 3) it would have felt like we were 
 getting Max Payne 2 all over again. Which isn't that bad of a thing. But we as gamers need new 
 and original idea's to keep us coming back for more. Stranglehold accomplished that.
  
  This game is great! If you like Max Payne play this game. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold is a game that is a kind of rip-off of games like Max Payne and movies like the matrix. 
 but its jon woo. Stranglehold is short really, i dont know exactly how long cause the game doesnt 
 tell you how long you played it, but i think it was definitely under 10 hours, it was a really 
 short game. 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in Stranglehold is repitative and after about halfway through the game you dont get 
 any more new stuff except three new weapons, and a bunch of bosses. You run around mainly blasting 
 endless chinese dudes while using "tequila time" or something and it goes slow-motion. You also 
 have a "tequila bomb meter" where when you do good enough or find some paper cranes around the 
 levels you get more of these and there are four different types that are all pretty fun, but repitative 
 over time. The a. i. is not bad, but they mainly are pretty stupid and win sometimes just because 
 of their sheer numbers, which i have never liked. The only really HARD level was the last one as 
 you fought an insane amount of guys, it was interesting. Lastly, the bosses are really easy to 
 defeat and are just guys with a really big health bar, but i recommend doing barrage with an automatic 
 weapon as it takes down their health pretty fast.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Stranglehold are pretty good, being able to tear a battlefield to pieces and still 
 look good is a feat for sure. but the character models are pretty decent, but i could find a lot 
 of muddy textures for sure, and sometimes it wasnt that good to look at. the thing i dislike the 
 most is the amount of graphic options there are, which is a measly 3. you cant really change much, 
 and even though i dont have to , i imagine it would be pretty tough to run this on your machine 
 if you couldnt run it.
  
  All in all Stranglehold is a decent game, but doesnt really exceed decent, and is overly cliche. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  With Max Payne 2 having come out five years ago, it looks like we will never see a Max Payne 3. 
 In the meantime, we have Stranglehold, a fine action game that matches and in some ways, exceeds 
 the cinematic carnage of the Max Payne series. As action games go, there is little in Stranglehold 
 that you haven't seen before. Its lack of originality is forgivable though, when you consider that 
 it is a successor to Hard Boiled, the Hong Kong action film that largely inspired the Max Payne 
 series and many other games. It is especially forgivable when you see how well the game succeeds 
 on a lot of levels, like its terrific style and spectacularly destructible environments. It has 
 a few flaws, but it is a solid action game, and a fine addition to your collection if you are a 
 fan of the genre.
  
  Stranglehold follows the story of Inspector Tequila, the main character in Hard Boiled. The story 
 in the game isn't connected to the film, and it's not necessary to watch the movie to understand 
 what happens in the game. If you did see the movie, you will appreciate how faithful the game is 
 to the movie in its style. The movie had numerous destructive shootouts where environments would 
 be shredded to pieces, bodies would drop by the dozens, and flying debris would fill the air. The 
 action heroes of the movie performed all sorts of slow-motion acrobatic feats while double-fisting 
 guns. The game follows this formula perfectly. As Inspector Tequila, you will constantly find yourself 
 diving sideways, diving forwards, and performing all sorts of other breathtaking moves while you 
 mow down waves of enemies with uzis, pistols, and the other typical weapons of the genre. All the 
 while, glass shatters, fruit explodes, cars explode, wood splinters, statues crumble, pillars fall 
 over, and tiles fly off of walls. Stranglehold is a rare example of successful collaboration between 
 the movie world and the game world.
  
  The game matches the feel of the Hard Boiled, and it is very easy on the eyes, even though it is 
 not perfect. The visuals don't sport the same level of polish found in top-notch Unreal 3 engine 
 games like Gears of War and Mass Effect. The faces don't look quite as good, the animation isn't 
 quite as smooth, and there are other bits and pieces that aren't perfect. The game makes up for 
 its visual shortcomings though with some nice artwork and a huge variety of colorful environments. 
 Stranglehold's visual design is 180 degrees different from almost every other prominent Unreal 
 3 game. Instead of washing an endless series of rooms in grays and earth colors, this game makes 
 full use of a color palette in both indoor and outdoor areas. Simply finding out what kind of room 
 you will be shooting up next is often enough to entice you to play through to the next level.
 
  
  The action in Stranglehold is facilitated by fantastic use of the Havok physics engine. Almost 
 everything in every environment is destructible, a vastly underappreciated feat that has only been 
 matched by Crysis. Environments are the most interactive and realistic to date. Stranglehold's 
 environments don't just include the usual handful of destructible or movable objects in an indestructible 
 shell like most games. In Stranglehold, almost everything that you can see or touch will break 
 if a bullet is fired at it. It is a feature that gives every firefight a destructive edge rarely 
 seen in any action game. One of the fun parts of this game is surveying the room after a firefight 
 and seeing all of the damage that has been done.
  
  The destructible environments also affect gameplay. Many levels have enemies staged directly under 
 gigantic heavy objects, such as neon signs and boulders. By shooting the supports for those objects, 
 you can cause them to come crashing down on top of the poor unfortunate souls. It's not a brand 
 new idea, but it is put to excellent use, and it fits into the game perfectly. Cover is often destructible 
 too, and that also has a major effect upon the game. Try hiding behind a pillar or a table, and 
 chances are, within a few seconds, your cover will be chewed to pieces. Stranglehold isn't a tactical 
 affair. It's an ultra violent romp. One exciting boss battle pits you in a room against a meathead 
 with a machine gun that you have to defeat by constantly running from cover point to cover point. 
 As the fight progresses, the pillars and even the floors on the second level practically melt under 
 the hail of bullets, and by the end there is almost nowhere left to hide. It is one of the more 
 interesting boss battles that I have played in recent memory.
  
  Environments are highly interactive, allowing you to pull off all sorts of outlandish cinematic 
 moves. You can shoot enemies while swinging from a chandelier or wield twin uzis while you ride 
 a pushcart on your stomach. The game encourages you to pull off these moves by giving you bonus 
 points for stylish kills. This carrot-and-stick mechanic isn't complicated, but it is very effective.
 
  
  The shootouts in the game would have been nearly perfect were it not for a couple of flaws. One 
 of these flaws is that the audio for the weapons is really weak, and in general, none of them feel 
 like they pack much of a punch. One of the defining traits of a great shooter like Call of Duty 
 4 or F. E. A. R. is great weapon sounds. Great sound effects give firefights an intense, visceral 
 feel  a feel that is sorely missing in Stranglehold. The shotgun and the assault rifle lack the 
 resounding "boom" or "crack" make these weapons sound powerful. They feel more like toys  albeit 
 toys that can reduce a well furnished room to rubble in a couple of minutes. In addition, most 
 of the enemies that you fight are simplistic, repetitive fodder that either stands in one place 
 and shoots at you or rushes right at you. They spawn all over the place in nearly endless waves 
 and the levels sometimes overstay their welcome. The boss battles are satisfying, but the other 
 thousand enemies that you fight could have used more variety. The game is also very short, clocking 
 in at 6 hours or less for most gamers.
  
  Stranglehold is a successful Hollywood-to-games crossover that will be enjoyable for "Hard Boiled" 
 movie fans and action game fans alike. It may seem like it is derivative, or a ripoff of Max Payne, 
 but that is because it is emulating the movies that have led to "bullet time" and other conventions 
 in action games. With its stylish and destructible environments, the game actually rises a notch 
 above an ordinary shooter. In a world full of crummy action movie game tie-ins, Stranglehold is 
 a welcome and underappreciated success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlarlia
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Este domingo nos jugamos una parada importantsima en Tucumn, ante el ascendido San Martn, en 
 La Ciudadela.
  Este 21 de septiembre en cancha de San Martn nos mediremos ante el local en el marco de la sptima 
 jornada del torneo local, con el arbitraje de Javier Collado. El encuentro comenzar a las 16.20 
 horas.
  
  
  Con pocos partidos en River, la experiencia adquirida en Europa lo lleva a hacer un balance del 
 equipo, tras la derrota ante Vlez del mircoles pasado. 
  
  El ex defensor de Wolfsburgo de Alemania reconoci que "nosotros tenemos nuestra autocrtica, como 
 el cuerpo tcnico tambin lo har. Tenemos una semana para trabajar y salir de este momento".
 
  
  "Este fin de semana tendremos una revancha y esperamos aprovecharla", agreg el marcador central, 
 quien en referencia al juego consider que "a veces no sabemos interpretarlo pero vamos a poner 
 todas las armas en cancha para estar en la lucha".
  
  Por ltimo, el defensor mostr un destello de esperanza al reconocer que "tenemos un plantel competitivo 
 que ya demostr lo que puede dar el semestre pasado. Quedan varios partidos por delante y vamos 
 a mejorar".
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold for the PC was a great looking game and was fun to play too. The game was too hard 
 though. The multiplayer was cheap because I took a while to get good guns so if you got good guns 
 on the first round and then while their dead you could get more ammo and more special bar so when 
 they come back with their pistols you have a heavy machinegun and you make yourself invincible 
 and blast them in the face repeatedly. I'll now explain the special bar. You have a special bar 
 which you get up by killing guys or by collecting these little origami birds. If you have  a special 
 bar you can do a sniper shot which basically lets you zoom in in slow motion and shoot someone. 
 If you shoot them in the nuts they'll clench their groin in pain lol. If you have  a special bar 
 you can heal yourself. If you have  a special bar you can do barrage which is where you go invincible 
 shoot really fast and have unlimited ammo for a short time. If you have a shotgun this allows you 
 to shoot your shotgun really fast and this is super deadly. And finally if you have a full special 
 bar you can do a spin and anyone that can see you is dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  be ready for: guns guns guns!!!! lots of shooting!! lots of non-stop action in STRANGLEHOLD PC 
 GAME
  
  ok so this game is really like max payne.. max payne was really awesome game one of the best and 
 this game is really like MAX PAYNE.. only that here you are a kung fu cop and way better graphics 
 its really awesome!! 
  
  also you got that great slow-mo and everything in the game can be broken its so cool!! so much 
 action in one game...
  
  the sounds are also really good screaming and visual effects are awesome
  
  and again: "THIS 
 GAME IS AWESOME AND WORTH PLAYING"
  
  the only problem in this game is that: "to short" after one day of non-stop playing you can finish 
 this game
  
  i really hate short games its suck...
  
  anyway if you see this game remember: WORTH BUYING
  
  this game is awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The new advancements in graphic cards and rendering technology needs to be used by game developers. 
 Stranglehold did this by developing a high quality graphic game. In the game you play a Hong Kong 
 cop which goes through adventures to find his wife and daughter. It is fair to say that Stranglehold 
 is much like Gears of War. The main difference is their action genre. Stranglehold used real weapons 
 and real characters but Gears of War instead employed sci-fi firearms and beasts. In fact the graphics 
 are incomparable. The graphics in Stranglehold is awesome. Every object in the seen can be moved. 
 You can tear apart a building column by shooting at it. Everything looks realistic. 
  
  You also have slow-mo features which was earlier introduced in Max Payne. you can slow down time 
 to have more accuracy or dodge bullets. you also have four special abilities which can be used 
 during combat. These abilities are heal, precision aim, rapid fire and spin attack. The mixture 
 of these actions with normal movements gives you a great game experience.
  
  The drawback is that there is no special tactics involved. Enemy comes in front of you and start 
 thing is predictable. Enemies shooting at you. The AI is very poor. The enemies do not use cover 
 much and only stand in front of your character and shoot at you. This is how the game starts to 
 become boring. If the developers focused more on some game semantics rather than high graphics, 
 I think they could develop more interesting game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shootn
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  When i started palying i started to think wow this game really reminded me of something. At first 
 i couldnt get what it reminded me of until i seen a advertisement on the internet. I had seen a 
 add for the new max payne movie with Mark Whalberg. I thought yea thats what this reminded me of 
 was a max payne game. The precision shot made me think of the sniper.
  Also the m4 made me think of the old days of a good pc game. i just gotta say this game is a must 
 get. I have only had it for 3 days and it has been a long 3 playing it off on hard first. If i 
 were to recomend this game it would be a definite yes. Just make sure your rig is set up to run 
 it. It takes 2 gb of memory to run. Im lucky i got 3, with a 8800 gt. Can't wait for max payne 
 3.
  Only thing is no one plays multiplayer anymore. Wanted to play someone online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Frankly after playing quite a few 1st and 3rd person shooter games lately, I was reluctant to give 
 Stranglehold a try at first if not for Chow Yun Fatt, I have always been a big fan of him since 
 the early 90s but sad to say that this game while having of packs cinematic action, is unlikely 
 going to grip you till the end.
  
  The story was told to begin after the happenings of the movie 'Hard Boiled' with supercop Tequila 
 once again creating havoc, defying superior's order and using his own methods to deal with crooks. 
 The in-game graphics are great but the facial expressions doesn't look too fluid although they 
 still manage to resemble their real-life counterparts. Stranglehold, like other 3rd person shooter 
 games has it's own focus point which is executing slow motion stunts and maneuvers including sliding 
 down the railings of a staircase and dive shooting, basically the old skool effects of any gun 
 fight action movies particularly in Hard Boiled where these effects were based on. Throughout the 
 game, you will have to execute all these 'cool effects' especially in the later part to earn yourself 
 points so that you can utilize other perks like going into sharpshooter mode, health recovery and 
 mad dog mode where you go into a short burst of invincible mode... etc
  
  In between missions, you will sometimes be introduced to a short cut scene with Chow surrounded 
 by 4 to 5 crooks. This is another mode of the game where you will take returning shots in a stationary 
 position while ducking their bullets in slow motion by pressing the left and right key. You can 
 also do fake movements to cheat them into firing the wrong direction but will only be allowed a 
 few seconds to deal with each crook and after which you will get shot if you fail to kill him.
 
  
  Initially, it was fun with all the slow motion crazy action busting up crooks in highly destructible 
 environment. However, as the game progressed, it became a hassle to execute those stunts repeatedly 
 in order to get things done. It starts to feel redundant as you do it for the sake of benefiting 
 from it and many times unnecessary dives could also make you and Chow looks stupid especially when 
 enemies can be taken down just by shooting them in stationary positions. When the game gradually 
 gets more difficult after mission 4 or 5, that's when you really need to fully utilize all the 
 perks to beat it which means you constantly have to be aware of how you take down enemies and not 
 just plain duck and shoot.
  
  Overall, Stranglehold may be cool to look at, but the excessive slow mo action makes the game looks 
 rather immature. Get it only if you are a Chow fan and like arcard-style game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnz-hm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Scenarios falling apart with each bullet fired. Amazing voice acting. Insane history.
  
  Although many would complain about the fact of this game being either short or repetitive. It's 
 an awesome sequel to the acclaimed Hard Boiled film. It's short. Direct and mind blowing with the 
 twists the plot presents as you go by in the game.
  
  Pros: Intensive lightning effects. Shooting/Bullets effects. Awesome plot. Amazing voice acting 
 and voice/actor casting (Chow Fun Fat ftw!) . Cool-as-hell tequila bomb moves. Doesn't have to reload 
 (24/7 shooting streak action game) .
  
  Cons: Way too repetitive (some might say) . A few control issues (very few) . Too short (although 
 I think it was just right. Short as an action game/movie flick should be) .
  
  May be short. But it's still awesome. Just as an true action movie flick has to be. Although beware. 
 This game is recommended to only hardcore fans of action movies/games. And most of all. Fans of 
 Hard Boiled and/or John Woo's films.
  
  Despite all of it's flaws. I give a sharp 10 to this game. I LOVED it!
  
  (Try playing it on 
 Hard Boiled difficulty.. haha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohaib_bacha7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold is a very intense and cleverly created game which puts the player in the boots of 
 Chow Yun-Fat AKA Inspector Tequila. This Game Offers Players With A Wide Atmosphere and Adrenaline-Pumping 
 Gameplay. Players Can Choose From A Wide Range of Weapons From Pump-Action Shotguns To Dual Barrels. Players 
 Are allowed to benefit from a range of Impressive Stunts To Cleverly Take out their Enemies. The 
 "Tequila-Time" mode allows players to slow down the gameplay and shoot at their enemies with great 
 precision. The Graphics of The game Are Very Good especially in terms of the atmosphere as it really 
 brings the game to life. High Quality Shaders Are Used To Create Life-like Effects On Most Of The 
 Objects In The Game. The Physics Of The Game Are Unreal. Players Can Also Destroy The Surroundings 
 Of The Game Which Makes It more Realistic. The Storyline Of The Game Follows On From The Prequel, 
 "Hard Boiled", And is very Intense And Dramatic. I Found This Game To Be A Good One And Enjoyed 
 Playing It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Playing only through the demo in all difficulty levels, I got an average to good impression of 
 this game. It's a lot of fun using the "Tequila Time" and shooting while doing some acrobatics 
 to not get shot, and use the destructible environment to your advantage (like shooting an neon 
 sign to it fall down and smash one clueless enemy) . But the game seems to resume to this only. 
 It's almost like "shoot everything that moves" genre. 
  
  The Demo don't give much clues about the story (some Hong Kong cop was killed and Officer Tequila 
 went down to investigate and lay waste to the gang) nor about the weapons (only three: your standard 
 dual pistols, a shotgun and golden dual pistols, that would kill any foe with one single shot) , 
 but there's is plenty of frantic action and one can get a glimpse of Tequila's special moves (or 
 Tequila Bombs) that may help in nastier situations.
  
  The Demos also do not let the user choose any configuration about video (resolution, level of detail 
 and textures, wide screen) nor audio, so it gives a pixelated impression of an outdated engine. 
 Nevertheless, the controls are quite smooth and the demonstration version delivers a couple of 
 hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  Loved this game as I loved Overdose and Max Payne. It is repetitve no doubt abotu it but... with 
 difficulty level set to hard you can really enjoy it. Enviroment interaction is in great level... blowing 
 almost everyting apart gives you really satisfying gameplay exerience. Tequila moves another part 
 that basically gives some glomour to the game. Amazing explosion effects, specially when you tear 
 apart the drug tables which then cause big f up explosion leading to whole drug nest to be blown 
 apart. 
  
  Some "I am coolest guy in the world" attitude as usual by Co Yun Fat... gives another specific taste 
 to the game. Simulation of the movie not much but quiet satisfying as you forgot everyting around 
 you and just start to blow everyting appart.
  
  The best Tequila Move - Barrage time.... man you then feel the power of shotgun... that strikes everyting 
 in your way. Marvelous!
  
  Enjoy it, I am sure you will do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  I haven't seen a game that noticed to all detail of game But this happened in Stranglehold. Really 
 Stranglehold is a masterwork.
  You shoot to wall and wall brokes , then shoot to broken wall and it brokes again ! You can shoot 
 until a wall converts to a little things ! In Stranglehold you find out to nice characters , nice 
 game play , nice fights a GunGunGun ! When you start the game you will see a beautiful mainmenu. 
 I believe that Stranglehold's mainmenu is one ! In the game you will see nice moving and action 
 moves. You will enjoy from gun fights and in other gun fights you have no times to breathe and 
 only must notice to enemy possition and kill 
  them ! Stranglehold is not a easy game that you can spend it very fast and also is not a hard game 
 that you stay in some levels. Ofcourse I saw two infirmitys in this game. First : some gun fights 
 are very longer and maybe tire you and Second : they didn't made Reload action for guns ! So you 
 can shoot all you'r gun's ammo once ! maybe reason is that Stranglehold is a action movies game 
 and you must kill enemys fast. But I think that this inattention make this game a little unnatural. I 
 muse ! why they didn't made 
  Reload action as they made all detail of game ! You can use 4 action powers in game to kill enemys 
 , they designed them very good.
  Totally I believe that Stranglehold is one in its mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - Graphically, the presentation is a little drab, I found that the game 
  - Frame rates, are very stable at high resolution, and at the available high quality settings.
 
  - The environment is pretty destructible, and offers some really progressive effects to the areas 
 falling apart.
  
  
  Audio / Sound:
  - The gunfire, explosions, and voices was decent, the audio was not its high point, but definitely 
 not the lowest either.
  - The voice acting is expected from a Hong Kong based action series, the English is meant to be 
 bad, and Chow Yun Fat and the whole cast should receive an award for accomplishing the task with 
 flying colors.
  
  
  Game Play:
  *Single Player:
  - The single player campaign is short and pretty linear, of course you approach of attack can be 
 altered; you will pretty much taking the same paths to ultimately the same endgame. The story took 
 me about 2  3 hours straight to complete.
  - The title demonstrates a nice amount of destructible atmosphere, buildings and scenery crumble 
 with the more explosive activity, and the environment can be used against your adversaries.
  - You will get the ability of bullet-time, ("Tequila Time") , among other unique abilities to get 
 a further edge on your enemies.
  - The games enemies will come off a bit bone-headed, so the challenge I found was contending with 
 the sheer numerical advantage.
  - The story itself is basically a part two of the movie Hardboiled by John Woo; it's a decent storyline 
 of action, and intrigue. Unfortunately, the game would've been better used to create the movie. 
 
  
  
  *Multiplayer:
  - Multiplayer is very confined, all the maps even though destructible is still a very claustrophobic, 
 intimate combat experience. 
  - The number of players in a fight is few, unfortunately this ties in how many players are available 
 to play which at the time of this writing is none. So if you are going to play, you can probably 
 expect to play with yourself.
  - The multiplayer really just seems to be tacked on.
  
  
  Additional Thoughts:
  - In my opinion your money would be better not spent to buy this game 
 if you have played any of the previous Matrix titles or Max Payne you are going to going to have 
 a feeling of dj vu. 
  - The game itself is well made, my complaint overall it needed more, the story was too short, the 
 multiplayer is just not enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aco1986
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The game graphics looks perfect. Especially i like some effects as: when playing on stage with rain 
 the jacket of Tequilla-chow yun fat looks very realistic, the character face animations and the 
 chow yun fat in game character has been done very realistic some of stages look great too (musem, vlad 
 stage, etc.) The gameplay feels like that of max payne but is far better for example you can run 
 over table walk on various objects and of corse shoot from these positions. In each stage the are 
 Origami cranes to collect. They bring some extras. You can than refill helath or use on of three 
 gun em up special effects. you can unlock bonuses also in main menu (like multiplayer player skins, making 
 of videos and artwork) . To complete game you need about 6 -10 hours but its worth it giving in 
 another try with oder difficult settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride_of_Hiigar
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  A game directed by John Woo, wouldn't be too bad however stranglehold is one of those running around 
 crazy shoot'em ups that makes you want more. As you play into the game it gets boring since there 
 are only a few cool moves and they aren't helpful as staying alive is concerned. The game isn't 
 all that bad, stranglehold makes good use of the unreal engine, making the game really explosive 
 and fun. 
  
  As the game feels almost like a rip-off of Max Payne, but it ain't all that Max Payneish, you take 
 the role of a vigilante cop named Tequila (Chow Yun Fat) whose father-in-law is a kingpin in the 
 Chinese Mafia, and who doesn't mind killing his own grand-daughter. 
  
  During the game you get style points which fill up the Tequila gauge. This gauge can be used to 
 execute some powers. The first one is Healing which comes in to loads of use. The second is Aim, 
 which allows you to make one precision shot, this is useful for taking out snipers. The third is 
 barrage, this "power" changes Tequila into a Lord of the Ring's Berserker, making him have infinity 
 ammo and health, don't get happy because this just lasts for 20 seconds or so. The final power 
 is real fun to use. Tequila spins around shooting in all directions and magically every-one drops 
 down dead. 
  
  The game had a good fast paced game, however didn't have a strong story and as way too short, but 
 as a fun arcade-like shot'em up its great!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of John Woo films for a long time. I remember the distinct flavour of a Jhoon 
 Woo film. It was complete and utter crap the things they were doing in the film, but it looked 
 cooland was a thrill to watch. The same goes for playing Stranglehold. If you sat back and actually 
 looked at what this "tequila" dude was doin, you would say that it is impossible. However, when 
 actually playing the game, all those reservations go out the window. It is just heaps of fun to 
 play. The way you can go into bullet time just by running up some stairs or initiating a dive is 
 a lot of fun, and adds to the game heaps. You forget that all this jumping and runiing up poles 
 defies the laws of physics, but it dosent matter. The gameplay is your standard run nd gun shooter, 
 with a few diffrences. The "focus" mode is cool, following the bullet right to the point of contact. 
 The agro spin around shooting move is really just there to help you out of the situations where 
 you just have too many guys around you and you need to clear the room. The standoff scenes, where 
 you have like 5 guys around you and you need to dodge the bullets and shoot them, adds a bit of 
 variety to the mix. These instances are placed well through the game, with it all semmingly changing 
 with each level. There are a few problems though. The lack of ammo around can be a bit of a pain, 
 as well as the chechpoint saves. You will end up doing the same part over and over, guranteed. 
 That is while it lasts. It is very short. I only got 15hrs out of the game and that was making 
 sure I didnt miss anything and soaked in all the scenery and stuff like that. You could do it 10hrs 
 easy. Its a shae, beause right at the end of the game I felt that it was just kicking into second 
 gear, then bam, its over. This is a good game to kill a few hours with. Dont expect epic storylines 
 otr anuthing like that, its a throwback to simpler times. I enjoyed it, the graphics are best on 
 PC, but it still looks dated. The length was a real dissapointment and the multiplayer lacks any 
 depth to make you come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  
  This game deserves a 7 according to my marking system, but I will give it 6.5 because of a few 
 disappointing reasons. I have just played Assassin's Creed without any trouble. Then I started 
 playing stranglehold which came out earlier. I played Assassins Creed on 1280 x 1024 and for some 
 reason I could not change to this resolution in stranglehold, so I had to play it at a lower resolution. 
 Nontheless, the game was still lagging when videos were played. It is simply too opressive in terms 
 of specs. 
  
  The storyline is very very simple and already worn out a million times. 
  
  The game is short and is has no substance other than simple point and shoot routine. For those 
 who value shoot 'em up style geames greatly, this will be a much better game, but I look a bit 
 more immersivness in the game. For example Gears of War game was also simple shooting but it had 
 a better feel than stranglehold. 
  
  The reason why the game demands such high specs is because you can interact with almost any object. 
 If you shoot pretty much anything it will fall apart. You can slide on tables breaking plates and 
 other stuff on it. It is quite fun to do a bit of shooting like this, but I have to say that even 
 as a simple shooter it did not reach its potential, one reason being that there are simply too 
 many enemies coming out from everywhere so it gets a bit confusing and repetitive. 
  
  As you probably imagine by now, sneaking or anything of that sort is impossible. 
  
  The game 
 is linear and you have level upon level and no fun apart from the old fashioned way game style 
 appeal. 
  
  So, overall, if you have a good machine and can play this game it is still probable that the graphics 
 you see will be nothing special, just ordinary at most. That's a big drawbck. Secondly, this is 
 just a shooting game, plain and simple, shoot and move on, absolutely nothing else. It is worth 
 playing if you have nothing else to play and are bored or if you absolutely love this type of games. 
 I like this type of games but I don't love them and I also expect the developers to add that x 
 factors in. Here they didn't.
  
  
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is impressive but I wish it reached more and I am sad at a missed opportunity 
 - still a good game though. 
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold was released way back in September, 2007 during the "Flood of Games" phenomenon. The 
 PC version was met with shock due to the extremely high system requirements (higher then Crysis) 
 where a minimum Intel Core 2 Duo, 2 GB RAM, 15 GB HD, and a Geforce 7800/ATI Radeon X1300 was needed. 
 Fortunately, the game runs very way once you meet these requirements; those with older PC's can 
 rent the console versions if you wanna check it out. Stranglehold is the video game sequel to John 
 Woo's 1992 Hong Kong action film, Hard Boiled, starring Chow-Yun Fat. Fat provides the voice of 
 his original character, Tequila with Woo making a cameo appearance. The story is all right, nothing 
 to write home about. The main reason to play this game is the action and its incredibly over the 
 top featuring tons of loud explosions. You can enter into slow mo (like Max Payne) called Tequila 
 Time and you have 4 special moves that you activate with the number keys to pull off visually impressive 
 combos (especially the spin attack) . The physics engine is revolutionary, everything breaks and 
 the environment is fully destructible with debris flying everywhere when you engage in furious 
 shoot outs. The graphics are rendered with the Unreal Engine 3.0 and everything has a colorful, 
 vibrant look, though the lighting is somewhat overused. The voice acting is all right and the sounds 
 of gun battles will rattle your room with the volume turned up. The difficulty increases quickly 
 so some people might be frustrated during the gun battles of the final chapter. The game is incredibly 
 short, only 7 chapters that averages out to maybe 8 hours, 10 at most since you'll most likely 
 die... a lot. Overall, this is pretty action packed game and the PC version is only 30 bucks now 
 provided you meet the extreme requirements. If you don't, pick up or rent the console version and 
 blast away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diako_lorddm
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  This game promised alot, and was simply one of the games I ever wanted. I have followed it since 
 I first heard it announced early 2005, and with the earliest trailers and such. I love Chow Yun 
 Fat and John Woo . I cant stress that enough. But unless you arent bored of the demos this game 
 can get kind of boring from times to time. 
  
  There are many things needed in this game, such as more guns, reloading ( as it does help gameplay 
 to keep shooting, it gets boring and less satisfying.) And some sort of break in the action for 
 some stealth or skillfull shooting.
  
  Features Stranglehold allows gamers to play a John Woo directed action blockbuster movie. dual-wielding, 
 stunt-laden gunplay combined with massive destructible environments ensures that Stranglehold will 
 be a true tour-de-force. The environmental interactivity and two-fisted gunplay all come online, 
 bringing the experience to a whole new level. Gamers will experience smooth flowing gameplay, such 
 as running up railings, swinging on chandeliers and leaping onto moving objects, all without interrupting 
 intense gun battles. Featuring the cinematic flare of acclaimed action director John Woo, Stranglehold 
 will also benefit from Woo's direction on storyline, camera placement and cutscenes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Cinematic gameplay
  Amazing visuals
  Top-notch voice acting
  Chow Yun Fat and John Woo
  
  The Bad:
  A little on the short side
  Combat gets repetitive
 
  So-so multiplayer
  Needs more weapons
  
  John Woo is a legend in action cinema. Chow Yun Fat is equally famous for his roles in action movies. 
 Now they're applying their talents to video games, and this end result is one of the best action 
 games in a long time.
  
  Stranglehold stars Chow as Inspector Tequila. The same character made famous in the Chinese action 
 film "Hard Boiled." A cop has been murdered in Hong Kong, and it's up to Tequila to get to the 
 bottom of a conspiracy that involves several Chinese gangs, the Russian mob in Chicago, and a long 
 lost love.
  
  GAMEPLAY  8
  Stranglehold will draw immediate comparisons to the Max Payne series. But while the games are similar 
 in gameplay style, Stranglehold surpasses Max Payne in nearly every way. And considering the Max 
 Payne series owes it's very existence to the works of John Woo as inspiration, the claims that 
 Stranglehold is a Max Payne rip-off are unfounded. That's like saying the Ford Model T is a rip-off 
 of the Toyota Tundra.
  
  The controls are simple, yet allow for a great deal of freedom. Stranglehold plays a lot like most 
 shooters, but what really makes a difference are Tequila Time and Tequila Bombs. Leaping through 
 the air while aiming at an enemy activates Tequila Time, but it can also be turned on manually. 
 This slows down time, which allows you to more easily dodge bullets and fire more accurately.
 
  
  Tequila Bombs are special moves that are activated by pressing the D-pad. These moves become available 
 as you perform stylish kills. Such as shooting multiple enemies at a time, or using the environment 
 to kill them. These moves include heal, precision shot that lets you shoot distance enemies for 
 a one hit kill, barrage that makes you quickly fire off an entire clip of ammo while taking little 
 damage, and spin attack that kills every enemy in the room. These moves are very cool to see, and 
 add a nice level of fun and strategy to the game.
  
  Even though there are some great cinematic moments, the combat can get repetitive quickly. This 
 is mainly due to the fact that all enemies act the same way, and there are only a handful of weapons. 
 All the enemies will stand still while trying to shoot you, and rarely take cover from your shots. 
 They're all killed in the same way too: just shoot them until they're dead. There's no tactics 
 for different types of enemies. Several soldiers appear later in the game with bulletproof vests, 
 but instead of having to shoot them in the head or limbs; a shot to the chest will still take them 
 out.
  
  You'll also come across your standard set of shooter weapons: pistols, SMG's, shotguns, assault 
 rifles, etc. While the smaller guns can be duel-wielded, they all do the same amount of damage. 
 Meaning that the gun you use is more of a choice of personal preference and what's available than 
 strategy.
  
  GRAPHICS  10
  Visually, Stranglehold is one of the best looking games on the 360. The character models are superb, 
 and Chow Yun Fat looks just how like he does in real life. The characters show real emotion on 
 their faces. Until now, games had focused more on voice acting than visual acting. Stranglehold 
 looks to be a positive step to making this more commonplace. The character animations are also 
 great. Rag doll physics are very well done, and again give that great cinematic feel.
  
  While the level design is linear, and somewhat bland, the way in which they're presented is really 
 top-notch. Environments are almost completely destructible. Hide behind a pillar, and enemies will 
 shoot at the pillar disintegrating it in the process. Other things like fruit baskets, walls, and 
 furniture will explode in dramatic fashion when shot at. I really can't find anything major to 
 fault the game on in the visual department.
  
  SOUND  9
  Sound wise, Stranglehold is nearly perfect. As you would expect, voice acting is top-notch. Even 
 the minor characters come across beautifully. This, combined with the facial acting, gives the 
 game that one-of-a-kind feel. As far as acting goes, there's nothing else out there like Stranglehold.
 
  
  Rarely do I mention sound effects, but they should be noted as something to write home about. I 
 mentioned that everything looks great when shot at, well they also sound great. Gunshots have a 
 nice loud effect, enemies scream in pain when shot, and objects sound very realistic when shot.
 
  
  My only gripe is the music. There's very little to speak of. You'll hear the occasional Chinese 
 drums when a battle ends, but nothing during the actual battle. Not even during boss fights. Which 
 is a shame considering how well done all the other sound effects are.
  
  VALUE  8
  Stranglehold is a short game. Most gamers can beat it on normal in less than 8 hours. There are 
 only 7 levels, and they suffer from some pacing issues. The second level really dragged on a lot 
 longer than it should have, while other levels that are a lot of fun are over too quickly.
  
  There's multiplayer, but it's nothing special. It's the same repetitive combat from the single 
 player except you're fighting your buddies. It's not bad, but it's not going to hold your interest 
 for long.
  
  The achievements are surprising well balanced, and even fun to unlock. My favorite is where you 
 have to kill 307 people in online matches. This is the number of people that were killed in the 
 movie "Hard Boiled." The higher difficulty settings are very challenging, but most players wont 
 have the patience to play through 7 levels of getting their ass handed to them.
  
  Overall, Stranglehold is an amazing game. It really pushes the limits on what is possible in a 
 video game, and gives a unique movie-like experience. It's fairly standard in terms of gameplay 
 and replay value, but if you love action movies these flaws are easily overlooked. Maybe not a 
 game that you'd want to own, but well worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I love John Woo movies. I've dreamed of jumping on a push cart to blast all the baddies Tequila 
 style. But never would I have thought that putting these elements into a game would be so difficult.
 
  
  The good:
  
  The action is very intense at certain points of the game and the Tequila gauge system has some 
 nifty abilities.
  
  The bosses are "Hollywood style" over the top.
  
  Some of the stages have exquisite detail. I loved the docks and the restaurant levels.
  
  The 
 bad:
  
  The voice acting is bearable but it felt unemotional (and not very well paced) . Maybe the "bad 
 ass cop who doesn't play by the rules" routine restricted the scriptwriters from bringing out the 
 fullness of the characters (I'm comparing this to Hard Boiled and a whole host of Chow's old films) .
 
  
  I predicted the twist about 1/5 through the game which spoiled a lot of the later story telling 
 (I swear I didn't read a faq, I watch a lot of cop movies) .
  
  The mandatory cinematic sequence for a lot of the tequila gauge moves get really "grating" at times. 
 It ruins the pace of battles. Also the final Tequila ability plays this tune that totally doesn't 
 fit action (too calm; maybe melodramatic is a bit much) . One ability that makes the game too easy 
 is the healing ability.
  
  It's very hard to implement "diving onto the push cart and blow everyone away" and I thought the 
 sliding on the rails while blasting everyone was a waste of "Tequila Time" when most of the enemies 
 are easy enough to dispatch normally.
  
  Some the in-game objectives like destroying the drug tables felt like completing a list of chores 
 because the AI was so predictable.
  
  The enemies are really dumb (just cannon fodder) and the developers tried to compensate for that 
 by having them infinitely respawn. I wished the later level bosses were a little smarter (they 
 seem to be trapped in the levels, sticking to one place) . I remember sniping the last boss and 
 chucking a bunch of grenades at him to kill him without him being able to retaliate (the boss fight 
 was a let down) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a spin off from Max Payne 2 but this game is much much better then the original making 
 it the best out of Max Payne 1 and 2. Graphics are better and it seems like Max Payne hasn't been 
 continuing their sequel so this is by far the best. You have special skills you can do and slow 
 down time, Everywhere you shoot on a person will give them complete different reactions making 
 it seem realistic. The AI's reactions are really awesome when shooting them in certain areas and 
 each level has been sooo well designed. Turn a casino into a complete wreck and watch money spill 
 out of the machines when you blow them up. People whining that its a copy of Max Payne are right 
 but shouldn't just grade it on that since Max Payne hasn't continued their sequel. I'm giving this 
 game a 9.0 since its so well developed and so many cool things were added in there the original 
 Max Payne didn't have. Like blur Effects nicer looking bullet tracks sliding and ect. This game 
 is a must for all action lovers, this shows how action games should be built in future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuruca
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold looks like a good game but it has a lot of negative things. if you ask me what are 
 these;
  
  -AI is a cruel joke
  -It doen't look like it's directed by a famous director, the story is crap.
  -Your daughter is 
 kidnapped and you go to a place near ocean and blow up drug tables? what the point?
  -7 levels,6 hours of single player.
  -Multiplayer is a joke. But i don't think you can find someone 
 to try it.
  -Destructable enviroment. Yes you can damage everything but seriosly since when you shoot a coke 
 machine with a gun and it turned into pieces?
  -There are 6-7 different weapons in the game which is very frustrating.
  
  the positive things? 
 sorry; only one thing.
  
  -Gameplay ;yes it's the only fun thing. you jump do different moves and kill the guys. also the 
 combo moves are nice.
  
  
  In the overall Stranglehold has a crap and a very short storyline, crap multiplayer, average graphics (but 
 i have to admit that face models are nice) , the stupidest AI you can see in a game, 
  
  i would give the game a 6.7 if it's possible but i'll select 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InternetDJ
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I noticed how it resembled "Max Payne". For instance, in 
 both games you get to play a Detective who's family has been murdered, and now it is up to you 
 to take revenge. Time also slows down in this one, but it's called "Tequila "Time", and in "Max 
 Payne", it was called "Bullet Time". While this game was fun to play, it's not with out a crashing 
 bug, about half way through Gameplay. When I experienced the first crash, that was not too bad, 
 but when it kept happening on a constant basis, yeah, frustrating to say the least. Downloading 
 and installing new videocard drivers, the only patch on the stranglehold website, etc did not fix 
 the crashing issue. I notified tech support, and informed them of the problem. They we're helpful, 
 even they could not understand why it was doing this. Overall, this game did have potential, but 
 I cannot recommend it to anyone who may be of intrest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Who doesn't like action, violence & things blowing up? Jack Thompson? Maybe he's the only one. I just 
 happened to play Max Payne , & later Max Payne 2 ,& I enjoyed them very very much. Why? Because of 
 the great graphics, destroyable environments, great sound effects, very interesting story but most 
 important: intense shootouts with bullet-time ability (a great effect that slowed down the world 
 & enamies & let Max dive sideways while shooting & avoiding bullets) . So, other producers liked the 
 bullet time too, so they made clones of Max Payne. One is Total Overdose, a funny & relaxing game 
 where Max Payne meets GTA in Mexico, with a lot of other abilities & improved controls, but the game 
 was not a special one. Than 2 years ago came El Matador, an atmospheric shooter with great graphics/sound, 
 bullet time & FEAR's Slow-Mo, but without any good story.& it was short. Hellish short, I finished 
 it in 4 hours.& with cheats, because it was impossible to pass it without. Now John Woo took Tequilla 
 into a game made by Midway, & promised great graphics (Unreal Engine 3) , the most intense action 
 game ever created, featuring the best environmental destruction engine ever seen. To tell you the 
 truth, he's done everything he promised...
  
  Graphics-9/10
  
  They're absolutely stunning. The characters, the environment, everything is well designed & textured, I 
 can't complain. Than the physics engine, Havok, optimized very well,& that massive destruction is 
 impressive. Not every level is completely destroyable, but most of them are. Everything blowing, falling, 
 shattered glass & broken walls everywhere, it's just fantastic. The graphics surely don't exceed 
 Crysis, but the physic engine gets close. Very close.
  
  Sound-8/10
  
  Not as great as the graphics, but good enough. The first thing that's awesome is the soundtrack-maybe 
 one of the best ones I've ever heard. The voice acting is very OK, but the other sound effects (gunshots 
 mainly) are not very good.
  
  Gameplay-8.5/10
  
  Well, it's Max Payne all the way. It involves shooting chinese & russians, so nothing very special. Good 
 controls though, when you get near a table or similar surfaces you slide across them, automatically 
 enter slow-mo & start shooting chinese/russians. Simple. You can climb objects that blink in white 
 (yeah they include huge dinosaur skeletons) , you can swing on chandeleers & other stuff like this. Why 
 not do combos to earn more points & fill your Tequilla-Meter. You can use 4 special abilities: fill 
 a part of your healthbar ,do a precision aiming shot on one target, then watch the bullet's trajectory 
 (like in Sniper Elite) , rage (exactely as in Scarface-The World is Yours) & a tornado-move (stolen 
 directly from Total Overdose) . So see, nothing new here. Of course you can kill enamies by destoying 
 objects that will fall on them, but the environment ain't as "friendly" as in Crysis. But of course 
 you can always destroy everything you see, which is a nice thing (maby the best element of the game) . Unfortunatelly, the 
 enamies keep spawning & spawning & I believed several times that a bug (frequent) occure,& that 
 they won't stop spawning. It gets repetitive & boring, even though Stranglehold is short, the only 
 thing that saves it are the moves & destoying everything.
  
  Storyline-6/10
  
   don't want to say anything about it, because it really sucks. Some 
 moments are very funny indeed, won't spoil the, but I laughed for minutes.
  
  So, is it good or not?
  
  As I said before, if you want to have fun with awesome moves & cool 
 abilities, a lot of guns & targets, with good graphics & sound & the freedom to destroy everything, Stranglehold 
 is your game! If you look for a game with a great story, don't play this one, stick back to Max Payne 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since gamers have seen any John Woo-style action on their gaming platforms. Since 
 Max Payne 2, this category has been left out in the cold. Ironically, Midway decided to create 
 an actual game based off a John Woo universe. Based on Hard Boiled, John Woo's Stranglehold is 
 a brief but entertaining sequel to the action-packed flick.
  
  Taking place several years after the movie, you play as Inspector Tequila who decides to go out 
 and battle gangsters who captured and killed a member of his police force. What follows is an oddly 
 decent story of gangs double-crossing each other. But really, all the plot exists for is a set 
 up to justify you fighting and killing whats probably every gangster in the civilized world.
  
  The main gimmick of the game, "Tequila Time," is essentially the bullet-time mechanic from 
 Max Payne with a few changes. The one trick is that you won't ever go into bullet-time automatically, 
 unless you have an enemy in your targeting sights. The environments are highly interactive and 
 destructible. For example, if you run up to a table, you can choose to slide right over it, or 
 kick it over and use it as a temporary cover point. If you run up to a wall, you can dash up it 
 and dive even further than usual. If there's a rail nearby, you can run up or slide down it. There 
 are some weak environmental puzzles which involve shooting down planks to open up paths, but they 
 are incorporated in a dumb way, probably being the weakest parts of the game. Another mechanic 
 is "Tequila Time," which involves the player filling up a meter that enables the player to trigger 
 a "Tequila Bomb," special abilities that range from regenerating health to an awesome sequence 
 where time essentially freezes and Tequila essentially takes out everybody in the room.
  
  Thankfully, the guns are satisfying to shoot for this type of game. Midway doesn't score any points 
 for attempting realism, but tat is understandable given the outrageous context of the game. Each 
 gun has its own strengths and weaknesses in power and accuracy and Tequila can carry only two types 
 of guns at once. The PC version of Stranglehold has slightly better controls , with the aiming 
 being quicker and more accurate with the mouse, easily offsetting the more difficult keyobard controls.
 
  
  Stranglehold is a decently challenging game, and starts to get difficult at around the middle chapters. 
 Abilities will be required and you'll have to move fast since enemies tend to destroy your cover 
 as easily as you can theirs. Several of the boss fights are quite challenging, but there's nothing 
 in the game which should frustrate a dedicated gamer.
  
  The game can get repetitive at times. Even though shooting enemies and tearing up environments 
 is initially fun, thats pretty much all you do in Stranglehold, and the game feels consequently 
 dragged out.
  
  The multiplayer mode feels very tacked-on. There's either deathmatch or team deathmatch with up 
 to six players, and the maps feel very cramped for this type of gameplay. You can't go into slo-mo 
 unless everybody has a full Tequila time meter. With limited play modes, inconsistent, cramped 
 gameplay, and the fact that there seem to be very, very few people playing this game online, this 
 isn't a multiplayer game to get excited about.
  
  The most impressive aspect of the game's visuals is the environments and special effects. Much 
 of every environment is detailed and destructible. Unfortunately, character models aren't well 
 detailed, and animations look stiff. The game also has that generic Unreal Engine 3 vibe in its 
 visuals which is really starting to drag down recent game releases.
  
  The sound is decent: Dialogue is appropriately cheesy, and the weapons sound effects sound great. 
 The soundtrack is a nice mix of typically bombastic orchestral pieces and some Asian-flavored string 
 sections.
  
  Stranglehold isn't a shooter revolution by any stretch. However, even though it does get repetitive, 
 its the closest thing to Max Payne that John Woo affectionados have been able to experience in 
 years.
  
  Gameplay: 8 - Merely a Max Payne clone with some mixed-up gameplay elements, Stranglehold starts 
 off fine but feels a bit dragged out by the end.
  Presentation: 8 - Great destructible environments and "Tequila" gameplay elements along with a 
 decent plot help move the game along.
  Graphics: 7.5 - Nice environments, but character models and animations suffer from an obviously 
 bad implementation of Unreal Engine 3.
  Sound: 7.5 - Decent voice acting and somewhat impressive sound effects.
  Value: 7 - A six-hour 
 campaign does not mix well with a subpar multiplayer mode that no one plays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  stranglehold is a good game with great graphics and sound. at first, the game seems to be interesting 
 when activating tequila time and slow-mo killing the enemies, but after playing the first few levels 
 in the streets of hong kong, the game gets repetitive mainly because of the same environment. however, 
 when you advance levels and get to the shipyard, the game gets monotonous in a sense that you have 
 to kill hordes of enemies in order to advance. in one level, you are on a helicopter and have to 
 shoot enemies on ships with RPGs. activating tequila time makes it easier to slow down the RPGs 
 but the pilot will circle the shipyard many times, requiring you to repeatedly shoot the enemies. 
 apart from this level, the other levels have an interesting storyline but boring gameplay.
  so, if you are looking to kill time, you should play stranglehold, but if you are looking for a 
 hardcore shooter, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheezy200
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Fun game, i never had any problem with glitches or loading up the game, so i don't know all this 
 "this game has to many glitches and crashes too much" thing. It was lot faster then Max Payne when 
 it comes to game play and shooting, and from what i remember theres twice maybe three times as 
 much guys you have to fight at once compared to Max Payne, but it isn't very long, and multi player 
 was weak, so i just played it on harder and the hardest difficulty instead. it is a bit repetitive 
 but for me its easily put aside. It does take a lot of space, and it was a bit surprising. If you 
 like a fast Tps thats like Max Payne i would say get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  When i was a child, i used to love the movies with karate. I didn't saw Hard Boiled but i heard 
 like last year about a continue for it, but not movie tho a game, in collaboration with John Woo. 
 
  Stranglehold starts very quickly, with a very poor voice acting, they should speak in japanese 
 instead of this poor english that i couldn't understand it. The storyline is also poor and bad, 
 with a girl kidnapped and you, the almighty hero gotta save her. (because it's your daughter)
 
  The name of this hero is Tequila (nice name isn't it?) and he got at his disposal 2 pistols that 
 can kill chinnese better than Serious Sam. You gonna discover 4 Tequila Bombs that are very attractive, 
 one can heal you, other can be a slo-mo bullet that will be followed and seen a cutscene after 
 the hit, other one is a 'rambo' that has infinite bullets and life,, and last one is a spin shot 
 that kills everyone on that level. Pretty fun action, the graphics are awesome but you need a good 
 configuration, at least 2gb of ram and a very good graphics card. The environment is completely 
 destructible, every wall can be destroyed (almost all) and Tequila is alone against at least hundred 
 enemies.
  The worst thing in this game is that it's too short for it's 12GB of space installation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Many, including myself, expected two super games from Midway this year -- Blacksite: Area 51 (FPS) 
 and Stranglehold (TPS) . Unfortunately Midway somehow succeeded to mediocritize both games. Although 
 their release dates separated them about two months the two games share a number of features:
 
  
  1. both use Unreal engine (good stuff) , but somehow manage to make this otherwise excellent engine 
 totally suck (more so in Blacksite than in Stranglehold)
  2. although both games are rather short, both of them come on two install DVDs and have a huge 
 hard disk footprint (12 GB+) compared to much longer games and most of them fit on one DVD
  3. the number 2 above indicates an almost complete lack of optimization for PC -- Stranglehold 
 is actually better optimized or at least runs smoother of the two. Both games require a much more 
 powerful system than a well-optimized game of equal quality would require
  4. both games are rather lousy console-to-PC ports which become obvious when you see almost identical 
 video options settings in the two games (not much more than setting the screen resolution)
  5. technical problems (programing bugs) that plague both games from CTDs when changing resolution, 
 key re-mappings, frame rate drops to unexplainable CTDs
  6. no manual saves -- which leads to repetition, frustration and ultimately to boredom
  
  Other 
 than for the mostly negative similarities above, Stranglehold is a better of the two games ... 
 not by much, but at least the game runs smoother after patching it with the 1.1 patch. In terms 
 of gameplay, Stranglehold is actually a very well done third person shooter employing many of already 
 seen theatrics and mechanics from other games and to some extent cute overacting as seen in these 
 type of movies. So, while not very original, the gameplay is enjoyable.
  
  As a primarily an FPS fan, I enjoyed this third person shooter (which I rarely do) and the only 
 thing that bothered me was the main character movement that is controlled with the keyboard rather 
 than mouse -- for example in Gears of War or El Matador you control the direction of movement with 
 the mouse, so when you press, say, S key the character steps back without turning around his body 
 as it does in Stranglehold when pressing the same key.
  
  The taking cover mechanism in Stranglehold is OK but it could be a bit too cumbersome when your 
 health is at the minimum and bad guys are everywhere. Seems, just by jumping and rolling that your 
 chances to survive are a bit better than by trying to stick to the wall. Magic tricks are maybe 
 overused, but they are many times the only way to complete a mission. When overusing these slow-mo 
 powers or barrages the game will occasionally appear too easy. One big mistake is no manual saves 
 which translates into potentially replaying a longer sections of the game.
  
  The shooting part is a blast and well done. I'd put a few more weapons in, but it's also OK as 
 it is. Sound is also very well done including somewhat cheesy dialogs that for some weird reason 
 render more credibility to this game. Graphics and animations are very good to excellent if you 
 have a rather higher end system to play on.
  
  Overall, this is not a bad game. Many of us expected maybe too much from Midway or Midway severely 
 underperformed this year ... either way if you don't expect a masterpiece you'll enjoy this game. 
 There is no some deep meaning or hidden philosophy here, just a plain third person shooter -- not 
 great, not bad, just fun.
  
  Score: 7.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  The demo just proved to me Stranglehold is not made for the pc. First the graphics is not as good 
 as it is on the ps3 and the 360. Second of all the aiming is not so easy. Third of all it is more 
 frustrating then on the ps3 or the 360. It does not feel it belongs on the pc. To say the truth its 
 a ps3 and xbox 360 exclusive. If you shoot a guy it actually is and to experiment him while he is 
 down. The envirement is also why I gave the game a 7.0.
  
  Thanks for reading im jpo911 and im signing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade1978x
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? I saw videos of Stranglehold on the net and was blown away. I'm a huge fan of John 
 Woo's HK action films, love 3rd person action games and games where the point is to destroy things. 
 So, what could be better than Stranglehold, which is a mixture of the three? A lot, that's what.
 
  
  First off, the specs and hard drive demands are ridiculously excessive. The gameplay is terribly 
 console-y, meaning simplistic level designs and repetitive objectives that seem really cliched 
 and thoughtless. I think the game was designed for 14 year-olds because there's little that's interesting 
 about the storyline, the level design, the enemies, .etc. The sound effects are really annoying, 
 as well. You hear this pinball-ish PING! after you kill a guy sucking any realism out of the gaming 
 experience.
  
  Also, it's extremely glitchy. A day after playing it, the frame rate stutter became unbearable. 
 This is not due to my system specs. I have a 8800GT and 3GB of RAM and have been playing Bioshock, 
 World in Conflict, the Crysis demo and Company of Heroes, all games far more graphically superior 
 than Stranglehold, and I've been running them all with the highest graphics settings with no frame 
 rate issues whatsoever.
  
  I wish I could get a refund for this stupendous disappointment of a game. It really appears like 
 it was a rushed, crappy port of a 360 game and not a PC game. I won't buying any Midway products 
 in the foreseeable future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold is by all means a fun game. The problem is not what it is but what it was supposed 
 to be. Hell, I even watched Hard Boiled just to be up-to-date after reading previews and promises. 
 I thought this was going to be Max Payne but cooler. Well, the king still lives.
  
  Where do I start? Well, first off 12GB hard drive space, WTF!!!!? No, I do have enough space and 
 don't need to buy a bigger hard drive. My point is, how do you create a 12GB game which ends in 
 less than 6 hours. That actually means that the problem here is how short the game is.
  
  You would think that so much space is taken by flashy graphics, but truth is I haven't seen worse 
 car models since Need for Speed 2!!! And no, I don't mean Underground 2. Environments are OK and 
 pretty destroyable, however one is always very limited where to go. Characters look good, however, 
 movement is animated so bad, you get the feeling Tequilla has swallowed a crutch.
  
  Gameplay is fun, though. It has a nice movie-like feeling and jumping from railings to plots and 
 sliding under tables in bullet-time just happens naturally in this game which really pumps up adrenaline. 
 Well, to be honest, it is all very repetative, but the game is so short as I mentioned before, 
 you actually can't get bored with it before it is over.
  
  The story is plain dull, but you should expect that from the sequel to Hard Boiled and director 
 John Woo. You don't play this game to timetravel and twist fates, you play it to shoot people in 
 the face and that's what's most important about it. You wouldn't really care when Tequilla's girlfriend 
 dies in his hands. You would just be waiting impatiently for the cut-scene to end so you can shoot 
 the bastard in a most spectacular way. Oops, that was a spoiler right there... Don't worry, I haven't 
 ruined your experience even one bit.
  
  One possible problem with the story is total lack of subtitles in the cut-scenes. Usually, this 
 is not a problem for me, but for so many years in Hollywood, Chow Yun-Fat didn't learn how to speak 
 English so one might not catch all his lines missing much of the cliche humour, which is actually 
 fun in a deliberately cliche story.
  
  Another thing is, I experienced a weird bug - on my PC, I couldn't change the default resolution. 
 1024X768 is not that bad though, especially for a game that's ugly anyway.
  
  Overall, Stranglehold offers two or three relaxing evenings on a working week and then you forget 
 the game. That's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  When John Woo and Midway first announced Stranglehold, featuring a heavily modified Unreal 3.0 
 and it's so called Massive D technology, I was so thrilled and I waited for so long. The dazzling 
 screenshots really make my gamer-brain real itch. In order to prepare for this game, I upgraded 
 my processor. That costed some, you know.
  When the game was released, I was shocked to know if it was CDed, it might need up to 20. And when 
 I finished installing the game, it ate 12 GB of my HD space. Thankfully, it ran well in my PC.
 
  Overall, the game is well, considering the graphics, the so-called Massive D, the shootouts, the 
 wreckage, etc. But it appears a repetitive gameplay is very close, although every level's setting 
 can be said different, and even the environmental graphics are good, you can't say at that rate 
 for the character ones. Also, sometimes the sound of the guns just feel weird.
  There is no reload system in this game. You just dive, get into Tequila Time, and fire at all costs 
 and don't forget to search for extra ammo.
  This game only offers shootouts and guns as its main course, no other side games. That what made 
 me disappointed. I think some GTA-theme might influence this game a bit. Well after all, it is 
 designed to remember Woo's Gun Ballet styles.
  This project is highly ambitious, I do hope for a better sequel, and if only there's not so many 
 glitches in the game, I would give up to 9.0 score.
  Gameplay: 7 Graphics: 9 Sound: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Good: It is fun with very beautiful environments. The player can interact with, shoot, &amp;/or 
 destroy almost everything on the screen. The story is not bad.
  
  Bad: It has crashed several systems (not mine) . The linear game play can get old to some. This 
 game takes 15gb of hd &amp; only has 7 chapters.
  
  I have enjoyed this game, it is low stress, &amp; a whole lot of fun. It is stress relief at it's 
 finest. It is run &amp; gun plain &amp; simple. I have had very few issues, except a short lag 
 only once. My system is technically underspec, but I have it running @
  1680x1050 &amp; details/decals on high. I purchased it for under $30 which was perfect. I would 
 recommend it to anyone. If you are into mindless shooting this is your game. Call over a friend 
 &amp; explore creative ways to bounce from a wall, roll, go into slow motion, &amp; nail a guy 
 in the b*lls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LagMan_pt
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of those rare games for the pc based only on pure fun, and since this kind 
 of games are almost exclusive for consoles, i say it is a very nice addiction to every pc action 
 game lover. So when you come home from work or you just had a bad day, you can load this game and 
 relax, no thinking involved only shooting around and having a few laughs (ok your finger may hurt 
 from all the shooting) ,this is that kind of game. It has very nice and smooth graphics, real cool 
 physics especially because you can destroy and use to your advantage allmost everything in the 
 scenery, a detail ive noticed is that nothing brakes exactly the same way. It is a very fast game 
 with dozens of enemies, the gore is really well done especially when you use the zooming tequilla 
 bomb and the spinning one, enemies react differently deppending on where you hit them, and this 
 animations are great and bloody. The game is at heart like max payne but only focused on the action 
 which is done way better in my opinion, its not so based on the story and ambience but sometimes 
 those were the boring parts of max payne as well. The cinematics are comical but well done just 
 like in a regular oriental/ocidental action movie. John woo influences are present during all the 
 game, doves, mini game stand offs, jumping of walls, slidind down stair rails shootting enemies, 
 sliding on tables etc. Its a short game but thats not a bad thing, this is a game design to finish 
 ia an afternoon where you can play levels with friends for example, it has different levels of 
 difficulty (hard boiled is really challenging) . Its a game you can keep installed once finished 
 because the action is allways pretty good. I havent noticed big cons about this game except for 
 the ocasional readings, ocasional animation stiffness, and detection of interctive estructures. 
 I recommend and think this game is so underappretiated, even i got ceptical, so play the demo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liffaman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  but.. its lame..
  all of the interactive cut scenes that was supposed to be cool with slow motion and crazy stylish 
 killing... well.. they were lame.
  and all the slow motion stylish killing during the game..
  ... also... LAME!
  all of the cool 
 features dodging bullets, sliding on rails and jumping on tables and wheeled tables... are lame
 
  there for... a LAME game!
  handling lame
  aiming lame
  graphics clean but lame
  everything is the same
  during the game you wish that something may be different
  but everything 
 remain the same, short cut scene than the bad guys are coming from doors and starting to shoot 
 on you
  and you're just shooting back without passion
  or joy at all
  sometimes you tries to do something cool after all and make some cool jump on something and tries 
 to have a nice slow motion killing
  but... it looks lame and you actually just might want to shoot without the slow motions and the 
 jumping with style features only because its lamer then just shoot!
  well
  LAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  i enjoy all good action movies and this game gave the feeling of starring in one myself. the game 
 play was enjoyable to all extents, awesome graphics, very stylish, great moves, really fully destructible 
 environments, great slow motion sequences, simple game play though lacking brain usage, amazing special 
 moves, gripping and interesting environments like the fight in the national museum, a sparkle of 
 music in the most toughest fights adds to the typical john woo character we see in movies, pigeons 
 flying in between fights, a classic violin or bass guitar background in special moves, very expensive 
 cinematic visuals for action sequences, everything you would want in a action game or movie and 
 more... loved playing this one. lack of brainy missions and quests are compromised with what else 
 this game offers. recommended to all action movie lovers if you cant star in one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarGameJunkie
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold isn't a bad game, it just doesn't live up to the hype it was given before its release. 
 In the game you play as Tequila, and basically, your job is to destroy the gangs that have captured 
 and killed a fellow cop. The story here isn't very well done, and it never makes you feel like 
 it's important, unlike a movie like Hard Boiled. John Woo really could have done a better job of 
 immersing you in the story, otherwise this game really is just another run of the mill shooter.
 
  
  The graphics are quite impressive, which is probably one of the best things about this game. One 
 of the nice new features in Stranglehold is the opportunity to fill up your tequila bomb meter 
 and use it to send a bullet to kill an opponent sniper style, and the camera follows the bullet 
 all the way to your target. The first time I saw that I found it very graphically impressive, as 
 is the feature where you can make Tequila pull out two guns and whirl around killing enemies without 
 using any ammo. This is particularly helpful when you're faced with a buch of enemies in a room, 
 or in a boss battle. The thing I did not like about this game were the boss battles. I thought 
 FPS had progressed past these? I found them just worthless and very unrealistic. The game in my 
 opinion would have been better without them. This is an ok game, there's just not much here to 
 make it more worthwhile than most other FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  That statement pretty much summarizes the game for me... I kept asking myself, Is it over yet and 
 hoping the answer would be yes.
  
  Graphics- It was as if they had an entire team of designers and 1 guy who was amazing, and the 
 rest who had no clue. Most of the game was almost PS2 quality and I would have actually been embarassed 
 to put my name on the game and claim that I designed the models. Other times... wow, unbelieveable... the 
 guy in the store where you can buy upgrades... very nicely done. Bits and pieces here and there 
 but otherwise, average at best graphics. The game maxed out on everything and running at 1920X1080 
 was smooth and crashes only 4-5 times. Because the game has check points, that tended to hurt at 
 times.
  
  Gameplay - If you like sitting in a room and shooting at wave, after wave, after wave, of the same 
 characters again and again... then leave now and go but this game. Action is great, but this game 
 is over the top in what it throws at you. I thought many a time are you kidding me?? . I dont say 
 this often, but at times I just thought GD is this game stupid. Then I would get an occasional 
 moment of cool! but they were very few and far between.
  
  Characters - Voice acting was pretty good... but I stil cant get used to the villian who is 6ft 
 7 500lbs and looks like a cartoon character... You have a real life movie star in the game fighting 
 a boss who looks like a video game cliche. The storyline was decent, but only barely. Special Kudos 
 - The physics in this game... fan-fricken-tastic! The use of the environment was incredible and 
 drove this game up a whole point in scoring just because it was so darn cool to watch stuff break. 
 The fact that you could hide behind a cement column and when you were getting shot the pillar would 
 actually break apart and start to expose you... now that was cool.
  
  Special Criticism - Ok, and the fact that I gather points so that I can purchase a fake picture 
 in a fake museum does what for me??? Dear god was that stupid. The fact that I cant get more ammo 
 when I have 76 bullets left and have to shoot my gun to 75 so that I can pick up ammo.... stupid. 
 The super slow mo gun fights... it was semi-realistic when you took on 2-3 guys and could kill them 
 all at once, but a wave of 17 guys in slow-mo that in real life I was supposed to be so fast that 
 I could take out 17 guys at once before they killed me, and do that without reloading?? Bad Stupid. 
 I dont normally Criticize a game this much, but there was so much filler cr*p that I feel like 
 I have earned the right to speak my mind for the $ I spent to sit through it.
  
  Overall - This was the first game in ages that I actually at one point quit playing... Most games 
 that are bad I will force myself to finish because I paid for it and maybe, just maybe, the game 
 will get better. This game never did, and although I did finish it, I was actually excited because 
 I could uninstall it and move on. Its your typical game launched with a fancy name and cool actor 
 surrounded by lame gameplay, and very limited gameplay at that. For the entire 8 hours I played 
 this game I was less than enthused.
  
  Save you $ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This could have been a great game, but, it doesn't want to be a great game, it wants to be an enjoyable 
 game with good graphics and a lot of shooting going on, and it is just that, nothing more, nothing 
 else...
  
  It is fun to see Mr. Woo trying his hand at the game-industry, and you get, pretty much what you 
 are used to from the man. You have slowmotion, you have doves, you have guns in many shapes, you 
 have blood, screaming faces, demolished surroundings.
  
  Mr. Fat plays a hong-kong police. The story isn't thick, just enough to drive the game onward. 
 If you like your PS3 &amp; XBox, this is for you since the controls of the game are best suited 
 for a consolepad; but still, on the PC, you can put all the graphics on max, like I did and enjoy 
 the show...
  
  This is no match for Max Payne, which I have to add. Max Payne had a deeper story, and a connections 
 with the gamer, this game, doesn't want that. It just needs a few hours of your time and let you 
 go. The Max Payne story didn't let you go that easily... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I like games. Yes sir, let me tell you: action games are great.
  
  Well, except for this one. Am I crazy, rating this game with a 1? Judge for yourself. As soon as 
 I launched the game the monitor went to standby so... so sorry but I can't really give this game 
 a higher rating considering the fact it didn't start. I tried different drivers and installing 
 it on my old PC, but still no dice.
  
  Secondly, I don't think I remember a game that requires so much hard drive space.
  
  Maybe 
 you'll have better luck, but I'm quite disappointed. Wish it would have worked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  John Woos Stranglehold follows the format laid out by The Goonies II for the NES. It is a 
 tried and true sequel to a film done entirely in the digital realm. This one is the sequel to John 
 Woos action film Hard Boiled. Inspector Tequila takes to the streets again, only this time the 
 final call is yours.
  
  The game comes across feeling like a Max Payne clone, but let us not use that in the derogatory 
 context. It does a few things differently here and there and since it does everything pretty well 
 there is no reason to be down on the game for that. The action is directed by John Woo himself, 
 and the dialogue (among other brilliant cast members) features the talent of Chow Yun Fat reprising 
 his role as the lead character. The intelligent, and experienced, star power behind this game does 
 help to hold everything together.
  
  Im not going to bore you with story, if only because its typical action movie pap whose sting 
 is only lessened by the presence of such big name talent.
  This title plays beautifully. The controls are sharp, crisp, simple, and responsive. There is just 
 enough automated intervention to allow you to keep your mind fully in the game. As an example Max 
 Payne has their legendary Bullet Time and Stranglehold has Tequila Time. Everything gets a 
 sort of sepia tone and slows down except for your mouse cursor. In Payne you had to trigger this 
 mode manually. In Stranglehold you can trigger it manually, but when you dive or slide over a table 
 or do any of the other countless (and incredibly stylish) interactions it triggers tequila time 
 automatically if you are aiming at a foe.
  
  In addition to this you acquire four special abilities throughout the course of the game. These 
 are part of your Tequila Bomb gauge which is filled by performing multiple stylish kills in rapid 
 succession (i. e. a combo) . These abilities are simple. The first one (which you start with) allows 
 you to trade a portion of your gauge for health. Not a bad idea since the game relies solely on 
 health kits stationed at key points throughout the action. The next is a precision aiming ability 
 that gives you control over Inspector Tequilas super human aiming ability. You are granted a sort 
 of first person view where you can fire a precisely aimed single shot. You accuracy is further 
 aided by a sort of smart zoom that will magnify targets such as destructible parts of the environment 
 or baddies. Next comes the Barrage. Activating this triggers a very beautiful John Woo-esque 
 sequence where Tequila slaps some fresh ammo in his weapon and then all hell breaks loose. For 
 a short period of time you are immune to most damage and your ammunition becomes unlimited. This 
 permits you to do a typical action movie clich&eacute; where you run into a room full of enemies, 
 guns blazing, never reloading, and never really being hit. This can be quite useful, especially 
 against bosses. Last but not least comes the 360. This is another John Woo move and its totally 
 automated. This means the sequence is beautifully done, with gorgeous cinematic camera angles and 
 special effects. Tequila begins spinning, current weapon blazing, laying out a hellish firestorm 
 in all directions. This will kill every enemy in sight and do partial damage to bosses.
  
  After all of this comes yet another little touch. At times you get stuck in a Mexican stand-off. 
 These lead to another Tequila Time type slow down where you can dodge bullets and are given an 
 over the shoulder type perspective so you can aim at your attackers in the limited amount of time 
 you are given. Failure to kill any (or all) of your attackers in this time period means that once 
 its over, they will all be there to try and destroy you in real-time.
  
  The action in this title is pretty straight-forward, interspersed with cut-scenes to help move 
 the story along. Some are short and simply help transition from one scene to another while the 
 ones between stages are longer. This isnt a problem because the ones during gameplay are not intrusive 
 to the point of annoying. And with the solid voice acting behind them they can be pretty enjoyable. 
 The crisp, simple controls and innovations to an established system most gamers already know make 
 this title one to enjoy.
  
  However, it does have its drawbacks. It is just an action movie made video game so the action basically 
 runs bang, bang, boom, POW, ::cut-scene::, repeat. This has the potential to get very repetitive. 
 And it certainly wouldif the game werent so unbelievably short. If you cant beat this game in 
 one sitting then you must have maxed out the difficulty and quit trying. It is incredibly short, 
 easily less than 6 hours of total play time. This wouldnt be too much of an issue if it werent 
 for the fact that this game still carries the typical bulky price tags we see now-a-days (typically 
 $50 on the PC and $60 on the 360 and PS3) . All things considered, this game may be great to kill 
 a few hours of your day but it doesnt ask for any serious investment of your time. As such, I 
 dont think it is warranted that the MSRP ask for so much of your hard-earned money.
  
  On the whole, this game is very well done with some stellar voice acting, action, and a decent 
 story line. The innovations to a well known play formula make this one a title that everyone should 
 experience, at least once. However, with it being so short I advise PC gamers to hold off until 
 they can find a copy at a price lower than $50 and for console players to consider getting it through 
 Gamefly or something. Considering this game's lofty price tag and almost insultingly short play 
 time, I am obliged to knock at least half a point from this game's score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  There is a very good reason why everyone loved Max Payne. The story. It's gameplay was pretty awesome 
 and breakthrough at the time but it really was the noir style storytelling that engulfed you right 
 in. This is Stranglehold's problem. Although it's basic in your face incredible action with a vengeance 
 plot chaser, you can't help but feel nothing for Tequila's struggle in this very amazingly delivered 
 and mindless game. The characters are so cliche, that it makes me want to find Vin Diesel and Michael 
 Bay and murder them now. The voice acting is terribly executed even though you can hear Chow Yun 
 Fat trying to make it work. This is a real let down, considering that he is a genius actor.. How 
 Gamespot almost praised this topic area is beyond me. Now, the gampelay is much better than Max 
 Payne, there is no doubt there. It also looks a lot better too. But it is easily forgettable once 
 you finish it in it's short 7-10 hour gametime. (I remember the first Max Payne went for almost 
 20hrs) . Technically, Stranglehold takes up way too much HDD space, something like 12 gigs, and 
 this is absurd but understandable due to the multi billion calculations of particles it needs to 
 store for it's outrageous destructive models. It's ok, I will handle that . But the value factor 
 here is the most annoying part about Stranglehold. Here in Australia, the damn game costs a massive 
 and highly unneccessary $90. Aside these problems, it is a lot of fun nevertheless. The best way 
 to describe Stranglehold is like a huge budget hollywood action film with no brains whatsoever, 
 and if John Woo really did take the helm for this as advisor (which I very much doubt he did) then 
 I swear it would have probably put this game into the hall of fame. It goes to show that storytelling 
 in whatever multimedia medium do make at least half of the entertainment. Almost, but not quite 
 for Stranglehold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VladimirIon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  First of all, i didn't finished the game . I'm just a at the third mission. so this is not a my 
 complete review.
  
  
  This game have astonishing graphics and itt's a amazing first person shooter. Great style of sh0oting. 
 The slow motion mode it good , And the slide mode is amazing. A very good game at this point. But, 
 i played 2 hours , yesternight , and the game stopped (glitchz) three time. For 12gb of data should 
 have a great hard drive. You should have a dual-core processor. A good RAM and very very very very 
 good GPU ( 8 series at NVIDIA) If you haave all this requirement, you may have this game!
  
  P. S: No multiplyer : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  A great faced paced game with replayability as you try for better scores, more stylish combat and 
 all the hidden paper cranes (which I didn't think were terribly hard to find on the whole) .
  
  The moves and controls are kept very simple and that has it's pluses in that there are no mega 
 complex key combos like in Path of Neo. however it does have the downside of getting a bit repetitious 
 in the more frenzies higher levels later in the game. To keep things interesting you need to really 
 use the walls and terrain. But there-in lies another simplification: you can jump onto a wall and 
 jump pack off, but only straight off, not at an angle or run up and around. That would have been 
 very nice.
  
  It is a very scripted game basically leading from one gun fight to the next with each subsequent 
 battle getting faster and sillier (more and more enemy) . At the later stages as you near the end, 
 the game basically devolves into: circular attack, find a health pack, get enough tequila points 
 to do a circular attack, find a health pack, do the circular attack and repeat until the enemies 
 stop coming. The story is excellent however and the cut scenes flow smoothly often taking off without 
 your character stopping.
  
  The enemy will also react convincingly depending on where you shot them. My favorite was when I 
 used the targeted shot skill to hit a guy on some distant scaffolding in the groin. His hips went 
 fling back, his hands went to his groin, the camera panned to his face which was registering quite 
 the surprise and he then rolled off the scaffolding. Nicely done. Lots of expression on all the 
 faces.
  
  So I recommend the game. Some may find it short though I didn't while playing it. Looking back 
 I would say it's short then again I'm also replaying Oblivion now and my first pass through Bioshock 
 and both those games are involved and long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dellboy31
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold is a console game designed for console users and the attempt to port it across to 
 PC has been nothing short of Pathetic. It is outdated graphics (about 6 years) and linear. The 
 key bindings are of nightmarish proportions IE; I tried bind my right mouse button to 'Tequila 
 Slammer' and it programed it for space bar, I tried to bind page down for something else and got 
 the left control key, not to mention the fact that none of my side mouse buttons were unbindable. 
 And the recomended specs are a joke, I could run this thing on a commodore 64 lol. PATHETIC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bymarcao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  este jogo &eacute; perfeito, aonde tem um jogo neste gereno com tanta a&ccedil;&atilde; o e fisica... 
 eu aoinda n&atilde; o conhe&ccedil; o se tiver algum jogo assim me endiquem, porque at&eacute; agora 
 s&oacute; este ta bom, como pode o pessoal da gamespot da uma nota t&atilde; o ruim pro game se 
 n&atilde; o tem outro melhor, n&atilde; o d&aacute; para entender.
  este jogo &eacute; perfeito, aonde tem um jogo neste gereno com tanta a&ccedil;&atilde; o e fisica... 
 eu aoinda n&atilde; o conhe&ccedil; o se tiver algum jogo assim me endiquem, porque at&eacute; agora 
 s&oacute; este ta bom, como pode o pessoal da gamespot da uma nota t&atilde; o ruim pro game se 
 n&atilde; o tem outro melhor, n&atilde; o d&aacute; para entender.
  este jogo &eacute; perfeito, aonde tem um jogo neste gereno com tanta a&ccedil;&atilde; o e fisica... 
 eu aoinda n&atilde; o conhe&ccedil; o se tiver algum jogo assim me endiquem, porque at&eacute; agora 
 s&oacute; este ta bom, como pode o pessoal da gamespot da uma nota t&atilde; o ruim pro game se 
 n&atilde; o tem outro melhor, n&atilde; o d&aacute; para entender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allex007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Since it's first debuit on E3 2005, many fans belived that is was something you can enjoy while 
 waiting for Max Payne 3 to be released (if it ever will) .
  Stranglehold has the same gameplay mechanics as Max Payne like slow-motion diving, bullet-time and 
 then some. The game is the sequal to John Woo's best movie Hard Boiled. The game takes place in two 
 locations, Hong Kong and Chichago over the course of seven chapters. In each level the only thing 
 you do is shoot throw waves and waves of enemys.
  This isn't necessary a bad thing because it' very well executed keeping you from getting bored. Also 
 the enviroments are the part where the game shines because you can use almost everything dinamicaly 
 like you can bounce of a wall to get some extra hight from your dive, you can slide down a banister, swing 
 on chandeliers and many more. Other interesting features are the four powers of the tequila bomb. The 
 first powers consists of you healing yourself when you get in a certain situation where you used 
 all the medpacks and you a lot of enemies are waiting for you. The second one is a zoom capability. This 
 feature is an interesting one because there is a special death animation depending on where you 
 shoot your foe. There is a special animation from shooting someone in the head, the neck and you 
 can also shoot someone in the groin and there you will se a special animation for that. The third 
 power is called Barage and it's probably the one that you will use the most in the game. When you 
 hit Barage the screen gets a little foggy and you have unlimited ammo and health for about 30 seconds. With 
 this feature you can make waste of the enviroment at the same time with shooting all of the enemies. And 
 the last power is kinda of a smart bomb where you get something like a cutscene where Tequila practicaly 
 kills all of the enemies in the vicinity. This feature is very usefull in cases where you are heavely 
 outnumber or you don't have a stronger weapon to do the job. Another very used feature in today's 
 action game is the cover system. It is also used in Stranglehold but it doesn't seem like you could 
 use it a lot, maybe on the boss fights or on the harder difficulties.
  On the negative i can say that Stranglehold is a very short game taking you only about 6-7 hours 
 to finish. Also, this version, the PC one feels more like a port than a stand alone game. I say that 
 by the fact that there are some tehnical issues, most annoying one would be the desktop crashes 
 or the punishing blue screen. The graphics are good altough the caracter animatons aren't that impressive. It 
 feels like Midway didn't took the full advantage of the Unreal Engine 3.0. The voice work is good, 
 Chow Yun Fat reprises his role as the detective Tequila, and there are also other famous actors 
 playing a part and a notacable cameo of John Woo as the bartender.
  All told, Stranglehold is a fun game and because of its small length and some tehnical issues stops 
 hit from reatching it's full potential! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  If you 1st wathced hard boyield ... you will fell right at home with the main charater &amp; the 
 way the story will flow .... nothing to say here the voice acting is good &amp; the crime ,action 
 drama story is well put ! The problem starts with Jhon Whoo's perception of the human body .... 
 if in FACE OFF Jhon Travolta &amp; Nicolas CAge were still human but in this game FAT is superrior 
 to NEO ... wellcome to the matirx ..... anyway you can do all those things that Max PAyne did + 
 more you can walk &amp; slide on rails better than Prince of Persia take cover like in R6V ...&amp; 
 a new adition &amp; fun is when you slide over obstacles &amp; when you jump a cart ! The game 
 is fun but you have to be completly irrational to love it in the true sense of the word ! Now lets 
 talk about hte rest of the gameplay well this game is classis ... before you enter a level the level 
 will be descretly shown to you by a cinematic camere revealing all the tweaks .... 2nd 90% of the 
 level you will be forced to kill all the enemies just to move on .... the boss fithgs well think 
 of putting a bullet rihgt in the head of a boss &amp; he wont die ...+ you have 4 abilietes withc 
 are very very unrealistck ... the 1st oen is the HEAL ,2nd the focuse , 3rd the barrage from withc 
 your weapons is 3 times more powerfull &amp; more accurate &amp; it dosen't matter if you don't 
 have any bullets left &amp; 4th is well the bomb every1one dies in that room in just few seconds 
 ! The game donsen't have any reload system for the weapons &amp; well that sucks &amp; the A. I. 
 &amp; levels are just TO OLD SCHOOL every enemy will sit net to a barrel or something that just 
 waits to land on his head ! To bad this kind of game just really could have potential but because 
 of the arcadish style &amp; only 6 hours of gameplay really brings the game down &amp; counter 
 hard what MIDWAY said less games better value ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  i purchased STRANGLEHOLD and finished it, and i liked the game with a bit of reserve.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are good, not spectacular and considering it is using the Unreal 3.0 engine 
 i'd say it is a bit disappointing at times.
  the great thing about is that you can destroy pretty much everything you see,
  it gets spectacular, 
 the bad is the animation of TEQUILA in general, the characters death animations are good as are 
 the special effects, etc
  
  the graphic does feel consoley, it is a bit sad because Max Payne which is kinda of an old game 
 still holds its own and the engine was great and still looks good today, Stranglehold wont look 
 good tomorrow.
  
  the engine use both cores on your CPU and gives a good boost in performance.
  
  Sound - Sound 
 is very good, the voice acting is excellent and the music is perfectly in sync with what is happening 
 on-screen.
  with good speakers you will enjoy this even more.
  
  Gameplay - the gameplay is simply MAX PAYNE with more destructible objects and some cool moves, 
 nothing you haven't seen before in Max Payne, even the slowmo feels the same, what make this great 
 is the addiction of the special stuff you can do such as Precision Aiming (with Matrix style cam) , 
 Tequila Bomb and more.
  
  the game gets boring after a few levels and very annoying eg. destroy 16 drug tables ...... plant 
 10 bombs ......... next level destroy 12 tables ...... etc.
  
  also when TEQUILA is sliding something looks like Tony Hawk Skateboarding than someone sliding 
 properely.
  other than that, the game is entertaining while it last and the story is excellent, well acted 
 and well directed .
  
  Conclusion - a good game that feels consoley, unpolished at times and boring at other times, but 
 still worthy your time, MAX PAYNE still is the king of the Slo-mo games and i dont see that disappearing 
 any time soon.
  
  I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  total ripoff 12 gig of a game you would think or at least hope this game would be huge if not different! 
 Wrong in every aspect! lots of cut scenes add to the BORE factor and same old Wait did we just 
 do this in the last level!?? Adds to the YAWN factor. and in the logos when the game starts there 
 is a BIG HD game logo?? whats up with that , when the game we not go above 1024x768? Try Medal 
 of honor airbourne thats real HD! and if I get another warning form this site for speaking the 
 truth then this site can enough said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushallya
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  John Woo presents Stranglehold featuring Chow-Yun Fat looks to be an awesome game for the XBOX 
 360, but I'm still concerned about the rating (7.0) it recieved from GameSpot. com. I do believe 
 it deserves a better a rating quality then Just Cause or even the recent WWE: Smackdown vs. Raw 
 07. Stranglehold, to me showed promise and very much good quality. young gamers would cling to 
 this game - mostly because of the easy controls of the joypad. it's fun and exciting, and if John 
 Woo had anything to do with it, it should be action packed. I personally only played the demo off 
 the XBOX Live Marketplace, so I'm just concerned about the whole Multiplayer adaption to the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iRamEEz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Interesting and fast paced game play though the character movements is too fast.., or let's say 
 not quite right., looks very unrealistic compared to most of the games that's been released., but 
 special moves and stunts are amazingly good! I love it, it's ok to say it's worth the wait., but 
 i am suprised to see the game required 15gigs drive space., cut scenes are made out of ingame graphics.,..... 
 menu looks cool!., hmmm i just started to play it and hopefully i wont be disappointed along the 
 way! oh and you get to see trailers of upcoming games being played at the theatre while playing 
 the game within the game., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimponaholiday
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I will keep this review very short and simple.
  
  The Graphics are really hard to grade. While one part of the game will look just flat out awsome, 
 another part will be very close to XBOX days.
  There's gore. Not too detailed, but enough to enjoy it over and over for the game's lenght.
  
 Story: Very straight forward I am gonna avenge my kidnapped family aaaah.
  Sound: Everything sounds good, just the PISTOLS sound very low, and I wish more games emphasized 
 (sp) the shear loudness of a gun being fired, especially in a game like this.
  Controls: Kinda innaccurate.
  
  Loved this game, no reason someone shouldn't buy it or rent 
 it. I would love to see another one of these down the road, but even so I think a new Max Payne 
 would out do this game hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all i'd like to say that i think this game is a bit underrated, it's a great game actually, 
 it's very simple, very bloody and it has an alright story, this game is the first game i've played 
 where ive actually been able to shoot almost everything into little pieces. The game delivers nothing 
 new and a lot of the game content is actually just rip-offs from other games. Instead of writing 
 a whole a4 page of stuff i liked and didn't like ill just do a pro/con list:
  
  Pros:
  Tons of action
  Cool effects
  Excellent sounds
  Lots gore and blood
  Incredible destructability 
 of the entire world, especially in the later levels
  Good original story, nothing fancy
  Slowmotion really gives this game a boost, without it, it would've been a lot worse.
  
  Cons:
 
  The main characters voice acting is a bit on the weak side.
  Short, took me about 7 hours to complete.
  A bit monotone enemies
  Old-school mario bossfights 
 where a single guy takes 500 shotgun slugs in the head to die.
  I used the same two weapons through the entire games (there's only like 7 weapons : ( )
  
  It's 
 a solid game which will keep you busy for a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_DudeMan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  If you have seen and like hard boiled, and you love games like max payne and enter the matrix, 
 then this will be your new favorite game...
  
  If your system can max out the game, it is one gorgeous looking gaming. Forcing AA through you 
 graphics card also eliminates the rough edges some people complain about, just like in Bioshock. 
 Textures are fantastic, and characters and animations also happen to be top-notch considering the 
 immense number of enemies along with no despawns, and completely destructible environments. In 
 some levels you leave gigantic buildings in nothing but rubble.
  
  The story is awesome as well and those who don't think so do not know hard boiled. Hard boiled 
 was supposed to be John Woo's asian dirty harry. And that is exactly how the movie and now this 
 game have turned out. Not much drama, but awesome sequence after sequence that pits an acrobatic 
 dirty harry against all odds. The sound is also top-notch, with amazing voice acting, including 
 chow yun fats own voice-over for Tequila, great music, and great gun effects.
  
  Controls are also responsive and relatively straight forward, pulling off Tequila time is exceptionally 
 easy. Essentially the game does everything max payne did right as well, if not better. This game 
 is what enter the matrix should have been. I have always been critical of movie games, and this 
 is the first one I have really liked, and this huge underrating has motivated me to write this 
 review.
  
  Finally, MP is fun too... nothing special, but fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentFireX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  The graphics weren't that great, and the storyline was overall, poor. The bullet time was poorly 
 thought out, and got old pretty quickly. The game was extremely easy to complete, and took no skill 
 whatsoever. I played it for a good amount of time, but after I completed the game, I felt no desire 
 to replay it whatsoever. I can understand why the game wasn't rated that well, and I was just very 
 disappointed in the game. I began playing it with high expectations, and it didn't meet one. There 
 are many other games out there that implement what this game tried, but they bring much more to 
 the table. This game has disappointing graphics, a bad storyline, and just sucked overall. That's 
 my opinion of Stranglehold for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
