-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Strategic Command: European Theater
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/strategiccommandet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 49 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Battlefront. com
Developer: Fury Software
Genre: Wargame
Date:     Jul 16, 2002

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a satisfying re-creation of the struggle that defined the 20th century. But because it lacks 
 a challenging AI, it eventually falls apart as anything other than a multiplayer game. 

 Strategic Command: European Theater is a simple and at times simplistic look at the epic sweep of 
 World War II in Europe. It stretches from the huge sacrifices of manpower on the Eastern front 
 to the submarines fighting the battle for the Atlantic. It addresses diverse elements such as technology, 
 air power, amphibious landings, supply problems, and partisans in an accessible and streamlined 
 way. For the most part, it's a satisfying re-creation of the struggle that defined the 20th century. 
 But because it lacks a challenging AI, it eventually falls apart as anything other than a multiplayer 
 game.           Europe at war.    

  Strategic Command's level of detail strikes a perfect balance between getting bogged down in too 
 much detail and glossing over important historical factors. In terms of complexity, Strategic Command 
 is a notch or two above Hasbro's Axis &amp; Allies board game and nowhere near the daunting challenge 
 of Avalon Hill's intimidating Third Reich. Fans of SSI's Clash of Steel from 1993 will feel right 
 at home.   

  The game is turn-based, and it is played on a map of Europe that is drawn with 50-mile hexes, divided 
 into countries, and sprinkled with cities, oil fields, ports, and mines that produce resources. 
 The map does a good job of focusing the action on historically important strategic considerations: 
 The lure of Romanian oil, the rich resources of the southern USSR, the political importance of 
 Moscow on the open steppes of Russia, Italy's rough terrain, Malta as a thorn in the Mediterranean, 
 the slow going across North Africa, and the ever-popular English Channel are among the geographical 
 features you'll find in Strategic Command. They're like familiar characters in a historical drama. 
           Not so quiet on the Western Front.    

  There are relatively few types of playing pieces representing each country's military forces. Land 
 units are tank groups or infantry in one of two sizes (armies or corps) . Air power consists of 
 either fighter or bomber units. Naval units are battleships, cruisers, subs, or aircraft carriers. 
 There are also headquarters units, which serve as mobile supply sources and give nearby units a 
 combat bonus. A unit's distance from a supply source determines its fighting strength and how much 
 it can be reinforced after suffering combat losses. Units even gain experience as they fight, which 
 is then diluted as it receives replacements. You can even give each unit a unique name, which adds 
 a nice bit of flavor to the game. Unfortunately, headquarters units are an exception to this rule, 
 since they keep the names of their historical personages -- so you can't put Colonel Klink in charge 
 of your army group.   

  Strategic Command's coarse scale keeps the action manageable, but it causes a few historical problems. 
 For instance, Germany's blitzkrieg tactics served them well as they moved through the Low Countries 
 into France. But this isn't modeled very well in Strategic Command, where it's easy to use a couple 
 of French armies to bottle up any attackers. The same is true of North Africa, where supply problems 
 take a backseat to the fact that you can use only one army at a time to attack your opponent. Turns 
 are of variable length depending on season, but this doesn't really serve any purpose other than 
 to create a staccato flow of time. The hardships that the German army faced during winter in Russia 
 are completely ignored. Instead, winter flies by in a few monthlong turns. Suddenly it's spring 
 and no one is worse for the wear. For the most part, these concessions don't hurt the game so much 
 as demonstrate the trade-offs that a wargame developer has to make in order to keep the gameplay 
 simple.    

 Strategic Command's resource model is one of its strong points. Resources, called production points, 
 are used for more than just buying units. You also spend them on reinforcements, operational movement 
 (which represents loading an army onto a train and shipping it cross-country) , and amphibious attacks. 
 Because production points are used for reinforcements, Strategic Command does a good job of modeling 
 things like the war of attrition fought between the Germans and Russians. Production can also be 
 spent to buy research points, which you assign to various categories to improve specific types 
 of units (this is where long-term games can get really interesting) . When you damage a city or 
 an oil field by bombing it, you reduce the number of resource points it gives its owner. When you 
 conquer a country, you not only get to use its resources, but you also get a one-time windfall 
 of production points.           German subs prowling the Atlantic.    

  The diplomatic aspect of Strategic Command is one of its weaker points. France, Germany, the UK, 
 and Poland will always be belligerents, and the other powers can be set to stay neutral, enter 
 the war on their historical dates, or enter the war on random dates based on the course of the 
 war. You can track the chance of the US, USSR, or Italy joining their historical allies, but there's 
 no indication of how likely the minor powers are to enter the war or whom they'll side with. This 
 was one of the most compelling aspects of Clash of Steel, but here it's entirely under the hood. 
   

  The game's graphics are clear and simple and the interface keeps everything at your fingertips. 
 However, Strategic Command will play a few tricks on your desktop computer. It'll reset your refresh 
 rate when you start it up and coyly tuck itself behind your Windows menu bar. The game's play-by-e-mail 
 support lacks security measures to prevent players from reloading and replaying their turns, but 
 it does have password protection.           France holding out.    

  Probably the biggest appeal of Strategic Command is playing out various historical twists and "what 
 if" scenarios. In this regard, the game is a great success. What if Germany had decided to take 
 all the resources it spent on submarines and instead focus on keeping Allied bombers out of Europe? 
 What if Germany had been able to use long-range bombers against England? What if the Allies hadn't 
 bothered with Italy or North Africa and instead went straight for France? What if Germany had been 
 able to bring her research into advanced rocketry onto the battlefield? What if US tanks hadn't 
 been so markedly inferior to their German counterparts? What if France had held out for a few years? 
 What if Italy hadn't entered the war?   

  Unfortunately, many of these elements won't come into play because the AI doesn't hold up over 
 the long run. In the short run, it's good enough at scooting units around and keeping them up to 
 strength. As the USSR, for instance, it does a decent job of pushing forward through Poland and 
 into Germany. But when it comes to the sort of strategic thought necessary to actually play Strategic 
 Command, the AI falls flat. As Germany in 1939, it can't even take France. As the Allies in 1944, 
 it's easily dissuaded from landing at Normandy. You can set a difficulty level that alters some 
 of the game's internal calculations, or you can give computer units an experience bonus, but these 
 are just stopgap measures. Unless you can find a human opponent, Strategic Command is an interesting 
 study in what the war would have been like if the enemy generals and politicians hadn't known what 
 they were doing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dshaw62197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  For those looking for a wargame that sports cutting-edge graphics, high-quality videos, or other 
 such bells and whistles, read no further -- Strategic Command: European Theater is not for you. 
 But if you're like me, and were raised on old-school, hex-and-counter board wargames, welcome to 
 gaming gold. SC is a solid simulation of World War II in Europe, and includes all the features 
 that one would expect from an Avalon Hill or SPI game: zones of control, breakthroughs, supply, 
 diplomacy, research and development, partisans, and invasions, to name a few. Yet, to SC's credit, 
 the game is nowhere near the complexity of such hoary old favorites like AH's Third Reich; instead, 
 it is an accessible, easily digested game that inspires the wonderful "just one more turn" syndrome 
 that only the best games do. While the AI is not perfect, it does a credible job as either side, 
 and the game is fully supported by designer Hubert Cater and the folks at the game's publisher, 
 Battlefront. In fact, SC has inspired a host of sequel games that have built on the original's 
 foundation. However, while the later games have improved graphics and interface, the first SC remains 
 true to its wargame roots. For that, I am quite satisfied; I spent as much time with SC as I did 
 with the old SSI classic, Clash of Steel. As I said above, this game makes up for its lack of chrome 
 with a solid gameplay experience, and to pass it up for that alone would be denying yourself an 
 addicting treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelistman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  WWII games are nothing new. Strategic Command puts you either as the supreme commander of the Allies 
 or Axis forces in World War II. But Strategic Command is a little bit different than most WWII 
 strategy games. It seems so very simple, yet can become almost mind-bending tactical game. 
  If you have any interest in Strategic Command I would assume you have played other WWII strategy 
 games. While most Hex-Based strategy games either focus on one battle (e. g. Korsun Pocket) or they 
 focus only on one aspect (Air, land or sea) . But Strategic Command does all of the things just 
 mentioned. Not only do you command every type of unit from tanks, soldiers, airplanes, and ships; 
 but you also participate in the whole European Theater of War. A game with a scale this big obviously 
 does not have a detailed historical accuracy, so you won't see authentic names of tanks, soldiers, 
 and different types of submarines. Every tank is known a "tank." Riflemen are "riflemen." You won't 
 have the "101st Airborne Easy Company" dropping into Normandy, but just an "army." Other things 
 are not taken into account like the harsh winters of Russia or the Blitzkrieg warfare of Nazi Germany. 
 Even though it may be inaccurate, it does not take too much away from the experience. 
  The game features six campaigns, all starting at major points in WWII. You can start at 1939 when 
 Germany invaded Poland to start the war, or you can just jump straight to June 6, 1944 when the 
 Allies invaded Europe. Even with non-historical units, the numbers seem proportional to the real-life 
 conflict. For instance if you are the Allies, the French will get run over within a few turns and 
 the British will hope to God that The Soviet Union and USA join up soon. Conversely, if you play 
 as the Axis, you have to move fast and get ready for the Soviets.
  Strategic Command is not all that complicated in gameplay. All the troops are you have on a hex 
 are represented with a number between one and ten (you can get to fifteen with research) . This 
 number is the strength of the unit. Once it hits zero, that unit is gone. It is easy to reinforce 
 units as long as you are close to a friendly city or have a Headquarters unit nearby. Of course, 
 reinforcing, producing new units and research costs money. MPP's (Military Production Points) will 
 fund your war effort. You gain MPP's by holding onto cities, docks, or oil fields. You can also 
 gain MPP's by taking over countries and plundering from them. That is usually done by the Axis 
 though. It is not a great strategy for the Allies to take over neutral or random countries. You 
 obviously move your units from hex to hex in hopes of taking more territory. But surrounding the 
 enemy and taking resources is the name of the game. Battles are done in a matter of seconds. When 
 two units fight, they will attack the enemy and the enemy defends. Some units are lost (or maybe 
 none are lost at all) and you continue from there. It does get quite impressive when the Soviets 
 and Germans wage war. Huge amounts of troops are spread from the top of the map to the bottom. 
 
  What makes Strategic Command so great is the fact that you can wage war how you want. If you prefer 
 to pump research into land units and invade like crazy, you can. Or you could focus of Air superiority 
 and bomb the hell out of the enemy. It creates many "what if" situations and you can see if your 
 military mind can do better than real life generals. 
  Despite the historical inaccuracies and the poor graphics and sound (which is a given) , Strategic 
 Command excels where all games should: It is just plain fun. Commanding entire armies in WWII is 
 great entertainment. You can do what you want and wage war with whoever you want. If you are the 
 Allies needing MPP's, you can have the Soviets take over Iraq and Turkey to nab some oil fields 
 and cities. Or as the Germans, you can declare war on every neutral country to hopefully gain more 
 resources. Everything is up to you, and that is what makes Strategic Command so great.
  
  Highs: Great fun; very easy to learn; many campaigns and tons of replay
  Lows: Ugly graphics 
 and sound; not much historical depth
  
  89% 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
