-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stranger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/stranger/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Surreal story and setting.
 Blend of RPG and RTS game styles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story and setting are so surreal that they verge on nonsensical.
 Horribly nonintuitive interface.
 Derivative clickfest gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fireglow
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Stranger is one of strangest games of this year. Or any other year, for that matter. 

  Stranger certainly lives up to its name. This role-playing/real-time strategy hybrid is decidedly 
 strange in every respect, from its bizarre setting to its unusual game mechanics and its gawky 
 interface. Russian developer Fireglow Games seems to have set out to make something rather offbeat, 
 but then followed this philosophy so far off the beaten path that the end product turned into a 
 surreal, inept jumble of half-baked ideas. Despite a couple of interesting innovations and some 
 traditional hacking-and-slashing that sticks close to a familiar formula, the game is simply too 
 odd and too clumsily made to appeal to either RPG or RTS gamers.  

           Stranger is awfully convoluted for a game that's all about mindlessly right-clicking on 
 hordes of monsters.      

  Big problems are posed by the story. Although Stranger resembles a typical action RPG, the tale 
 is incomprehensible, and the backdrop was presumably concocted by someone on a big-time peyote 
 trip. It's hard to understand anything. Tacky comic-book cutscenes dish out crazy stuff about a 
 town populated by wizards and people tossed into an abyss for reasons unknown. A little online 
 research reveals that the story apparently deals with a trio of exiles booted into another dimension 
 for experimenting with forbidden magic, but good luck figuring that out from what you're presented 
 with in the game. For a change, though, this incomprehensibility isn't powered by an unholy mangling 
 of the English language. Fireglow handles the translations from the original Russian quite well, 
 but there simply isn't enough text to explain what's going on. It's as if every comic page in the 
 cutscenes is missing a couple of panels. And the writers really go in for goofy fantasy names that 
 get your head spinning when a bunch of them are crammed into a sentence or two. At one point you're 
 battling Tidderius, master of the Tiddery Citadel, who controls the insidious Lanzrayer, which 
 is vital to defeating the Muneks of Mokkosa. Follow all of that?  

  Much of the setting is just as disorienting. The landscape mixes alien and surreal, using Day-Glo 
 colors, luminescent lighting, and flora and fauna that seem to have been dropped in from a old 
 Star Trek episode. Much of the soundtrack consists of quirky, synthy tunes that reinforce the mushroom-enhanced 
 vibe of the whole game. Missions in the single-player campaign are really just separate maps with 
 objectives that have nothing to do with each other. Most goals involve a lot of tedious lever pushing, 
 along with battles against boss monsters that require some specific trick to defeat. Monsters themselves 
 are -- you guessed it -- pretty darn weird. You take on a host of way-out enemies including what appear 
 to be prehistoric butterflies, loads of creepy bugs, orcs who seem to have had their ears flattened 
 out with an iron, and others that defy description. The menagerie here is so off the wall that 
 you almost long for the demons and undead that take up space in every other action RPG.  

  Although the basic idea is a straightforward mix of a Diablo-style clickfest RPG with RTS staples 
 such as gathering resources and hiring mercenaries (who serve as party members in place of old-fashioned 
 recruited NPCs) , the interface is a mess. Instead of the paper-doll interface that RPGs have been 
 leaning on for inventory management for more than a decade, the game uses a lot of dragging and 
 dropping. For instance, to equip a sword, you have to pull up the inventory and then drag the sword 
 either to the appropriate slot on the separate character sheet or to the character himself on the 
 main game screen. All in all, this works, but feels clunky and is hardly intuitive.  

  Managing the red, green, and blue crystals that serve both for powering magic and for in-game currency 
 when hiring troops is even more of a pain due to a separate drag-drop menu button and the need 
 to fiddle with sliders. The whole crystal system is poorly organized. You use hundreds of the things 
 to cast spells, and have to shift the different colors back and forth between your hero and a storage 
 box, sort of like manipulating the cash in checking and savings accounts. Topping off the confusion 
 is a fourth resource, metal, which can be acquired mainly by melting down gear. This is kind of 
 a neat idea in that you can recycle old armor and shields into swords and axes, or just use the 
 melted-down result as currency. But despite this concept, the process is nearly identical to selling 
 old junk you no longer need in a standard RPG. The only real difference here is the added step 
 of having to melt down the junk before selling it. So the whole process is really just an extra 
 pain that you'll rarely want to bother with.  

           Crap art and ridiculous dialogue chop the plot into mystifying chunks.      

  When 
 not wrangling with the interface, you're playing a typical action RPG. Quests deal with deeply 
 dull "You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours" stuff where you do favors to open doors, obtain 
 magical artifacts, get a hint about where you're supposed to go next, that sort of thing. And though 
 you're mostly assigned to kill various packs of monsters or bosses to get these rewards, Stranger 
 manages to screw this up with crazy difficulty that forces a lot of grinding. Packs of tough enemies 
 make it impossible to get very far in a level without signing up a big gang of mercenaries to help 
 you out, so you have to spend a half an hour or more killing respawning cannon fodder like giant 
 beetles to earn the crystals needed to go on these hiring sprees. Combat consists of nothing but 
 repetitive right-clicking, too, which numbs the brain awfully fast.  

  Levels are entirely linear. Maps feature pathways so narrow that you can barely take a step off 
 of the beaten path, let alone leave it entirely, even outdoors. Yet maps can still be perplexing 
 because you often get around courtesy of flying metal grates called terrestres. These contraptions 
 sail sideways across maps as well as up and down from one level to another. This is an okay concept, 
 although the almost MC Escher-like level layout leads to serious confusion at times. Nevertheless, 
 it's a particular problem when ascending or descending to a new area because the camera doesn't 
 automatically follow characters. You soon clue into the fact that you have to manually move the 
 camera to locate your suddenly vanished party of adventurers, but having to do so remains unnecessary 
 and awkward.  

  Unnecessary and awkward actually sums up Stranger in its entirety. This isn't an entirely awful 
 game, just a mediocre one hampered by some bizarre design decisions, a deeply peculiar setting, 
 and a terrible interface. On second thought, maybe it is awful. At any rate, this is one RPG/RTS 
 hybrid based on hallucinogens that you can safely avoid.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: taas
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because it is role playing. But I was totally disappointed. The graphics is not 
 good. I thought it was a game similar to diablo 2 but i was wrong the game is worse. At first i was 
 excited because i would level up and grow stronger but on seeing the game i decided that i should 
 never play the game again. The camera is also bad. But some role-playing game lovers may like this 
 game. Oblivion
  
  
  I bought this game because it is role playing. But I was totally disappointed. The graphics is not 
 good. I thought it was a game similar to diablo 2 but i was wrong the game is worse. At first i was 
 excited because i would level up and grow stronger but on seeing the game i decided that i should 
 never play the game again. The camera is also bad. But some role-playing game lovers may like this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actsai
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Given that I'm reviewing based on the demo you should just download it and see yourself. However 
 this game is so offbeat it borders on madness/mediocrity/gaming pleasure. Madness considering offbeat 
 nature and gaming mechanics, mediocre considering the story is meaningless so you end up with just 
 a cloner game and pleasure considers that this game MIGHT grow on you.
  
  Recently I played games that drops you straight to the fray and meat of the game itself, but not 
 this, the offbeat and crazy nature gave you a learning curve of just too long and leaves you wonder 
 if the tiring obviously sandboxed bootcamp tutorial is going to end soon, after that what background 
 story is there to put our main character in the situation it is in? The game is supposed to be 
 action hybrid but I'm yawning. What is it? I'm not into management games.
  
  I cannot piece together any of the story beside something along the line "I careless who you are 
 but the way you arrived here is strange" then there is no story just a cloned game. 
  
  You might enjoy it even after the meaningless dribble and yawnfest, but I make such comparison 
 as a crack addict enjoys taking drug, why is it so I can't imagine but certainly I won't get it 
 even if it is in a $5 bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanjeev3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, after installing the game, it was a bit choppy because I didnt have the patch to make the 
 game more compatible with 8800 nvidia cards. After the patch the game was working fine. Ok, it 
 starts with some bad voice acting in a comic strip. These go throughout the game between each campaign 
 level. The graphics have been made very well with the engine. The controls are a bit hard to learn 
 at first or just awkwardly placed but they should grow on you. The story is about three people 
 are thrown into a portal. On falling, the 3 heroes change into different beings. A million or more 
 dollars wasnt spent on it but it has a great atmosphere.
  
  About the creatures in the world of stranger...
  There are hundreds of types of monsters and 
 creatures. The amount of these is just staggering. You can hire mercenaries from allied creatures 
 with crystals that drop from dead monsters. The crystals are red, blue and green. You can equip 
 your hero with these crystals to give him the option of casting spells with them. You army small 
 or big can consist of so many different types of monsters and the such that it looks like something 
 straight out of the Narnia movie. Anyone should at least try the demo. It has charm about it and 
 can be quite fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
