-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Street Legal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/streetlegal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 4.4, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 172 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Invictus
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Oct 15, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Street Legal is hard to recommend to any racing fans who aren't willing to wait on the next patch. 
 

 There's a very good reason street racing is looked upon with such disdain: It kills and seriously 
 injures hundreds of competitors and innocent bystanders every year. With Street Legal, Hungarian-based 
 developer Invictus offers a far less hazardous alternative -- one that attempts to virtually replicate 
 the entire street racing experience, from the car lot to the garage and ultimately to the inherently 
 dangerous urban competitions. To say that it didn't succeed would be a serious understatement. 
 Despite a great concept, an impressively realistic approach, and several moments of hidden glory, 
 Street Legal is clearly one of the most flawed games of 2002. So flawed, in fact, that a 30MB patch 
 has already been released, and another is on the way.           Street Legal might have an intriguing 
 concept, but it's too unstable to enjoy.    

  Detailing all that's wrong with Street Legal right out of the box would probably take a while, 
 but suffice it to say that no aspect of the game other than its audio is free of errors and bugs. 
 You'll know something is amiss when you attempt to install and are compelled to wait for five to 
 10 minutes for the process to complete. And that's if you're lucky. We found ourselves mercilessly 
 booted during install on more than one occasion, and several times during gameplay as well.   

 
  As bizarre as the game's installation routine is, navigating through its menus is infinitely more 
 annoying. For some unknown reason, the developer included a ridiculously fast-moving mouse pointer 
 that's difficult to use, especially because each menu item is so dreadfully tiny. As a result, 
 you may be forced to utilize the keyboard for those menus that support it. Unfortunately, some 
 of Street Legal's menus don't.   

  All of the above pales in comparison with the game's controller support. We auditioned several 
 control devices with Street Legal, including the Saitek Cyborg and Microsoft Precision joysticks, 
 a Logitech Formula Force GP wheel and pedal unit, and a Thrustmaster Firestorm Dual Power gamepad. 
 The good news is that the wheel functioned correctly before the patch and both the wheel and the 
 pad functioned after the patch. The bad news is that we were never able to get the game to properly 
 recognize either stick, even after we'd downloaded and installed the massive patch and loaded the 
 game on two separate systems. Your results may vary, but these problems have been acknowledged 
 and are apparently being worked on for the game's next patch. In the interim, many players will 
 have to drive with their keyboards, which just doesn't cut it for serious driving game enthusiasts. 
   

  If you somehow manage to get past all those issues, you'll undoubtedly be horrified by the game's 
 dismal graphics engine. On different test systems (a 1.6GHz Pentium 4 and a 1.4GHz Athlon, both 
 with GeForce 4-based graphics cards) , Street Legal performed so poorly as to be unplayable. Even 
 at 640x480 resolution and the lowest detail settings, the game runs at a sub-glacial frame rate 
 with some of the worst clipping and draw-in we've seen in a racing game in some time. Vehicles 
 suddenly materialize on previously empty strips of road. The action freezes at least once every 
 few seconds for hard drive access.   

  In the game's car lot, where new vehicles are purchased from a selection of 3D static images, the 
 rendering is so slow and so deficient that some vehicles are never fully drawn. Of greater concern 
 is the brutal rendering in the garage, where you perform all repairs and upgrades. In the garage, 
 you must manually remove parts before you can install other parts, and this already time-consuming 
 procedure is made much more difficult by the fact that parts occasionally seem to evaporate for 
 no reason at all.   

  Upgrading the game with its first patch improves the situation only marginally, and it doesn't 
 seem to do anything for the hyperactive mouse pointer in the game's menus, or for controller support 
 or clipping.           Embarrassing graphical glitches like these are common in the game.    

 
  Yet for all that is wrong with Street Legal -- and there is plenty -- there are also several telltale 
 signs of hidden greatness. In fact, if you really look hard, you'll see that the developer once 
 had the makings of a slick and original simulation for players who like to be both drivers and 
 mechanics. How the game ended up in its current state is anyone's guess.   

  Street Legal was obviously designed with gearheads in mind. You begin the game with $22,000 burning 
 a hole in your pocket and a singular desire to assemble and race the coolest car in town. You'll 
 start at the car lot, where you select your mode of transportation. If you choose a low-budget 
 beater, you'll have more money to spend on upgrades and repairs. If you opt for a classy sports 
 car, you'll have less money for upgrades, but you'll stand a better chance of winning races without 
 first enhancing your equipment.    

 However, much of the game's appeal lies in its garage. Invictus has designed a complex and sophisticated 
 upgrade system with hundreds of available parts. If you want a new engine block, you have a dozen 
 choices at your disposal. If you want a new set of tires, you can browse through scores of options 
 before hitting upon something that fits your budget. Furthermore, most parts are licensed replicas 
 of real-life equipment from respected high-performance manufacturers such as BFGoodrich and Bilstein. 
           Fortunately, Street Legal's crashes are at least somewhat satisfying.    

  But again, installing your new components is a complex procedure that's more suitable for serious 
 gearheads than for fans of quick action. Nevertheless, one of the most impressive aspects of the 
 garage setup routine is the physical reaction of your vehicle. If you drop in a heavy piece of 
 equipment, the car sinks noticeably into its suspension system. If you remove a wheel, it tilts 
 noticeably at that corner, though for some reason, you won't know if a given component will fit 
 your vehicle until you've purchased it and tried it on for size, so you'll have to run through 
 far too many unnecessary experiments.   

  Whether in the garage or on the road, a Street Legal car always displays its latest modifications. 
 We installed two fancy new sway bars, each colored a brilliant red, and were pleased to see those 
 sway bars fixed to our undercarriage as we hurtled end-over-end during a particularly nasty collision. 
 If you win enough races and accumulate enough money, you can transform even the plainest beater 
 into a glorious monument to automotive excess. You can paint it with bright colors, throw on some 
 monstrous rear slicks, and add frivolous items such as decals, sports mirrors, and high-end headlamps. 
   

  Street Legal goes to great lengths to portray the advantages and disadvantages of your new performance 
 parts. If you install a massive engine in a lightweight car but neglect to upgrade other areas 
 to support all that increased power, you'll definitely notice a difference in the way your car 
 handles. If your car's braking and suspension systems can't handle all that newfound speed and 
 power, you'll submarine under heavy braking and roll substantially in fast turns. Small cars with 
 big engines vibrate visibly as they idle.   

  More importantly, Street Legal cars exhibit semirealistic driving physics. Stopping and acceleration 
 times are authentic, and cornering is quite believable. The entire suspension system compresses 
 when you drive over a curb, and elongates when the load is light. Unfortunately, the control in 
 general is fairly loose. This is problematic because of Street Legal's terrible frame rate, which 
 forces you to make steering and braking adjustments later than you otherwise would.   

  At least Street Legal's accidents provide good entertainment value. In harsh collisions, you'll 
 wedge yourself under other cars or catapult yourself into the air. Fenders will bend, lamps will 
 extinguish, and bumpers and doors will detach. Even relatively minor accidents might bend your 
 frame so much that the driver or passenger door pops open when you take a turn. But because of 
 the game's unpolished graphics engine, you'll sometimes find yourself stuck in your crunched car 
 as it becomes partially submerged in the road or clumsily caught up in a bit of incidental scenery. 
           But the action is usually over before you know it.    

  And unfortunately, Street Legal does not offer compelling scenarios. Once you've designed a suitable 
 machine, you'll head for the streets and search for a likely competitor. This search is one of 
 the most maddening aspects of the game, because it's tedious and repetitive. As you drive, you'll 
 come across many poorly rendered vehicles, police cars, and pedestrians who have stepped out of 
 their cars -- but none will actually race you. When you finally do find a competitor, you're taken 
 to map view, where you can see your route and choose how much money you'll wager. But less than 
 a minute later, the event is over and you're off to search for another challenger. Fortunately, 
 the actual races do get fast and furious. A little gentle bumping is well within the rules, and 
 it's certainly rewarding to send your opponent right into another car or some nearby scenery, but 
 the game's sloppy control and problematic frame rate make this far more difficult than it should 
 be.   

  However, Street Legal features impressive sound that perfectly re-creates the rumble of a hot rod, 
 as well as the squeal of tires. The game also has decent ambient sounds. Hopefully you enjoy audio 
 more than multiplayer games, because Street Legal has no multiplayer component -- and no camera replays 
 or instruction manual, either.   

  Somewhere inside Street Legal is an innovative and enjoyable game just waiting to escape. But as 
 it is now, the game is just one more reason budget games have such a bad reputation. Street Legal 
 is virtually unplayable out of the box, and it's not much better when patched, so it's hard to 
 recommend to any racing fans who aren't willing to wait on the next patch -- and hope that the next 
 patch somehow fixes all the problems in this otherwise promising game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rusty30
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Well first off this game was very good and original idea at the time. Once you do get past the 
 lagging and loading, and crashing, things actually do turn around. Being able to modify your cars 
 with custom body kits, and engine modifications with significant improvments to handling and performance 
 were very realistic. Ive had this game for just about 3 years now and 5 months ago i finally have 
 a computer that seems to support it very well, with all parts showing up on cars, and details up 
 high it finally runs smooth. The garage was very similar to Gear-Head Garage, a game where you 
 repaired and sold cars. Snap on made it years ago, was good for the first few hours. There is sooo 
 much fun once you get past the first level because you are open to new cars with new engines and 
 parts to make them go even faster. Over all i thought this game wasnt worth the 10 i paid for it, 
 but now i would put this as one of the better racing games ive ever played and think that maybe 
 a sequal should be in order here soon, that would be kool and bring it to consols..... just my idea 
 i think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRAMDEER
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  was at my local wal-mart and this game was on the shelf for 10 buck so I looked at it and said 
 "why not" well I got it home installed it and start to play the idea that I could take the car 
 apart was pretty cool... till I started messing with it, went to buy a tack limiter and then my 
 car didn't even move at all, so I went and downloaded all 4 freaking patches which in size range 
 form 23 MB to 60 MB if that says how much is wrong... in the read me for each one they all had about 
 2-4 pages of fixes cause it would crash when you did this, or this part wouldn't work like it should 
 ETC, after reading that I went to install the first one and it told me I didn't even have the game 
 installed I tried this a few more times and it still said the same thing, it look like someone 
 got it the patch installed but I never could, so this has to be the crummest programed game I have 
 ever seen they should have waited longer before releasing it to work out all the bugs cuase you 
 shouldn't have to make that many patches that are that freaking big! I think the game had a good 
 idea and would have worked but they didn't.... I was very luck when I went back to wal-mart latter 
 that night and told them it was total garbage and they let me get a different game I was happy 
 about that. so if you want a headache go find this in a bargen bin somewhere and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:57 am PT
Review:  It doesnt matter what people say about this game, I fell inlove with it from the start. I love 
 that fact that you can actually take apart your car and build engines. The game is quite hard to 
 figure out in the beginning. The graphics are very good and well thought out. The car selection 
 is sort of boring but it works. I recommend checking out the other games in the street legal series. 
 You can pick them up in stores fairly cheap. Im a hardcore racer all the way and I would put this 
 game up in my top ten. I give this game a ten. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
