-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Strife
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/strife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Velocity Development
Developer: Rogue Ent.
Genre: Action
Date:     May 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Strife mixes elements of stealthy espionage with ever-satisfying bloodletting to serve up one of 
 the tastiest concoctions in the 3-D shooter market. 

 Combine one scoop of sci-fi role-playing, a drop of James Bond, and ninety-eight cups of Doom, and 
 what do you get? Strife. Strife mixes elements of stealthy espionage with ever-satisfying bloodletting 
 to serve up one of the tastiest concoctions in the 3-D shooter market.  

 In Strife, you assume the role of a bad-ass freedom fighter attempting to eradicate fanatical members 
 of the Order. Unfortunately, you can't accomplish this goal simply by giving everyone you meet 
 a massive head wound. Instead you must interact with (read: talk to) the different characters to 
 gain valuable information and insight into the inner workings of the Order. Along the way, the 
 individuals you meet may offer you gold and powerful new weapons in exchange for completing mini-quests. 
 Your ability to converse and interact with all the characters gives Strife an extra, tangy twist, 
 rare in most 3-D shooters, and the clear, crisp voice-overs during these sequences further immerse 
 you in the game's fantasy setting.   

 Blackbird, another resistance fighter for the Front, will aid you in your ultimate goal of destroying 
 the Order by leading you down the correct path and keeping you updated with the latest scoops. 
 Through your Com Unit, you maintain constant contact with Blackbird, whose voice is by far the 
 sexiest thing to ever resonate from my computer speakers.  

 The only element of Strife that doesn't measure up is the graphics. Unfortunately, the characters 
 in the action sequences are very blocky; the playing environment could also be more detailed and 
 tighter. On the positive side, the comic-book style graphics of the cut scenes are beautiful and 
 feature superb shading and lighting.  

 Strife's arsenal includes implements of destruction standard to 3-D shooters, but also contains 
 a few new toys like the crossbow andmy personal favoritethe flamethrower. Nothing is 
 quite as satisfying as listening to your enemies screaming in horror while engulfed in flames. 
 However, the most menacing weapon in Strife is the Sigil. Throughout the game you'll acquire bits 
 of this massive, beastly killer, but even one piece is deadly. Be warned, though: this baby drains 
 your life force as it vaporizes your adversaries.   

 If you can overlook Strife's mediocre graphics, you'll be blown away by the unique interface, engaging 
 storyline, outstanding voice-overs, and unusual weapons. For those who are looking for a new take 
 on the standard RPG, Strife is a game that shouldn't be missed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamiar
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Often rehashed game play featuring superior graphics is mistakenly hailed by the more myopic elements 
 of the gaming community as innovative. Released in 1996, the doom-engine mutant Strife was largely 
 ignored as first person shooters leapt into (in hindsight, quite ugly) 3D. However if one is able 
 to pierce through the more superficial aspects of a game and instead chew on the actual game play, 
 Strife has to be considered among the most innovative first person shooters created to date.
  
  The list is rather large; friendly NPCs, dialogue (including voice overs) , dialogue choices 
 with consequences, a deep story involving multiple endings, a HUB world featuring towns, sold items 
 and a currency system, map teleportation, functioning security systems, and more. And all of these 
 innovations in the FPS genre were overlooked - why? Graphics. That's all. Because of graphics.
 
  
  You encounter many friendly NPCs - some who guide you in the right direction, some who will try 
 to ruin you. You'll join groups, you'll have bases and fortresses, you'll fight along side your 
 allies and take missions from your leaders. You'll interact with other NPCs who will help you, 
 wittingly or not, complete the missions given to you. You'll buy items from them. You'll get information 
 from them - sometimes having to first earn their trust. Wise off to the wrong NPC and you'll regret 
 it. In a town, you better act civilized or there'll be a reward on your head and you won't be going 
 back.
  
  The story is very involving. The environment, the locations, the characters - even some of the 
 weapons intertwine effortlessly into the story. It can be a pretty scary game at times as you reveal 
 mysteries and solve them, as you enter unknown areas and meet strange creatures and strange cults, 
 as you fight alongside your allies in bloody battles. There is a feeling of real repression in 
 the game as unfriendly soldiers keep an eye on your every move, just waiting for the chance to 
 pump you full of bullets. At this point I'm having difficulty writing about the story because it 
 is so well ingrained in the game play that I am unable to separate them into two discreet sections.
 
  
  Sounds fun, doesn't it? But oh no, it looks like Doom! I can't see the nose hairs hanging out of 
 the NPCs noses and I don't have a gravity gun to pull up my pants with, I refuse to play this! 
 Actually, compared to the games that held Strife down, it looks good, because in retrospect Quake 
 is quite difficult to look at, and while Strife may not be true 3D it looks pleasant enough for 
 what it is. The environments are atmospheric and well designed and the sprites fit right in.
  
  It isn't a horribly long game but it will keep you entertained for a few days. Since there 
 are multiple choices and multiple endings may find yourself playing the game more than just a single 
 play through.
  
  At this point, Strife should remind us to look beyond superficial aspects of a game and instead 
 focus on the core - the game play, the immersion, the innovations. It's a shame that a game with 
 so many new and well executed ideas was dismissed for such superficial reasons by so many. If you've 
 yet to get this game, imagine yourself back in 1996 and play this. When you finally warp back to 
 the current date you will join those of us who hail this game as a masterpiece, and rightly so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torq95
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is amazing!
  Not kidding, Strife combines RPG-style elements with FPS-style action of the Doom series. The weaponry 
 available in this game include the crossbow, which uses two types of ammunition each with their 
 own effect, the assault rifle, which is weak yet fast (yet sounds like a poison dart gun) , and 
 -my all-time favorite- the flamethrower, which is powerful and deadly yet consumes ammunition fast, 
 apparently a bit faster than the assault rifle.
  Enemies available include the acolytes, which act like foot soldiers wielding assault rifles, the 
 sentinel, which is a flying drone that fires red lasers at you, the stalker, which is a spider-like 
 drone that comes up to you and scratch you with their metal leg, and the templar, which isn't actually 
 a drone or a robot, but a man in a hi-tech suit of armor that fires their signature weapon, the 
 mauler (which can disintegrate you when you are hit several times with this) .
  Now about the action. Strife's enemies can either attack you or leave you alone (mostly templars 
 and acolytes) . Some enemies can respond to alarms, which activate once you step on a green line 
 that acts as a scanner to let enemies know you are there and they'll attempt to kill you.
  Want more? There is an inventory system that lets you keep items such as leather armor, a "targeter" 
 device, an environmental suit which protects you from radiation, and a field surgery kit which 
 is vital for you when confronting the final boss.
  Now Strife featured RPG-style elements such the aforementioned inventory system (even though it's 
 not like that of other RPG games) , interacting with characters, and so on. Now most of the characters 
 such as Macil and Richter are given voices as they are the most important of the game. Right, Strife 
 is the first game to feature voice-acting, which is later used in most other games such as Half-Life 
 or Doom 3. And you know what? Strife is also non-linear. That's right. Strife uses a modified hub 
 system to make the game more non-linear (even though it follows a linear storyline) . The hub system 
 was taken from HeXen, as if you might've known. Yet you'll learn what the story is yourself once 
 you first tried it out.
  Get this one now. You don't wanna miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  I overlooked Strife when it was first released a decade ago and obtained a copy only recently, 
 in 2004. The fact that I still thoroughly enjoyed this title despite its horribly dated look should 
 serve as a testament to the quality of its gameplay, story, and light role-playing mechanics. Many 
 of the enemies that my fledgling resistance fighter encountered were menacing even through the 
 eye-warping pixellation that set in as they wandered nearer. Wandering is an appropriate verb 
 here, in fact, since the only AI applied to any creature or cybernetic soldiers behavior involved 
 a zig-zagging path between it and the player, interrupted only by an extremely short memory should 
 the latter move out of sight. The epic castle courtyard battle between the resistance and the Order 
 was particularly bemusing, as the members of either side of the conflict just sort of sashayed 
 toward one another, in no hurry whatsoever to get on with the bloodletting. Still, I could appreciate 
 the games scope despite its engines limitations: there was actually a good story involved, bolstered 
 by cutscenes with alarmingly grotesque comic book illustrations. Seeing the minions of the Order 
 as they mulched and melted poor peasants was positive proof of the extent of their menace, which 
 added a strong sense of apprehension to the the branching-path allegiances that the player had 
 to negotiate with the Oracle and Macil. The voice work for the former character was appreciably 
 creepy and otherworldly, just as Blackbirds voice was the exact opposite in terms of warmth and 
 competence.
  
  Notable Feature: Strife tried hard to enhance the run-and-gun design to which the first Doom engine 
 was sorely limited, and it mostly succeeded. The game included a simple inventory system, some 
 character development, a bit of stealth, and an interactive element for bargaining and quest selection.
 
  
  Favorite Weapon: The Sigil was very effective at conveying a sense of immense power at each stage 
 of its reconstruction, but I was especially taken with the flamethrower. Dousing a Templar in napalm 
 and laying low for the duration of his incineration helped a lot in keeping up my stock of health 
 packs.
  
  Favorite Enemy: I tend to look forward to facing off with the bigger, nastier enemies (including 
 most bosses, I suppose) , even as Im turning tail and running in terror. Strifes flying Inquisitor 
 robots provided a chance to sling large amounts of the strongest ammo available, which is just 
 plain good visceral fun.
  
  Im glad I stumbled over this old title, even though the slightly fisheyed dimensions of 2.5D games 
 tend to give me a headache right behind my eyes. Strifes setting in a Medieval community artificially 
 evolved by an alien influence created an interesting contrast for the high-tech battles fought 
 in castles and caverns. Since the game is readily available as abandonware nowadays, I strongly 
 recommend it for anyone who both fondly remembers Doom, Heretic, and Hexen and doesnt mind the 
 flatness of sprite-based graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  First thing I remember about this game are the robot spiders, my first encounter with them was 
 not to pleasant, I suddenly heard some ticking sounds but I couldn't see what caused it, until 
 I was attacked from above by one of those spiders! After blowing it's CPU to hell I had to turn 
 fast to welcome it's friends. As other reviewers already stated: It was amazing what they did with 
 the Doom-engine. A shooter combined with NPC interaction and slight RPG influence offered a complete 
 different game experience.
  For once it wasn't about killing everything that moved. Also at some times you had backup from 
 other freedom fighters. Of course I've shot at them to see what happened, yep, I got killed instantly 
 by 'm running towards me from all directions.
  
  The environment you're playing in has a medieval setting, the NPC's look like knights and musketeers, 
 together with machine-guns it's a strange combination but since we gamers are used to adapt fast 
 to our new surroundings it's just a breeze from another direction. This game is really a nice old-timer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Strife may be getting on a bit these days, its nearly 10 years old, and in many ways is very dated. 
 Dont let this put you off though, this underdog is still very much worth playing.
  
  The story for Strife is nothing incredible mostly reminiscent of a B-movie sci-fi flick. However, 
 the presentation is top notch throughout with a voice over and stylish graphic novel type stills 
 explaining the situation in the intro.
  Once in the game proper it feels very much like a Doom game, but in a good solid way. Most comparisons 
 stop at the engine though as the game as a lot more to offer than its technological founder. Your 
 player starts in a prison with only his bladed fist to help him escape (wonder how he sneaked that 
 past the guards.) Players of Dark Forces will feel quite at home with Strife to begin with as the 
 game world is very well designed and feels like a real place. After escaping the prison though 
 you find yourself in a town, which is the main area of the game. Strifes level construction is 
 based around a hub system which is a first for a 1st person shooter if I remember correctly. This 
 allows you to return to areas even after finishing, adding to the sense of being in an actual place. 
 The town is pretty big and feels like a real place with lots of people wandering about that you 
 can talk to. There are guards as well, but along as you dont start shooting everything, theyll 
 leave you alone. Yup this is an RPG, you can talk to people, buy items go on missions etc. Without 
 giving the story away you basically end up joining the rebel group opposing the bad guys (The Order) 
 and set out to stop them. Not on your own though I might add, a member of the rebels called Blackbird 
 is with you at all times during the game watching and listening over your comm system. She is a 
 fantastic addition to game, giving you extra help and is sensually voice acted to boot.
  
  This may be an RPG but dont worry, there is plenty of shooting as well! Combat is quite different 
 from Doom, with opportunities for stealthy movement and silent kills with the crossbow. The big 
 guns are great as well though, with the usual assault rifle, rocket launcher and grenade launcher 
 making up the mainstay of your offence. Some of these have different types of ammo to spice things 
 up a bit. However, the star of the show is the flamethrower, its Syndicate all over again! Bodys 
 burn, twist and scream as you torch rooms of bad guys making this one of the most violent shooters 
 at the time (except Blood maybe) . There are also two super weapons, the Mauler (disintegration 
 gun, with green explosive death for a secondary fire) and the Sigil story based weapon. It grows 
 through out the game until the end were its an ber powerful lighting BFG, very pretty. All of 
 those that like their squelchy sound effects and gory death scenes are in for a treat.
  
  Level design is also very good. They obviously spent a lot of time trying to make the levels feel 
 like real places rather than corridor crawls. There is plenty of detail in the game world as well, 
 all areas have a distinctive feel and look with lots of little objects even breakable monitors 
 and glass. Item pick ups are generally sensibly placed (i. e ammo in the armoury etc) which means 
 that you can go quite a distance without seeing a health boost. This means you have to save your 
 money and kit yourself out at the shops before going on missions.
  
  I feel that if Strife had come out in 1995 before Quake, it could have been big. Strife really 
 as a lot going for it, and offers so much more than even some modern shooters do. Good solid story 
 line, well paced challenging action, interesting characters and strong visuals makes Strife a very 
 good action/RPG. If you like a bit of story and character interaction with your shooting give it 
 a go. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EggmanChao
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the game is the first type I have played with the features of being able to have 
 allies in it. Doom has no allies what so ever, because most of them marines are dead. The rebels 
 you can summon at any time if you have the right item.
  
  The sounds are good, the story line is okay too. The features and other items are also great additions 
 to the game.
  
  The graphics are not that bad to the example of the game itself compared to doom series, you would 
 say that its used for the perfect level details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: water5life
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has a fantastic storyline. Robots, automatic rifles and mutated religious fanatics packed 
 into the medieval times in one. But of course that would be a bit far fetched now wouldn't it? 
 Well before you start the game a narrative depicted in pictures explains how all this became. In 
 short, comet strikes earth, comet releases plague, some survivors mutated into beings known as 
 "The Order" who worship something known as "The Sigil" and those who did not believe in this new 
 religion where brutally beaten, tortured and then "Converted". That's when the rebels and angry 
 peasants come in..... A special mention also goes to the games graphics, some might see the textures 
 as very blocky and muddy but this is the "Doom" engine pushed to limit. Surprisingly it does a 
 good job of creating an atmosphere, whether it be the grey's and brown's of a medieval town or 
 the dark and light green's of an "Order" temple. The comic-book like art of an important character 
 face as you talk to them is a nice touch and immerses you into this strange world even more.
  The levels themselves are great to. They are designed well and look like you would imagine a alien 
 spaceship and underground sewers . My particular favorite is the mission in when "The Front" a 
 resistance group lead by Macil storm "The Order" castle and an large skirmish breaks out between 
 the rebels against robots and cyborgs. The levels are separated using a HUB system meaning instead 
 of linear levels, you can go back and forth from one level to the other which adds to the feeling 
 that this is a real world.
  
  The gameplay is great also and this is what makes Strife a different game from the rest of the 
 doom clones. Instead of shooting everything that moves you have to sometimes actually talk them 
 (amazing I know) to extract information about people, places and objects. Also this is the first 
 game I can remember playing were you have allied soldiers fighting along side you. There is also 
 an RPG element to the game were you have items med packs etc.. to use at anytime. Further more 
 there is also a stat system which determines accuracy and health but apart health the stat system 
 doesn't really affect the game.
  
  Finally the music, even though it's MIDI it can still set the atmosphere for most levels from a 
 rebel underground base to a creepy network of catacombs.
  
  However I have some minor gripes with the game...
  
  There is not much I didn't like about 
 the game apart from maybe one or two levels which are boring endless mazes where you have to solve 
 a puzzle to get out of like "The Sewers" *yawn*
  The A. I is well, laughable but because of the games sometimes restrictive controls, this gives 
 the A. I an advantage because you can't mouse look in the game, also when I played "Doom" non stop 
 when it was first released, I never ever perfected the art of strafing and the same goes for here, 
 even though you can strafe, I find it terribly difficult to turn left, right and strafe at the same 
 time (this is personally speaking of course.)
  
  The save file system is an extremely bad idea as well. I must of had start the game again at least 
 three times because I took at wrong turn got surrounded and had no chance of escaping. This problem 
 can be fixed with a patch though. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daylightsend7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I like Strife. It's freaking sweet, and let me tell you why. First off, it's running from the original 
 DOOM engine, and boy-howdy has it used it well. I don't think even DOOM was this great. I love 
 the Inventory system, and the fact that they used voice acting for a lot of the characters in the 
 game. This game tries for the FPS/RPG combination, and I think for it's time, pulls it off nicely. 
 The story is original, and really does a great job at pulling you in. Unlike DOOM, there are some 
 non-linear bits in the game, like it's many side missions that have their own Consequences and 
 rewards that affect your game play. The only think I don't really care for, is at times the fighting 
 can feel a little shallow when using the Bladed fist. You find yourself using this weapon quite 
 often so you don't set off any alarms, but it's not bad. All in all, for an old-school type FPS, 
 this game is not to be missed. This is one awesome Underdog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khmer_soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was Very Awesome, one of the First FPS game that you can talk with People, you can betray 
 them or trusting them but the game name is to trust no one... I like how they made the world before 
 its kind of medieval time with Technology. Medieval Soldier with Heavy Armor and Weapon Technology 
 and theres many Kind of Robots killers and Demon and Stuff... They Should Remake this game with 
 Doom 3 Engine like in the pass, they use the old Doom Engine to Create this game For a Great Graphic 
 and sound. People who like FPS game should like this game, this was one of my favorite game in 
 the time. i started playing FPS game when doom come out for the first time and i never stop and 
 still one of the best in FPS game and still playing with arrow Keyboard Controll The real Default 
 Original Controll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinkyfriend_85
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 11:03 am PT
Review:  In the middle of 1996 a game based off the Doom engine came out, among many other new games it 
 was quite forgotten, it was just simply using a "too old" engine like the Doom one was or was it 
 really?
  Strife proved that you could actually archieve a high detail of atmosphere with the Doom engine, 
 but not only with graphics, also with sounds and the mapping.
  
  Everything in Strife had been worked on very well. Great Plot, great graphics for being a Doom 
 engine. Great sounds. Everything that made Doom good about is in this game, but also what is not, 
 this added what should have been in Doom but never got there.
  
  There is a lot of tension in this game, and it is not just about blasting away enemies, but also 
 to find out some info. You can talk with them!, you can buy weapons and armor and other things 
 that you may have use for. But not only that, if you kill a guy or a robot even, the alarms will 
 start beeping and you have to get running to avoid getting shot down.
  
  If you are a true FPS gamer, but also a collector, this is the item for you. A complete MUST-HAVE.
 
  
  Simply a 9/10 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
