-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Strike Fighters: Project 1
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/strikefightersproject1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 52 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Third Wire
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Oct 27, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Strike Fighters might be the only game that has ever been released twice in an unfinished state. 
 

 Strike Fighters: Project 1 has already been released once, in a fiasco in which an early version 
 was put in a box and sold at the retail chain Wal-Mart to meet a shipping deadline and then withdrawn 
 just as quickly. Three months later, the game is back as an "official release." And unfortunately, 
 Strike Fighters might be the only game that has ever been released twice in an unfinished state. 
           The aircraft models are probably the best ever in a sim.    

  The idea behind the game itself is great: Take a period in aviation history that hasn't gotten 
 a lot of attention in flight simulator games and build an expandable simulation that revolves around 
 some of the most interesting and beloved aircraft of the time. In true survey-sim fashion, Strike 
 Fighters avoids turning into a gadget show that requires you to fiddle with a thousand knobs and 
 buttons on your planes' control panels, and this approach is actually pretty realistic, since the 
 avionics in the real-world aircraft featured in Strike Fighters were fairly primitive in the first 
 place. And development of the game involved Tsuyoshi Kawahito, the designer of the classic European 
 Air War and the programmer of the even more highly esteemed Longbow 2, so Strike Fighters had the 
 potential to be an absolutely essential game for all computer pilots. If the game had actually 
 been finished by the time it was shipped, this might have been the case.   

  Currently, Strike Fighters lets you fly four standard aircraft: the A-5 Skyhawk, the F-100 Super 
 Sabre, the F-104 Starfighter, and the F-4 Phantom II (though in multiplayer, you can also fly Soviet-built 
 MiG jets) . The Phantom II is really the centerpiece of the sim, as it has a truly unique flight 
 model: It has a lot of power, but it handles like a brick. If you played EA's 1999 simulation Jane's 
 USAF, you may remember the physics on the Phantom II in that game -- and as it turns out, Strike 
 Fighters does a better job of conveying the way this powerful fighter jet handles. In fact, Strike 
 Fighters does a great job of modeling just about all the aircraft it features, and you really have 
 to learn how to handle these early jets much differently than you would a modern F-22. These jets 
 bleed airspeed like crazy, even in relatively shallow turns, and this is exacerbated by the fact 
 that the Soviet-built planes generally have much more horizontal maneuverability than the other 
 jets, so you have to play to your strengths.   

  Strike Fighters' modeling of air-to-air missiles gives you a good idea of how unreliable and difficult 
 to use the early models were. Additionally, the realistic difficulty in using missiles in air-to-air 
 battles leads to a lot of intense dogfights in which a missile launch rarely means an automatic 
 kill, and in which guns are your most reliable asset. The challenges in the game aren't technical 
 but a matter of flying skill, so you might compare it to Rowan Software's 1999 MiG Alley, since 
 both games offer a new flight experience that hasn't been featured in a flight sim in a while. 
   

  Strike Fighters' graphics range from incredible, especially its aircraft models, to serviceable, 
 especially its terrain. The realism of the game's flight model also scales nicely, so Strike Fighters 
 gets off to a good start. Unfortunately, once you really start playing the game, you'll notice 
 Strike Fighters' problems, as well as some of its conspicuously missing features. One of the biggest 
 is the complete lack of any surface-to-air missiles (SAMs) or antiaircraft artillery (AAA) . In 
 a game in which you spend a fair amount of time flying ground-attack missions, this is a big problem. 
 Also, the game's terrain textures sometimes go missing, especially over water. Strike Fighters' 
 collision detection with the ground is also unreliable, and the game simply doesn't have ground 
 explosions for weapons. The game's planning map is essentially useless, since it has no zoom levels. 
 And while we were able to play the game without experiencing severe problems, other users have 
 reported technical problems that include frequent crashes of the game to their computers' desktops. 
           Incredibly, there are no ground explosions for bombs.    

  Strike Fighters was designed to be an expandable game that could easily support both official and 
 user-made add-ons. There are certainly plenty of aircraft to choose from as candidates for future 
 inclusion (the F-8 Crusader and F-105 Thunderchief are notable examples) , but since the game doesn't 
 have a compelling campaign, it doesn't seem like adding these missing planes would help much. The 
 dynamic campaign included in the game is set in a fictional desert war circa 1959 between two fictional 
 countries, one with Soviet weapons and one with arms that are US-built. A simulation like this 
 is crying out for a Vietnam theme, and while the desert setting is a way to get around having to 
 build a terrain engine that can model large numbers of trees, it seems a bit sterile.   

  It's hard to recommend Strike Fighters as it is. The core gameplay is actually quite good, and 
 it's tempting to just overlook the bugs and missing features and focus on the game's strengths. 
 Unfortunately, there are too many of these bugs and missing features to ignore. A stable version 
 of Strike Fighters with fully functional ground-to-air defenses, ground-collision detection, a 
 bigger theater of war, and a steady stream of new flyable aircraft would have been a terrific flight 
 simulation. Developer Third Wire has promised to support and fully patch the game, but there probably 
 isn't much reason to pick up the game in its current state. Considering the fact that many flight 
 sims really took off after their retail release (and after numerous patches and updates) , it's 
 possible that the game could improve in the future, but out of the box, Strike Fighters is more 
 than a little disappointing. Then again, the war isn't going anywhere.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vsem_Pizdetz
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Well, not only were my 35 dollars snatched out of my pocket by means of the game's propaganda but 
 I have also literally gave the game away to a companion the third day of my purchase, who also 
 did not keep the game for long. First of all, on the box, it clearly states you can fly up to 16 
 aircraft in the game, both US and Russian. Turns out you can fly four different american aircraft 
 in the Singe player with a couple of variants. As with the multiplayer, you fly highly undetailed 
 versions of some of the planes mentioned on the back of the box, all sharing the same cockpit as 
 the F-4. Second, the AI of enemies is terrible. 95% of the times I have died was either from crash 
 or bugs while the other 5% was from enemy missiles and gunfire. I spent my time engaging five Mig17's 
 whose pilots seemed were uncappable of passing 2nd grade. Aircraft would loop around you, fly low 
 and simply rather fly away from you then actually fire a missile even if difficulty is on maximum. 
 The plane you control has the ability to perfectly land anywhere in the game including mountains 
 and slopes as well as fly through buildings. 
  
  This game is terrible. Just get Lock-On. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjcruzejr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Strike Fighters: Project 1 has had a very checkered past. First, there was the Wal-Mart Fiasco, 
 when the publisher gave in to pressure from Wal-Mart to release the game several months before 
 it was ready -- they shipped a beta version of the game. To put it mildly, it was not very well 
 received. Then the game was officially released to lackluster reviews. If it was any other game, 
 it probably would have withered and died, joining the graveyard with dozens of other forgettable 
 flight sims.
  
  However...
  
  SF: P1 had two things going for it. First, it has a mod-friendly architecture -- like MS Flight 
 Simulator. Over the past five years since it's release, a very talented, very active, and very 
 dedicated third-party mod community has developed for this game. The community has produced dozens, 
 if not hundreds of add-on aircraft for the game. In addition they've produced terrains, objects 
 (ships, vehicles, etc.) weapons, skins, missions and campaigns, utilities, and countless tweaks. 
 And practically all of it is freeware. These hard-working developers, who do this as a labor of 
 love, have made Strike Fighters: Project 1 a far superior game to what it was back in 2002, when 
 it was first released. In fact it was the addons and the community that convinced me to give the 
 game a second chance -- I was one of those unfortunates who was burned by the Wal-Mart Fiasco :- (
 
  
  The other thing SF: P1 has going for it is that it's developer, ThirdWire is still supporting the 
 game and providing patches for it. And each subsequent patch has expanded the game to allow even 
 more modding, hence, more add-ons. ThirdWire has also developed other games using the same engine: 
 Wings Over Vietnam, Wings Over Europe, and First Eagles. By using the same engine, this means that 
 many of the mods for SF: P1 will work with the others -- though, like anything, your mileage may 
 vary.
  
  If you just want to install it out of the box, patch it, and play it, that's fine. Even without 
 the add-ons it's a decent game, especially patched to the latest-and-greatest revision. However, 
 that's just scratching the surface of the game's true potential. If you want to truly do this game 
 justice, you'll definitely want to start downloading and installing some add-ons. Be warned: once 
 you start, you'll find it extremely hard to stop because there is so much out there.
  
  One caveat: if you're looking for a hardcore sim where you have to practically check the tire pressure 
 and do a FOD walkdown, look elsewhere. Strike Fighters and its cousins are casual sims, meant for 
 gamers who just want to kick the tires and light the fires and have an enjoyable gaming experience. 
 (Note: if you cringed every time I used the word game, SF is definitely not up your alley) . You 
 won't have to thumb through a thousand page manual for this one.
  
  A few good places to start in the SF: P1 community:
  
  The Unofficial Strike Fighters FAQ at 
 column5. us -- which does a far better job of explaining this stuff than I can :-D
  http://www. column5. us/faq. htm
  
  CombatAce -- a *huge* news, download, and forum site. A good 
 starting point for those interested in obtaining some of these third-party addons.
  http://www. combatace. com/
  
  The Strike Fighters: Project 1 Information Directory -- an excellent 
 source of links to the who's who in the community, along with many other download sites. The site 
 also covers the other ThirdWire sims as well.
  http://ca. geocities. com/saganuay820/
  
  And these are just the tip of the iceberg.
  
  I've been playing Strike Fighters for a few years 
 now, and it's just getting better and better. I highly recommend the game -- and the community! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1599510
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Good game. As i said, models are amazing. And the idea.....
  if u go into instant action u can blow the brains out of some MIG's. But in the normal levels or 
 just the mission maker........ sometimes u are just flying around...... and it gets somewat boring..... so 
 u start doing tricks... and u black out...... run out of fuel........... and go crashing into kingdom 
 come. I enjoy flying small planes....... but this doesnt transmit that HUGE amount of fun that amasingly. 
 But u can still play it though if ur in the mood...... watch tv at the same time maybe...?
  
  
  Overall could be some more enemies for one......... and enemies that shoot u and engage 
 u more......
  
  if u want to try flying a fighter plane....... and dont want to spend alot of money
  
  try getting 
 on a plane toor....... lots of fun, very excilarating, while here............. u will just trun on 
 the tv while u wait to get to ur objective..... in half an hour... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
