-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People Episode 1: Homestar Ruiner
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/strongbadscoolgameforattractivepeople/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Familiar characters and locations.
 A few hearty chuckles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Humor does not translate well to new format.
 Pointing and clicking becomes tiresome quickly.
 Less fun than watching video shorts on Homestar Runner Web site.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 11, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Strong Bad and Co. venture into new territory and find themselves out of their element. 

  Over the past two years, Sam &amp; Max has shown that short, humorous games can be commercially 
 viable when released as a series of episodes. Continuing this trend, the webcomic Penny Arcade 
 recently took their own characters and unique brand of humor to the downloadable game stage and 
 met with a good degree of critical success. Now the characters from HomestarRunner. com have made 
 their bid for episodic gaming glory with Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People. There are 
 a few laughs to be had in the first episode, Homestar Ruiner, but ultimately, the game falls flat. 
 The open-ended point-and-click adventure play makes a poor vehicle for the site's quirky humor. 

           Homestar is on the phone with his agent. It's not a pleasant conversation.      

  
 As the game begins, Strong Bad treats us to a brief musical number, which he rolls right into a 
 good ol'-fashioned e-mail session. Challenged to beat the snot out of Homestar Runner by a fan, 
 Strong Bad heads off to the track to seek his quarry. Clicking your way through Strong Bad's house, 
 you'll stumble across familiar gags, like the technochocolate rave light switch and a keg of melonade. 
 There are many such artifacts throughout the game that reference particular video bits from the 
 Web site. Developer Telltale Games really missed the boat here by not including an option to view 
 the original content, and as such these references have little comedic clout.  

  You soon venture outside The House of Strong, and eventually travel to a number of familiar locations 
 throughout Free Country, USA. In an amusing send-up of adventure game convention, you draw these 
 many locations on your loose-leaf map, but are free to redraw and reposition them at any time. 
 The game is mostly a matter of clicking your way around these various locations, talking to different 
 characters, and using the items in your inventory whenever possible. While a few of these items 
 produce mildly comical results, none of them are employed in particularly clever or interesting 
 ways. In-game achievements and minigames (like the do-it-yourself Teen Girl Squad comics) round 
 out the package a bit, and completionists will probably get a solid three to four hours of gameplay 
 for their troubles.  

  Homestar Ruiner looks quite good, but ultimately this new format doesn't work out. The punchy comedic 
 pacing that works so well in a series of video shorts does not hold up when stretched out over 
 a few hours, and the few times you do chuckle will only punctuate the fact that such moments are 
 few and far between. Though it is reasonably priced at $8.95, Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive 
 People isn't recommendable. Folks looking to get a Homestar humor fix are better off visiting the 
 Web site than going on this subpar adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I am still amazed that a cartoon as simple as Strong Bad not only caught on so feverishly, but 
 that it generated enough interest to make a SERIES of Adventure games.
  
  I tried the demo. Meh.
  
  But a month later, I kept hearing how great the second episode was. 
 Once I saw the entire first series up on STEAM for buttons, I made the purchase.
  
  I'm glad I did.
  
  While I wholeheartedly agree with Gamespot's reviewer when he said that 
 the humor didn't translate well, and that the endless clicking got old, he was right.
  
  But after sticking through the game (and it didn't last that long to begin with) , I was happy with 
 the Strong Bad quirks that were offered: the ability to play an 8-bit game in a game, the ability 
 to create your own episode of "Teen Girl Squad," the collections, etc.
  
  If you're a fan of the web-series, try the demo of the second episode. Telltale definitely learned 
 their lessons after creating this first iteration. If you enjoy #2, get this one as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great dialog and writing, interesting story, great characters, nice art style
  
  The Bad: Playing the actual game can be a nightmare, extremely short, dialog needs more mature 
 humor
  
  Everyone knows Strong Bad from their famous song on Guitar Hero II!!! What you never heard of them? 
 Well, that's ok we all forgive you, but now's your chance to meet the almighty  
 and sometimes known as "Flexapecs" Strong Bad. The game's main attraction is the crazy humor and 
 the nice graphic style. The game is basically a flash point & click adventure where you try to 
 show off your Strong Badiness by making Homestar (the town's "Cool Guy") look like a total jack 
 @$$. With great voice acting to support these neat characters the basic game play element always 
 stays the same: Click on this thing, hear what Strong Bad says, laugh, wonder around aimlessly 
 trying to figure out where to go next with no hints, rinse and repeat.
  
  My biggest gripe is the fact that you never really know where to go and most of the game is really 
 well... a guessing game. You slowly unlock different locations and warping to these places on the 
 fly is easy via your map. Go around collecting special items and even take photos! But seriously, 
 even though the game has strong humor it doesn't save the game play. Just double click and hold 
 the mouse button to make Strong Bad run here, go into your inventory and try to make certain things 
 work, but I guarantee most of the time you'll resort to a FAQ. The beginning of the game starts 
 out easy enough where you just follow the plot of the game then about half way through it lets 
 go of your hand and you sort of get lost in everything. Trying to spoil Homestar's fame isn't really 
 easy since it takes lots of different running back and forth to and fro collecting things to make 
 this work over here. With no quest log or anything like that you never know what to do and there 
 are really no hints to help you. Some parts of the game I didn't even know existed until I resorted 
 to a FAQ and that was after over an hour trying to figure out where this one inventory item goes. 
 Trying to go around experimenting isn't really fun and makes you really annoyed and frustrated.
 
  
  With all of that aside the game's dialog and writing is hilarious and fits the characters very 
 well. The humor is more random, stupid, and full of bathroom jokes more than witty and smart. This 
 works just as well and somehow the game pulls it off cleverly without making you feel you're playing 
 something lame. I just really like all of the details that went into this game like the Snake Boxer 
 5 mini-game, all of the extra dialog when you talk to someone more than once. It just really makes 
 things that much interesting. Now this is meant for young teens and kids so there is no mature 
 humor even though you'd expect it from these kind of characters. I really feel these characters 
 should have been given more mature dialog, but what's here works and works well if you can get 
 around the annoying hunt & seek. I really do recommend this game on the Wii or PC because you'll 
 love the hilarious dialog, great art style, and funny characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People is made by Telltale Games - who master in episodic 
 content. Alongside the popular Sam & Max episodes comes a new line of content, Strong Bad's Cool 
 Game for Attractive People. Telltale plans to release five episodic games of Strong Bad, with Homestar 
 Ruiner being the first.
  
  Homestar Ruiner takes place in the Strong Bad world - as you would see it in the online episodes. 
 The game will take you to Marzipan's house, to Bubs' Stand, and even the King of Town's Castle. 
 If you've been watching the Homestar Runner episodes, then the game won't introduce any new environments. 
 At the same time, if you've never watched any of the episodes, then some of the locations might 
 not make senselike The Stick or the Cool Car. Strong Bad will tell you what they're all about, 
 but you won't get the full meaning of the locations.
  
  Simply put, this is an item-based game. To get through the game you'll need find various items 
 and find the correct use for them. For example, you'll need to order a bottle of 'Total Load' from 
 one of your e-mails to frame someone for using illegal pills. Getting the items and putting them 
 to use is not the easiest take since the game doesn't directly tell you what to do. That's not 
 to say the game is extremely challengingyou do have the option to change the hints up to highbut 
 I found that it didn't help too much.
  
  There isn't much depth here. You point and click to where you want to move and click on items you 
 want to use. The entire game will take about five to seven hours to complete. There are hidden 
 items to find, mini-games to partake in, and a photo booth to dress Strong Bad up in.
  
  Telltale did a fantastic job on getting the dialog right. If you are familiar with Homestar Runner, 
 you'll see familiar faces saying familiar lines. All the dialog is smart and quirky, while still 
 remaining clean for kids. Everything remains funny throughout the entire story, which unfortunately 
 gets held back by all the item searching. The basic premise of the story is Strong Bad trying to 
 ruin everything for Homestar, who no doubt annoys him. Everything Strong Bad tries to do ends up 
 turning against him and he needs to fix it.
  
  Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People will cost $8.95 and is worth the price. Besides the 
 lack of information with the items, it's a good game for fans of Homestar Runner. But if you're 
 coming into this game without any knowledge of what this is about, just beware that there will 
 be a lot of jokes that you won't understand, draining a lot of the real enjoyment that is to be 
 had from Strong Bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwlMan500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  If you've been a fan of Homestar Runner for the past few to several years, there's a high probability 
 that you'll enjoy this game. The style of humour is entirely consistent with that of the site, 
 although for obvious reasons the pacing of the story depends heavily on how you choose to spend 
 your time within the game. This is to be expected with any adventure game, so it doesn't detract 
 from the experience as long as you're familiar with the conventions of the adventure genre.
  
  Something that's important to understand about "Homestar Ruiner" is that it was clearly done 
 with already existing fans of Homestar Runner as the target audience; people who have never heard 
 of Homestar Runner still might enjoy it, but it's probably not the best way to introduce someone 
 to the Homestar Runner "universe" simply because knowledge of that universe is something of a prerequisite 
 for full enjoyment of the game. Fans, on the other hand, will no doubt enjoy playing through something 
 akin to a "day in the life" of Strong Bad, even though no battle axe lessons are attended.
  
  Overall, existing fans of Homestar Runner should purchase this episode or the season pass: 
 you're pretty much guaranteed to either really enjoy it or at least somewhat enjoy it, and it's 
 an easy way to support the creative work the Brothers Chaps have been putting out almost every 
 week for the past eight years for free.
  
  For those who aren't familiar with Homestar Runner, I would recommend visiting homestarrunner. com 
 and watching a bunch of toons, emails, and shorts. If you like what you see, give Homestar Ruiner 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed running around Strongbad's house and checking out random things he has laying around 
 there. It's a fun experience and exploring all the places they go to in the cartoon/flash animation 
 is great. If you've been watching the toons on homestarrunner. com and have been following them 
 for a while because you like them, you'll get the jokes and find them funny, if not, you might 
 chuckle at the most. I was actually surprised at how good this game was. I thought it would be 
 a straight forward, boring attempt at an adventure like game. But it's addicting to go back and 
 explore the map looking for new easter eggs and games. There are a lot of things to do.
  
  In the end, this is a short game that's worth it if you're a fan of the flash animations. If you 
 don't really know the Homestar Runner toons well or at all, I suggest you try the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azza29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Well I've bought the game, played the story through but haven't gone and found all the goodies 
 yet (maybe later today...) . It's a decent offering for the price, especially if you get the $34.95 
 'season pass', and they've managed to pack a fair amount of content into a 60MB download (although 
 from what I've heard this is more to do with size constraints for the Wiiware version) .
  
  The game is plenty of fun, it looks and sounds exactly like the cartoon and in a lot of ways is 
 just like watching an extended Strong Bad email. That said, if you've never heard of Homestar Runner 
 before, definitely check out some of the toons before playing this game or a lot of the humour 
 will be lost on you. It's also not too difficult, allowing the story to progress rather than making 
 the player wade through challenge after tedious 'collect these three items' challenge.
  
  There are some great elements Telltale have added to the standard adventure game format. The first 
 is their use of a 'map', which makes going between locations much more straightforward and seems 
 less like you're wasting time just walking around. They've also added in a heap of bonus items/achievements 
 which definitely add some replay value to the game - kinds of 'side-quests' which don't have to 
 interrupt the flow of the game but can extend the play time (which, by the way, is about 3 hours, 
 but more like 4-5 hours if you go for all the bonus content) . I wouldn't say there's a huge amount 
 of replay value, more like 'extra play' if you choose to.
  
  Telltale have done a very good job on their first Strong Bad outing, I think I enjoyed this more 
 than any of the Sam & Max games, which tended to get a little tedious with their back-and-forthing 
 and excessively long and tirading dialogue. At the end of the day, you're not risking a whole lot 
 for $8.95, and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
