-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stronghold: Crusader
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/strongholdcrusader/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,866 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 25, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Firefly Studios has polished up its old game nicely and has sent it on a long road trip into the 
 Crusades. 

 Last year's Stronghold was a slightly uneven combination of city builder and real-time strategy 
 game, with an emphasis on siege warfare. It had the distinction of being the only castle simulation 
 from a major publisher since Interplay released Quicksilver's Castles II in 1992. Aspiring warlords 
 could forgive Stronghold's shortcomings, since the original game gave them the opportunity to build 
 and raze walls, pillage countrysides, and launch cattle from catapults. Firefly Studios has now 
 polished up its old game nicely and has sent it on a long road trip into the Crusades.         
   The new watchtower can fire farther.    

  Stronghold: Crusader is the stand-alone successor to Stronghold, meaning you don't need the original 
 Stronghold to play it. It takes Stronghold out of Europe and into the Holy Lands, giving it a tighter 
 focus and a more exotic flavor. The economic missions that had you racing against the clock to 
 fulfill contrived objectives have been removed from the game. Instead, Stronghold: Crusader places 
 more emphasis on the fine art of defending or storming a castle. After all, isn't this what you 
 want when you pick up a box with a knight standing in front of a castle? When players first looked 
 at the box for the original Stronghold, they probably wouldn't have guessed that they'd be spending 
 their time accumulating 500 units of cheese.   

  Indeed, the original Stronghold divided its single-player missions into two types: military and 
 economic, though the latter, which generally involved raising crops and stockpiling resources, 
 wasn't as popular as the military missions. It also had a single-player skirmish mode and head-to-head 
 multiplayer. But Stronghold: Crusader presents you with many more options. For instance, you can 
 play skirmish games against AI opponents on a number of different maps, even in multiplayer. Some 
 are completely even playing fields, while some feature interesting balance dilemmas, giving advantages 
 and disadvantages to each player. The skirmish maps can be played against your choice of AI opponents 
 or in multiplayer games.   

  However, players who are new to Stronghold's economic model, which actually folds elegantly into 
 its combat model without upstaging it, will likely want to start out by playing with the castle-builder 
 option. This is a sandbox mode that, like in the original game, lets you learn the unique features 
 of Crusader's new desert maps without having to worry about fielding an army to defend against 
 attacks.   

  But the centerpiece of the single-player game is the "crusader trail," which presents a series 
 of 50 battles, each more difficult than the last. As you play, your performance determines the 
 ongoing date, which serves as your score. You can go backward to replay old missions, and if you 
 do better, the date will roll back. Although this doesn't have much impact on the actual missions, 
 it's an interesting alternative to tracking a score based on points.           Farmland is hard 
 to come by in the desert.    

  Unlike the missions in Stronghold's military campaign, most of the missions in the crusader trail 
 let you build you own castle. This makes it more like a series of skirmishes than the original 
 game's linear sequence of canned scenarios with prebuilt castles. The crusader trail missions do 
 a good job of incorporating specific units and strategies, and you will gradually improve your 
 skills as it ramps up the difficulty level. In addition to a basic tutorial, there are four historical 
 campaigns, in which each chapter highlights specific game elements, such as which units are best 
 suited for which purposes, how to manage your taxes, and the differences between various crops. 
 Each mission in these campaigns is like a puzzle with a historical context, which, once solved, 
 will teach you to play better. Stronghold: Crusader has numerous options to introduce new players 
 to the game as well as plenty of challenges for veterans of the original Stronghold.   

  Stronghold: Crusader makes some important changes to the dynamics of the original game. Most significant 
 is the addition of seven new Arabian mercenary units, some fairly redundant (Arabian bows are just 
 weaker archers) , some potentially overpowered (the horse archers are a potent combination of speed 
 and ranged attack) , and some adding unique game dynamics (assassins can secretly open gate towers 
 to let your units into an enemy's castle) . The new units are all hired from the mercenary camp, 
 which can be built cheaply as soon as you start building your castle. To recruit them, you don't 
 have to harvest resources, construct weapons, and accumulate an arsenal in your armory, like you 
 have to with their European counterparts. Instead, just fork over some gold, and these new Arabian 
 units will show up.    

 The fact that military units come into play much more quickly in Stronghold: Crusader than they 
 did in the original game has a dramatic effect on gameplay. Because the marketplace can quickly 
 give you gold, which can now quickly give you an army, it's an important military building. If 
 you're attacked, you can convert your goods to gold and hire instant defenders. To get down to 
 conquering, there's no immediate need for iron, leather, wood, tanners, blacksmiths, or pole turners. 
           Arabian mercenaries bring combat into play sooner.    

  To be fair, mercenaries aren't as powerful as the traditional military units, but they definitely 
 change the way Stronghold is played. Some of the scenarios can be easily beaten by simply selling 
 off your starting goods, using the gold to hire mercenaries, and then rushing the AI. Of course, 
 this also means you'll be attacked much earlier in a scenario. There's nothing quite so annoying 
 as watching a mob of cheap slaves torching your outlying farms before you can marshal your defenses. 
 The end result is that Stronghold: Crusader plays much more like a traditional combat-oriented 
 real-time strategy game than its predecessor.   

  There are some other differences between Stronghold: Crusader and the previous game that may seem 
 subtle at first. For instance, religion and ale have more impact on your people's happiness in 
 Stronghold: Crusader. Religion cost too much gold and ale required too many steps in the resource 
 chain to be really useful in the original game. But in Stronghold: Crusader, they have a more powerful 
 benefit -- they are effective ways to offset high taxes, food shortages, and crowding. Even better, 
 you can improve efficiency by adorning your castle with more "bad things," like gallows and dungeons, 
 while serving up religion and ale to counter the happiness penalties. Although these may seem like 
 minor tweaks, they do a good job of adding more choices to how you play.   

  After fighting Stronghold's European warlords (who make a return appearance in Crusader) , it's 
 nice to get out and see the world. The desert terrain and buildings look great, breathing a lot 
 of new life into the game's detailed 2D engine. The new music is rousing and distinctive, and it's 
 always a thrill to hear the war cry when you mass-select a group of soldiers and give them attack 
 orders. Visually and aurally, Stronghold: Crusader certainly does justice to its subject matter. 
   

  The Middle Eastern setting allows for a new architectural look and terrain set, but unlike the 
 changes to the architecture, the changes to the terrain aren't simply cosmetic. Because you can't 
 build farms in the desert, the patches of fertile land on some maps are important strategic points. 
 This also makes Crusader play like a more conventional RTS, since this can take the focus off the 
 castles themselves. Now each side has to secure fertile land to maintain a food supply in these 
 barren environments.           Use more brutality with new religion and ale bonuses.    

  Stronghold: Crusader's interface still has some of the same problems that the first game had. The 
 building tabs are still haphazardly arranged at the bottom of the screen. There's no way to jump 
 to the subject of important messages such as "We're under attack!" Stronghold could use more tooltips, 
 range indicators for missile units, and a few more hotkeys to keep you from having to wade through 
 your castles and armies to get where you need to go. Because there are no effective unit formations, 
 the tactical AI still requires a fair amount of micromanagement to mount a successful siege, and 
 computer opponents still seem fond of sending units in a steady trickle rather than amassing effective 
 assaults.   

  But other than these minor problems, Stronghold: Crusader is a marked improvement over the previous 
 game. Considering its new campaign options, more-satisfying single-player missions, and tweaked 
 gameplay, it's a safe bet that fans of the original game will have even more fun storming the castle. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (64 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  Those who playied the original Stronghold will find this as an improvment to the original. Arab 
 troops and more combat options, and more and better gameplay modes.
  
  
  
  Stronghold focused perhaps a bit too much on castle- and economy-building over combat, Stronghold: 
 Crusader does an excellent job of integrating both its castle-building simulation and real-time 
 strategy aspects but is still the best combination of these two genres. The game offers a very basic 
 tutorial, which allows the player to get the feel for the interface, and a series of four "historical" 
 campaigns: The Call to Arms, Saladin's Conquest, The King's Crusade, and Crusader States. The new 
 Arab troops make an enormous difference in Stronghold: Crusader not only because they add variety, 
 but also because you can purchase them almost immediately in most skirmish games. What can i say 
 it`s the best of it`s genre so buy it and lets hope that in the future will be released more games 
 like this one!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shandoo45
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  i have been playing this game since 2004 it never gets old because there are so many game modes, levels, and 
 unlimited battles all of your battles are customizable u can choose your allies and enemy's the 
 amount of gold, troops, and food u start out with there is a huge variety of structures or troops 
 u can recruit or build. This games big big big point is crusader mode where u play in different 
 missions like on might be capture this castle with 180 rock throwers 1 battering ram and 10 bowmen 
 that is acutally the first one. Another on might be to navigate through this garden and try to 
 destroy the keep. Theres also build your own castle mode where you start out with minimal goods 
 and very few peasents you have to bode with your enviroment beacuse there could be aniamals that 
 could kill u. There are also many many many more things you can do or game modes u can conquer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyxon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:59 am PT
Review:  Lol, it's hard to talk about Stronghold because there are so many things to say. The animation isn't 
 3D but who cares. The whole game is made perfect in every detail (except one I'll go to it soon) . You 
 can see the crop growing, the cows making cheese (ok the farmer but cows need some credit when we 
 all know they are famous with being thrown by catapults only) , the people getting drunk in the bar 
 etc. The castle build system is nice and plausible (btw i had no idea i can tare down stone wall 
 with spear O_o) . There are plenty of units at your disposal so you can make various strategies and 
 types of attack. And now to the main problem: the computer AI has only 1-2 different types of developing 
 and battle formations, and after few games you get to know their moves (that's why the makers released 
 patch with more enemies, unfortunately with 2-3 schemes as well)
  Still for the historical RTS fans this is the game they've ever wanted to play :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimples70
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold Crusader is an awesome game. Especially for real time strategy gamers. I have played 
 well over a hundred hours of this game and I am completely hooked. I like the castle builder section 
 because my 7 year old nephew can play at building and running his castle as well as learning about 
 economics at the same time and how to balance everything. This game really makes you think. I hope 
 they make more of these types of games or even if Firefly could add more maps and characters to 
 this existing game ( like an extension pack ) that would really be great. I liked the variances 
 of the computer characters in Stronghold Crusader. Each one fights and builds and runs their castle 
 differently. Each one has their own style. This makes it more interesting as you need to come up 
 with different strategies to conquer, each player. This is the best pc game I have played to date 
 and I am addicted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Stronghold Crusader is a castle-building sim that focuses on not only the military elements of 
 castles but also their social and economic elements as well. This addicitive sim will consume your 
 hours with its silly characters, its intense combat situations, and the fun of constructing your 
 castle.
  
  Before I get into gameplay there is one thing I want to address to avoid confusion: this game is 
 Stronghold Crusader, not Stronghold Crusader Extreme, which is the most recent rendition of this 
 game to be released. Stronghold Extreme is a much more difficult version of Crusader, and unless 
 you are a glutton for punishment you will not want to seek out Extreme. I wanted to clarify the 
 differences between the two games because regardless of sharing the name "Stronghold" they are 
 very different experiences. Now back to Stronghold Crusader. The game is all about dominating the 
 map in every mode and you must do that by creating a castle that will stand against your enemie (s) . 
 You start off in every game with a keep which is where the lord of the castle dwells. The keep 
 is invincible to attack and with good reason: if the lord goes down so does his castle and all 
 of his subjects. So needless to say it is imperative that your lord is well protected in time of 
 siege. The castle funtions three ways: economically, socially, and militarily. Each element must 
 be used effectively in order for your castle to function, and one cannot be used without the support 
 of the other two. This aspect is a simple concept to grasp because it is logical. You need food/homes 
 to support people, you need people to support castle functions such as making weapons and harvesting 
 food/resources, and you again need people to create a strong military. Each one ties into the other 
 in some way and they even overlap. Imagine one big circle. And of course other variables are involved 
 such as happiness, living space, comforts, and if they are not provided people may begin to leave 
 your castle. This can be fixed by building more homes to support more population, by building a 
 tavern, by creating a church, or even by setting up flower beds around the castle to make your 
 subjects feel better. And the neat thing about the flowers is if you set up enough of them your 
 troops will receive up to a 25% combat bonus, but your workers will become lazy because of all 
 the nice things. And naturally, it can go the other way too. There are a number of fearsome contraptions 
 you can set up to increase fear and again, if you set up enough of those your castle's economy 
 will function up to 25% more efficiently but your military will get penalized. I suppose the one 
 single thing you will always need is people, because without people you will not have food, weapons, 
 and resources. The general term "peasant" is a person who does not have a job within a given castle, 
 but when you recruit new units like an engineer or an archer the peasants become those units. They 
 can be trained to become other units such as swordsmen and crossbowmen. Each unit has its own strengths 
 and weaknesses such as the crossbowmens' strength against other archers because it wears armor. 
 The castle building itself is a fun and enjoyable experience because you have complete freedom 
 concerning how you want to structure your fortress, providing you have enough room and resources. 
 Aside from walls, towers of various sizes and shapes can be erected and specialized equipment like 
 ballistae can be place on top of them to shoot at the enemy from a distance. Other things you would 
 expect in a castle building sim appear such as spike pits, boiling oil, and moats. Each one of 
 these elements adds to the defense of your castle, and once in place they will do wonders against 
 enemy forces. The spike pits are absolutely lethal against anything that has the misfortune of 
 crossing over them, and there is no defense against them. The boiling oil can be dumped over the 
 edge of your walls during a siege to roast enemy units from breaking through your walls. The oil 
 also causes a nice fire that spreads along the ground to set fire to other units. The moat is a 
 useful tool because enemy troops move considerably slower while walking through it. Though the 
 moat can be filled by the enemy it takes time, and if you have ranged units within view you can 
 attack them. My point is each element works like it should as it would in a true siege. There are 
 really no countermeasures against the aforementioned castle defenses I mentioned. Castle economics 
 work like this: you build the workers' buildings, after that the workers are drawn from your available 
 peasants, and they go to their job and begin to produce either food or weapons. After those conditions 
 are met you can begin to build a military for further castle defense or to mount a siege of your 
 own. Crusader features a few modes that will appeal to almost anyone because each one offers a 
 completely unique experience. There is one mode that takes you through a long collection of battles 
 and each one has its own set of variables such as foes and alliances. Another mode is the basic 
 skirmish mode where you are able to select the map you play on, what opponents you face, etc. A 
 third mode just allows you to build your castle in peace without anyone else on the map. This mode 
 is cool because you can choose from a set of special options to initiate an attack if you want 
 some action. Crusader's gameplay is tops but the game may not appeal to everyone out there. It 
 is a difficult game that takes some getting used to.
  
  Graphics in Crusader look good for the most part, but from time to time you might see little goofs 
 like things clipping through other things. These goofs are nothing considerable and can be ignored 
 but they still can be seen clearly. The game is set during the Crusades, and thus you will be fighting 
 in mostly arid and sandy locations. A map or three will often have a water source of some kind 
 whether it is a little river running through the region or a whole waterway that separates opponents 
 from one another. The maps will also feature other geographical things like an oasis or three and 
 rock formations. Castles themselves are impressive sights with their towers and walls, and when 
 you stick a moat around it it actually looks pretty intimidating. And each character builds his 
 castle in his own unique way such as how "The Snake" builds his castles in the shape of a large 
 "s". Various units in the game are rendered well but they sometimes come across as blurry. Their 
 shape and equipment allows them to be easily identified whether it be the rotund and bald tavern 
 keeper or the bald and husky macemen. And the worker units will actually go inside their respective 
 buildings and you can actually see them working. It is cool to watch a worker brew ale or an engineer 
 boil up some steaming siege oil. A castle that is fully functioning is very detailed and it is 
 fun to watch how the castle's wheels turn. The high point of any Crusader game are the sieges you 
 will either partake in or be on the receiving end of. Sieging one on one is fun but unspectacular 
 but when two or three players are sieging one player things get hairy -- and exciting. With projectiles 
 flying through the air and a horde of swordsmen storming the walls, you will almost feel like you 
 are there. It is very easy to get caught up in the action. The game's damage effects are designed 
 pretty well because debris will fly and walls will crumble. And the one thing that is especially 
 fun to watch is when something within an enemy castle catches fire and spreads, engulfing buildings 
 and people alike. The large sieges are fun, spectacular, and very satisfying regardless if you 
 are successful. They are definitely the gem of Crusader's graphics. Overall Crusader offers a decent 
 presentation and a crisp appearance.
  
  Crusader's music is a mixture of some very catchy Arab sounding tunes that are easy on the ears. 
 The music is smooth and mostly instrumentals only with the exception of one or two tunes. They 
 work well with the game's theme and add to the overall environment. The game features some voice 
 work and often it is humorous depending on how you rule. Military units feature some very good 
 voice work and they will sometimes comment on how far away you take them with a disgruntled, "What? 
 All that way?" Aside from voices SFX in general is very good. Combat is matched with a faster and 
 more urgent instrumental tune. During combat there is a myriad of sounds like the distinct "snap" 
 of an arrow or the sound of metal clashing. The other aspects of a siege like flying rocks make 
 an appropriate crushing and crashing sound as it smashes into walls and buildings. And should some 
 unfortunate unit be in the path of a flying rock you will hear a satisfying "squash" sound. Overall 
 sound is great in Crusader.
  
  Crusader is a superb game if you are into building sims, and if you like castles then you should 
 definitely consider Stronghold Crusader. It has several modes that offer a wide array of modes 
 that are appealing to most peoples' likes. This game will appeal to those who like a challenge 
 and to those who just want to play in peace. Though, as I mentioned earlier this game may not be 
 for everyone because it is a tough game to be good at. And the thing is each AI character has his 
 own strength and weaknesses. An opponent like "The Rat" is meat for a neophyte character because 
 he has NO method to anything he does and his castles are a mess. On the opposite end of the spectrum 
 there is "The Wolf" who is a very tough opponent. And since each one of them employs the same thing 
 each and every battle, and if you can look by that Crusader is definitely worth your money and 
 time. Overall Crusader is a great game, but not without some flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. with its simple ways of gathering food, and other supplies it removes the need 
 for workers to build and grather. its pretty straight forward. you click on a building and you 
 click on the terrian and you get that building. i love the way that instaed of having to have seige 
 equipment and ladders you can just destroy the walls with sword and mace. there are only a few 
 things i dislike about this game and first there is no diffuculty stting. if you had one it would 
 be a lot more fun to face of against guys with the same stuff. instaed of with like 40000 gold 
 and other supplies while you have like 3000 gold and barely a mouths supply of food. another is 
 that there are only 8 lords to play. also that their is only chistran churches. now dont get me 
 wrong i am a chistren, but if you can be a muslem why not have a muslem church. this game is just 
 plain simple fun. while i like more harder games this the only one that i still play today. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loonic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  stronghold crusader is one of my top games on my collection maybe number five or six on my top 
 ten collection. There is no other game in its category that can be compare to this game, no game 
 is as good as Stronghold crusader.
  
  it is a good game that provide plenty of playing time without getting bored or tired of it. It 
 is a a little hard to understand at the beginning just like every game but when the player get 
 the hang of it the fun time begins. this game also teach you about the history of the crusader 
 that happened hundreds of years ago like what people used to depend on or what type of food there 
 was available to eat. it also fun because you can create an army of your desire size and have them 
 ready for battle. 
  
  As a die hard player i think Firefly Studios can come out with a second version of crusader better 
 the extreme version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  classical Real Time Strategy game, but with good touch on 2D graphics, gameplay, and more feature 
 on stronghold crusaders.
  
  =Gameplay=
  
  in stronghold crusaders u will be starringa as a strong crusaders army with more best weapons and 
 technology. like a most Real Time Strategy u can play in Story campaign which have 52 campaign 
 u must finished, or u can make ur own map and u can organize how much enemy u will fight. iand 
 also skirmish game with a lot of map. In stronghold crusaders u may notfind villager u have to 
 build structure, that's simply to create structure with 2 clicking mouse (if u have alot gold and 
 wood to build) , the main castle will give u a few serpeant, and source. u must build a house, market, 
 and barracks. and also u must build timber for wood, stone, and iron. at first u can built mercenary, 
 and u will have a arabian soldiers. and if u have alot of stone, iron, wood, and also gold (u can 
 sell ur source to gain gold) u may have built barracks, and others weapons store, to making strong 
 units.
  u also can create catapults and others best weapons technology. but surely to build ur defense 
 quickly before the enemy come and destroy u.
  
  =Graphics=
  
  not bad for 2D graphics engine. more life and good details environment, structure, units. not find 
 more bugs on there. u can run in minimum specifications computers. 
  
  =all performance=
  
  good and more improvement than the older series. but still give a hardly play with ur frustation 
 to play within. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sphere-
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  When I first played Stronghold: Crusaders, I didn't like the game because I felt it was too complex 
 and boring, then again I was 9 so that could have been part of the the problem. I picked up the 
 game again a few years later and I have to say it is one of the best RTS game I have ever played. 
 The graphics for this game are outstanding (for the time it was released) and do not require any 
 advanced hardware. The sounds and music are decent, but get old on you quickly and can be annoying 
 after playing the game for several hours straight. Where this game excels over all other RTS games 
 is its gameplay. Stronghold: Crusaders has all the same elements as standard RTS games with different 
 buildings producing different things food, weapons, soldiers, etc. but Crusaders has one major 
 addition that destroys all competition; the castle building system. While other RTS games just 
 have a simple wall building option, Crusaders has a very advanced wall and tower building system 
 that adds to the strategy of the game. Not only do you have to think about how you will launch 
 an attack, you also have to think about how you will build your castle to defend against you opponents 
 attacks. The single player in this game is great with a very fun chain of missions that get harder 
 and harder as you go along. But this game really comes to life with the multiplayer. This game 
 is an instant classic after playing a few games with friends. You just want to play again and again. 
 The only thing I don't like is the unit cap at around 1000 peasants which can make the game unbalanced 
 at some times. But that can be avoided with some smart building.
  Overall I would give this game a 9.0/10 for is fun and addictive play and its innovative gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockeytx27
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. with its simple ways of gathering food, and other supplies it removes the need 
 for workers to build and grather. its pretty straight forward. you click on a building and you 
 click on the terrian and you get that building. i love the way that instaed of having to have seige 
 equipment and ladders you can just destroy the walls with sword and mace. there are only a few 
 things i dislike about this game and first there is no diffuculty stting. if you had one it would 
 be a lot more fun to face of against guys with the same stuff. instaed of with like 40000 gold 
 and other supplies while you have like 3000 gold and barely a mouths supply of food. another is 
 that there are only 8 lords to play. also that their is only chistran churches. now dont get me 
 wrong i am a chistren, but if you can be a muslem why not have a muslem church. this game is just 
 plain simple fun. while i like more harder games this the only one that i still play today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahurigaan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Usually a game that can grab your attention and make you play several hours away before realizing 
 what time it is, is a game worth notice, and Stronghold Crusader is just that type of game. The 
 game itself takes place during the Crusades as you hopefully guessed already, but this is more 
 of a backdrop to a game that focuses on Gameplay first, and skillfully manages to make a near perfect 
 balance between Castle Management and Siege Warfare, you must always balance between these two 
 spheres, for example if you focus too much on trying to take down a enemy lord's castle, another 
 enemy lord may set fire to your farms, destroying your food supply, sending your now starved citizens 
 into anger, and losing your castle population, thus, you are always busy, insuring the stability 
 of your castle. Stronghold Crusader is a much faster more aggressive game than its predecessor, 
 Stronghold.
  
  The Game has several modes such as a Campaign Trail which lets you play a large number of missions, 
 a free build where you may build and manage solely your castle without war, a historical campaign 
 which lets you fight in the crusades, and then a skirmish mode, where you build your castle and 
 armies and attempt to defeat your enemy lords.
  
  At the beginning of a typical game your primary concern is the foundation and growth of your castle, 
 this is accomplished by building farms to sustain your population, hovels to grow your population, 
 and resources to build and create what you need. The population of your castle is the blood that 
 keeps you in power, if your people are left to starve and are ignored then they will leave your 
 castle, without them their are no farmers to mind the crops, no miners to mine iron, no soldiers 
 to form your armies, basically no castle for you too rule. You must always tend to the needs of 
 your people, while you can usually keep your people happy with merely food and shelter, you will 
 not be able to tax them without creating anger and dissent among them, thus structures that improve 
 your peoples lives are need, such as the Inn which will keep them drunk and therefore content, 
 or a Church so they may find order in their lives.
  
  One of the more interesting parts of the game is the ability to construct your own castle as you 
 desire, as long as you have the required stone of course. walls are obviously the primary part 
 of your castle, but there are also the gatehouses which allows your people and armies to enter 
 and leave your castle, as well as a number of towers from which archers and defensive weaponry 
 can rain arrows and bolts down upon any would-be invaders.
  
  The AI in Stronghold Crusader is great, and although each character has a distinct plan that they 
 always follow, the AI's aggressive and clever behavior insures that they are indeed a worthy threat, 
 and can put up quite a fight, you of course must combat this with armies of your own, this brings 
 us into the warfare part of the game.
  
  The two main goals of the game is 1) To build, sustain, and expand your castle, and 2) besiege and 
 destroy enemy castles to insure your own castle's continued growth. Armies are needed to defend 
 your castle, and then ultimately destroy the castle of your opponents, but this is not accomplished 
 with one step. To build a army you need weapons and armour, to build weapons and armour you need 
 resources, to gain resources you need workers, miners, and the like. For example to train spearman, 
 the most basic melee unit in the game, you need spears which are made out of wood, thus you must 
 build a log cutting camp, then the wood is taken to your resource pile, then you must build a Poleturner's 
 hut who will take the wood and craft it into the spear, which will then be taken to the armoury, 
 where it will await to be used by spearman, whom you must train from the barracks., therefore the 
 most advanced things in the game rely solely on the most basic things, without them you have nothing.
 
  
  The graphics are of course dated, but the gameplay itself makes this a game that can withstand 
 the test of time, Stronghold Crusader is a amazing game with a few setbacks that are trivial when 
 compared to the pros of the game itself.
  
  I truly cannot think of any major cons of this game, besides dated graphics and addictiveness, 
 this game is just short of perfect. 
  
  I would definitely recommend this RTS/City-Builder hybrid to fans of both genres, Stronghold Crusader 
 is just a pure fun and time consuming game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  very nice especially on network playing , and also its scenario is good , but it needs time and 
 a mind of strategy , it needs time , but its only problem , that for this year , this game is too 
 oooold and its graphics is lame , but actually , the real player don't mind the graphics is good 
 or not but the most important thing is the game play, and the storyline, actually , it dont have 
 a storyline , any way this game is not bad , try it ,be the legend , be a king that conqueror of 
 the world or be a king that make his people happy . if u r not intersted of stratgy games , this 
 game will make u love the stratgy games, thos game is like and old school , make u learn many things 
 of stratgy games and the main things of the stratgy games but dont forget , this game willlll finish 
 ur time , i still play with it untill now, do u belive that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recvx_freak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game made me fail my A-level mid-terms people, the problem with this game is that it's just 
 too damn addictive. You just sit to play for a few minutes but you get sucked into it's dimention 
 and when you get the time to look at the clock you find out that 5 hours have just pass by...
 
  
  This is what happened with me. I can't say that it is better than the Age of Empires 2 but it is 
 still very very good. I would definatly reccomend this game if you have nothing to do cuz this 
 game will litratly kill your time so please play it in vications or weekdays only.
  
  Other than that the game is pretty much like the age of empire series, i was able to find only 
 a few different things like the engeniers and tunnel miners, etc
  Rest is a ditto copy. So if you like age of empires than you are gonna love this.
  Trust me...
 
  After all I got me a good taste medal from Gamespot... ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Simply, this game rocks! It offers everything an RTS fan wants.
  
  There are 8 different ai profiles for this game. Each trains an army according to it's profie. 
 That army can consist of Arabian or European troops. If you play against 3 in a free for all, you 
 have a lot of different combinations that can be made.
  
  The game offers a uilt in map designer. It also has a built in scenario maker! Right from the game 
 menu, you can make your own maps or make your own scenarios. Not only that, you can make skirmish 
 maps that include extra units, or buildings for each player. This offers a load of extendiblity.
 
  
  There are three basic games within skirmish play alone. You can start with low money, few troops; 
 lots of money, few troops; and lots of money, lots of troops. Then it just gets better. You can 
 tell the game to give you an advantage or the ai an advantage. This amounts to more extendibility.
 
  
  You can also make your own scenarios. You can make a castle to defend, or make one to attack. Win 
 conditions can be either economic, or military, and even a combination of the two.
  
  The game is FUN to play. Actually fun! Some of the unit's responses are truly humorous. The game 
 is genuinely witty!
  
  The graphics, sounds, and music are all highly entertaining. Though the game is 2D, there's plenty 
 of visual appeal. The sounds are convincing, and speech from just about every NPC is available 
 offering even more whimsy.
  
  A typical skirmish game will last about an hour. That's perfect for casual gamers. But, if you 
 make your own maps (which really is a pleasure to do) , you can design a 1 on 1 map to last many 
 many hours. If you make 3-4 player maps, you can design these to last anywhere from an hour to 
 days! You can include 8 different starting positions on your maps.
  
  I don't play online, so I can't reflect on multiplayer capabilities of Stronghold Crusader. I don't 
 need to play online. The skirmishes on my and other people's custom maps are very satisfactory.
 
  
  Stronghold Crusader is truly a value without equal. It offers hours of entertainment. It has lots 
 of extendibility. But most of all, it is fun to play. This game will make you smile! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Stronghold Crusader is, I think, the best in the series because it is simple and easy to play once 
 you understandhow it works. This game is all about strategy, players will always be thinking about 
 conquering and defending because your enemies will always be at your walls with their catapults, 
 trebuchets and swordmen marching to kill your king. The object of the game is to kill the opponents 
 lord. If your lord falls you lose. The game is also about wall building and architecture. Where 
 is a king without his castle?
  This game is great and is easy to learn. It si a great game and is for all but some violence will 
 be seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dojotigers
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS ABSOLUELY AMAZING. iT IS JUST ONE OF THOSE GAMES THAT WOULD MAKE THE TOP10 MOST UNDERATED 
 GAMES OF ALL TIMELIST. iT IS SO ADDICTIVE AND I WOULD GIVE IT A 9.0 ON THE OLD ` TO 10 SCALE. tHE 
 GRAPHICS ARE WHAT YOU WOULD EXPECT FOR A PC GAME OF THIS CALIBER. tHERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT UNITS 
 TO CHOOSE FROM AS WELL. i WOULD CERTAINLY HOPE THAT THIS FRANCHISE WOULD CONTINUE BECAUSE I REALLY 
 DO THINK THAT THE OWRLD WOULD BE MISSING OUT ON A REALLY GREAT GAME. fUNNY AS IT WOULD BE TO SOME 
 I CALL IN SICK TO WORK JUST TO PLAY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3yl1f3
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Stronghold Crusader is based in, u guessed it, the crusades. You choose whether you kick out the 
 bloodthirsty Crusaders out of the Middle East as you take control of Saladin's forces or conqueror 
 the Holy Land and rid it of the heretic and crazed Saracens as you take control of crusader forces 
 from Europe. You will be faced with all imaginable kinds of realistic scenarios from defending 
 a castle, assaulting a castle, gathering rescources "under fire", basic 1v1 fight to the death 
 up to 4v4 battles to the death (can be 1v7 if ur good enough or anything ex. 2v5 or 3v2 or 2v4 as 
 long as it less then 8) . If somehow you conqueror the many campaigns and skirmishes you can create 
 ur own maps and scenarios or choose an already developed map and pick ur allies and enemies. There 
 are so many things to choose from i guarentee you ull nvr grow bored of it. plenty of units, buildings, 
 and enemies and allies, and handicaps for better players. There a wide variety of enemies and allies 
 ranging from ridiculosly easy to impossible. (of course thts coming from a guy who sucks at this 
 game) This is easily the best castle building game ever. Try the demo now! If you dont like the 
 demo then the game's just not for u. but i guarentee ull love it. its a pretty cheap game now (i 
 got it for $15) so get it and enjoy it all u want. kinda old but still great. for all types of 
 gaming players: strategy, fighting, or anybody for tht matter. Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARMIN14
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  It's one of the best strategic game I have ever played.
  If you don't consider the graphics it will be great.
  I think the gameplay is good, but in general 
 it's a very good game specially if you like strategic games.
  It's right that this game is not much new but you can spend your time playing this game.
  This 
 game is really a terrific strategic game because it has everything you need.
  the only problem whit the game is graphics, the graphics of this game is not
  much high but I 
 think it's possible to ignore the graphics.
  As I said the gameplay is good and you can make a lot of different things to defeat your enemy/enemies.
 
  As a conclusion if the graphics is not important to you and you are a strategic
  games lover you can play it, enjoy it and finally find it a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentkiller99
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  By far the best in the series..
  Stronghold Crusader leaves its neo-counterpart 'Stronghold 2' in the dust. The difficulty is just 
 right, with equal balances to economy and warfare. It's only major flaw is in the graphics, which 
 do not take away from gameplay but leave room for possible improvements. To get an understanding 
 of how good this game is, I still continue to play it even after these many years that it came 
 out. And as everyone knows, computer games don't last too long, they are continually replaced. 
 There are many paths to choose from in this game, one can grow hops which then require breweries 
 to finally sell them into cold liquor at the inn. Or grow apples to feed your army, grains to make 
 into bread, farms to make cheese or even hunting posts to bring home the bacon. What I really like 
 about this economic system is its multiple uses, for example I don't usually build farms but the 
 cows may be used as 'psychological warfare', which in history the crusaders actually did use old 
 carcases to cause disease and decay. Speaking of history, it is indeed very accurate and has become 
 a rather educational tool. This quality is rather hard to find in contemporary games, games that 
 actually teach our children something? Why that must be preposterous?? Nope. You'll learn something 
 about Europe and the Crusades in the 'Historical Campaigns'.
  
  This game does not deserve a perfect, or close to perfect rating... but it's worth the money. It 
 does need more work, small tune-ups and newer graphics, but all in all it's truly magnificent. 
 Enjoy game lovers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader is a standalone expansion of Firefly Studios's 2001 game Stronghold; Firefly's 
 first Stronghold is not required to play Stronghold: Crusader. Crusader differs from its predecessor 
 in the fact that the game is no longer set in a pseudo-Europe, but is instead set in the Middle 
 East during the crusades. The game features several new Arabian units that can be purchased in a 
 new building, the mercenary post. Though the Arabian troops do not require any resources to produce, 
 they are rather expensive.
  
  Campaigns
  Like in most RTS games, Stronghold Crusader features a campaign string. These document the first, 
 second and third crusades, as well as conflicts within the individual crusader states. In the first 
 Campaign string, you must lead the armies of Europe across Anatolia and towards Jerusalem (Nicea, 
 Heraclea, countersiege of Antioch, Krak de Chavelliers, and the Siege of Jerusalem (1099) .
  
  Gameplay Differences
  The gameplay between Crusader and the original differs in the fact 
 it's a completely different setting. Since Crusader is set in the Middle East, there are limited 
 resources and farmland. Instead of being able to build farms wherever you choose in the original, 
 you are limited to building farms only in oases, or grassy areas of the map. This creates a rivalry 
 among opponents and allies alike for farmland and makes the game more competitive. Also, there 
 are 4 or 8 new AI opponents (depends on which version of the game purchased) and several new Arabian 
 units purchasable from a mercenary post.
  
  External Links
  
  Stronghold Heaven - An Extensive Fansite:
  http://stronghold. heavengames. com/
  
  Firefly 
 Studios official website
  http://www. geocities. com/igicheat/str/stronghold. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader is Firefly's stand-alone expansion for the original Stronghold. In the game, 
 you have to build your own castle- economy, military, fortifications and all. But this time, you 
 have to do it during the bloody times of the crusades.
  
  Stronghold Crusader clearly focuses more on the combat and actual crusading instead of the castle-building 
 here. So the actual castle-building is effectively the same as it was in the original, with a few 
 new additions. But Stronghold Crusader makes things dicey by making it so that there will be enemy 
 castles on the map much more often now: And yeah- they don't stand still like they did in the original 
 anymore! Enemy lords now have actual AIs for castle building, and although these AIs always follow 
 the same build plans, they are still pretty darned good.
  
  As a result- you can now play actual skirmishes against the AI, and it is actually quite characteristic. 
 The personality of the AI you fight heavily depends on what lord it is. For example, Richard the 
 Lionheart is one of the best AIs in the game, while the Rat, who makes a return from the original 
 along with all of his former comrades, is one of the worst AIs (If not THE worst) . The only issue 
 against the AI is the fact that they use the same attack code as in the original, so they tend 
 to be disorganized with their assaults.
  
  Crusader's other features include a new campaign trail, which puts you into pre-set skirmishes 
 which get harder and harder as you go. There are also campaigns available and a map editor, but 
 both of these are not nearly as involved as they were in the original.
  
  Graphically, Crusader captures the desert quite well. The 2d look of the game is still quite appealing. 
 The voice acting quality of the original also returns, which is good. So the game also sounds relatively 
 good.
  
  In the end, Crusader is a much better game than its predecessor, and this is all in thanks to the 
 AI Firefly included with the games. If you liked the original Stronghold but were disappointed 
 with its relative value- you'll love Crusader. Crusader is also a great start off point in the 
 series for newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdyflightster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader was released in 2002. Shortly after, stronghold two came out but it was nothing 
 like the original. Stronghold combines its great gameplay and graphics to create a game that is 
 fun and challenging. GRAPHICS- the graphics in this game could have used a little more attention, 
 but that is made up for by there attention to detail. every little thing has been added to make 
 your kingdom seem real. from the food in the granary to the trees blowing in the wind. overall, 
 the graphics are ok.
  GAMEPLAY-
  in Stronghold, you can choose between four game types: campaign, castle builder, skirmish, and 
 multiplayer. In the campaign you can play as the crusaders or as Saladin. Each one has the its 
 own story mode and troop types. in castle builder you don't face an enemy, instead you build up 
 your city economically. in skirmish mode you face off against several different foes who get harder 
 and harder as you go. And in multiplayer you can play against your friends through lan or you can 
 play online. one of the things that i liked about this game was the wide selection of troops. you 
 can created either crusaders or you can hire mercenaries which in the long run isn't the best choice. 
 A. I.-
  The creators in this game did a great job in creating different enemies for different levels of 
 gamers. each one has its own personality and difficulty. It's the same in the campaign as well. 
 as you go your missions get harder and your enemy's get smarter and less annoying as far as personalities 
 go.
  
  If your ever looking for a fun RTS, just go to the $10 game section of wall mart and get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader is an RTS for the pc. If you haven't figured it out by now, it's based on 
 the Crusades. The game is part basic RTS, part advanced RTS, and part castle builder. Let's get 
 to each of these. Part one basically speaks for itself. Build your town, train soldiers, fight 
 your enemy. Part two is where it get's tricky. You can't just build soldiers. First you need to 
 make the weapons to give them. To get food, you need to find oasis land (which is somewhat hard 
 to come by in the middle of the desert) and build farms on it. You have a popularity level. Many 
 things can affect it. For instance, if you tax your citizens, there start becoming unhappy. But, 
 you can bring it back into balance by giving them extra rations compared to regular rations. If 
 your popularity level is over 50, people start coming to your castle. If it's under, people start 
 leaving. These are just a few advanced parts of the game. There is a tutorial, but don't get your 
 hopes up. It barley tells you anything. I spent a long time just trying to figure out the whole 
 game. The third and final part of the game let's your imagination run wild. Ever wanted a game 
 where you can build your own castle, complete with towers, walls, and gates? This is it. Once you 
 have enough stone, you can build the castle of your dreams. Don't get too attached though. More 
 often than not, you will find your castle walls bombarded to nothing (I speak from bitter experience) . 
 There are 4 different historical campaigns, along with one, 50 mission long Crusader Trail. There 
 are also skirmish maps for practice, with many different opponents to fight. Each opponent has 
 a style of play. Your job is to find their weakness and exploit it. Crusader supports a map editor 
 as well. The graphics are one of the game's weaknesses. They suck. The sound is nice though. It 
 is funny to listen to your opponent talk about the world going crazy as you pick of the last spear 
 man in his invasion force. The basic sounds of medieval warfare are all here. There is such a huge 
 package to come with such a cheap game ($10 at Target) . I hope you do buy this and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenG101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun if you like a little history in your games, or even if you dont. The gameplay 
 is fun, and the graphics are very nice. the point of the game is to take over all of the different 
 kingdoms. You get to make your own army, and you have to raise animals to help feed them. If you 
 dont they get upset and sometimes die. Yuo also have to make your own weapons and you get to create 
 your kingdom. This game also features some actual people throughout history, such as Richard the 
 Lionhart the 2nd. What makes this game fun is to have a really big army, get some mechanical engineers, 
 and have them make some catapults, and some big towers, and then attack the others castle. You can 
 also fire dead cows out of the catapults. It is pretty funny. This game is well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truckingpete
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Well, let's start with the game play. It is pretty good I must say. It's kind of hard to move the 
 units and attack with them sometimes, but it is pretty good. I give it an 8.
  
  Graphics, not to shabby for a 2002 game I guess. The castles look great! It looks dital sometimes, 
 but oh well still good. I give them an 8.
  
  Sound, well not the best buy has good music. Maybe if they had more music it would be better. I 
 give it a 7.
  
  the Value, well what else could I say, AWESOME!! You can get this game cheap anywhere now, and 
 It was a good deal when it 1st came out also. I give a 9.
  
  So, let's review, This is a good solid game with lots of fun in it, Who cares how old it is, it 
 will always live on, who cares are the other Strongholds aren't too good, still a good genre!
 
  
  - Tp's final score - 8.4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrapmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Crusaders is one of the greatest games I have ever played! It has great graphics for a PC game. 
 IT has SO much detail and is defiantly a great war game. Everything is so realistic. It was exactly 
 like medieval times. It takes some time to master but crazy fun. Any one who likes knight games 
 games or castle building this is a must have game! It is so addicting you will never be able to 
 turn your computer off! This game is expensive! It is like 40.00$ but it is worth every penny. 
 And the game is never ending. You can play one level for hours. Also you can customize your game. 
 You have the difficulty under your control. I would recommend this game for all ages and all gamers. 
 The game ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noctoural88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  one glorius day, about 3 years ago, i came across a 10$ game at target. what i didn't know, was 
 that it would be one of the greatest games i have ever played or even heard of. The graphics aren't 
 that impressive, but graphics aren't everything. the overall quality and value of the game render 
 the graphics virtually meaningless. just the vast amount of soldier types and in-game options could 
 win the game a good score, but there is even more. there is everything from popularity (a very 
 good idea) and religeon. the game is so deep, that if you want troops, then you actually have to 
 create blacksmith's and armorers to make equipment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriscool67
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game better than any other game i have ever played. The historical campaigns are great 
 with a cool insite on the crusades and the trails of them , you can either b the arabs who try 
 to invade european strongholds all across the holy land. Or b a European and help maintain and 
 defend strongholds while setting attacks on ones occupied by arabs. Also The ability to build your 
 own map is great. I like testing my skills by putting me against 1000s of waves of soldiers and 
 seeing if i can defeat them. The only downset of the whole game (at least in my opinion) is the 
 porr graphics but in a way if u look at stronghold 2s 3d graphics and play with them they actually 
 might b better in terms of being easier to play with . I wish they wood stick with how they used 
 to make the strongholds and not this fantasy crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem_trick_01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  this the best historic real time strategy game i ever played. try it if you fan of this sort of 
 this games and your never bored from it.
  this game is to hold your castle the better way you can (stronghold) .
  and of course not being 
 defending on it all the time because the best way to defend is to attack . there are many building 
 you can build from for your people the people is them self the army you must not let down the population 
 down or the people will go (you can do many men you can) .
  there are  and more there are engineers is one of the important 
 mens in this game you can build with them many things like catapult ,sieges.. and more .
  there are taxes you can rise or low them if you rise it you have more money from people and if 
 you low it you have less money and the population getting rise up . you must build farms and bakery 
 and mills for food , and you must build the iron market for producing swords and spears . the graphics 
 good . the sound is better also the voice of the soldiers , the music makes the game more action 
 . value : you'll be stick in this game for a long time . overall : the game is good for the fans 
 of stratgey games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I have friends who with out me would be like what is that? They no who the are too.
  
  Gameplay: 50 missions on Crusader trail plus a Historic bit on the crusades that let you hold Antioch. 
 If you have the advanced version you get 30 more Crusader trail missions + with the Advanced version 
 you get like 12 AI to verse in Skirmish which if you like setting up battles you play that and 
 pick from about 50+ maps. It's so much more fun online I used to be unbeatable untill I stopped. 
 You can install it and you don't have to use the disk. (Great for friends that mooch of you like 
 mine) You heard. You also get Mercenaries added to the others like Assasins and horse archers.
 
  
  Graphics: Not that great but Ok I guess. I mean if you could get closer it would be better but 
 you can tell this is an animated game (the blood) Plus when people start on fire the8ir bodies are 
 left burn't.
  
  Sound: Some is Ok. But every unit has its own voice actor which gets old. Engineers say what needs 
 doing you say You mama no i'm kidding but it gets old. I've had this game since it came out and 
 have played at least 1000 or more Battles and have had friends give me hints and tips that have 
 played for 4 or so month. One never Shuts up about it. That's my review and Remember never give 
 a veteran at this game Advice and don't use Cheap tactics ( You no who you are) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crownhim
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  This is a great castle RTS for the low price you pay $10. The graphics could use some help but 
 consider how old the game is and the low level of computer requirements to play. Another great 
 thing is the amount of games included on just one CD. There are several campaigns and many include 
 historical battles. Warning: this game is addictive. I found myself playing it for hours and hours. 
 You will have a great diversity of enemies and typical RTS play that grows in difficulty as you 
 advance your technology. Focus on economy, reputation with your subjects, defense, offense, and 
 building. You can hire mercenaries, farm the land, make knights, build catapults, give your subjects 
 beer to lighten their spirits (this is a key) , and build a massive castle, etc. This game has freedom, 
 but small maps. You can build almost anywhere and each mission has many different ways to complete 
 them. Use the height advantage of taller towers with archers, engineers give you advanced technology, 
 but not as advanced as Age of the Empires. (You will not be moving out of the middle ages) . The 
 simplicity of this game keeps it fun and easy. The sounds aren't too bad either. The music has 
 a middle east tone to it. The graphics need improvement. Sometimes a castle wall is hard to place, 
 but you have different viewing options that give you the ability to play the game the way you want 
 to and control your subjects.
  
  There are plenty of people still playing this game and you can find many different maps to download 
 on-line. The on-line community is active. You can customize this game and build your own maps. 
 This game is akin to Command &amp; Conquer the original series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumuran
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the Stronghold games for maybe 5 years. Along with all of the other RTS (real 
 time stategy) games I have bought, played, and gotten bored with... I always find myself going back 
 to Stronghold Crusader. The gameplay itself has few flaws. The simple drag and click troop movement 
 fits this game fine. You will have no problem moving your troops around the maps. The combat is 
 not really a flaw, but if you would compare it to games like Total War games, it seems pretty outdated. 
 The characters will stack and where you should have a massive battle onscreen, you are limited 
 to about half of your and your opponents troops duking it out. There is plenty of troops to choose 
 from. Each one has its own strengths and weaknesses. The swordsman are very slow, yet powerful. 
 The archers are fast, yet one spearmen could take him out if he gets close enough. The game sets 
 itself apart with even more Arabic troops. These include things from horse archers to fire throwers. 
 The Arabic troops are cheaper to make and don't require any resources like armor or bows but they 
 are somewhat weaker than their Crusader counterparts. The game offers several modes like castle 
 builder, where you have a peaceful time just building the castle of your dreams. Crusader mode 
 is like the main story mode but in no way are you obligated to play this. There is also a historical 
 campaign mode similar to the Crusader mode. This game offers a suprising amount of depth for a 
 2d/3d game. Build any castle any way you want it to be built. Build inns, churches, houses, and 
 weapon shops. The game runs very well on a lot of computers. With pretty low system requirements 
 and a $10 price tag, anyone with a computer like mine that is straight out of the box should buy 
 this game if they are looking for an awesome RTS game but are unable to play the incredibly detailed 
 games like the Total War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold is one of those series who takes the RTS genre and twists it into a challenging and 
 enjoyable experience. Crusader takes everything from the first game and takes it to the max.
  
  There is little story to it, though it retells the Crusades, from first to last, in the battle 
 between the Crusaders and the Turks over the Holy land, also known as Jerusalem, where Jesus was 
 born, lived, preached, and died. The basic gameplay mechanics of this genre is simple. Build an 
 army. Attack and destroy an enemy. Stronghold pulls that off, but with flying colors too. For example. 
 You need people for soldiers. Any soldiers. You need to keep your food stocks high, as well as 
 have enough homes for them to live in. If they like you, they will gather around the campfire near 
 your keep and await for a job. You finally have people to turn into soldiers! But first, soldiers 
 need weapons and armor, correct? You can build blacksmiths and armorers to build the swords and 
 armor needed to build the soldiers. But blacksmiths and armorers need iron to make that. To do 
 that, you need to build an iron mine, and soon once the people get to work on those, you will have 
 a steady line of supply and demand.
  
  The miners will take the iron to the stockpile. The blacksmiths will retrieve the iron and make 
 them into swords. They will take the swords to the armory. Once you have that, you can make soldiers, 
 but your 'people' and 'weapons' count will go down, and soon you will need more people and weapons 
 to build more soldiers. It's a basic line of supply and demand!
  
  The graphics aren't as great, for it's all 2D except for a few effects like arrows and catapult 
 firings. The sound is excellent, with music to keep you captivated and an announcer to keep you 
 on top of things so you can run a steady community and castle.
  
  Overall, this game is a must-buy for any of the hardcore RTS fans looking for a challenge. Stronghold: 
 Crusader retails for $19.99 at most outlets, but i've heard rumors that at some others they even 
 cost $9.99. Stronghold: Crusader has multiplayer support and I believe uses MSN gaming. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2112rushman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game will spoil you with great game play, graphics and overall excitement. Stronghold Crusader 
 works on many levels. The combat itself is very realistic in my opinion but doesn't take a back 
 seat to the strategy. I like this game better than Age of Empires 2 for multiple reasons even though 
 AOE2 is a fun game itself. The linked missions are fun as well as creating your own maps. I haven't 
 had much luck with multi-player, but I think I will try again tonight. I really like this game 
 even though I've put it down for long spans at a time, I keep on coming back to it. It has a sense 
 of humor all its own and I find myself generally feeling entertained for hours at a time. If I 
 had to point out any flaw it would be the fact that after a while the game can become repetitive 
 at times. Having said that though, you can set the computer players to be super easy all the way 
 to overwhelming. The game is very flexible and even has a castle builder mode that has no enemies 
 so you can practice without being attacked. Even though this game has been out for over four years, 
 I still enjoy playing it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleKos
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for an older RTS aren't too bad, and the sound is decent too!
  
  I love how easy this game is to just pick up and play, no 5 minute loading times like in BF2 or 
 any other FPS. Just pick a map, and your enemies/allies and your off. After you learn how to establish 
 a thriving economy, start building a monster castle. Make sure you have lumber, farmland, and stone 
 aplenty or you will spend most of your time trying to get them from enemies. Defend your castle 
 well and you will thrive, place ballistas, catapults, and archers in towers and your ready. Then 
 finally begin work upon an army and siege units then takehold of your enemies.
  
  If you want to find this game just go to a local Wal-Mart and look at the jewel cased pc games 
 usually on the top shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe78man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  As I said, the economy system is perfect. You plant wheat, you make it flour, then bake it to make 
 bread. You rise cows, milk them, make cheese. You plant fruits and harvest them. You have a hunter 
 that hunts and brings meat. Thats just the food.
  A timber man chops trees, make planks of wood, which are used to build structures and make weapons, 
 the bowmaker man takes the planks and make bows, he carries it, then, to the armory, and then you 
 can make in the barracks an archer.
  Reminds me a lot to The Settlers.
  An arrow fired from a higher terrain or tower is more accurate than fired from below, and from 
 below is harder to hit an elevated target.
  You have pitch!!! spill it on the floor, make a line with it, then wait to the precise moment, 
 make one of your archers fire a fire arrow and watch your enemy's army run screaming like the human 
 torch.
  The diverse units and how real they look, they die, they move, what they can do. What I don't like, 
 but just because it breaks the realism is that building just appear where you want to place them.
 
  The only flaw I see is that the campaigns are really difficult, but just because of the place 
 you begin, many times you are in disadvantage. Another thing to criticize is that it lacks of hotkeys. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  summary : When I first opened the box and installed the latest Firefly creation, I was somewhat 
 tentative that this game would capture the hearts of those who followed the original offering so 
 closely. The introduction artwork and installation music reminded me a lot of the original game 
 and I was not overly impressed. However, once I completed the install and actually sat down to 
 play countless hours of the new game I found it to be extremely addictive and an excellent follow 
 up to the castle building sim. Yes, Crusader may lack some of the brilliant artwork and lush landscapes 
 of its predecessor, but with the landscape being limited to the desserts of the Middle East, rich 
 soils and vast oceans will be tough to find. Crusader will take the game far beyond what Stronghold 
 provided in its original form some time ago. The gamer will find that economically based missions 
 are a thing of the past, and skirmishes depicting the historical period of the crusades will take 
 over. Gamers will have a chance to face numerous AI controlled enemies within one campaign, to 
 forging ahead and trying to complete the Skirmish Trail through some 50 prepared missions. Crusader 
 comes with a wealth of new units to keep the gamer thinking and an all new and improved military 
 AI will make the planning out of defenses much more important. Many new units come in the form 
 of the Arab units. Horse Archers, Slaves, Fire throwers, fire throwing ballista, all will provide 
 some great and exciting new battles. No longer will your castle walls defend the city within. Fire 
 throwers will burn your cities from outside their walls, saboteurs will scale your walls and open 
 castle gates, fierce horse archers will move about rapidly killing the lesser armed victims. Waves 
 of dedicated slaves will burn down everything in site. The ability to purchase or hire mercenaries 
 to do your bidding will prove to be of great value. The entire approach to this game and how to 
 play it will be an all new learning curve even for those hard core Stronghold players. Having the 
 ability to hire a military and defend your castle takes on an all new economic importance to some 
 valued resources. Will you choose to build your own army to defend your land? Or will you hire 
 a band of defenders at a high cost. Playing out all of the scenarios in this game will take countless 
 hours of dedication. Learning which style of game play to use at which precise moment in time will 
 make the difference between victory and eventual defeat. Although the economic missions are not 
 to plentiful, gamers will find a few great historical campaigns to play through. Battling with 
 or against the mighty King Richard, planning and designing their own custom campaigns and playing 
 against countless other gamers online will make Crusader another smash hit. graphics : The landscape 
 and setting for this game actually hurts the presentation it should have. Stronghold was drooled 
 at for its rich landscapes, excellent graphics, and impressive castles. Because of the settings, 
 Crusader may not be seen as an overly impressive sequel. It is extremely difficult to make dessert 
 landscape awe inspiring, so it is understandable that the view will not be as elaborate. However, 
 I found that many of the structures could have been fine tuned and presented in a more appealing 
 manor. Players of the original game will find that the buildings used in Crusader are not too different 
 from the original game and in several cases they seem to be just repainted images. Many of the 
 old units return for this sequel and it is nice to see some great added units. The castle building 
 structures and ease of creation continue to provide some excellent options, but other than the 
 addition of a few new towers, most of this layout was presented in the original game. Because the 
 original Stronghold was so rich and pleasing to the eye, it raises the expectations of players 
 and unfortunately I felt it fell short in the graphics area. overall the game is a good game if 
 u want to waste a few hours ,anyway i would go and buy this game if u have not yet done so .
  the grapics may be poor but the gameplay is not i would say it is one of the best games for castle 
 sims its much better than stronghold 1 and much better than the new stronghold 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan27
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader, or Crusader Stronghold, as I call it, is one of my favourite games. I'm comparing 
 this game To Age of Empires, well, in this game (SC) (Stronghold: Crusader) you have dairy farms, 
 apple farms, hops farm and more. This game is awesome is one of my favourite games ever. Graphics 
 are excellent and is on of my favourite Graphics games. However, the music is bad compared to Age 
 of Empires, but who cares! I also like, how when there are new peasant, they gather near the fire, 
 instead of warding off! To me, the game was hard, but having a hard games, is what makes it good. 
 If it was an easy game, then whats the point of playing. It is a great game, and I think they should 
 make more games of it.
  
  ROCKS THE WORLD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This was a LAN favorite for quite some time back in the day. We had many awesome battles fighting 
 over the small barren maps. However, once we learned the ropes, it was quite often a stalemate 
 between human players, and a complete anhilation of AI Bots.
  Apparently when they programmed this game, they forgot to put in intelligent AI. It is way to easy 
 to win a match even when its you versus 4 or 5 (using a certain strategy) . So dont expect to have 
 much of a challenge, especially once you know how to play.
  Besides this point, the game was really fun. It was simple, polished RTS that focuses more on battles 
 than on resource gathering. Hurray!
  The graphics are poor by todays standards, and the options are even worse, but you dont really 
 notice it all that much once you load up. You busy keeping track of your idiot soldiers and watching 
 the happy/sad meter of your towns people. Fun fun...
  This game would deserve a recommendation for some older RTS fans, and some really new players, 
 that dont know the ropes of modern RTS. I would also recommend this for people that are bored and 
 want to have a few fun games before buying Rise of Legends, or AoE3. Just check it out, youll have 
 fun for at least 15 games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theseed505
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for what? 3 years now. Still a good game. Just plain fun. I've spent hours playing 
 this game and it never gets old. If you don't have it, at only $10 how can you go wrong? The Crusader 
 Trail (Campain) keeps you busy and hones your skills. Or you can set it up the way you want it 
 in a custom game. Many maps and 8 unique Lords to battle. I would definetely recommend!
  Pretty good graphics for when it was made. Good sound. Exellent gameplay.
  Definetely an underrated 
 game. Surely you've got ten bucks on you. BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilbuster1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I play the game for the sake of it and if you're a serious person I would not recommend it. it 
 is unrealistic in the way of the time it takes to make I items like Bows for Archers. how in the 
 world could it take 6 months to make one Bow? It is fun to play Castle builders but there is no 
 challenge. I think its a game of extremes, either no challenge or all challenge. For some that 
 ok but if my computer had ears it would have crashed by now. It can be easy and it can be difficult. 
 This is definitely a game that needs cheat codes or a trainer but there are none, that I can find, 
 that work anyway.
  a useful thing that I found is if you can supply food for your people in like one of the mission 
 for instance all you have to do is put a stop on the food you have, if any, and let all you people 
 leave, because 4 people have to stay. you can put a hold on the food so your popularity stays at 
 zero and have those worker make food. in a jam I would suggest bread because one thing of wheat 
 makes one thing of flour and one thing or flour makes 3 or 4 min loaves of bread. but you don't 
 even have to do that. 
  They have to stay so you don't even have to feed them. 
  I also tax them all the way. 4 people bring in 8 gold each month.
  whe you don't have to worry 
 about food you can make all the things you need to stay in the game like weapons and such...
  Sorry if this is no help... I've never done one of these before.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game just about takes the cake, Firefly really knows how to make a great game off the 2D engine 
 but then again I'm more old school and prefer that engine. All these new games with the 3D engine 
 don't really please me enough. Stronghold is in my #2 list for best RTS game, and my first would 
 have to be Starcraft.
  
  Stronghold 2 has its good's and bads, I honestly prefered Stronghold 2 to be an expansion because 
 its a bit hard switching from diffrent custom maps through diffrent games and it would be much 
 easier. Plus Crusader needs to add more things to its map such as grass and less oasis's and deserts, 
 at least give the players the capability to back track to the stronghold 2 campagin with the crusader 
 additions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuta41
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 25, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  this is the greatest strategy game ever made after the COMMANDOS. i love this game too much u rule 
 the crusade in it. in this game u make ur own castle and u control on ur own will . u r the king 
 in this game .u have ur own territory. u have to control the situation in this game. some times 
 it is very tough. u have to keep ur people happy. give them food. u have to place catherdals to make 
 them happy. u have to place the inn to make them happy. u have to get some bouns points from the 
 fear factor to make them happy. and many more in this game. i have ended this game 100%. there are 
 the campaing missions in it. these are one of the toughtest thing to finish. u have to finsih 50 
 campaings mission in it. they are too difficult for a rookie to handle. but i am not the rookie 
 because i have ended all the 50 missions. there is the free castle building mode in it. in this mode 
 u can build ur own castle. u have 8 enemys. u can also make them friends. in the crusader mode. there 
 is much more in this game. u must check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  This Castle RTS game is one of my favorite games in my very large collection.... Youll like it 
 to....
  
  Theme: Ok in Crusader you have your skirmish missions and ur missions. You can folow the footsteps 
 of real kings in the Holy Land! Kings like the "lionheat" a. k. a. Richard and Saladin of the Arabs.. 
 You play as them to conquer.... Here is my review
  
  Graphics~ Pretty neat and detailed, buidlins and terrain look good
  10/10
  
  Sound~ Arab 
 type of music can accutally help you concentrate for some reason
  10/10
  
  Gameplay~ Extreamly enertaining youll be playin this for hours!! You can build up a castle, make 
 weaons, hire Arab mercenaries, and build European soldiers, and last but not least lay seige to 
 your enemies!!!!
  10/10
  
  Value~ u can get it for around 10 bucks and its worth every penny, nickle, dime, and, well u get 
 the point
  10/10
  
  Tilt~ Personaly i love this game and will stay on my computer forever
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emcemcemcemcemc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  this game is so good i bought it twice now i know i am supposed to praise the game but surely if 
 u have played it then u shouldn't have to read my review u should no already how great it is 
 
  
  on a kind of side note i think that stronghold legends is going to suck ass big time i mean all 
 it is is a version of stronghold 2 and battle for middle earth or the other game that is popular 
 that has a myth story to it i think it is a multiplayer based game anyway stronghold crusader kicks 
 ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth2007
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  this game completely blows. it is really boring. the missions are 2 hard and it is almost impossible 
 to play it online, the graphics r really poor and it will only appeal to ppl who don't have consoles 
 or have gamecubes (no online play) . this game is a boring lord of the rings rip off and shouldn't 
 be on the market. this game **** and i wouldn't recomend buying it unless u r a medievel crazed 
 nerd who don't have consoles or just has a gamecube. this game is a waste of precious money that 
 could be spent on something much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebas0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is just best game I've played since the Age of Empires. It goes through many historical 
 event such as the siege of jerusalem and such multiplayer gives this game better score because 
 its just sweet but anyways if you like games that you can station people on walls then buy it its 
 worth every cent. Also this game has a variety of gameplay and above average sound but all in all 
 its a really great game. Some last thoughts is if you can find a game similar then this than get 
 it but rent the game if you dont feel like paying alot of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I found Stronghold Crusader to have a better overall gameplay than it's predecessor, thanks in 
 part to the addition of assassins, mercenary camps, more characters, calvary, etc. 
  
  I think that the storyline for the campaign version feels a little less involved than the original, 
 since there are 4 short campaigns, rather than a single continuous journey. Regardless, it is fun 
 to play with Richard the Lionheart, even if it is only for a short while.
  
  The only bummer is that there are no cheats for this version, so you'll have to invest long periods 
 of time to complete each segment.
  
  Overall, it's a good game, but not on my list of "all time greatest". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader, or Crusader Stronghold, as I call it, is one of my favourite games. I'm comparing 
 this game To Age of Empires, well, in this game (SC) (Stronghold: Crusader) you have dairy farms, 
 apple farms, hops farm and more. This game is awesome is one of my favourite games ever. Graphics 
 are excellent and is on of my favourite Graphics games. However, the music is bad compared to Age 
 of Empires, but who cares! I also like, how when there are new peasant, they gather near the fire, 
 instead of warding off! To me, the game was hard, but having a hard games, is what makes it good. 
 If it was an easy game, then whats the point of playing. It is a great game, and I think they should 
 make more games of it.
  
  ROCKS THE WORLD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grae530
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Stronghold: Crusader uses the same engine as the original Stronghold, but added in different playable 
 items like the Crusader Map Trail. This game tries to have a storyline but if it did its easily 
 ignored. You have to balance between taking care of your people, and waging war with your enemy. 
 Several factors will try to stop you from accomplishing this. Your position on the map is absolutely 
 critical you want to be near an oasis to grow crops for food and at the same time you want to be 
 distance from your enemy. The game will start getting harder by adding in more enemies and placing 
 you further from the oasis, or it might not include an oasis at all. You dont however always have 
 to defeat your enemies alone, sometimes you are given some allies. The AI isnt all that smart, 
 and usually doesnt do exactly what you want and needs your help instead, but you can choose to 
 completely ignore them and fight it your own way. All these factors keep the game fun and challenging 
 but after awhile each map starts to feel like the same. The levels tend to get long as well, I 
 can recall playing 3-4 hours on just one map trying to defeat my enemy. Also in those 3-4 hours 
 I was spending a lot of time having fun building up my castle.
  
  Castle building mainly consists of building brick walls, gates, towers, moats, etc. It doesnt 
 quite feel like a castle but instead a giant wall surrounding and protecting your people. You can 
 still get creative with this and have a lot of fun, but I wouldve wanted a bit more.
  
  The Graphics are bit old-school you could say, but they are what they are. The graphics are simple 
 so you could run massive battles at one time, without the computer freezing up. You have to recall 
 when this game came out, its not exactly brand new. I guess in a way you could compare the graphics 
 of this game to Age of Empires 2. 
  
  The Sound can become a bit annoying at times. Each person or thing in the game makes its own noise 
 and if you have a lot of that same thing, for example if you had a 100 knights that would be a 
 hundred knights making the same noise over and over. There is also a voice that will talk to you 
 through the progress of the game that can get on your nerves easily. But all these things can be 
 changed in the Audio Options.
  
  The gameplay overall is very fun and should give you many hours of enjoyment. Its not that hard 
 to learn, but it can be a bit frustrating at first. I highly recommend this game, and its by far 
 the best of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  Very fun, building your castle and fighting off wave after wave of enemies rarely gets old. Wish 
 they had added some more advanced unit formations and groupings etc. Combat can get pretty unrealistic 
 as it takes maybe fifty to sixty arrows to take down an armor laden Knight , I guess they did this 
 to keep archers from being too dominant, but come on, I could have taken five arrows to take down 
 a Knight but that many is just rediculous. Another common thing for RTS's of that time is how a 
 man with an iron long sword with enough time could take down a solid wall made out of two thousand 
 pound stones... umm no? Im glad arrows dont do damage to walls cause that would have been even 
 more retarted. Its just kind of annoying to build twenty time layered walls to have three knights 
 sit there and hack away half of it in five minutes. Everything else was done nicely though.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  Ah.. now a days these graphics seem pretty dated. Game isnt 3-D at all, units 
 are simply sprites. I guess when it was first released the graphics were decent but this review 
 is about now, not back then so yes they are dated. But not in a way where it detracts from the 
 gameplay, framerate is always solid unless your computer is just horribly old. 
  
  Sound 7/10
  Music gets pretty repetitive and boring, doesnt really kick in during fights like 
 it should. Everything else is done nicely though, like how the Knights armor makes loud creaking 
 noises as they stumble through the desert. Nice hustle and bustle feel to your towns once they 
 increase in size. Nice sound overall but poor soundtrack leaves room for improvement.
  
  Value 9/10
  Skirmish mode will keep you coming back and playing. Campaign isnt much on its own 
 but what RTS really ever has a good campaign, skirmish is where the fun is really at. Pick your 
 opponents who have their own strategies, for example 'The Pig' enjoys building large rectangular 
 castles and sending wave after wave of macemen at you until your castle is a pile of rubble, while 
 'The Wolf' prefers to build castles with twenty layers of walls and large defensive towers, eventually 
 he will build up a massive force and take over your castle in one fell swoop. Of course these are 
 the more challenging enemies, "The Rat' for example doesnt really even make a castle... or an army. 
 His castle is just randomly placed walls and his army consists of thirty men with pointed sticks, 
 good to go against if youre a drunk five year old.
  
  7.8- It may not get a very good rating, but it keeps you coming back. Many RTS's keep you enjoyed 
 for a couple days and then you get bored. This game doesnt get you terribly excited like a gitty 
 little girl but you just keep playing it cause its so damn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this is a real time and entertaining strategy game for all those medivial tyoe style players.
 
  
  There are parts where you can make your own island or your own location where you can put that 
 you ave all the stuff or that you have non of the items needed for buildings or food to be applied.
 
  
  The best part is feeding humans to lions like the lions do pretty past kill and can be placed on 
 the field.
  
  There are some locations needing you to build walls to protect your great empire, some where you 
 are needed to help out your team and destroy the evil forces. What i do is usually play around 
 with the game not much to do except try to beat it and have it take you about 29 hours or so on 
 the easy difficulty but it is a great and epic game with just the right music and right voices.
 
  
  there are 3 sides or more i believe
  
  Knights or kings or Crusader side, the Arabic side, and others as well.
  
  there are
  Trebuches 
 to build as well as those big transport wall bagging things seen in lord of the rings.
  
  Can build or make people andf have these big archary towers and have archers shot down. the environment 
 like walls are destoyable and can be breached thats why you must lock your doors and gates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold Crusader has to be on of my all time favourite games. This game, to me anyway, proves 
 you don't need over the top graphics and sound to make a good RTS. 
  
  The interface takes a bit of getting used to as it's so simple, it's not obvious at first. But 
 once you get used to it, it's very easy.
  
  The number of mission is astounding as in 50! Even if you finish them all, in which some get to 
 be very difficult, there are many alternative strategies you can try if you decide to play through 
 the trail again.
  
  If that's not enough. You can play the historical campaign. Five major campaigns with 5 sub missions 
 each.
  
  To top it off, there is also multi player for those that may feel inclined to play.
  
  All 
 in all a classic game from FireFly Studios. Which is more than fair when it comes to content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Like the first? Love the second. This game is a second version of stronghold this time you can 
 face multipul enemies on one map and have allies (if you choose) then siege their castles and defend 
 your own. almost the same as the first except other then what i just mentioned you new campaign 
 missions (taking place in the middle east crusades) . This game also adds new units like horse archers 
 and a few new buildings and defences. The AI isnt to bad in this game they know what their doing 
 at least and can make a threat to a player. get this game its cheap and worth it you will get hours 
 of fun while waiting for other games to come out such as Lord Of The Rings: Battle For Middle Earth 
 2 (cant wait:) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Stronghold crusader is a game where you can build castles and an army to defend it, but you have 
 to collect supplies such as food, to do this you can build a dairy or a hunters shack, you get 
 a cirtain amount of people depending on how poular you are, you can charge them taxes to live in 
 your castle, to build an army you need one person per soldier and a blacksmith or other weapan 
 maker to make them a weapan.
  
  There are better weapans than the original strong hold and many more buildings, you can get a good 
 demo from game spot-
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/gamespace/download. php? pid=561237&sid=2877010&mode=latest
  
  
 -on this demo you may use some of the new items and play some new maps but this is only a demo.
 
  
  The graphics are great and sound is brilliant, i recommend this game to people that liked the original 
 stronghold and love medievil warfare.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lengo67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Simply, this game rocks! It offers everything an RTS fan wants.
  
  There are 8 different ai profiles for this game. Each trains an army according to it's profie. 
 That army can consist of Arabian or European troops. If you play against 3 in a free for all, you 
 have a lot of different combinations that can be made.
  
  The game offers a uilt in map designer. It also has a built in scenario maker! Right from the game 
 menu, you can make your own maps or make your own scenarios. Not only that, you can make skirmish 
 maps that include extra units, or buildings for each player. This offers a load of extendiblity.
 
  
  There are three basic games within skirmish play alone. You can start with low money, few troops; 
 lots of money, few troops; and lots of money, lots of troops. Then it just gets better. You can 
 tell the game to give you an advantage or the ai an advantage. This amounts to more extendibility.
 
  
  You can also make your own scenarios. You can make a castle to defend, or make one to attack. Win 
 conditions can be either economic, or military, and even a combination of the two.
  
  The game is FUN to play. Actually fun! Some of the unit's responses are truly humorous. THe game 
 is genuinely witty!
  
  The graphics, sounds, and music are all highly entertaining. Though the game is 2D, there's plenty 
 of visual appeal. The sounds are convincing, and speech from just about every NPC is available 
 offering even more whimsy.
  
  A typical skirmish game will last about an hour. That's perfect for casual gamers. But, if you 
 make your own maps (which really is a pleasure to do) , you can design a 1 on 1 map to last many 
 many hours. If you make 3-4 player maps, you can design these to last anywhere from an hour to 
 days! You can include 8 different starting positions on your maps.
  
  I don't play online, so I can't reflect on multiplayer capabilities of Stronghold Crusader. I don't 
 need to play online. The skirmishes on my and other people's custom maps are very satisfactory.
 
  
  Stronghold Crusader is truly a value without equal. It offers hours of entertainment. It has lots 
 of extendibility. But most of all, it is fun to play. This game will make you smile!
  
  Scoring:
  
  Gameplay; 9
  Graphics: 10, considering this is 2D
  Sound: 10 
  Extendibility: 
 A perfect 10
  Fun Factor: 10
  Value: Oh my! More bang for your buck than any game I've seen in 15 years of gaming.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: RTS RULES!
  
  Don't miss out on this. Buy it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  When I look for games i then to look on the charts but i must of missed this (or none were left) 
 because this is a very good game.
  
  This is an very easy game to grasp and works very well with a very good gameplay rather good graphics 
 and some good sounds, and what i got it for i like the storyline and the way the gameplay and scenarios 
 But the centerpiece of the single-player game is the "crusader trail," which presents a series 
 of 50 battles, each more difficult than the last. As you play, your performance determines the 
 ongoing date, which serves as your score. You can go backward to replay old missions, and if you 
 do better, the date will roll back. Although this doesn't have much impact on the actual missions, 
 it's an interesting alternative to tracking a score based on points. This is an amazing game and 
 deserves all and more of what i think it was going to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DireWolfKing
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  they could of made it easier to mod. but they didn't and thats fine with me. Everything about the 
 game is good. it still could of been better but who cares you know. There could of been boats if 
 they even thought of that. people could easily made docks for the game. no boats no docks its still 
 all fine with me. ive played the game for more the 100 hours and i still havent beat the campaign 
 and i will sooner or later. but for now i will stick with map making and playing in the skirmish 
 mode. one think i like with Stronghold Crusader then with Stronghold is the... well everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcstrawberry9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is probably the best crusades style real time strategy game that I have ever 
 played. I think that there are several things that it does extremely well. First it the three different 
 ways to play the game. You can play the four different short campaigns. Or you can play the long 
 campaign which I actually haven't beaten all the missions for yet. And then of course there is 
 the skirmish option that everyone loves, I think that beating the missions are more fun though. 
 One thing that is not really a new concept but one that was done well in crusader is that the missions 
 actually get more difficult as they go along. Sometimes this is annoying but that helps the game 
 have more play value to it if you can't beat it that fast. Oh and another cool aspect of the game 
 is all the different types of resources that have to be gathered and created via the different 
 people that you have to create. All in all this is a great game that I think anyone should try 
 but it is definitely not for a beginning gamer. My best friend is more of a gamer than me and he 
 struggles with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is one huge notch above Age of Empires or Civilizations. I love how you can make your 
 own wars and tales using the knights and kings. The castle building is fun and you can build to 
 your hearts content. I love this game way better then the first one. I like the addition of the 
 Arabian Army to the story because is brings a sense of life to the bland story. The Wars may be 
 fun, but if you want to get away from the war you can just build a town and run it as king. This 
 to can be very fun. I suggest if you don't like games with lots of planning involved, Do Not Get 
 this game. Otherwise you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2005 12:13 am PT
Review:  This is easily the most fun game ive ever had the pleasure of playing. Although the graphics are, 
 well, dated, they are still very detailed, aesthetically pleasing, and are at times, amusing! They 
 also run very well on older machines, even when there are literally hundreds upon hundreds of units 
 on-screen at once.
  
  Ok, now for each stat specifically...
  
  Gameplay: Again, this runs extremely well. However, as good as that may be, it doesnt make any 
 game a good game. Fortunately, the gameplay in this is addicting and fun, and that, along with 
 the fact that it runs good, is a winning combination.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, according to today's standards, suck. However, they truly arent that bad 
 if you look closely. The animations are detailed, and speaking of details, the amount of it in 
 Stronghold Crusader is incredible. The trees sway with the wind, you can see all your workers actually 
 doing their jobs, archers putting another arrow in their bow and stretching it back, and the particle 
 effects on arrows and rocks and such are nice. Its especially fun to see vast armies die to a ridiculous 
 amount of fire arrows! The buildings in this are pretty good looking, although they could be improved, 
 you really dont pay much attention to them.
  
  Sound: Ahh, yes. The sounds in this are extremely well done. You can hear personal opinions of 
 life from the peasants you click on, like "No taxes is good taxes, thats my motto" or "I heard 
 a rumor you were throwing people in the dungeon, sire". The war sounds are also incredible. You 
 can hear every little aspect of war, from trebuchet-flung rocks hitting your towers, to a fire-arrow 
 whistling through the air. The music is dynamic and cool. When you are at peace, theres just some 
 nice little background tunes. When you are at war though, the music is appropriately fast-paced 
 and stuff.
  
  My last word is... buy the game as soon as you can! Its beyond fun, and a great time-killer ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeEhEiK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2005 11:23 pm PT
Review:  The best in castle sims is definately this, Stronghold. And so Stronghold Crusader can only expand 
 on this. 
  
  We will fight and kill in the name of God! Okay so things are different now but this was the calling 
 for many empires and soldiers alike during the Crusades. Crusaders from all walks of life, or kingdoms, 
 would partake in an expedition to free the holy land from the Arab invaders. and Stronghold Crusader 
 capitalizes on that to make one immersive and just plain fun game.
  
  Though the graphis are not amazing... the fun is most definately there. Just building your castle 
 while repressing attacks and trying to enforce an economy turns out to be a lot of fun... a lot. 
 I've spent many hours playing this game, and once you get into it you may find yourself in the 
 same position. blah blah blah the game is a must buy... especially at the cheap price.
  
  However keep and eye out for Stronghold 2 coming to stores April 18 2005. A new 3-d engine and 
 countless add-ons will assure a pleasurable playing experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  Amongst walking the rows of games in the local EB games I spot the bright cover for a game called 
 "Stronghold: Crusader". I notice the price sticker marked clearly on the top coner $19.95. I picked 
 it up and took a look at the back of the case. It looked awesome so I payed for it and took it 
 home to play. It was one of the best games I ever purchased....
  
  Gameplay
  OK gameplay. There's only a few modes but all of them are long and detailed. Skirmishes are of 
 course in it and can be very long and very difficult from time to time. There is of course campaigns 
 which are fantastic and they can last for a long time before finishing.
  
  There is another mode called Crusader trail. You battle your way through 50 levels and each one 
 gets progressivly harder. The final level is incredibly long and hard.
  
  Another mode is Castle builder. You build a castle without the troubles of surrounding enemies 
 and build peacefully with just the camels for company!
  
  Graphics
  The overall graphics are not that pleasing on 800x600 but 1024x7400 (or whatever it is) makes the 
 game a bit easier to play. The graphics engine is not as bright as Age Of Empires 2 but it's a 
 lot better as when the crossbowmen reload, you can actually see them kneel down and wind back the 
 cords on the crossbow and when archers fire, you see them nock the arrow then pull it back. Those 
 small bits and pieces (like the ones mentioned just then) make this game a lot more pleasant to 
 sit and watch during times of peace.
  
  Sounds and Music
  Firstly, the sounds are great. The bows sound realistic as do the crossbows. The fires are great, 
 the whole sound scheme is great.
  
  The Arabic music though is highly annoying. It loops about five songs constantly and it gets annoying. 
 At times you will find yourself just turning the music off completely.
  
  Replay
  Well when you finish the campagins there are still a lot of crusader trail maps and the entire 
 skirmish block to finish so it will keep you going for ages. Skirmishes are always fun and hardly 
 do they become boring.
  
  Final comment
  It's a great game and it brought the RTS world smashing to its knees when it was released. In my 
 eyes, Stronghold: Crusader will always be one of the best RTS games of all time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shenmuey13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2003 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game rules!!! It has the best gameplay I have ever seen. The graphics are a lot better then 
 Empire Earth. The sound is the best in this game I give it a 10 just because when you kill a guy 
 it sounds like you kills him. The music is awesome it really puts you in that world you are playing. 
 The game can get a little hard at times but for this game you want it hard. Stronghold will take 
 you a long time to beat there like 30 missions and they all take 5 hours so that good. Go buy this 
 game its only $19.00 dollers and it runs on any computer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
