-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stronghold Crusader Extreme
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/strongholdcrusaderextreme/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stronghold Crusader was great six years ago.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extreme difficulty will prove frustrating for most players.
 Generic base-building RTS structure and gameplay.
 Dated visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 298 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 2, 2008 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Old and almost impossible, Stronghold Crusader Extreme is hard to recommend even to diehard fans 
 of this RTS series. 

  You can't go home again. That's the lesson of Stronghold Crusader Extreme, a revamping of Firefly 
 Studios' classic 2002 real-time strategy game  Stronghold Crusader . This minor reimagining of 
 an oldie but goodie is several years late for the party, a real-time relic based on antiquated 
 game mechanics and production values. It doesn't even add much in the way of new old-fashioned 
 game content; it simply goes after hardcore fans of the original game with a new Extreme Trail 
 mode of play that takes you up a ladder of impossibly murderous medieval skirmishes.  

  This is essentially a straight rehashing of the first Stronghold Crusader. Gameplay shows every 
 bit of its age, so what you've got here is an old-school RTS game in which you build bases, gather 
 resources, and grind out soldiers for endless combat. You take on the role of a medieval lord commanding 
 a settlement in the dusty lands of the Crusades-era Middle East, and must build it up by constructing 
 the usual barracks, farms, armories, and mines. Of course, the ultimate purpose is to use this 
 economic backbone to fund an army of knights, spearmen, bowmen, and the like, and proceed to wipe 
 your enemies off the map.  

           The new Extreme Trail campaign is too difficult for its own good.      

  As with most 
 RTS games from earlier in the decade, the skirmish maps in the 20-mission Extreme Trail campaign 
 are all about speed, not strategy. The winner is always the one who can click the quickest, which 
 makes matches play out more like fast-forwarded street brawls than real military engagements. This 
 is actually one of the zippiest RTS games of all time, and spectacularly tough when compared to 
 the nonextreme trail campaign in the original Stronghold Crusader. The pace has been so amped up 
 and the maps so packed with enemies that the combat is frenzied and chaotic.  

  Expect to be toast early and often if you don't have some heavy playtime with the first game under 
 your belt. Even with this experience (which you can gain here because you get the complete original 
 game along with the supposedly new one) , it's amazingly tough to emerge victorious from even a 
 single one of the scenarios. Multiple enemies target you in all but the very first campaign mission, 
 and this array of foes kicks off every match by immediately hurling columns of troops at your puny 
 little village.  

  Maps cram all of the factions into such close quarters that it's impossible to get started on a 
 reasonable army before the onslaught begins. Enemy armies are typically coming over the hill within 
 no more than a minute or two from the start of a game. It's hard to figure out what you're supposed 
 to do to stop these assaults, given that you're always stuck battling these massive forces with 
 just the handful of knights and archers that you start with. You have the option of dropping in 
 companies of spearmen and macemen on the fly at timed intervals, and can erect walls to somewhat 
 stem the tide, but this seems to only delay the inevitable as steams of enemy columns constantly 
 rush toward your keep. All you're ever doing is keeping your head above water, not building enough 
 strength to take the fight to the enemy.  

  It feels like you're being asked to jam a square peg into a round hole, too, because the speedy 
 scenarios don't fit the ponderous underlying game design. The Stronghold series has always been 
 more of an economic simulation than a purely military one, considering its strong city-building 
 flavor. So you can't just whip up barracks and start mass-producing knights and bowmen. Instead, 
 you have to build mines and lumberyards to gather the ore and wood needed for weapons, along with 
 farms to produce the cows needed for leather. Then you have to build armories, fletchers' huts, 
 and tanneries. After that, you have to make swords, bows, leather armor, and the like. Finally, 
 you can order troops into production... if you've got enough manpower by way of your peasant population. 
 If not, you need to take a moment to toss up some hovels. After all of this, you can build an army. 
 Or at least you would have been able to build an army if the bad guys hadn't already burned your 
 keep to the ground.  

           Visuals just like 2002 used to make.      

  Other aspects of the game don't fit with 2008. There is an online matching service, but it's hosted 
 through the rather clunky GameSpy Arcade system, and some sort of conflict or bug with our initial 
 install left us without the icon needed to activate this option on the multiplayer screen. The 
 isometric visuals of the six-year-old original haven't been enhanced at all, so you're stuck with 
 pixelated units and a maximum resolution of 1024x768 that stretches the display to the point of 
 blurriness on a widescreen monitor. Not that there's much detail here to blur. Units look like 
 scrambling insects that convulse their way across the bland, blocky landscape. Audio is just as 
 dated. The music is a repetitive martial loop, battles are loaded with tinny metal clashes, and 
 order acknowledgements are repetitive exclamations as bombastic and dumb as something you might 
 hear during the dinner show at Medieval Times.  

  Only someone who has just stepped out of a time machine will have much patience for Stronghold 
 Crusader Extreme. Aged, formulaic, and spectacularly difficult, the game isn't remotely appealing 
 to a modern RTS audience.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously stated that there is no online matching service when in 
 fact GameSpy Arcade support is available. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  What happend to Firefly? They've made one of the best, grade A castle-sim RTS games to this date, 
 first with the original stronghold, then stronghold crusader. Then it started going downhill with 
 the sequel and later on the "Legends" where they blew it all to bits with dragons and magic. Now 
 it apparently seems like Firefly in cooperation with Gamecock studios have released a new version 
 of the crusader edition, only that this time it includes an "extreme" mode. Let me start out with 
 that: You, your friends and your opponents all start out with the standard resources, except you 
 got 3 uncontrollable arabian mercenary camps that will spew out free swordsmen, bowmen and stoneslingers 
 like no tomorrow. Apart from that, a "new" feature has been added in the form of "oh-hoo-bloody-ray" 
 special abillities. These abillities range from instantly spawning 20 spearmen or 20 macemen at 
 your base to bombarding your enemy with either an instantenous cheap volley of arrows, to the even 
 more grossly overpowered volley of rocks which will a small area with roughly 100 trebuchet shots, 
 completely annihilating everything within.
  This makes all matches incredibly easy/short as the A. I will just use their standard tactics, and 
 then once in a while use the 600 arab units to do a braindead unsupported storm headon at your 
 base. And all you need to do is build some towers, place all your archers in these towers, then 
 let them take out everything dumb enough to come at you, while you hurl stones at the enemys base.
 
  The graphics and sound are unbeliveably still the same, which are at this point of gaming history 
 completely unacceptable due to you'd at least expect some 3D rendering in the gameplay.
  
  Overall you can definitely feel that Firefly are drawing their final breaths as they think they 
 can release a 7 year old cake with a new salty icing. They don't need new icing, they need help 
 before our beloved Stronghold is destroyed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahzulfi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  I have been Stronghold fan since its first release and this is my first review as i saw its rating 
 is going down.
  
  Its truly an extreme game for extreme gamers, when i played it for the first time, i was thinking 
 the same as most of the people did "Tooo Much Difficult and Comp Friendly" but when i tried the 
 second time, i became fan of it, newly introduced tools are really amazing, you can chop your opponents 
 head even if you don't have a single soldier :p . first StrongHold Crusader then StrongHold Crusader 
 Extreme, i really enjoy these games.
  
  I was really shocked when i got attack with 100s of "Slinglers" and i closed the game, but when 
 i tried second time, i was really amazed to use the tools and then offcourse "Muahahahahaha" 
 
  
  Please try this game for at least 5 times, once you get used to the tools , you will really enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_kell411
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  We all remember when the first Stronghold came out, with its revolutionary castle sim based play. 
 When Crusader came out, it got even better with the ability of multiple lords on single maps. Crusader 
 was all in all an excellent game, well worthy of a 9 or better. It is this commonly known fact 
 that led Firefly Studios to produce a second, Extreme Crusader.
  
  Sure we all remember and like the first Crusader, and sure we'll all play it now and again, but 
 rehashing it in such a generic form is a mistake. If anything, I think Firefly Studios should have 
 taken the first Crusader... upgraded it to modern graphics like Age of Empires 3, and then released 
 it to the public with a new set of campaigns. However, they chose to release it with all the old 
 graphics. As a result, it looks dismal when compared to the games being released alongside it.
 
  
  Firefly also amped up the unit numbers. Now, instead of using a few archers to attempt to stem 
 an army of swordsmen... you're using an army of archers to attempt to stem an entire civilization 
 worth of swordsmen. Stronghold was always good, but when you put that many units marching in ranks 
 together, the graphical result looks quite silly, as if the troops were cut out of paper. The new 
 Crusader campaign takes an extraordinary amount of work to beat as well. Instead of having a few 
 minutes of spare time in which to get your economy up and running, you're faced with entire invasion 
 forces a minute into the gameplay. My first match in Extreme led to defeat in the first few minutes. 
 I was so used to the old Crusader that I though it'd be alright just to start building my town... get 
 up some Orchards for some food, then put up some stone quarries to build a barracks and some walls... but 
 instead I was beaten halfway through putting a hovel up.
  
  So why did I give it a 7? I suppose Stronghold Crusader is a great and deserving game, so it deserves 
 nothing less than a decent score. But the game is aged, and I'd sincerely like to see a version 
 with new graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madsatch
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  How a game reviewer thought this was extremely hard I would like to know. After reading the review, 
 I was looking forward to the challenge. I hadn't played Crusaders in ages and still was able to 
 get past the first few stages with little difficulty. I had more difficulty with the first Crusader 
 trail. The extreme charge ups (?) make the game too easy. I haven't had them used on me though. 
 Would have been nice to have some new units, especially for $30. They should have stayed along 
 this line instead of going on to abysmal Stronghold 2. Could use more of a castle building feel- 
 not just instant walls and towers. "Try Harder". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kzoneoo1
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  I downloaded and looked at the demo, as per gamespot the graphics are beyond terrible, they are 
 down right gaudy!! Wide screen is garbage. Then there is the "C" word - clutter! clutter! clutter! 
 To rate this above 5 u got to be brain dead or still playing on your pentium 3
  
  Especially that idiot who rated it a 9
  
  And speaking of brain dead, what was firefly thinking? 
 Trying to milk the last drop? Did their execs sit around the table saying how good this was going 
 to be? or was it, lets suck em in for a few more dollars without any effort on our part. They new 
 this was garbage before the release but went aheasd anyways, sorry can't trust them anymore.
  
  
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhoDaZZ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Quite easy game for players with decent skills, and those who actually played it for more than 
 a few hours. "Diehard" players/fans should have no problems, but it is unfortunate at that point 
 that the multiplayer system still is that bad.
  
  Actually all you need is to keep a constant flow of gold while keeping your peasants happy (again 
 there is no certain formula for your building and production path, so don't think at first you 
 have to do the obvious with getting farms, woodcutters, mills and bakeries, barracks and armoury, 
 weapon and armour makers etc.) . Instead I actually differentiated and ADAPTED in the situations 
 like an RTS player, even the stupidest, do. So for example in the second mission I survived by 
 keeping a good offensive defensive (keep expanding walls and towers with archers) , and of course 
 those were Arabic as they only cost gold and not anything besides that.
  
  All in all, much the same as Stronghold Crusader with a few more features and powers, and the missions 
 got a "pimp". That way, it works but it still is a dated gameplay and gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XRedRavenX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say this, it's called "Crusader Extreme" and it definitely does deliver on the 
 extreme part. It's not a new game and they never marketed as one, it's an expansion pack. I love 
 Crusader and have been waiting a long time for this release. They just released the original game 
 with a bonus pack, yea so what. How do you make a perfect game better? I think the extreme pack 
 was a great add on and it did fill a hole that was missing in the original game. No one likes to 
 hear "your army is at its maximum size".
  
  It's to fast pace, I can't build a castle! That's why it's called Extreme if you can't handle it 
 play crusader it's included in the game pack. Hard core player will love this expansion pack and 
 crusader junkies will get their much-needed fix. I finished the trail in three days and found it 
 to be a good expansion pack for crusader. I will be playing this one for some time to come. 
  
  More AI's would have made it better and AI editor would have been cool but it's still a very 
 good expansion pack all in all. The 30 dollars price tag is a little high, wait for the price to 
 drop some. But if you have never played crusader get it now as older copies are going for around 
 20 $ on ebay. It will take you some time to learn the original game.
  
  Hopefully this will bring some much need light to one of the greatest games of all time. And maybe 
 will see a crusader 2 in the future. 
  
  One more thing..... Wood needed : )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfitz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold Crusader, the predecessor to the contemporary title, "Stronghold Crusader Extreme", 
 was a fabulous RTS game that immersed players into the intrigues and grittiness of medieval castle 
 life and warfare; the game had some setbacks, such as the limitation of building small siege forces, 
 but also the lack of some game options which Stronghold Crusader Extreme brings to the fore.
  
  The new game is by far, way harder and intense than its preceding brethren; the extreme version 
 of the game does introduce multiple new characters that one can battle in skirmishes and in the 
 campaign, adding more re-playability than before. The game does, however, tend to be too difficult 
 at times when confronting the likes of the "Wolf" or Emperor Frederick; the speed by which they 
 build and attack your stronghold is supernaturally awing. Therefore, hardcore, seasoned veterans 
 of the Stronghold series will fully appreciate the increase in difficulty of the game, while baby 
 faced virgin players to the expansion will face immense difficulty and frustration.
  
  Moreover, Stronghold Crusader Extreme does not introduce any new soldier classes or building structers 
 in any shape or form; the game simply exemplifies the older version with overly induced swarms 
 of soldiers and perks that speed the game up by way of ones growing kingdom power, so to speak; 
 these perks are: gaining a few thousand gold, squad of maceman, spearmen, or knights, arrow barrage, 
 and the like. These perks certainly add to the essence of the previous version of the game, but 
 it simply does not add enough features for me to recommend this game; one really nice addition 
 is a large inducement of many new maps, which trully is a welcome touch.
  
  Nonetheless, Stronghold Crusader Extreme certainly does fulfill its implication of metamorphosing 
 the older Stronghold Crusader game with new extreme additions and perks, which only the true Stronghold 
 Crusader fans, zealous fanatics, and veterans will fully come to appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunyu19
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I am not sure whether it is only in my game or not....
  
  I just begin a NEW custom mission with only one A. I. opponent, I only have arround 50 woods / 40 
 stones and start to gather resources by building Wood Cutters, Stone Mine.... it is just right 
 after I collect the first bunch of resource, the A. I. opponent begin its MASS attack, with series 
 of FULL ARMOR armys on Horse, How come ? Where did they come from? I do find a Barrack near my 
 land, but it only produce infantry and catapult, but why the A. I. team has FULL ARMOR in such early 
 stage?
  
  The menu for building structures are poorly arranged, only have a limited buildings to choice from...... and 
 the resources are not stated on the screen make me hard to check whether I have enough resources 
 or not.....
  
  The interface is not user friendly enough........ it is not better than Stronghold 1 at all, what 
 do the developer doing in these few years ??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastorione
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  If you're the type of person that regularly goes back to some of your classic titles now and then, 
 this game is for you. It will be you your defacto crusader fix and more. Extreme mode is pretty 
 intense and can be daunting at first, but after a few games you'll get used to it. If you want 
 to take a break, it has the regular campaign as well.
  
  Some may say that $30 is a bit much for a few new features, and I'm sure you can find the original 
 stronghold crusader in bargain bins for 10$ or less. But I enjoyed Stronghold and Stronghold crusader 
 and want to support their future titles. Its a small price to pay considering it only costs half 
 of new pc games. If it gives firefly a jump start in the right direction then so be it.
  
  All in all if you liked stronghold crusader you should be able to enjoy this as well. If you're 
 new and wanna try it out, I suggest you find the original crusader in a bargain bin, that would 
 be your best bet. It has a pretty classic settlers formula with a lot more action.
  
  Graphics 7 its an old game but 2d graphics don't age as fast
  Sound 8 I really enjoyed the voice 
 acting and music
  Gameplay 10 love this stuff
  value 5 so so
  Tilt 8 Same + few new features, Whats not to like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyflier
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved Stronghold Crusader when it came out and played it for hours - even reinstalling it from 
 time to time. I never got bored with it, and the Crusader Trail was always challenging toward the 
 end. 
  
  Stronghold Crusader Extreme takes the classic game and quickens the pace to an almost unplayable 
 level. There is very little time to build up defenses or establish an economy to overtake your 
 opponent. Everything happens very quickly and you're left with with the impression that you should 
 have been clicking on different icons more efficiently. There was very little time to create a 
 strategy - you just build as fast as you can and attack.
  
  The great thing about Stronghold Crusader Extreme is that is also contains the original Stronghold 
 Crusader - which will remain one of my favorite games of all time.
  
  Sometimes, you just can't improve on a true classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  One thing Up front... I like Stronghold and Crusader. Now... with that said... Crusader Extreme is 
 for those of us that have been clamoring for a "harder" version of the old Stronghold/Crusader 
 game. Not Stronghold II (which really sucks...) but of the original version.
  
  Now, the scenarios are a helluva lot tougher and the armies are massive. A few nifty features were 
 added and the AI does take better imitative... but that's it. Which is enough for me... but not at 
 $30. And frankly... they really need tp fix and add a feature to the editor. You have to manually 
 add new scenarios from the editor to the Custom listing... and they need to add back the support 
 (ie money, supplies, triggers etc ) feature. And damn it... add back in THE SANDBOX!
  
  Yes I gave it an 8 because it's the same Crusader game. It's still the a great Castle sim. It just 
 need some fixes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  One thing Up front... I like Stronghold and Crusader. Now... with that said... Crusader Extreme is 
 for those of us that have been clamoring for a "harder" version of the old Stronghold/Crusader 
 game. Not Stronghold II (which really sucks...) but of the original version.
  
  Now, the scenarios are a helluva lot tougher and the armies are massive. A few nifty features were 
 added and the AI does take better imitative... but that's it. Which is enough for me... but not at 
 $30. And frankly... they really need tp fix and add a feature to the editor. You have to manually 
 add new scenarios from the editor to the Custom listing... and they need to add back the support 
 (ie money, supplies, triggers etc ) feature. And damn it... add back in THE SANDBOX!
  
  Yes I gave it an 8 because it's the same Crusader game. It's still the a great Castle sim. It just 
 need some fixes.
  
  I see a patch coming...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Stronghold was great
  Crusader was great
  Stronghold 2 was bad
  Legends was rediculous
  Crusader extreme was... Crusader
  
  The main problem is that theres nothing new here. No new 
 units, graphics, buildings, tactics, sounds or anythng. One thing is new, the superpowers. They 
 are silly and unbalanced and do NOT enchant your castle-building experiense at all. Also the enemy 
 uses a lot more units so it looks a bit more messy.
  
  They didnt even fix the problems of the original before releasing the same game once more. You 
 still need to click every unit to recuit the hundreds of pikemen needed to storm the enemies on 
 a multi-enemy map, creating siegewepons is still a real chore, some units are never used etc. And 
 do stone have to be the main income in EVERY map?
  
  The game seems a bit bigger in general, more units, more gold. But this isnt at all more fun, or 
 more challanging or more strategic.
  
  This game would be ok as a fan-made add-on pack (for free) . As a retail game, this is just silly. 
 6 years for this? Man, are you kidding me?
  Erik 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
