-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stronghold Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/strongholdlegends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting concept blends medieval history with fantasy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 All three armies are almost identical.
 Mission design is overly linear and less than imaginative.
 Numerous AI problems.
 Dark, dull visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 5.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 495 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 23, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Say good-bye to the historical authenticity of Strongholds past and hello to one generic, seriously 
 flawed fantasy RTS. 

  It's gotten to the point that you don't know what you're going to get when you open the box of 
 a new Stronghold game. The castle-building franchise from Hartford's Firefly Studios has gone through 
 some significant changes over the past two years, but the latest version throws the whole formula 
 out the window. Stronghold Legends moves the series out of the history books and into D&amp; D-styled 
 real-time strategy territory with mythical heroes, dragons, and dwarves. Yet while this is admittedly 
 a nifty idea, the switch from reality to fantasy kills the historical authenticity that has long 
 been a trademark of the Stronghold line. Even worse, everything seems to have been crowbarred into 
 the aged Stronghold 2 engine, resulting in a generic RTS that has more than a few serious technical 
 and design issues.  

          Giant-sized opponents and giant-sized problems.     

  The actual gameplay in Stronghold has little to do with the earlier games in the franchise. Here, 
 instead of building a castle and getting knee-deep into the nitty-gritty of what it was like to 
 live during the Middle Ages, you sign up for three campaigns out of medieval mythology. In the 
 opener, you take on the role of King Arthur, battling against the Saxons for control of Britain. 
 In the others, you play as Siegfried, the German dragon slayer and star of a Wagnerian opera, and 
 Vlad the Impaler, the Transylvanian Turk-killer best known today as the bloody inspiration for 
 Dracula.  

  But nothing of interest has been done to develop these storylines or settings. Buildings follow 
 the RTS template and feature barracks, armories, granaries, and so forth. Resource gathering goes 
 beyond the usual food, wood, and stone, but it does so by adding an annoying level of micromanagement 
 to what should be a straightforward grind of building armies and attacking the bad guys. A game 
 this simplistic probably shouldn't demand the collection and processing of any resources, as mission 
 objectives always involve straightforward building armies and killing enemies.  

  All of the soldiers featured in each faction are virtually identical. There is little difference 
 here whether you're fighting on behalf of the evil forces of Dracula or the noble knights of King 
 Arthur. Also, since the units themselves are generic, the gee-whiz factor of getting to play Count 
 Blah and his evil minions in an RTS fades quickly. You get little aside from the same old pikemen, 
 archers, crossbowmen, and swordsmen. There is only so much that a developer can do with a medieval 
 setting, of course, but no effort was made to provide significantly different troops to represent 
 the nationalities and time periods represented. A millennium passed between the King Arthur campaign 
 of the mid-400s and the Vlad campaign of the mid-15th century. You would think that more than the 
 color of the shirts would have changed during that time.  

  At least the three sides vary quite a bit when it comes to the menageries of mythological beasties 
 that they can throw into battle. Heroes like Arthur, Merlin, Siegfried, and Vlad have special powers 
 that give them the ability to pull off feats like casting spells, knocking down walls, and summoning 
 magical creatures. In the Arthur scenarios, you have access to heroic knights and wizards straight 
 out of Malory; in the Siegfried ones, you deal with figures out of Norse legend such as frost giants; 
 and in the Dracula missions, you get to play with Halloween refugees like creepers and werewolves. 
 All of the units fit perfectly into their settings and make the game feel like a collection of 
 folktales come to life.  

  Yet while these beasties add color to Stronghold Legends, and some cool moments like giants stomping 
 pesky soldiers with their feet and Merlin blasting archers with lightning bolts, they don't do 
 much for gameplay. For starters, most are underpowered. Dragons, for instance, are second-rate 
 compared to Tolkien's Smaug and can be taken out by well-placed archers. Giants can be ganged up 
 on by regular infantry grunts like pikemen and felled quicker than you can say fee-fi-fo-fum. And 
 just breathing on the frail Merlin seems to kill him. More play testing was also needed to root 
 out some big problems with mission design and artificial intelligence. Most missions are laid out 
 in an extremely linear fashion. You start at point A and kill everything until you reach point 
 B, you defend a fortress until the clock runs out, and so on. But lack of imagination is the least 
 of the game's issues. Enemy troops often continue patrolling mindlessly and actually ignore huge 
 columns of your soldiers even after you've just smashed down or climbed a castle wall. They often 
 don't react to crossbowmen or archers firing away at them, either, and sometimes choose to walk 
 away from battles or abandon sieges. The narrator who provides tips on enemy attacks frequently 
 comes out with lines like, "Woodsmen have seen a band of enemy troops heading this way!" right 
 before they turn around and head back home. The game was obviously shipped without a fully functioning 
 AI.  

  It also wasn't shipped with a modern graphics engine. Stronghold Legends looks like it was made 
 with the same dated 3D technology that powered Stronghold 2, which unfortunately means that it 
 looks like it was released around 2002. Visuals are drab and dingy overall, with blocky castles, 
 dull building styles with little in the way of convincing detail, and terribly animated units that 
 wobble back and forth when they run, like packs of chain-mail-clad Fat Alberts. Because there is 
 no collision detection, battles between human armies immediately degenerate into undulating, colored 
 blobs with no way to tell what's going on or who's winning.  

  Audio quality is a bit better, thanks to suitably cheesy voice acting during scenarios and soldiers' 
 shouts during charges that really get the blood moving. Lines are repeated way too often, though, 
 and frequently misstate what's actually going on. Once per mission, you'll usually hear something 
 completely incongruous such as, "The enemy's ladders are on the walls!" even though you're not 
 actually defending any walls at the time.  

          Misty morning, clouds in the sky. Without warning, a wizard walks by. And blasts a bunch 
 of Saxons to bits.     

  And even though Firefly should know its way around this engine by now, there are some serious bugs 
 here. Crashes to the desktop are an infrequent occurrence, but the big problem is that units rarely 
 respond properly to commands. They run by targeted enemies and often turn their backs on foes, 
 giving them a free shot or two at you while you slowly rotate around to attack. Mass attacks directed 
 at specific baddies always result in some units attacking and many others just standing around 
 cooling their heels. It's best not to attack directly at all, as you're more likely to get everyone 
 in on the action if you move close to the enemy and let the AI take over from there. Installing 
 the version 1.10 patch didn't seem to rectify any of these issues, either.  

  There are some appealing alternatives to the campaigns, although considering all the gameplay problems 
 and bugs, it's hard to contemplate why anyone would want to bother with them. Still, the three 
 Legends Trails sets of linked skirmish maps is an intriguing idea that plays like a trio of solo 
 ladders. Custom skirmishes with up to four players can also be played, both online and off. There 
 does seem to be a fair number of people looking for matches online, too, so you can find games 
 pretty easily. And a map editor is also included for players who want to roll their own skirmish 
 scenarios.  

  The developers were obviously going for a  moment here 
 by throwing D&amp; D into their medieval simulation series, but Stronghold Legends is just another 
 second-rate RTS. While incorporating giants and dragons into the mix may seem like a natural fit 
 these days, as any game with castle walls in it seems to demand the addition of Tolkienesque beasties 
 to knock them down, you've got to do more than just toss such creatures in with generic armies 
 and buggy gameplay. This is an interesting concept that deserved more careful attention than the 
 designers gave it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: electro814
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  I got this game about 2 years ago around christmas i got it becaude it looked awsome and i also 
 love strategy games. At first you will be like ah what to do but you will get the hang of it after 
 a will and when you do you will be like build your buildings and build your army really fast and 
 ATTACK! like that, the buildings are easy enough all u need to place is your stockpile for your 
 wood, stone, iron and so on and your granery for food for your peasant so they don't strave, just 
 place 2 woodcamps,2 stone quarys, mybe 2 iron quarys. Then place 2 apple farms,2 cheese farms and 
 2 meat farms, the armory, barracks and then build couple of blacksmiths to make weapons and all 
 that, don't forget to place peasant huts. Its easier then it sounds ha., just keep attacking enemy 
 with your army and defened your castle, the skirmish mode against the computer is quite easy enough 
 and the campign is good too a bit hard but easy anough and the map maker is goos too. the grafhics 
 i think are good enough better then stronghold 2, the maps a very big sometimes and then they could 
 be very small, there are 3 people u can play as evil, frost or the good side, they have all different 
 buildings and the special units are different too, you can play as evil they have mordred and someone 
 else i can't remember who, and frost have fredred and someone else, and the good side have king 
 aurther and lancerlot i think i can't remeber haha. overall the game is very good easy enough play 
 if your starting to play strategy games and its very addicting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaugita
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold Legends is one of the games in the Stronghold series. This one, unlike the past Stronghold 
 games is fictional. The story is based on that of King Arthur. In the game, there are 3 factions 
 you can play as. The first is Arthur. The Arthur faction is obviously commanded by Arthur. The 
 second faction is Evil. The Evil faction is commanded by Vlad the Conqueror. The third faction 
 is Ice. I believe that the ice faction is commanded by Siegfried, but I'm not really sure. Now 
 each faction has a handful of units that they all share. Those units including basic things like 
 knights, archers, men at arms, and different types of siege weapons. Each faction also has unique 
 units. Thats where the game goes bad. Arthurs unique units happen to all be heroes. The heroes 
 that Arthur has are: Lancelot, Bedivere, Percival, Galahad, Gareth, Gawain, Merlin, and the Green 
 Dragon. The Knights of the Round Table aren't very outstanding combatants, but each one of them 
 has a special power they can use on the battlefield. Lancelot uses Sword of Albion to beef up friendly 
 units. Bedivere's Horn of Camelot can destroy enemy walls. Percival's Holy Blast attacks enemies 
 with an energy blast. Galahad's Healing Angel heals friendly troops. Gareth's Eye of Truth uncovers 
 hidden enemy traps. Gawain's Heavenly Shield protects the selected units from arrows or any other 
 missile type attack. Merlin's Dragon's Breath is a powerful magic attack. The Green Dragon is just 
 really beastly although it has a time limit. The Ice faction is ridiculously overpowered. They 
 have giants. Freaking giants! You could just leave it at that and they'd probably still win, but 
 no they have to have all sorts of crap. They also have white wolves. Those aren't very powerful, 
 but they are speedy. They also have white witches. Those are incredibly good. They are basically 
 flying archers. The only way you can hit them is to either use archers, crossbowmen, or kamikaze 
 bats which I will explain later. The Ice faction also uses armored polar bears. They are slow but 
 very strong. Valkyries are another unit available to the ice faction. Basically the valkyries are 
 swordsmen, but better. Not to mention that they are easily mistaken for a man. Yes the valkyries 
 are women. The Ice Queen is one of the heroes that the Ice faction uses. She is basically the ice 
 version of Merlin. Then there's the poisonous dwarves. They have the ability to release poison 
 to damage opposing units and they have the ability to attack walls. The Ice Dragon is another hero 
 of the Ice faction. Its pretty much the same as the Green Dragon, but blue. Then we have the unique 
 units of the Evil faction. The first unique unit are vampiric creepers. These can be a nuisance 
 because they are impervious to arrows, can climb walls, and can take control of opposing units. 
 Then there are werewolves. Nothing really special about them. Then we have the werewolf launcher. 
 Basically a catapult for firing werewolves. Then there are the giant demonic bats. These bats fly 
 into battle and go kamikaze by exploding. Then we have fiery imps. They are not particularly strong 
 in combat, but they leave a trail of fire wherever they go. They can scale walls also. Then there's 
 hellhounds. Basically the same as white wolves. Then there are Saxon warriors. They basically regular 
 combatants. Then the last one is the Evil Dragon. He is exactly the same as the other two dragons. 
 The Campaign of this game doesn't possess a great storyline. If you are doing skirmish, it's simply: 
 if you pick Ice, you will win. If you lose while playing as Ice, you're a crappy RTS player. There 
 aren't any exceedingly fun modes on the game. They have skirmish, campaign, and this one campaign 
 trail thing where you basically just fight a continuous stream of battles. The online kind of sucks 
 too because most people dont play the game anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker2117
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  my brother and I bought this because we liked Stronghold: Crusader and hoped that this would be 
 better than Stronghold 2 because of the new and better units. It wasn't bad, it wasn't good. The 
 gameplay is a bit too linear for my taste in the campaign mode. In the linked battles, I disliked 
 the fact that your enemies actually start with fully built castles. This makes it easy for them 
 to pick you off early game without you able to do anything back. The popularity thing is back to 
 the good old style, with only 4 major contributions to it, instead of that 8 way system in stronghold 
 2 that prevented you from actually doing anything else but make peasants happy. The normal units 
 aren't bad, and the myth units are interesting. The Evil side has some cool units such as werewolves, 
 and separate siege equipment that allows you to toss them over walls. King Arthur has knights that 
 have some nice powers, but you can only summon one of each. The ice side also have some cool units 
 like giants to batter down walls. Each side can get a dragon, which helps for big sieges, but they 
 can be quickly killed by archers and have a short range of fire. The siege equipment and traps 
 are too unequal on each side in my opinion. I wouldn't buy it at full price, but rent it, borrow 
 it, or get it from a bargain bin to play occasionally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I loved the orignal stronghold. Everyone remembers the first episode of Stronghold. A not well-known 
 company created an amazing game. When I heard they were making a sequel I was so pumped. stronghold 
 2 was not very good or very bad (my score:7.5) . Well this game is not better than it's predecessor 
 Stronghold 2.
  The graphics are okay. There is still room for improvements. In fact, it hasn't actually come too 
 far from the original Stronghold here. Camera and zooming level is ok, but the ground textures and 
 trees are not the best I've seen.
  The background music is soft and slow. The in-game sounds are okay, while the voice acting is good. 
 There aren't too many voices though.
  It has some new features including 3 campaign trails, new units, and a new market setup which allows 
 you to autobuy/autosell resources. 
  the worst part of this game is that it isn't fun. I have tried to force myself to play it long 
 enough to get into it, but after a few days.......
  This game will bore any fan of the series, since it has the saem repetitve style as Stronghold 
 2, just no more gong or crime. If you think the story of the game will make you sit days to complete 
 the missions, you're wrong.
  overall If you got bored with stronghold 2 Then don't get stronghold legends since you will get 
 bored by it soon aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manoflesh
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  The game has multiple AI to choose from, including Dietrich and King Arthur, both from the legends 
 of the world. The game can be a little frustrating because since the AI is so offensive, they use 
 their mystical creatures way too much, but it is great because the last games that they created 
 they built the Ai to where they just stood there and did not siege until quite a while, but when 
 they did, they attack in small, constant forces. Although, so does this game, but attacks in heavy 
 force other then small force. I would recommend the game to anyone who has a hand on the strategy 
 based type where you have to build, train, and attack as often as you can. Since the first game 
 that Firefly has made, they have improved their compositions to step up to a greater force than 
 sticking with regular, boring style. The game is great, and I think that they took it seriously, 
 so I give them a good shot at it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameplace
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Like i've said before, it ain't bad but it has it's problems:
  
  It doesn't add nothing new to the series (only new factions and new maps) ;
  
  When a character 
 speaks, the subtitles vanish right away;
  
  And Game spot is right - there are almost no difference between the factions, i mean, how can Vlad, 
 the evil lord can recruit knights "that fight for justice";
  
  The evil bats are overpowered, they should've been more vulnerable;
  
  You can't build in other 
 regions - how the hell can we defend our territories if we can't build in them!?
  
  And finally the knights. For example, we have two knights, if the horse of one of them dies the 
 other one (still mounted) walks at the same pace of the other (without the horse) That means that 
 if we're charging against the enemy and suddenly the horse of one of them falls - frustration
 
  
  Final Conclusions:
  
  Rent it. Period.
  Unless you really really really really liked the demo and are prepared to get frustrated, (or the 
 game is being sold cheaply :) ) go ahead, buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xqmxqm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I have played this game through and must say this game is not a bad one just as gamespot has said. 
 The most interesting features in former Stronghold series have remained in this one and many new 
 features have been added. I like dragons, vampires and demons. Someone says they upset their feeling 
 about the old Stronghold series and argues Legends should have just sitten tight with the tradition. 
 I disagree; game developers should always seek for improvements for their works and some more intense 
 RTS features actually make Stronghold more funny. In my opinion, Stronghold II, the one most loyally 
 sticking to strongholds tradition, is the biggest failure in this series. Legends plays smoothly 
 and intensely, I think it has found the balance between a generic RTS and a castle-building simulating 
 game. I like it and recommend it to both RTS players and simulating gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy_nintendo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost it has it's bugs. Depending on your tastes and whether your a fan of the series 
 should dictate whether or not you should buy this game. It has some new features including 3 campaign 
 trails, new units, and a new market setup which allows you to autobuy/autosell resources. This 
 is a welcome addition that really grants you more time to focus on other events. The new units 
 vary depending on your alignment, which you choose before the mission begins (excluding campaign) . 
 Good=King Arthur and you get Merlin and the rest of the knights of the round. These units are expensive 
 and not much different from regualar troops but have unique abilities. aka spells Neutral=ice queen (not 
 even going to try to spell it) She can get witches, polar bears, Ice giants, and so on. Finally 
 Evil= evil has the most firepower. The most useful units are evil (yeah i said it) their is one 
 particular baddy that can convert enemy soldiers to the cause and are essentially impervious to 
 arrows but fall easily to sword. Case and point, player stacks tower with 30 archers 30 crossbowmen, 
 creature climbs wall, oh yeah it also climbs walls, converts archers and then you rain death down 
 on the enemy from their own tower. The major flaws is having way to much crap in one game. Unlike 
 other industries who say, this aspect was good, this one wasn't, let's remove it stronghold doesn't. 
 So the honor system, estates, popularity ALL OF IT is still there. This bogs down the game and 
 depending on the player may take the fun out of this game. If only the industry stand point was 
 ok it would be fine. However, if both the battle system and the industry is ok, here's where things 
 get dissappointing. Battles look like two little or two big blobs meshing with no way to tell who's 
 winning or who's losing. They did remove the merc camp but added the special units so really... they 
 just kinda nulled each other. Essentially the best feature related to combat is the limit counter. 
 If you have 30 bows in the armory and 30 available population you simply click the barracks move 
 the counter to 30 and presto 30 archers. That mean's no more useless  
 understand. Overall it's not a bad game but it's not SPECTACULAR like the first stronghold. Still, 
 if your a fan of castle sims pick it up off the discount bin, or find a friend who bought it for 
 full price. P. S. (have no idea what that means) if youv'e never played the original stronghold go 
 find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Stronghold legends is a good game that treads on the footsteps of the original Stronghold. You 
 can go for this if you want some mystic base to it.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics are okay. There is still room for improvements. In fact, it hasn't actually come too 
 far from the original Stronghold here. The zoom option is much better here and so are the camera 
 angles.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The background music is soft and slow. The in-game sounds are okay, while the voice acting is good. 
 There aren't too many voices though.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  There's nothing so different from Stronghold. The gameplay is exactly the same as Stronghold. There 
 are many similair units too, that are similair right to the appearance. There is no significant 
 change in the activity of base units and buildings. Some unique features do exist, like the Round 
 Table, Sorceror's Tower, etc and there are some good units like the dragon.
  The Storyline is somewhat incoherent. The interface is neat and the modes of play are plus point 
 here.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  Fans of this series, watch out. Don't expect something very different here. Those who have played 
 all the other games in the series will find this an old gift in a new cover. Others might check 
 this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriscool67
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... very dissapointing y did it not just stick to its roots as a cool historical strategy game 
 with primitive weaponry and machines that u will have to use ur mind to take advantages of the 
 unique soldiers abilities. I have played all of the previous games and this is by far the worst. 
 While fantasy isnt that bad if it is made in a new game, stronghold went from a cool historical 
 strategy game that was fun to play and watch the story play out, to a abysmal piece of fantasy crap 
 that has very little to do with the previous games while still having the same stronghold title. 
 The only thing really similair are the troops and some of the building styles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan2214
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun and addictive i have had hours of fun playing it and sometimes i just 
 can't stop playing it.
  
  To start with this game is very like stronghold crusader in game play and game modes. It has a 
 greater focus on warfare than sim but the sim is still there and plays a large part in the fun 
 and depth of the game. It also keep this unick and a stronghold game. There are some building taken 
 out from stronghold 2 but you can still get all the buildings from crusader and some more so there 
 is still alot of buildings in there. The only things that arn't in there from crusader are flowers 
 and gallows and stuff like that. But the honour system is still there and also there is a new glory 
 point system where you get glory point for fighting in hand to hand combat. You can use glory points 
 to build statues which create honour. In this game there is 100% new seige equipment and castle 
 traps ranging from werewolf lauchers to tunnel systems which make the combat and castle sieges 
 way more fun. There are three different race evil, ice and arther which add a host of new tactics 
 to the game ice is my favourite side at the moment with the ice witch. There is a huge array of 
 things to do on single player mode including 3 campains for each race which are very enjoyable, 
 legends trials where you complete a series of missions against enamy lords castle which gets increasingly 
 dificult. There is also a great skirmish mode where you can play up to 3 computer controled side 
 which is amazingly fun and the al is very good and is the best yet in any stronghold game by a 
 lot. there is a custom builder which is easy to use and i have made some great maps with it on 
 the game. There is free build mode if you down loaded the new patch as well.
  
  In the multiplayer game there is so much fun to be had with new game mode such as king of the hill. 
 There is also the regular death match to be played which i usualy play. You also do not have to 
 register or any of that anoying stuff you can just hope on and it will use you name that you use 
 on the game which you can change when ever.
  
  The graffics in this game are much improved so don't lissen to people who say they arn't this game 
 look by far the best in the series and the animasions of the units and castle works are amazing. 
 Units no longer clump together as well but do sometimes walk whough each other which is okay as 
 it stop units and villages geting stuck. There are no bugs as well in this game and online runs 
 like a dream.
  
  The sound is equaly brilliant with all the great stronghold tunes and with new music that fit the 
 theme.
  
  The only things i find anoying is there is no mothers and children runing around the castle which 
 makes it a bit less relistic but then this is a game with dragons in so it isn't ment to be relistic. 
 Also there is no friends list to add people to onine but firefly may add it in with a patch as 
 they have added tones of new content with their latest patch including a reward capinate, lobby 
 for online play and free build mode.
  
  Personly when i picked up this game i was expecting it after the reviews i read to be worse than 
 the other stronghold games but to be honest it is by far the best. What is wrong with perfesional 
 reviewers these days. Pick this game up know i have seen it for 5 pounds in HMV i mean you have 
 no excuse not to get it and it will work on machins which many modern rts woundln't and still looks 
 amazing.
  Thx for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jw707
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I disagry with evry botty else. This game is grate. I give it a 9.8.
  
  Why dos evry botty hate StrongHold Legends?
  
  Message me I want to here what you have to say.
 
  
  I don't want to write any thing else so I will repet this over and over.
  
  
  
  
  I disagry with evry botty else. This game is grate. I give it a 9.8.
  
  Why dos evry botty 
 hate StrongHold Legends?
  
  Message me I want to here what you have to say.
  
  
  
  I disagry with evry botty else. This game is grate. I give it a 9.8.
  
  Why dos evry botty 
 hate StrongHold Legends?
  
  Message me I want to here what you have to say.
  
  
  
  I disagry with evry botty else. This game is grate. I give it a 9.8.
  
  Why dos evry botty 
 hate StrongHold Legends?
  
  Message me I want to here what you have to say.
  
  
  
  
  I disagry with evry botty else. This game is grate. I give it a 9.8.
  
  Why dos evry botty 
 hate StrongHold Legends?
  
  Message me I want to here what you have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnenad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  The game is cool, it's got newer graphical engine so it looks great. It's got three sides to chose 
 from , evil, ice, good. It brings the game to a new level.
  
  My favorite unit of the game is the dragon ! It's great, especially the evil side one! I love it 
 ! Everything below the score of 7 is underrated , i'm giving it the score of 8 because of the easy 
 campaign, they should have made it harder :D i've passed the entire game in 4 days 2 hours of play 
 on medium, it took me 8 days on hard! Stronghold legends game is a fine game that will run on a 
 mediocre machine, i recommend this sequel to all stronghold fans ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eraldi
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok now do you see why you should never buy this game Its sucks ppl i mean it now worth your money.
 
  First Mission design
  
  I just couldn't take it anymore, this game is called STRONGHOLD and it is supposed to be about 
 BUILDING CASTLES and SIEGING CASTLES.
  
  But they have finally done it, they have finally desecrated the whole point of this line of games.
 
  
  NOW, you have vampire wolfs jumping over your walls and coverting archers in huge AOES at about 
 30 seconds into a mission where barely ANY of your economy is setup, and if enough of it is, the 
 wolfs claw every piece of your woodmaking to the ground and your screwed. Talk about a fun mission!!
 
  
  2Next, they have witches (without advance warning) fly into your castle over your hard built walls 
 and these witches procede to snipe your entire economy and populace into ruin. Oh, and if you manage 
 to survive the first time, then next time a duo 15 witch barrage + Invading army double ass-screws 
 you into oblivion.
  
  Basically at that point I uninstalled this insipid abortion of a game. I shouldn't have to play 
 through a mission 3-5 times so I know exactly what is going to happen so I can counter it to stand 
 any chance.
  
  i mean what on earth is this edit: Oh and I remember one last thing, it was nice to try and move 
 merlin to kill a ladderman camping out in the middle of nowhere, and then watch as one single witch 
 killed a full health merlin in about 1.5 seconds. Now THAT is great playtesting firefly. You know 
 after playing this game you will be to late cause you hate it so much that you feel like you want 
 to brake that pc .
  So i know how you feel man i feel you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billbrasky52390
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  First, lets look at why most people do not like this game:
  
  Rehash of stronghold 2
  Rehash crummy graphics (they were outdated when Stronghold 2 came out, now they are just pathetic)
 
  Rehash of sounds
  Ridiculous tier of economy
  Fantasy element is done horribly
  Bugs
  etc. etc.
  
  Now lets look at why I myself hate this game:
  
  Mission design
  
  I just 
 couldn't take it anymore, this game is called STRONGHOLD and it is supposed to be about BUILDING 
 CASTLES and SIEGING CASTLES.
  
  But they have finally done it, they have finally desecrated the whole point of this line of games.
 
  
  NOW, you have vampire wolfs jumping over your walls and coverting archers in huge AOES at about 
 30 seconds into a mission where barely ANY of your economy is setup, and if enough of it is, the 
 wolfs claw every piece of your woodmaking to the ground and your screwed. Talk about a fun mission!!
 
  
  Next, they have witches (without advance warning) fly into your castle over your hard built walls 
 and these witches procede to snipe your entire economy and populace into ruin. Oh, and if you manage 
 to survive the first time, then next time a duo 15 witch barrage + Invading army double ass-screws 
 you into oblivion.
  
  Basically at that point I uninstalled this insipid abortion of a game. I shouldn't have to play 
 through a mission 3-5 times so I know exactly what is going to happen so I can counter it to stand 
 any chance.
  
  I am sick of constant small cheapo armies being sent ridiculously early in the game against my 
 unestablished castle instead of one or two large armies being sent later on to siege my complete 
 castle. Which one is more fun firefly? Which freakin' one you complete desolate idiots?
  
  Wasn't that supposed to be the point of the game? Build a big castle and fight a big siege? Then 
 what the hell is this garbage? Witches 3 minutes into the game? Wolfs immune to archers jumping 
 walls 30 seconds into it?
  
  And it is great to be attacked by such versatile units so early in a game where making units to 
 battle them requires me to teir up through about 10 levels of economy.
  
  wood
  than food
  than stone
  than houses
  than build armory
  than build barracks
  make sure 
 I have enough wood so I can build:
  archer shop
  and poleturner
  wait for archer and poleturner to make something in less than 5 minutes
  
  If by chance after 
 the ai already attacked you, you somehow survived, NOW you can build units. Problem. You need gold 
 and for gold you need happiness, now (while you are getting sieged by cheap ass superunits) it 
 is onto this part of the economy:
  
  Forget the churce it costs 500 gold SO
  First the hops
  then the hops get brewed into keg
  then the inn get the keg and now you can 
 finally tax for a good amount of money
  
  Why go through all that? Why not just build a bunch more things of food and hike the rations up? 
 Then again what is the point to all this when I have no time?
  
  What a sad sorry pathetic excuse! Whoever designed these missions should be shot, I shouldn't have 
 to predict a mission and super-rush my economy to have any chance to be able to enjoy building 
 a castle. To have any semblence of enjoyment for that matter because not many people like playing 
 an RTS full of rushing, especially in single player missions, EXTRA ESPECIALLY when it is about 
 building big bastion castles.
  
  What the hell were you thinking firefly? This game sucks.
  
  *edit: Oh and I remember one last 
 thing, it was nice to try and move merlin to kill a ladderman camping out in the middle of nowhere, 
 and then watch as one single witch killed a full health merlin in about 1.5 seconds. Now THAT is 
 great playtesting firefly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wireman32
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I loved the orignal stronghold. When I heard they were making a sequel I was so pumped. New engine, 
 better gameplay, sounded great. I never really made the jump though, I played the free trial and 
 was like, not bad, I'll pick it up in a few months. Then SH Legends came out and I figured why 
 not get the newest version instead of the older. That my friends, was a big mistake.
  
  This game isn't bad as far as graphics go, pretty standard. Interface is simple, and very similar 
 to previous SH's. Same with the sound, not great, but okay.
  
  But the worst part of this game is that it isn't fun. I have tried to force myself to play it long 
 enough to get into it, but after a few weeks, I have come to a few conclusions:
  
  1. The AI builds things too quickly. It is near impossible to have the same amount of buildings 
 as them at any given point, let alone units. You have to build and build and build units, and hope 
 that they all don't get destroyed by a few of his.
  
  2. ESTATES!!! I hate them. WHY can't you build on an estate you control! Arrrgh. That drives me 
 nuts. Say for instance you have no stone in your province, so you take over the one next to you 
 and now start producing stone to be delivered to you. That part is fine, but you can't build any 
 walls, towers, or even a siege camp to help defend it. Meanwhile the AI is transporting people 
 there and you're left to send mass amounts of troops to defend a poorly defensible area. What a 
 waste of time! Changing this one thing would improve the game so greatly that I might actually 
 be able to condone playing it.
  
  3. Special Units. Playing this game is like playing chess on acid. None of the abilities seem to 
 match up. If the evil side sends dragons or bats, you're screwed. Merlin sits there with his lighting 
 and must attack the dragon 18 strikes before it dies, while the dragon Burninates your entire village. 
 There are dragon harpoons, but as I said before, you can't build them in another province other 
 than your main one. Flying giant bats suicide bomb everything, werewolves and burning demons devour 
 everything else. You have a few knights with special abilities. It would be nice have one whose 
 special ability helps takes out dragons, one who kills bats, a unit that can quench demons burning. 
 Whenever abilites are cancelled out (equal in force) it makes a game so much more fun and logical.
 
  
  In conclusion I think the game is okay, there are just a few things that make it soooo not worth 
 playing. I wish i would have bought SH2 instead. Heck I might just go back to the original stronghold, 
 those missions were way more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrohante3
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The loss of draw bridges fighting inside the keep and the low amount of towers and tower 
 mounted weapons was the biggest disappointment I think. The newer game modes such as king of the 
 hill economy race and stuff like that doesn't even come close to making up 1% of the older stronghold 
 games. The loss of the Dung, Rats, and crime also was a letdown (I liked that in SH2) . The fantasy 
 additions especially the witches (wizards) which are pretty good additions are what made this a 
 4 instead of a 1. Graphics: Not much to say they didn't improve over SH2 graphics I'm starting 
 to think the Fire Fly should have stuck with SH and SHC graphic engines.
  
  Sound: Pretty good sounds lack of battle sounds though
  
  Value: Very low I'm really mad i 
 spent 40$ on it and got all this disappointment
  
  Reviewers Tilt: Just because i like Fire Fly and im hoping they read this and want to change their 
 slowly declining fame i gave it a 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobsterbushcrab
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  well where to start on this game. lets just say it not that great. lets start with the interface 
 it hasn't changes much really but its little easier to use. the graphics haven't change but they 
 do run a little smoother. one major bad thing about this game is the fact that the buildings are 
 even less in numbers then crusader and thats sad. alot of the fun of building a working castle 
 up have gone as the ai gets monster that don't even care bout wall and just climb or fly over them 
 making them useless. the campaign is ok but a little boring and hard. also there is no more peaceful 
 building and if there was you would have everything done in 15 mins as there is little amount to 
 do.
  
  i recommend playing number 2 or even the older one cos this fantasy strong hold sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  First off i don't agree with the o the gameplays bad yotta yotta. Its addicting sure some new units 
 would be nice and the Archers use a longbow with bodkin arrows and can't pierce armor. The new 
 units added are a nice concept. Some bad dialog Vlad is my ally right in skirmish mode his facial 
 expretion is he's scared he says o no I'm under attack or some thing like that the point he said 
 it all casual.
  
  Gameplay: I don't like the campaign because I think its lame and is to dark on my computer. The 
 Skirmish is fun. Seriously 4 players is a little low i preffer 8 players but hey whatever works. 
 It's still additive. Playing as Arthur is ok in skirmish but he just has the Knights merlin and 
 a dragon. Ok you may think yeah dragon cool. If the aren't killed by 10 archers you lose them in 
 like a minute because the have a time limite you can use them. There attack is not what would be 
 expected either. Oh yeah i have not encountered any gliches like troops not responding. I updated 
 the thing and it wroks a ok. The cretures are great. Some new castle tricks and yes Magic. New 
 Siege equipment makes attacking interesting. O yeah your enemies do notice you on mine I had a 
 Man-at-arms (spearman) being chased by some swordsmen they noticed right away. Although the AI somtimes 
 don't react right away they react. Audio: Lame at times bad. Bad dialog on part of the AI. But 
 troops have Chants. I sent maceman men at some enemies and they sang Here we go Here we gooooo! 
 It was funny. Graphics: Don't listen to gamespot the grapihcs are improved. Much not much but improved. 
 On my computer the guys no longer have Packers Cheeseheads for (you guessed it) heads. You troops 
 also have a face (amazing) It not a great face but i can see eyes and a mouth its not burry anymore. 
 The bodies are a little more realistic from were the game got left of. Building look good. So to 
 finish up this game is great if you like Stronghold with old Folklore Creatures and people. GAMESPOT 
 DID NOT GIVE THIS GAME A DECENT RATING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Stronghold Legends bring a new taste to the famous series. Now we are building our castles in a 
 fantasy realm. The realm is Earth, but there are mystical monsters, which are making the world 
 more fantastic.
  
  After the first mission, the most disturbing detail was that the hero is walking so slowly that 
 I got bored in that mission. How could someone walk that slow. Graphics are tasty, but could be 
 better. Camera and zooming level is ok, but the ground textures and trees are not the best I've 
 seen.
  
  So, if you are a fan of Stronghold series, do not miss this game. If you have never played this 
 game, you can pass, because Stronghold 2 is better (because things are real!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Everyone remembers the first episode of Stronghold. A not well-known company created an amazing 
 game followed by a great expansion (Crusader) which made everyone go: Woah! This game is great! 
 
  It's been 5 years since the first Stronghold was released, and here Firefly Studios emerges again 
 to hit another best-seller? Sorry, not at all, even the new fantasy monsters aren't enough to make 
 you buy this game.
  
  Gameplay: If you think the story of the game will make you sit days to complete the missions, you're 
 wrong. A dull story, an extremely buggy gameplay will make you feel bad. Very boring combat makes 
 thing even worse. It is not fun to see clones of armies fighting with each other at all. Building 
 strongholds was one of the exciting things about the Stronghold series, but it is not fun making 
 them in Legends. It will take ages to get everything right in making your stronghold with the snappy 
 buggy build system of Legends. Nothing to be excited here.
  
  Graphics: As stupid as it sounds, I think Stronghold (the original version) had a better graphics 
 than Stronghold Legends! That is true. An unpolished try to make the things 3D with an outdated 
 graphic engine makes this game look terrible at the first sight. Don't be disappointed, but laggy 
 and buggy graphics gameplay ensures you to leave the game after you complete the first mission.
 
  
  Sound: The sounds was ok. It was like the old Stronghold series. Nothing revolutionary, but it 
 was fine.
  
  Value: I think even by spending &pound;17 you can get better games than SH: Legends. There are 
 a number of games with the same price that offer a much better gaming experience. Warhammer 40K: 
 Dark Crusade anyone? I don't want to sniff at this game, but Firefly disappointed us all.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: A poor sequel to a great game. I'm very disappointed at this game. It seems 
 like the developers just wanted to release a game and whether unstable, unpolished, and bugged, 
 it didn't matter to them. It was sad to see a bad ending to one of my favorite game series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addybhai
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, I must say that strongohld legends has pulled off. A great game is back..
  
  The legends is cool. The story line, the concept and overall graphics aren't bad either. There 
 is less economic freedom or campaign part. but what ever is there, is at its best. I was thinking 
 that it will be a failure as ST2. But quite the opposite. At least the Game Play is fun. the dracula 
 creatures, the Ice man and the fairies and the werewolfs are good. There movements, effectivieness 
 in siege and defence at the same time is really attractive. The trail feature is just like crusader 
 and offer great fun. Build up ur economy, prepare ur army and then attack the opponent. Just plan 
 with better graphics than all the old games. The music is not bad either. For Beginners, there 
 will be difficulty to get them selves prepared for siege and stuff. But for die hard fans, its 
 simple and same as before. However, tactful planning is required in all Campaigns missions.
  
  However, i still miss the Battle features (and a bit storyline as well) of the orginal. I suggest 
 that next step from Firefly should be a remake of same old STRONGHOLD with better graphics and 
 new storyline. The rat, the pig and the wolf stilll rule...... Arthur will take time....
  
  ST LEGENDS is MUST BUY for all RTS Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardshael
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the Stronghold series, although I was disenchanted with the technical 
 issues with Stronghold 2 and some of the ideas that didn't quite work with it. With that said, 
 I think Stronghold Legends is what Stronghold 2 should have been. Gameplay: The game plays like 
 every other Stronghold but with the addition of special units. Special units are bought with a 
 new type of commodity: honour. If you've played Stronghold before, it's really only a small change 
 from your previous strategies to incorporate them in but I find that I usually don't need them. 
 Crossbowmen have been fixed from S2 and the nicest change have come to spearmen who can now throw 
 a spear for heavy damage. If you're looking for a brand new Strongholds game then you won't find 
 it here. If you're looking for more fun from the Stronghold we've come to love, this game is for 
 you.
  
  Graphics: What can I say, if you've seen one version you've seen them all. A lot of recycled graphics 
 with few changes. Nice but not a little disappointing in this day and age.
  
  Sound: Also a lot of recycled sounds. Very few new tidbits and music. The new stuff is good but 
 if you didn't think about it, you'd still think it was already made from the previous games.
  
  Value and Tilt: Even though I feel this game is a recycle and, I know I've said it before, 
 but what S2 should have been, I still enjoy playing S: Legends. It's still a lot of fun with the 
 working formula in the past combined with a few new ideas. It'll keep you busy for a little while 
 but I'm not entirely sure that it's worth the sticker price. If you love Stronghold, get this game. 
 If you enjoy it, let the price drop a bit but it's still definitely worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason14yr
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok I am personally now Totally turned off of the Stronghold universe and probably will never play 
 any of the series again. This game is totally the same as S2 except for new monsters. YIPPEE! NEW 
 MONSTERS!! Who gives a dam, that doesnt make an unbearable, freezing, lagging, slow gameplay any 
 better than it already is. I am sick of this game and it doesnt deserve my time to write a review 
 about it. So excuse me for the OUTRIGHT bluntness, but I just cant seem to think of anything positive 
 of this game except that it is only a $29.99 steal to bordness. Your loyal Gamespot reviewer friend,
 
  
  Jason Williams, Viola Director 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksoulhunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Well the game is better than it's predecessor Stronghold 2, but it dosent have the feel of a true 
 RTS. People still go through each other so you will have like 50 guys blobbed up together in one 
 spot fighting. The AI isent the best, but thats what patchs are for when they come out. The music 
 is definantly better, so is the sound. The whole idea of the game is that you choose three different 
 legends each with specialites and deficiancies. This game will bore any fan of the series, since 
 it has the saem repetitve style as Stronghold 2, just no more gong or crime. It does focus on RTS 
 elements but it still cannot compare to Rise of Nations, Rome Total War, or even Age of Empires. 
 A good game for anyone to start with but, it will not satisfy the picky needs of a die-hard fan 
 of RTS's. All in all it's just another brick in the wall. But it does make up for where SH2 failed. 
 I give it a 7.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empror1
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Stronghold Legends is almost the same as stronghold 2, with only a few new features. If you havn't 
 played stronghold 2 then you should certainly try it. But if your done playing stronghold 2. Stronghold 
 legends won't have much new to offer you. Most buildings are the same, they changed a few things 
 with smaller building. Wich makes it easier to keep your castle running. Like jails and the cleanup 
 building have been removed. All you need now is a well. It will only use one of your men and is 
 used to put out fires made by enemy imp. They added some more spieces and monsters. But like i 
 said. If you got bored with stronghold 2 like i did. Then don't get stronghold legends since you 
 will get bored by it soon aswell. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
