-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stronghold
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/stronghold/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.9, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,575 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 21, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Stronghold simulates castle sieges well enough to recommend it to those who are interested in the 
 premise. 

 Stronghold is both a real-time combat game that focuses entirely on castle sieges and a village-management 
 simulation in the vein of Zeus or The Settlers. The subject matter alone gives Stronghold a leg 
 up. It's been years since a game let you pour boiling oil on invading hordes, and Stronghold simulates 
 castle sieges well enough to recommend it to those who are interested in the premise. But it's 
 a hesitant recommendation, due to a poor interface and mediocre campaigns.           With enough 
 archers, defending your castle can be a simple task.    

  There are two campaigns, one military and one economic. The economic campaign is made up of a handful 
 of timed missions in which you must acquire a certain target amount of goods or gold. Occasional 
 threats in the form of bandits and animals will require you to maintain a basic militia, but the 
 mission goals are always economic. This campaign only serves to highlight the fact that as a management 
 simulation, the game is pretty shallow. You build woodcutters, farmers, and miners, and the goods 
 are brought to your storehouse. You build secondary producers, who use these goods to produce weapons 
 and food.   

  You must also ensure you have enough food to keep your people happy and enough gold to hire soldiers. 
 Since taxing your people makes them unhappy, and unhappy people will leave your kingdom, you must 
 also find ways to keep your popularity high. This can be done by providing them with extra food, 
 churches, or alehouses. Keeping your people happy is relatively unchallenging, although it seems 
 complicated in theory. Most of the time, providing more food will be all you need to do, and the 
 rest is unnecessary.   

  The economic and management elements of Stronghold are simple, but they are just the setup for 
 the military game. The military campaign lets you defend against sieges, and siege other castles, 
 as well as incorporate the economic elements. In the military campaign, you play the son of a king 
 who was betrayed and murdered. His land was divided among four men: The Snake, The Pig, The Rat, 
 and The Wolf. You must take back your father's land piece by piece.   

          Massive sieges are Stronghold's high point.      

  The early stages of the campaign 
 act as a tutorial, and a much better one than the game's actual tutorial option. In the beginning 
 you will have only archers to defend your castles, and that will be all you need. Later, you'll 
 have access to pikemen. Much later, you'll get the more advanced units such as swordsmen, engineers, 
 and macemen. Part of the problem with the campaign is that you are stuck with the lowliest of units 
 for the first half, and then things start to escalate rapidly. Your first castle siege is also 
 your first time using engineers, who make your siege weapons, and the trial-by-fire element comes 
 out of nowhere. Not only have you not had practice using the units, but it will take you some time 
 to learn how to use them.   

  This suggests one of Stronghold's biggest problems: The interface makes little sense. There is 
 a series of tabs on the bottom of the screen, each of which shows you different types of structures 
 you can build. There's a farm tab, a food-production tab, a weapons-building tab, and so forth. 
 Then there is a castle tab that lets you build walls. To build towers, you need to go to the castle 
 tab and then click on the tower button, which opens the tower screen. Same for gatehouses. Moats 
 are on the gatehouse screen. Or possibly the tower screen. There's no real rhyme or reason for 
 where some things are located. Your barracks and armory are under the castle tab, but weapons manufacturers 
 have their own tab.    

 Units pose their own set of interface problems. You can group units together with the standard Ctrl+number, 
 but if you individually select any member of that group after that, he is removed from his group. 
 If you select your entire army in order to move it, all of your groupings are lost. This system 
 makes little sense and renders any sort of intelligent attack strategy almost impossible in the 
 heat of battle.   

          Buildings outside your castle are especially vulnerable to attack.      

  Building 
 castle walls is another issue. You aren't allowed to place buildings or objects in areas you can't 
 see, and the low isometric viewpoint means that any area blocked by a building or another piece 
 of wall is off-limits. You can rotate the map to view the field from a different angle, but towers 
 and gatehouses can often block your view so that you never see a gap in your defenses. You can 
 lower all buildings on the screen so that you can build without interference, but it's a crude 
 solution to a serious problem. Moreover, certain types of buildings aren't allowed in every mission, 
 which can cause confusion. One mission lets you build moats but not drawbridges. This can catch 
 you off guard, as your villagers will have no way of bringing goods to the stockpile if they can't 
 get over your moat.   

  Not that you'll be building moats often. Perhaps because of the problems above, very few of the 
 campaign missions actually require you to build a decent castle. Usually, you'll start with a castle 
 and only be required to defend and repair it as necessary. Defending a castle isn't very difficult, 
 because the artificial intelligence of your enemies is terrible. Enemies will always enter from 
 the same point and always make a beeline for the closest structure. You are told where the enemy 
 will enter by way of signposts on the map, so you rarely need to defend more than one side of your 
 castle. For most of the campaign, a large group of archers and crossbowmen will take down an entire 
 approaching army as it marches in a straight line toward your keep.   

          Enemies will always enter from the same point, which can make them easy targets.      

 
  Once you get to the latter half of the campaign, the game picks up. Having access to the advanced 
 units makes things more interesting, as engineers pour boiling oil on enemies wielding battering 
 rams, incoming units die in pit traps, pikemen try to fill moats as archers rain arrows down on 
 them, macemen knock encroaching soldiers off ladders, and walls crumble under the bombardment of 
 siege weapons and tunnelers, who burrow under walls to damage their foundations. The action can 
 be exciting enough to watch that you forget all of the game's problems and just enjoy watching 
 your opponent's -- or your own -- castle fall.   

  Visually, the game is reminiscent of Age of Empires II. The buildings look good, but not great, 
 and the same can be said of the units. The animations are well done, especially the motion blur 
 on the arrows and projectiles as they fly through the air. The soundtrack is dramatic, while the 
 sound effects consist of fairly typical funny comments from units and ambient building sounds. 
   

  Campaign play isn't your only option, and if nothing else, Stronghold provides a great deal of 
 variety. There are a number of individual combat and economic scenarios, as well as a variety of 
 stand-alone modes, both peaceful and combat-oriented, that let you build your castle at will. The 
 multiplayer options include a number of different games, and it's a better challenge to defend 
 a castle against more intelligent opponents. Stronghold has some rather serious problems. But if 
 you can get past them, or learn to work with them, the game gives you enough options that you'll 
 have dozens of hours of sieges and defenses ahead of you.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is great fun. you can either choose between the Military Campaign or the Economic Campaign 
 . In the military campaign, most of the missions are you defending your castle from oncoming assaults. 
 This is the most entertaining part of the game. In order for you to defend your castle, you have 
 to assign citizens to do work. Examples are cutting wood, mining stone, etc. While doing this you 
 still have to create and army which will defend your people. Certain missions in the military campaign 
 require you to attack an enemy castle. These missions are the most difficult and require the best 
 strategies. There is a diverse amount of military units ranging from the Crossbowman to the Engineer 
 in which you can attack the enemy castle with.
  In the economic campaign you bassically have a goal that you have to acquire in a unlimited amount 
 of time and you don't have to worry about attacks from any enemies. Example: Make 200 barrels of 
 ale. The game has few economic missions that become repetitive after one has played a couple of 
 these. Graphically the game is beautiful. The trees move with every blow of the wind and the tar 
 boils. The detail in the castle buildings and the characters are especially good. The game has 
 many details during gameplay that sometimes I find myself being distracted by the beautiful scenery. animation 
 isnt the best, but forgetting that (which you will) is in line with the game itself.
  The sound is very complementary to the graphics. If you have a good sound system you can feel the 
 catapults hit the castle (granted thats if you have the bass up) .
  unit control (workers) in this game is'nt good but it's not big problem in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This is my first review using Gamespot's new player review system. I don't like the new scoring- 
 but I guess I'll just take Gamespot's tips and use their own methods here... With any luck- I'll 
 still be able to give accurate scores...
  
  Stronghold was the first game made by Firefly studios, and in it, you get to build your very own 
 castle with its own walls, economy, and military. While the game is fun, and gets the castle building 
 formula down pat, it isn't really great enough to be widely recommendable.
  
  Stronghold's modes are split into 4 categories: battle scenarios, economic scenarios, free build 
 scenarios, and multiplayer. While that may sound like quite a bit, it should be noted that the 
 economic and free build scenarios fall flat. The free build scenarios are clearly focused on those 
 who love building and nothing else, while the economic scenarios force you to trudge through the 
 boring harvesting of ridiculous ammounts of resources (Gather 500 Bread! Crike!) . So the best gameplay 
 comes from the multiplayer and battle scenarios.
  
  The battle scenarios themselves are split into 3 sub-categories: Invasion, Siege, and Single player 
 campaign. The campaign itself is about 17 missions long, so it should keep you interested for a 
 while. But its story is very simplistic and the scenarios quickly get repetitive. Well, at least 
 the characters are entertaining to listen to. The invasion mode has scenarios which are very similar 
 to those found in the campaign, but aren't linked together. The siege mode however bypasses all 
 of the castle building, and instead has you attack or defend a pre-built castle. The siege mode 
 can be great fun- but its not as satisfying as it could be due to a bad AI that sends troops at 
 your walls piecemeal until it finally makes a breach in your walls, at which point it simply makes 
 a beeline for your keep with everything its got. The actual castle building in the game is quite 
 fun once you get into it, and it has a lot for you to set up. The economy of the game is impresively 
 wide, with a wide variety of foods and hard materials to harvest. You also have to build the hovels 
 needed for new peasants who gather at the keep and keep an eye on their happiness by making sure 
 they stay fed, aren't put upon by high taxes, and several other factors. The game also has you 
 train a military which can consist of archers, crossbowmen, spearmen, swordsmen, among others. 
 The combat itself is actually a bit simplistic however, as units can blob together and there are 
 no formation settings.
  
  Graphically, Stronghold has a surprisingly attractive vibe to it despite its relatively primitive 
 2d graphics. Arrows and rocks look impressive in flight, and the 2d sprites are all well animated. 
 Sound wise, there is some music that helps set the theme and gets more tense when enemies are attacking 
 your castle. The voice acting is also surprisingly enthusiastic and effective.
  
  Ultimately, the only real issue that keeps Stronghold down is its replay value. There seem to be 
 a lot of scenarios available here to keep you busy, but they are all to familiar to each other. 
 This value problem is really wide-srpead amongst city-builders in general really, so this problem 
 is not terribly surprising. But if you are into city-builders, or are looking with a city-building 
 game that has more action than most, then Stronghold can easily suit you.
  
  Pros: Effective formula for building a castle. Wide economy will keep you busy maintaining your 
 castle. Surprisingly good voice acting all around.
  
  Cons: Scenarios are too similar to one another, limiting the game's replay value. Poor AI.
  
 
  Recommendable for: Anyone interested in the city-building genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterocks7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  stronghold is a unique game, striking a good balance between your typical city building game and 
 castle rts simulation. the game does an excellent job of taking certain elements of each genre 
 and adding them together. it is very detailed in what you need to keep your castle and population 
 happy, such as food, entertainment, sanitary facilities, and so on but without the excessive micromanagement 
 that is common in rts games (all you have to do is build the right economic building, such as a 
 woodcutters hut, and a villager will go to work there, provided there are the resources on the 
 map, and do what he needs to without you having to tell him where to go or what to do) . this allows 
 you to focus your attention on castle defenses and your military. this is where the elements of 
 your standard rts game come into play, where you create all sorts of different military units, 
 and castle defenses, and have complete control over their every movement. this combination of economic 
 and military control works beautifully. youll usually spend the first 5 to 10 minutes of a mission 
 building up your economy, and once you have a stable economy, youll focus your attention for the 
 rest of the mission on completing your objectives, which usually consist of military action. the 
 game has a fairly long campaign which does a good job of introducing you to all the different aspects 
 of the game, but also contributes to the long learning curve, as you dont have access to all the 
 buildings and units til almost the end of the campaign. however, this doesnt detract too much from 
 the gameplay, and you wont even notice it the first time through. aside from the regular military 
 campaign there is a short economic campaign, which can be a nice break from the regular campaign, 
 and a series of historic castle seiges in which you can choose to either assault or defend. these 
 can be both challenging and rewarding, as some are very difficult. unfortunately there isnt the 
 option to have just a regular scrimmage against another opponent to just build up your kingdom 
 and try and conquer theirs. this limits the gameplay to the campaigns and historical battles, unless 
 you want to create your own using the map editor. however, for the price you can find this game 
 for, you will not be disappointed. while this game doesnt offer a whole lot once you finish the 
 campaign, i highly recommend this it as a training experience for its expansion, stronghold: crusader, 
 which is an amazingly fun game.
  
  gameplay: excellent combination of city building and rts style battles, not too complicated, but 
 represents medeival castle life very well. battles are very fun to play and castle defenses/seiges 
 are tons of fun.
  
  graphics: while they dont even compare to the games of today, the unit and building animations 
 move fluently and work well.
  
  sound: overall the sound is good. voice acting and sound effects are all very fitting and believable.
 
  
  value: good while it lasts, though after you finish the campaign there isnt a whole lot to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 14, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  the gameplay in stronghold is like any other RTS, you get your materials, build an army and then 
 kill your enemy. The story is not the best I have seen but it is ok. The fighting is fun to do; 
 overall the gameplay is superb part of the game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics is not one of the best parts of the game but it is still ok, the castles look nice 
 and sort of realistic. The soldiers look nice and overall the game good to look at.
  
  Sound
  The sound is good, the soldiers weapons sound superb and music is ok. Overall the sound 
 in stronghold is ok but not superb.
  
  Value
  The game will take some time to finish and after that you can go and make your own maps and play 
 in them, so if your looking for a game that has a lot of value then try this game.
  
  Tilt
  Overall if you an fan historic RTSs then you should try out stronghold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  So, if you are thinking to move back a few centuries and start running your own castle, this is 
 the game for you. Stronghold is a castle simulator where you will learn to create, manage and defend 
 it starting sometime near the XI century. You start with almost nothing but wood, some huts, people 
 and of course your castle to run and defend. As time goes your castle grows, more people come to 
 live under you protection and you get more tasks and abilities so you build a full castle.
  The gameplay is all about administration letting you to play isolated stages or whole campaigns. 
 There are military campaigns but is also possible to play only with economics objectives, where 
 you have to accomplish certain goals using the available resources. There the battle modes where 
 you can play a pure battle attacking or defending a castle or play battles during your castle development.
 
  You have different resources to manage like wood, iron, food, rocks, gold, taxes and the citizens, 
 and as a Lord you have to take care of the people development and happiness. The better you feed 
 your people the better they will be healthy and prompt to work. All aspects regarding food are 
 well developed so it is natural to think that to meat you have to hunt but to get some bread you 
 first have to sow the wheat than make your bread. This is a good example the game whole idea: you 
 have to really think as the people Lord and do what is the best interest to make the city grow, 
 have good stocks of food and resources and also collect taxes. The magic is how to get a good balance 
 between these needs and still have happy people.
  For that you can count on easy interface to order your commands. The menu icons are well divided 
 in sections with buildings and activities. It is here with these menu commands that you give all 
 your orders including the castle building and all administration guidelines.
  
  Audio:
  There is nothing special about the audio. It is just fine as one can expect for this type of game. 
 The audio does the job putting you in the medieval mood. You will be listening for audio themes 
 in a very new age fashion.
  
  Graphics:
  The game graphics are very well shaped regarding to the environment, trees, and landscape. The 
 highlight comes to the building details which are rich and also shows different and specific texture 
 for each kind of building. It is also possible to follow what the specific worker, who is very 
 well designed too, is doing during his turn. The only minor issue is about the screen view management 
 that is a little bit different and sometimes you do not get the expected view after you rotate 
 the screen. Nothing to worry about.
  
  Multi-Player:
  This is not what one should expect to be a hallmark for the game. It is still possible play multi-player 
 mode for 8 people. One thing that is interesting is a map editor that allows you to build a Castle 
 and offer it through the internet and find out how long does it take to someone destroy it.
  
  Conclusion:
  The bottom line is that the game delivers what it promises: it is a castle simulator. 
 A game for those who likes to engage a battle while running and managing the available resources. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  The PC is perfect for RTS and strategy games. That means that people all over the world are going 
 to try to make some. Out of many games that have actually tried to make it to the PC strategy market, 
 Stronghold makes a great choice for any PC gamer.
  
  In Stronghold, all you gotta do is make sure everything in your kingdom is running good and that 
 you demolish the other guys on the map. Woo-hoo? Anyways, in the campaign mode, you, well, I didn't 
 pay attention to the story. I was too busy killing the things it told me to kill. If you like following 
 objectives like survive for this long or take over this thing with this amount of troops , then 
 you'll have a blast. Otherwise, there could have really been more to the campaign. Remember, this 
 isn't an RTS game, it's more of a Castle Sim/Strategy/RTS game. You gotta build stuff, manage your 
 castle economy, build an army, kick some ass, end of story. The great thing about this is that 
 there is a whole bunch of creativity involved. You can pretty much place any building that's close 
 enough to your Stronghold, provided you have the things needed to build that. Everything relies 
 on something else. You need woodcutters to get wood for your buildings and so your archers actually 
 have bows. You need iron miners to get iron for your swords so your swordsmen can kill people. 
 You get the deal. Farming, mining, hunting, people actually have jobs in your kingdom. The only 
 people you really control would have to be your army.
  
  When you do get an army, things get pretty fun. Select these guys, click on those guys, and see 
 if everything works out. It's simple and it's more fun than you'd think. What I really like is 
 when you have to defend your own castle walls. Since you can pretty much make your castle walls 
 however you want them to, your defense may be as wacky as the White House's defense system (we 
 all know it exists) . Okay, maybe not that far, but there's a load of towers and other designs you 
 can make your walls like. It really opens up the strategy to it. Something you really have to try 
 out would be stuffing about a million archers onto your walls and see how long you can last against 
 the huge 1337 enemy army.
  
  The only mode I really played was the Free Build mode. There really isn't much else to do with 
 the single player campaign, and the extra missions and all that crap are kind of lame. Mutliplayer 
 can be fun, since you'll be able to see if you can build and maintain a better castle than your 
 opponent's while trying to take each other down. Other than that, the game won't last too long.
 
  
  Stronghold may be a great choice for RTS fans, but I highly suggest getting Stronghold: Crusader 
 instead. This had me going for a few hours, but once you've done almost everythng, it's best kept 
 in a CD case that won't be opening anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  Do you ever wish you could control an army of knights? Do you ever wish you could go and siege 
 a castle? Well this game is right up your ally! This is a good castle simulation game. The game 
 is very well researched and the story line is something of a history story but not completely believable. 
 The game has awesome graphics, good sound, and an easy enough gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphically the game is beautiful. The trees move with every blow of the wind and the tar boils. 
 The detail in the castle buildings and the characters are especially good. The game has many details 
 during gameplay that sometimes I find myself being distracted by the beautiful scenery. When fighting 
 starts the war graphics are just as awesome. The cool part is when the catapults hit your castle 
 and you get to see the devastation it does in real-time, but then you realize "Oh that was my castle 
 wall!" Don't forget to watch your archers shoot arrows at the enemy. You get to watch each and 
 every arrow shot and you get to see the arrow strike you enemy. The graphics are probably my favorite 
 thing about the game.
  
  SOUND
  The sound is very complementary to the graphics. If you have a good sound system you can feel the 
 catapults hit the castle (granted thats if you have the bass up) . The sound of the arrows whizzing 
 through the air would scare any one actually on the battle field. The only sounds I dread to hear 
 on in the game are the knights armor and the catapults. Both make an ominous sound and can spell 
 doom for your castle if you don't have the proper defense. Other than the sound effects being very 
 true to life the sound track is just as invigorating. The drums are used a lot in this game so 
 the bass on your sound system will defiantly get a work out. Very solid sound overall.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is a little complicated to any one first picking up the game. The controls 
 will take some time getting used too but you still may need to have your guide to the controls. 
 The game itself plays very smoothly and there are no real problems in fighting an opponent or trying 
 to defeat a castle. The easiest part is keeping a castle in one piece the hard part is taking over 
 a castle. It took me at least 20 tries to finally figure out how to take over the first siege level. 
 I was very frustrated and could understand why so many people built castle during that time. Other 
 the siege part o the game the gameplay is very satisfying.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  Well this is a game I waited for to come out and was very happy to finally have it. I wasted no 
 time in getting into the game. Trying to be a good lord or a nasty one is fun to play with, but 
 unfortunately you don't get to watch people get arrested and taken to the torture areas for criminals. 
 The only thing that may upset hardcore history buffs is the cows are very large when they should 
 be almost the size of a deer or a dog even. Other than that this is a very enjoyable game. Go out 
 and Have Fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grae530
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the Stronghold Warchest and found both games to be fun and interesting in their own 
 ways. Stronghold has somewhat of a boring story that I found myself skipping over most of the time 
 trying to get to the gameplay. You fight off several villains to take over all of Britain in your 
 final quest. The Snake, Pig, Wolf, etc. are your enemies and will try to destroy you in anyway 
 possible. Each villain has its own degree of difficulty. These same characters are transferred 
 over into Stronghold Crusader as well. 
  
  This game is more about taking care of you people and building up your castle than actually fighting 
 war. You need to keep your food supply up to keep your people happy. There are also several resources 
 that you need to survive such as: wood, oil, steel, stone, and food. All of these items will help 
 your stronghold grow. 
  
  Castle building mainly consists of building brick and wood walls, gates, towers, moats, etc. It 
 doesnt quite feel like a castle but instead a giant wall surrounding and protecting your people. 
 You can use your environment around you as well to build up your castle walls. You can get creative 
 with this and have a lot of fun, but I wouldve wanted a bit more.
  
  The Graphics are bit old-school you could say, but they are what they are. The graphics are simple 
 so you could run massive battles at one time, without the computer freezing up. You have to recall 
 when this game came out, its not exactly brand new. I guess in a way you could compare the graphics 
 of this game to Age of Empires 2. 
  
  The gameplay overall is very fun and should give you many hours of enjoyment. Its not that hard 
 to learn, but it can be a bit frustrating at first. I gave this game a Hard rating because it can 
 become really difficult at times and isnt all a walk in the park. Its definitely not a game that 
 you will beat in a day. I would recommend Stronghold Crusader over this one but if you can pick 
 up the Stronghold Warchest that includes both this Stronghold game and Stronghold Crusader, and 
 extras get that, its worth playing. Otherwise Stronghold Crusader is the way to go, it fixes all 
 the few problems that was associated with this game and makes for a more fun game.
  
  P. S. If your considering buying Stronghold 2, - just dont!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  An amazing game a classic to me and it always will be. I bought this game years ago but i still 
 play it on occasion when other games get boring. Best feature iv seen ever is the castle building 
 you get to make your castle exactly as you want... Towers, walls, crenelations, gates, stairs, 
 moats and more, its got it all. Make soldiers such as Archers, Pikemen, Knights and more. Anyone 
 with a few dollars to spare might as well get this game now that its really cheap you seriously 
 cant go wrong and it will keep you entertained for hours. The Campaign is actually really cool 
 and interesting and building castles just dosnt get old since you can make them anyway you want. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Strong hold is a game where you can build castles and an army to defend it, but you have to collect 
 supplies such as food, to do this you can build a dairy or a hunters shack, you get a cirtain amount 
 of people depending on how poular you are, you can charge them taxes to live in your castle, to 
 build an army you need one person per soldier and a blacksmith or other weapan maker to make them 
 a weapan.
  
  You can download a demo from game spot-
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/stronghold/download. html? sid=2814057&q=stronghold
  
  -in 
 this you face a couple of enemies but they dont have castles they juat send troops to destroy your 
 castle and vanquish you and your castle. The enemys get harder as you go along.
  
  The graphics on the game are great and the sound brilliant, i recommend this to stratergy game 
 fans and medievil warfare fans.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarrenSean
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  In stronghold you try to conquor Great Briten from 4 tirants: The Rat, The Snake, The Pig and The 
 Wolf. You build a castle, make people work and defend the castle. For example: You need wood to 
 build a fletcher to make crossbows and the crossbowman you make wil defend your woodcutters. But 
 you have to keep your people happy to, or else they leave and there wil be no food and al the others 
 wil leave as wel. sometimes you have to also lay seige on a differnt castle, with is a lot tougher 
 then the other way. It has the best 3D graphics i know and stil don't get slow on an not so new 
 computer. (i sure have expiriance with that!) You can also make your own map and play multiplayer 
 with those. And if you select warriors (archers, spearman, maceman, crossbowman, pikeman, swordman, 
 knights, tunnelers, engeniers and laderman) you hear them. And when i have to do some chores, i 
 say: "Yes my lordship!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qorda
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  The game is a a mix of some very good and some very bad points. My 7 year old niece loves it for 
 it being a nice castle building sim. That bit is informative for her seeing various tradesmen doing 
 their work and how their work place looked like. The game has few economic missions that become 
 repetitive after one has played a couple of these. All you have to do is to gather a required number 
 of resources or money in a fixed time. The main game is driven by a storey line in which the player 
 is an ally of a deposed king of Britain trying to help him to regain throne. The flow of story 
 is nice with good music, graphics and voice acting, execution of game play is very unsatisfactory 
 and the game falls flat due to poor script and AI in the field of warfare. In all the missions 
 one has to build and defend a site. The enemy soldiers attack in waves rather than in a planned 
 way in full force. Soldiers yours or enemies seem to be devoid of sense. A company of ones soldiers 
 could get attacked by the enemies while the adjacent companies will simply watch the "fun" unless 
 you order them to attack. Enemy soldiers will always try to follow the same path from point A to 
 B during attacks. They would be so stupid that if there is a fire in the way, they will simply 
 try to walk through it and get incinerated! There is no concept of formations or war tactics/ manoeuvring 
 in the game and war is simply a game of more and stronger soldier types and getting down enemy 
 archers at the earliest opportunity. Soldiers are capable of knocking down enemy castle wall by 
 hitting them repeatedly during a heated battle; bit unrealistic, isn't it?
  Overall, the game is a good bit of mindless fun with a lot of click-fest potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilsden9
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Althought rated 10, I now reform my early opinions and give stronghold 7.2, If your into this genre, 
 and you have internet access, playing online against friends is good clean fun, Stronghold had 
 some good ideas, but did not seem to develop them very well.
  
  Gameplay is fun as you have to have granaries and the like before you attain the resource you are 
 collecting, the progression from a feeble peasant to a noble leader is indeed enjoyable, and has 
 some funny story commentary.
  
  The in game animation isnt the best, but forgetting that (which you will) is in line with the game 
 itself, a promising game that falls through on several aspects:
  
  1. Lack of variety
  2. Doesn't immerse player enough.
  3. Poor unit controls (workers)
  4. Confusing for new players.
 
  
  Good things:
  
  1. Tax system and popularity are very fun to toy with.
  2. Building stuff is fun as saving up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veuve_noire
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game gives you the opportunity to build your own castles. It gives you a great variety in 
 building styles, and if you don't know much about the strategic benefits you can get, by building 
 a castle in the "right" way, you certainly will. It is also a help to check out the computers design 
 in this respect.
  
  The game features two different playing modes. The battle mode, and the economic mode. I personaly 
 find the battle mode the most interesting and rewarding, since you will go through a scenario where 
 you have some of the elements of gathering resources, but with the main emphasis on tackeling the 
 incoming enemies, and building the best castle possible. 
  The economic mode, takes you though different missions where you have to gather a certain amount 
 of resourses to support your kings army. You will see much less action here, and it can become 
 a little boring, if you want your castle to serve it's right.
  
  Overall I've spent more than 100 hours on this game, and that classifies this game as a success 
 in my world. I return to it from time to time, but I will loose interest after some 4 hours of 
 playing, since the main part of the game really is the battle mode scenario.
  
  I hope you will enjoy this game as much as I, and look forward to the real sequel, recently released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmgProtoss
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I don't recall many other castle building simulators being this good.... hell..... I don't recall 
 many RTS games being this good. If you are used to hoarding up resources and sitting back creating 
 impregnable defenses, this is for you. If you are used to building up an amazing army and then 
 throwing it at an array of castles, this is for you. If you like surprising your enemy with a decent 
 force at the beginning of the game....... not so much for you. 
  
  Lets review - 
  
  Your father who used to be the King over the land has been killed, and four characteristic opponents 
 reign over each corner. The Lords you are pit against are; The Rat, The Snake, The Pig, and The 
 Wolf. Duc De Puce (The Rat) is a clumsical foe who cannot do more than send small amounts of the 
 most basic troops over a long period of time. The Snake is sneaky and isn't worthy of anybodies 
 trust, and is probably considered the second hardest opponent. Then there is The Pig, a fat, mean, 
 disgusting man who relys on brute force and dull strategies. Last, but the opposite of least, is 
 the Wolf. The Wolf is pure evil, and has amazing defense and a powerful offense. Each character 
 has their own castle style, their own strategies, and their own backstory. You start off simply 
 getting an economy going, and after that you start taking over the lands (You can't pick which 
 you choose to storm though) . I would have to say the game isn't too easy, nor too hard. It is for 
 sure, just right.
  
  Then there is the economic campaign. It isn't exactly hard or anything, because you can't lose. 
 It is basically just there for those who want to toy around with the economy so you can see what 
 will get you what you need when your in a skirmish.
  
  I should describe how the game actually works - You gain peasants over time depending on your amount 
 of homes and how much the people like you (Depends on how much you feed them, if you have taxes, 
 good things/bad things, crowding, ect.) . There are no builder units and everything is built instantly. 
 There are a half a dozen basic resources that you have to worry about; Wood, Stone, Metal, Pitch, 
 Food, and Ale. Once you build a building, a peasant (if avaliable) will walk over to the job site, 
 and will start workin! There may be only one way to accumulate wood, stone, metal, pitch, and ale, 
 but there are many ways to get yourself food. It mostly depends on what type of economy you want 
 to have, and how fast you want it started and running on its own. Once you have the proper resources, 
 you build weapon shops (around 6) which create weapons over time and deliver them to your armory. 
 You can also purchase siege weapons and other types of offense/defense using gold. The concept 
 is extremely fun.
  
  What I love about this game is that how well you defend your castle depends on your creativity. 
 Will you make a maze using moats? Will you create an island typed castle? What about a huge reinforced 
 wall instead? Or an old fashioned 4 sided castle? It is all good fun.
  
  So......
  
  Gameplay (9) - The gameplay is all around solid and fun, but I find the good things/bad things 
 system a bit lacking of point. The feature from Crusaders where it tells you if your castle is 
 sealed should have been included also.
  
  Graphics (8) - 2D RTS Gaming hasn't looked better. With the trees swishing, the waterfalls .... 
 fallings, and all of it looks great. Great Animation.
  
  Sound (10) - Great Music! Very addicting to listen to. The sounds of every thing blend well together. 
 
  
  Value (9) - Great multiplayer and lots of singleplayer content. Invasion Modes, Siege Modes, Skirmishing, 
 Economic Modes, Ect.
  
  Reviewers Tilt (10) - I had a great time with this game. The introduction was good for when it 
 was made and it represents the game the theme is going for.
  
  ---------------------------- 9 . 3 ----------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jawaguy77
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addictive and will keep you entertained for at least 20 hours or more. Everything 
 from the graphics, the units, castlebuilding, and warfare have all been nicely done and put together 
 to make a truly amazing game. If you haven't played this game you should at least try the demo 
 on Gamespot which is only a taste of all you will be getting.
  
  Graphics in the game are I admit not the best looking out there but they are good enough. The enviroment 
 is nice and colorful while your town will look nice and friendly (or dark and sinister depending 
 on what you put in it) . When buildings and walls are attacked it looks nice and they break apart 
 nicely. The game runs at a steady framerate with almost no slowdowns (except when playing on the 
 internet) .
  
  Sound is good enough for enjoying the game. Lots of medieval music all which are awesome for the 
 time period. While they do play over and over sometimes while playing a long game you will seriously 
 not notice and be more focused on the game than on the music. The music also changes when you go 
 into a battle. You can also click on units and they will say certain things about your castle like 
 if they are eating well or disappointed over crops failing. Hearing your army units yell "Charge!" 
 or things like "I live to serve you!" are very nicely done even though they may be said at the 
 wrong time. Overall the sound is enough to keep you satisfied.
  
  Gameplay is highly addictive and lots of fun. From all the different ways you can build your castle 
 and set up your town the ways you can play are unlimited. It is always nice when you finally build 
 a castle that just looks awesome and everything flows together. Campaign mode is fun and has a 
 big story about how you are trying to get revenge and a person who killed your father. It is a 
 satisifying story where you go through the land and try to get to your main enemy by going through 
 all of his alllies. There are also a general and a monk who help you out during the beginning. 
 There is also an economic campaign where you build a village given a certain task to do like build 
 30 spears and given a time limit to do it in. There are not many units you can choose to build, 
 probably only 10-15 battle units in all, but it is quite enough and they all have their strengths 
 and weaknesses. You get food by building farms or hunting dear. You can choose from 4 farms producing 
 foods like cheese, apples, and wheat. Along with building an army you can build siege equipment 
 to take on the enemies castles. The gameplay almost never gets boring and if it does you just need 
 to take a little break and come back later. There are also modes where you are defending a castle 
 and a huge army (around 100-300 units) siege your castle. These are a lot of fun to play too. You 
 can also switch over to the attacking side. You can also make new maps for this using map builder.
 
  
  The multiplayer is mostly why I keep on coming back to this game. When you install this game make 
 sure to install gamespy too since you can play online with other people. Fighting the in campaign 
 mode is fine but going at it with a real person, who can actually think, is awesome and a lot more 
 fun. You can play each other on a map that has already been created or you can build your own map 
 and fight them on your own terrain. The map builder lets you use anything from the game. You can 
 build your own terrain and place where all the keeps will go and where they resources will go. 
 Sometimes you can get a really fun one that you can just play over and over. There are thousands 
 of different maps you can create. 
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun to play and you should really try it. That is why I give this 
 game a perfect score. It is also at a cheap price now too. You can probably get it for 10 to 20 
 dollars. You should go and buy it now. Don't buy Stonghold 2 though. The original is more fun and 
 Stronghold 2 flopped because they just complicated everything and tried to make everything look 
 more real which didn't work so well. So get the original Stronghold, it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest castle sim that i have played in a long time. 
  First off, the graphics are great. Everything in the game has great details. The stone walls will 
 start to deteriotate if they are damaged and you can make out the rungs of ladders. The graphics 
 are nice because they don't need a high tech video card in order to run the game.
  You can either choose between the "Military Campaign" or the "Economic Campaign". In the military 
 campaign, most of the missions are you defending your castle from oncoming assaults. This is the 
 most entertaining part of the game. In order for you to defend your castle, you have to assign 
 citizens to do work. Examples are cutting wood, mining stone, etc. While doing this you still have 
 to create and army which will defend your people. Certain missions in the military campaign require 
 you to attack an enemy castle. These missions are the most difficult and require the best strategies. 
 There is a diverse amount of military units ranging from the Crossbowman to the Engineer in which 
 you can attack the enemy castle with.
  In the economic campaign you bassically have a goal that you have to acquire in a unlimited amount 
 of time and you don't have to worry about attacks from any enemies. Example: Make 200 barrels of 
 ale. 
  For the cheap price, this game is worth every penny. The missions keep you informed on what is 
 going on in the game, and it will make you want to play the game again and again. I reccomend this 
 game for anyone interested in a very entertaining castle sim. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilebill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2003 4:55 am PT
Review:  Stronghold features superb graphics, wonderful music (if you like classical) , gameplay that is 
 innovative and easy to learn, and a variety of ways to play. The economic mode is non-violent, 
 but challenging enough to retain your interest, sort of a medieval version of Sim City. The level 
 of detail in the scenarios is enchanting, people have names, an apothecary's shop has an apothecary 
 who can be seen to be grinding herbs and mixing potions and even more remarkably gathering herbs 
 in the woods and going forth on missions to cure sickness and plague. I think that this game appeals 
 to the more serious ordinary or casual player more than it appeals to the "elite gamer" with a 
 special appeal to those who like simulators also. Professional reviews of Stronghold have been 
 from the standpoint of the elite gamer and the ordinary or middle of the road scoring of the game 
 I feel does not correspond to the delight that it will bring to the ordinary player looking for 
 pleasant, relaxing diversion. It is as much fun as anything else just to keep an eye on what the 
 populace is doing, they do it so incredibly well. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
