-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stronghold 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/stronghold2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of units to choose from.
 Economy is easy to manage, allowing you to focus on war.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of bugs.
 Poor graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.5, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 3,065 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Apr 18, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While there have been plenty of additions made to Stronghold 2 over its predecessor, a poor story, 
 weak artificial intelligence, and plenty of bugs mar what otherwise could have been a simple yet 
 fun castle-building game. 

  Store your food and raise the drawbridge, for Stronghold 2 has been released and is ready to lay 
 siege to your computer. For those of you unfamiliar with the Stronghold series, or castle sim games 
 in general, Stronghold 2 puts you in command of a castle. You must feed your peasants and keep 
 them happy, build walls and towers to protect your property, and raise an army to lay siege to 
 your opponent's castles. While there have been plenty of additions made to Stronghold 2 over its 
 predecessor (in addition to the implementation of some good ideas) , a poor story, weak artificial 
 intelligence, and plenty of bugs mar what otherwise could have been a simple yet fun castle-building 
 game.  

          You can play the path of peace for economic gameplay     

  In Stronghold 2, you have a lord who presides over a keep. Peasants will flock to your keep as 
 long as they're kept happy. Happiness is dependent on several factors, including how well they 
 eat, the amount of rats in your castle, and whether you provide entertainment for them. You'll 
 gather various resources to place in your storehouse, and industry workers can take these resources 
 to create advanced items, like bread, ale, and weapons. However, there aren't any complicated manufacturing 
 trees, so don't expect an intricate economic sim game. Stronghold 2 is designed so you can focus 
 on building up your castle and raising an army.  

  There are a few issues with the gameplay that are worth noting. You can't shut off just one building. 
 You have to either shut down the entire industry or sell the building. For example, if you build 
 three lumber camps but only want two to operate at a given moment, you have to sell the third camp. 
 Also, some of your workers will, on occasion, turn to crime, thus abandoning the industry in which 
 they were working. And, unfortunately, you can't shift a worker from one industry to the abandoned 
 one. This poses a problem when the abandoned post is critical, such as your gong pit. If your gong 
 pit worker leaves his post, and you don't notice, gong will pile up, and your peasants will be 
 unhappy. If you're already on the breaking point of happiness/unhappiness, people will start leaving 
 the castle (and, thus, they'll start to leave other critical industries) , putting you in a feedback 
 loop you may never recover from. These are micromanagement issues you shouldn't have to face. More 
 alerts for when critical posts get abandoned would have been a big help.  

          or play the path of war and siege your enemies.     

  There are two campaigns in Stronghold 
 2: peace and war. They're what you'd expect. The peace campaign focuses on economic missions. The 
 king is displeased with his vassals, so you must step up and fix the economy of his nation. You'll 
 focus on collecting a set number of resources in a mission without worry of being sieged. The most 
 fighting you'll see is against bandits or wolves. Since the economic portion of the game is pretty 
 basic, this campaign can be boring if you expect heavy micromanagement. The war campaign, on the 
 other hand, throws you into missions where you not only have to build up your castle, but also 
 attack an enemy or defend your lands. The storyline of the war campaign is weak due to boring cutscenes 
 and poor voice acting, but the missions are structured nicely. Some strategy games can be repetitive 
 because you have to rebuild a base every time you start a new mission. In Stronghold 2, each mission 
 is divided into several submissions played on the same map. As a result, you don't have to rebuild 
 a castle every time you start a new objective.  

  The two campaigns aren't particularly challenging. The peace campaign can have some tricky situations, 
 but you're not going to burst your brain trying to figure out how to win. The war campaign is a 
 cakewalk, especially once you discover the limitations of the AI. You may have to restart a few 
 missions, but you'll soon realize that the computer follows the same strategy every time. Whether 
 you're defending or attacking, you won't find a worthy opponent in the AI.     

  When being sieged, it's very easy to adapt your defenses to thwart the attack. Some missions pit 
 you against seemingly impossible odds. The easiest way to defend against these attacks is to build 
 a bunch of wooden walls outside your main stone ones. Ladder men can't scale these walls, and enemy 
 troops will happily hack at the wooden walls while under heavy fire from your archers. Even if 
 the computer has siege equipment, it will be used against your wooden walls instead of your towers 
 or your defenders. Rarely will the computer ever be able to get to your stone walls, much less 
 your lord (if your lord dies, you lose, by the way) . When you're on the offensive, the AI won't 
 do much to lift your siege. You can methodically pick off defenders and towers one by one with 
 your siege equipment, all without worry of retaliation. It makes the game really boring and simplistic, 
 which is unfortunate, because there's high potential for great battles.  

          It's easy to confuse the AI opponent and slaughter its forces.     

  We wouldn't have 
 had to resort to cheesy tactics if the other castle defenses weren't broken. You can mount logs 
 and rocks on your walls that can be released to cause damage to soldiers underneath. The problem 
 is that once ladder men get close to these walls, these defense mechanisms mysteriously disappear. 
 It's extremely irritating to spend a bunch of gold on these defenses only to have them vanish. 
 Of course, you can exploit this to your own advantage when you're the attacker.  

  Once you complete the campaigns, which can take around 15 to 20 hours, there's plenty to keep you 
 occupied, if you so desire. You can play a free-build mode, where you just build up your economy 
 and castle with no objectives. Kingmaker is the skirmish mode where you square off against computer 
 or human opponents in multiplayer. Single-player skirmish suffers from the same faults as above, 
 but multiplayer has a lot more to offer in terms of strategy and castle development. Human opponents 
 can use the fairly large number of units and siege weapons to formulate counterstrategies that 
 make gameplay much more rewarding. You can play multiplayer using a LAN or the in-game browser, 
 which is rudimentary but gets the job done. Unfortunately, multiplayer is also buggy, though. In 
 one game, we were suddenly dropped to the main menu. In another game, it appeared that all three 
 of our opponents were dropped without warning. We didn't even notice until it became apparent that 
 one of our siege victims wasn't responding to our attacks.  

  The biggest change between Stronghold 2 and its predecessor is the addition of a 3D engine. You 
 can zoom in and spin the map around to accurately place walls and structures. However, the 3D engine 
 isn't particularly flattering, because the graphics aren't very good. Aside from the lackluster 
 combat animations, units tend to clump together in combat, making it difficult to control individual 
 units or to even tell what's going on in a fight. Units clip through each other, so you'll see 
 a wagon roll right through a peasant while on its way to the storehouse. Also, the game has a low 
 frame rate during any action, even on high-end machines. And cutscenes are in-engine, so this issue 
 rears its ugly head even during story sequences. Additionally, the audio to these cutscenes, and 
 to the rest of the game, for that matter, is poor. Furthermore, the voice acting just isn't very 
 good.  

          Stronghold 2 comes with a mission editor to create your own scenarios.     

  There's 
 a patch out already that fixes some issues, but the low frame rate and other bugs mentioned above 
 weren't fixed in it. The single-player experience isn't very rewarding, although the game does 
 let you build your own missions with the editor. You can set victory and losing conditions, and 
 you can even make a sequence of missions in a scenario. Players can also create more-challenging 
 scenarios here, but being able to do so isn't going to make it worthwhile to pick up this game. 
 Meanwhile, multiplayer would have been a more redeeming aspect if it wasn't so prone to dropping 
 players. All things considered, Stronghold 2 has too many problems to be recommendable to even 
 the most diehard strategy fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: electro814
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:31 am PT
Review:  I got this game a about 1 or 2 years ago and i think its a quite good game but there was a few 
 let downs in it too. firstly the graphics are'nt that good secondly the islands are to small and 
 like your enemy is to close and u can't build ur army fast enough and care about your peasants 
 and ur castle all at the same time on a small island, thirdly what i hate mostly is the rats which 
 you have to play a couple of rat post things to catch them and the **** that brings down your health 
 who ever walks over the **** and you have to play a **** cleaner to clean it up, its quite annoying 
 most of the times. The graphics are alright not that good and the voices are alright too, and the 
 editing mode is quite good but it takes a long time to build an up the map and everything i made 
 about 5 maps or something. The campign is'nt that interesting, freerom mode is alright but a bit 
 borning cause u just build up your castle and army and everything but theres nothing to attack 
 just wolves, bears and so on, and the mulityplayer is carp i would have to say. But i love playing 
 it most of the time because i love strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacky-Warrior
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  It's not like Stronghold: Crusader, may be with some progress, harder, but still maps are small, 
 u cant build everything and the enemy is very close to you
  
  The story mode is not that interesting in either the path of peace or the path of war.
  
  The 
 game play is ok, specially in the path of peace, where you can build your own town, the peasants 
 who try to steal, the rats, the gong farm and all those new things are cool and making it harder. 
 Also the royal farms and kitchen that give you honour every feast.
  
  The graphics are very poor, along with some bugs that can be very boring. Also the computer always 
 takes the same moves everytime (when I read the review here I knew that it's the week AI) which 
 is more boring.
  
  As a strategy games lover, that is not one of my favourites, it's not even as I expected and that 
 made me very down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsm1th123
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  After loving the original crusader I had high expectations when I played this but found it sadly 
 dissapointing, I was left asking myself how could they screw this up so badly when they had such 
 a strong foundation in the original.
  The A. I. is terrible, the amount of bugs that have crept into the game is truly shameful and makes 
 me wonder if they even had a bug testing team. Firefly studios have destroyed there good name with 
 stronhold 2. I want my money back . The apple has fallen very far from the tree. 
  
  WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY 
 WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY 
 WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY 
 
  WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angre_Leperkan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Look pretty nice, it still runs well even on higher settings.
  
  Game play: Campaign was pretty bad, with the terrible voice acting. However, castle building is 
 pretty well done in this, and it's a lot of fun to watch your little town grow into a fortified 
 castle to repel wave after wave of enemies from your walls.
  
  Cost: If you can find this game for something around 20 bucks, definitely get it, even if you only 
 play a little bit. If the price is higher, it's not worth it because the game is good, but not 
 amazing. Still, for 20 bucks it's a bargain.
  
  Learning Curve: The campaign helps you learn the basics ( a little slowly in my opinion) but learning 
 to be a true master of castle building takes much longer. 10-20 hours.
  
  Overall Grade: 7.5 It could be much better, but the game play is solid enough to hold up the game 
 even with a terrible story, and terrible voice acting. With not-so-bad graphics and a good price 
 (if you find it) , it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennethwc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good (with the patches) i have never played the other games. its pretty easy 
 to beat and get into. i love the dark ages so building my own castle is really great and fun! it 
 looks nice, the sounds are good (the voice acting is annoying at times) , and the gameplay is nice.
 
  
  you can build how ever you feel like - for me its defendively. love holding back attacks. if you 
 dont wanna be build your own castle or deal with the problems that follow it. there is always the 
 stage castles which are based on real castles that you attack and defend.
  
  its differant everytime you play because you will always find yourself without something (like 
 have a lot of trees for wood around but no stone.. or alot of stone but no trees , etc.) so your 
 castle will change everytime (it will never be the same unless you play the same map over and over 
 and over which i do not see many ppl doing.) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I have played many games like this such as civcity rome and dawn of war
  but nothing prepared me for a game like this!
  
  Since this is the only one in the series that 
 i have, i don't know much about the story in the past. Stronghold 2 carries on from stronghold 
 1 after infiltrating your enemy's castle for some reason which i don't know. lord barclay is his 
 name, and he wants to take revenge on sir matthew steel (you) and he hires many people to take 
 you out, all of which don't succeed. I can't say anymore otherwise that would be a spoiler :-) . 
 As you can see, it is kind of a weak story, but as you play it, you totally forget about that.
 
  
  If you don't like the story, there are plenty of ways to enjoy the game like for example, there 
 is a map creator for the... well, creative, and you can relive real battles in siege mode. i have 
 the deluxe edition so i get to play conquest mode which is really cool!
  
  Overall, it is one of those games where you build up your town, feed them, give them jobs, and 
 send them into battle with a very cunning plan. It is a lot better than it sound though, trust 
 me. I recommend it to fans of civcity rome, and those who want a really challenging strategy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakkenly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2, the sequel to the hit game Stronghold, is a very historically accurate RTS placed 
 in the 1000's to 1400's, the medieval times. In this RTS, you can play a peaceful campaign, mostly 
 kingdom welfare, and the path of war campaign, highly focused on combat, if not all combat. The 
 peaceful campaign shows you how to build up a kingdom; gathering resources, marketing resources, 
 gaining honor, and taxing your village are just some of the things you learn. I see the peaceful 
 campaign as a tutorial, as you need to utilize these skills but in very tight, fast situations. 
 There is also free build, where you can build all you want, creating a giant citadel and such. 
 In free build, there are preset areas you can build in, as well as maps you can create or download. 
 Creating a map is not a thing you can just pick up; you need to at least read up on how to properly 
 make a map. There are strict guidelines that you need to follow to have a working map; sometimes, 
 it can get annoying when you have to go back over and over, doing a small thing and saving and 
 going back... It just gets annoying, and Firefly needs to make an easier editing program. The path 
 of war has a campaign, and also a short siege skirmish. The short siege skirmishes have you either 
 sieging, or defending a castle with preset soldiers. Usually, sieging is harder. The castles in 
 this part are also very historical, all based on real castles in history with a short historical 
 overview on the castle and whom presided within. The campaign has you go from a freeman to a duke, 
 battling with all sorts of threats such as the viking Olaf and his castle, or "The Bull" who has 
 powerful berserkers. Overall, I think this is a wonderful RTS for someone who is looking for a 
 bit more of a challenge, and an equal fight as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CascadeHush
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I think this game was released way to early and suffered much as a result. But a regular series 
 of patches has fixed the stability problems, added new maps and AI opponents, improved AI intelligence 
 and generally improved balance and playability. I've never been so impressed by a companies dedication 
 to improving a product post-sale. You get the impression someone at Firefly really cares about 
 this game and wants to get it right.
  
  The game involves basic city building to get an economy going, followed by warfare to conquer your 
 neighbours territory. The economy side of the game is interesting enough without being overly burdensome. 
 The warfare strategy aspect is more simplified than the Total War series, but more action oriented 
 and a little bit more fun. Put together these two aspects make for about 4-8 hours of varied gameplay, 
 a good way to spend and evening.
  
  Granted, the story modes, where you play through a series of increasingly difficult levels, are 
 a bit lame. (I've yet to find a game that doesn't have a lame story mode.) They are best considered 
 as tutorials for what should be the main event - skirmish mode. Once you think you have the hang 
 of things, there is little to compel you to finish them.
  
  Skirmish mode is a free-for-all battle against a selectable number of opponents, which can be made 
 up of AI or online players. If you play against the AI, a bit of experimentation will reveal which 
 AI like to attack early, which are fairly passive and which are more aggressive later on in the 
 game. With a bit of thought and experience you can thus tailor a game to your own difficulty level 
 and keep it interesting throughout. In this sense, maybe the game is laking, since there is no 
 simple way to set the difficulty; you can't just jump in to a game knowing how hard it will be.
 
  
  I wanted a castle builder for ages, and finally I have one. The game rewards the person who will 
 persist with it; learn it's quirks. It may not have the best front end and it may take some experience 
 to get the best out of it, but once you have a good game set up, it's heaps of fun, very playable 
 with heaps of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoobzWorld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 is a series of many stronghold PC games. And is by far the best one so far! This game 
 if a perfect balance between Economy and military. During the game you start of with a Lord, a 
 keep and a handfull of troops. You basicly build up your economy, and then make weapons to supply 
 your troops with. Then you make your troops and send them into battle. Along with great gameplay, 
 Stronghold 2 provides a very epic, exiting and fun campaign. You play mathew steele a humble squire. 
 During the campaign you rise up to being one of the most powerfull knights in the land. Along with 
 the fun story, about 4 missions before the end you chose wiether you want to follow the path of 
 evil or good.
  
  So overall, This game is very underrated and deserves a strong rating! This game is also very affordable 
 at only 19.99 at any local or commercial store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  This game is rather good if you know what your doing it has a great aray of units and siege equipment 
 the gameplay for economics is easy to manage and doesn't clog up your time to rule and destroy 
 your enemy
  
  The bad points of this game is resources are so hard to find there is very litle room to build 
 on iron ore or stones and everyone in the game moves quite slowly and does everything slowly what 
 i mean by that is in stronghold crusader for example stone was produced rather fast fastly cut 
 and deposited to your stockpile but in this game the time it takes to make 1 stone you could have 
 made 7 in stronghold crusader another issue is the bugs in this game I constanty run into the bug 
 when the judge or torturers would not take the peasents to the punishment section and it really 
 downed the popularity
  
  Overall this game is rather crap without the glitch
  the glitch is just say you build a tower that costs 50 wood and 100 stone what you do is pause 
 the game get the rubber and delete the building but you can keep clicking on it so you keep getting 
 the resources back 25 wood and 50 stone click it twice youve gained 50 wood and 100 stone and so 
 forth it's the only reason I could play this game in stronghold crusader I kicked A** at it because 
 the resources were there but in this there so rare and hard to find
  
  but still overall Good game (with the glitch)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardsw1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  Although I have not played any of the previous games in the Stronghold series, I do feel that Stronghold 
 2 is a very good game. I personally haven't experienced any technical problems with the game, although 
 I did only purchase it about six months ago, so perhaps i have an updated version with the patches 
 already included or something. 
  
  The campaign games are very good with reasonably challenging tasks. in fact, the game is great 
 because it isn't just about commanding an army and attacking opponents (although you can just do 
 that if you want to) , you also have to build up your economy, by building farms to feed the peasants, 
 that are the foundations of your economy, you need wood cutters, iron miners and stone miners, 
 in order to build structures, or perhaps to be used for different things such as making weapons 
 and protection for your military. 
  
  Then you need to enforce law and order on your citizens and build courtrooms and an array of medieval 
 punishments. Then you need to make sure there aren't too many rats running around and that there 
 isn't too much 'Gong' making the place very unpleasant, and there's a lot more stuff to do too. 
 If anything is left out, your economy would simply crumble as peasants would just leave.
  
  To finish off, I found that the graphics were quite good, and anyone who complains that they were 
 rubbish, obviously doesn't realise the true purpose of the game. Strategy games don't need to have 
 fantastic graphics to make the game good, they need more than that, they need to make you think 
 about what you are doing and what you could do and fantastic graphics should be seen as an extra, 
 a bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I've played every version of stronghold, even stronghold legends but this version has been the 
 best of them all in my opinion (the other ones where also superb) . I've played lots and lots of 
 hours on this game. 
  
  Its just not a game for rushers, fast players, non tactical fast players, its a real laid back 
 strategy game where its just fun to build a fort no one can take :D
  
  I think the first opinion of Gamespot over this game was not very objective, and was played by 
 one who does not like this genre of this game. And there should be another test with all the patches 
 because this game is being demolished because it had a few MINOR mistakes for online. Well its 
 not meant for online play, its meant to play the campaign and the multiplayer is a bonus.
  
  I hope there comes an expansion pack (or a new version) for Stronghold 2, stronghold legends 
 was not very realistic but i've put a lot of hours in that game too and that was not disappointing 
 either. Although the game was a lot less fun than Stronghold 2 or every other version.
  
  With this I hope I've given you enough information about Stronghold 2, when you like this genre 
 it's a must have.
  For those not interested in this kind of game I do not recommend it to play it, its great for the 
 fans and the lovers but if you did not like stronghold 1 you don't like this one either.
  
  This game is underrated, just buy and try out.
  
  TheRealOne - ThereAlone, Netherlands 27-3-2008
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenkill
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Was a terrible game, but after the patches this game has become surprisingly good. I pre-ordered 
 this game when it first came out and was really excited to be one of the first to get this game. 
 The campaign was superb but had a few minor glitches and lockups. I wasn't too worried about that. 
 The game was really imbalanced as well, but I dealt with it because I loved the series so much 
 I wanted to love this game as well. 
  
  Once I started playing multiplayer I saw this game's true light... it just sucked. The developers 
 just pushed this game out the door without even testing it. I couldn't play a multiplayer game 
 longer than 1 hour without it locking up completely or getting time-out errors. The unit imbalances 
 really starting rearing their ugly heads as well. I just unistalled the game after 10 frustrating 
 games that I never even was able to finish.
  
  Well, that was about a year and a half ago. I decided to give this game one more try recently and 
 found out there were several new patches available. This game has been almost completely fixed!!!! 
 There no longer exists game lockups, time-out errors, or the like. The game underwent a hardcore 
 rehaul. The game was rebalanced to almost perfection. 
  
  I can't put this game down now. A buddy of mine play LAN games with each other all the time. Now 
 all the dev team needs to do is add AI to multiplayer, thankfully there's a dedicated community 
 member who has added a mod for adding AI to multiplayer games. Just google the program Stronghold 
 2 Manager. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodaegis666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is phenominal,
  
  The depth of this gam eisn't filler all you gotta learn fast is to keep your peasants undercontrol 
 by enforcing an ironhand in tough times.
  
  I usually don't do nothing to bad when rehabilitating peasants but when the crime went up 10 fold 
 I sorta had to go from the stocks-the gallows/burning post. besides... peasants are replaceable.
 
  
  
  Wow I sidetracked thats how fun punishing peasants is and watching them suffer while you grow fat 
 from their labor... ahh yes the life of a kin... until battle comences and you find yourself knee 
 deep in impossible odds.
  
  
  In this gae it isn't oh just need the resources... you need for example to make spearmen.
  
 
  
  Wood wich is turned into spears at a poleturners shop wich is the used to create spearmen.
  
 
  with this game you actually need to craft the weapons and armor before those units can be made 
 to do battle and die for king and country but you will find your amy dies alot faster when the 
 castle walls defences are up.
  
  
  the wall defences go from stone baskets to tip on your enemies to rolling logs that are set aflame 
 and take out a area to burning oils and moats.
  
  Overall this game has won my heart because of it's realistic play wich makes me ohso happy to play 
 a historically accurate game.
  
  Overall full of fun (if you like a moderate learning curve) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manoflesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  The whole entire game has had a variety of mixes including; graphics, rivals, story-line, and a 
 variety of strategy just for your game play! The choice between Peace and War are very interesting. 
 They both have a great, well thought story. Each consists of a variety of peace and war, never 
 the same going, and it will leave you playing the game over, and over again! The rivals on the 
 game have a great strategy to them, each with their own units, defences, and offences. I was stuck 
 on this game forever, I was so into the free play, custom maps, and the kingmaker. Go buy the game, 
 sit down, and play it! You will never get off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joebob7722
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is a very realistic medieval game. If you played stronghold 1 and crusades and liked it 
 you will definately like this one. Everything is included in this one from other strongholds and 
 more. Everyone says the micromanagement is difficult but after doing the tutorial and the first 
 couple of missions you really get the hang of it. The game is really great multiplayer and you 
 can create your own maps, which is very fun too. Also a lot of the bugs that gave this game a bad 
 rating on gamespot were fixed in the latest update, so nows the time to buy it. Definately worth 
 the buy, you wont regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadoc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Although Stronghold 2 doesn't have the best graphics it is still a very good game to play especially 
 if you like Medieval Stuff. During the first few levels it is a little hard to get down how you 
 use the economy building to make food and weapons etc... The siege warfare is really great right 
 now I am doing an awesome free build mode and my castle is huge and I have every building you can 
 have in that Island that I am on . It is surrounded on three side by a river the only way to get 
 to there is to cross is to cross this little bridge which I plan to destroy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Set in medieval times this strategy game offers a great variety of strategies and is very fun to 
 play especially with a friend online. The graphics are decent i don't know why people make them 
 out to be not good enough. As for ingame glitches they are very minor unlike what you have been 
 told by gother reviews. The war and peace campaigns are both great fun to play and sieges are very 
 realistic. Resources in it such as steel and wood etc that build up your economy are vital in this 
 game as they are in all RTS's.
  In conclusion this is a great game and is great fun the glitches are very minor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun.
  It is a real stratagey game and has, suprisingly an awsome story line.
  This is a must have game. Can be quite tedious when it takes ages to get troops but the gameplay 
 is really fun.
  Hasent got the best graphics in the world but you can still play over and over because you can 
 have custom maps.
  The diffuculity ranges from ver easy to hard. Will test most people. -----------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If you like Stratagey then you will defenitley like this game.
  
  Once you start this game you will not want to stop playing it!
  
  So I shout to you! PLAY THIS 
 GAME LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_jay
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Playing on campaign gives me thrill at first but suddenly that thrill is gone, the so hard campaigns 
 and those oh so hard battles are not worth it, because of the poor storyline end not so good ending. 
 But still its a good game if you want to burn out some time, there are lots of units but you will 
 always choose the best one right? The food production enjoys me, By the way you can play either 
 the 2 - The peaceful way which focus on castle management and the path of war which; obviously 
 more on battles. There is no harm trying the game its up to you how to enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trepideight
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Terrible, just terrible, &pound;30 wasted when it came out. First of all the loading times are 
 too slow, doesn't matter how good your computer is, also, the graphics are bad, but the performance 
 is bad too (what?) , you can have a great computer and it will still run slow.
  
  Combat is crap too, all the units run inside each other (what the hell?) , fight badly and walk 
 super fast and unrealistically, also there's not many units to choose from and not many fortifications 
 too.
  
  You have to manage a castle and all the peasants, they have to farm, create tools and stuff. There's 
 hardly any space to create the buildings such as farms and houses.. This game is just too terrible 
 to talk about... I could go on and on but really, it's disastrous and broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan2214
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun and adds tons of new content to an already big game.
  
  Stronghold 2 builds upon stronghold 1 and makes it so much better. To start with there is a hell 
 of a lot of new stuff ranging from gong farms to berserkers. There must be about 60% more stuff 
 at the least added into this game along with many of the originals buildings and all of the soldiers 
 and trap from the original. The war campaign and peace campaign will last you at least 20 hours 
 each and they are great fun and highly addictive. To add to this there are is a great array of 
 historicaly accurate castle sieges to play, which is great fun and looks really good with the new 
 3d graphics which are by far better than its predecessors but still keep it in the same style. 
 There is a great scenario editor which is great fun to use. There is a free build mode which is 
 great, where you can build your perfect castle and if you want to you can test your creation against 
 a large amount of different size forces which is very fun and it is very satisfying to watch as 
 your enemies die miserably. This game has so much to do it could keep you entertained for waeks 
 on end if you like the game play.
  
  The game play is great in this game. It is very fun to watch life in the old castle, everything 
 from watching your peasants struggling with their daily lives to your lady enjoying feast and banquets 
 with her lord. The fighting in this game is good as well although I wouldn't say is was amazing. 
 There is a huge amount of troops to choose from including all the ones from the original and the 
 best from crusader. There are many new additions from peasants to pictish boat warriors. There 
 are many new castle defences including burning logs and stone tippers. In the game units do clump 
 tgether however in combate which can look a bit ugly and can make it hard to see who is winning 
 but it does stop units getting stuck. When i got the game on lauch day there was a lot of bugs 
 however if you have the internet this will not be a problem as firefly have released a huge amount 
 of patches that fix all the buggs and know this game run very well.
  
  Online play is very fun and adds alot to life span even though the single player game is huge. 
 Sometimes during internet games it does go back to main menu or has an error but this is very infrequent 
 and it doesn't damage the online experiance.
  
  This game is hugly addictive and i would recomend it to anyone who enjoyed stronghold 1 or crusader 
 or to anyone who loves casles or medieval warfare or both.
  Dan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to love Stronghold 2 so much it hurt - I've been playing Stronghold: Crusader since it 
 arrived and I still play it today. Nothing beats a good 2-hour 4v4 skirmish in the desert. I expected 
 Stronghold 2 to be a 3D S1, which was fine although Crusader was superior. Graphics have never 
 been a key factor in this series, and to be honest, shiny graphics probably would have detracted 
 from the gameplay. However, being released a full three years post, I would have expected Stronghold 
 2's to be more than slightly above Warcraft III's, and for measure, WC3's are more colorful and 
 entertaining. In any case, as graphics are unimportant, it's no more than a small contention point 
 assuming the remainder of the game is good.
  
  Unfortunately, the remainder of the game is not good, and it takes everything that I loved the 
 most about Crusader and demolishes it. First and foremost, I appreciated Crusader's ability to 
 slap down a small base and start skirmishing your opponents with ease. In S2, it is difficult to 
 maneuver the menus and you are so landlocked on every single stage it's nearly impossible to not 
 plan your entire castle from the first minute for fear of running out of room - which nine times 
 out of ten happens anyway. Next, Crusader had almost no focus on keeping your civilians happy (in 
 superior military half of the game anyway) therefore leaving you to destroy your enemy. Again unfortunately, 
 S2 demands an amazing amount of micromanaging and even requires you to monitor crime, crap, and 
 rats or your popularity will be gone before you notice it's below 50 - and once it's below that 
 point, have fun cursing at the game and trying half-heartedly to raise it (without abundant food 
 to raise rations this feat is impossible) . Combat itself is a chore and the effectiveness with 
 which the AI operates -eg; rushing you before you even have two archers on a wall- demolishes any 
 credible realism.
  
  The amount of micromanagement is so atrocious that the military half of Stronghold 2 is crippled 
 far beyond enjoyment and into unplayability. If by some miracle you survive the first fifteen minutes 
 of managing crap, rats, and endless waves of assaults (which, by the way, even if you choose a 
 skirmish map with you behind your other three allies, the AI will run straight past them and attack 
 you first - yeah the **** right) , the sieging is so full of cheap glitches that it yields no challenge 
 or entertainment. It is so simple to merely take Crusader or even Stronghold and convert it to 
 3D that you will constantly be wondering why Firefly Studios did not do this or why they changed 
 that. This game is hopeless and I would suggest you dig up a copy of Crusader on amazon or ebay 
 as opposed to playing Stronghold 2 - trust me, you will not enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevesy314
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  What on earth happened I really enjoyed the first Stronghold game why did they have to try so hard 
 the second time around obviously the graphics are better but it is harder now to make things out 
 the control and movement seem to be off and the campaign mode is a joke.
  I had a quick look at the skirmish mode with multi-player maps the size of the thumbnail i use 
 what is the point?.
  Over all I just did not like the feel of the game and it has disenfranchised me i will not be buying 
 anything from firefly without trying it first again.
  This is one of the few games that i played for about an hour then just put it down knowing that 
 i would never be picking it up again.
  A Poor attempt at a follow up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter171
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I can't even play!! The game crashes at story mode on first level. Its a common bug and there aren&acute; t 
 any support, It is a spend of money and time
  The first one was a great classic at inovation, this one is a poor job !!
  The game crashes at 
 story mode on first level. Its a common bug and there aren&acute; t any support, It is a spend of 
 money and time
  The first one was a great classic at inovation, this one is a poor job !!
  The game crashes at story mode on first level. Its a common bug and there aren&acute; t any support, 
 It is a spend of money and time
  The first one was a great classic at inovation, this one is a poor job !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valachi
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  There are some nice additions to this game since SH, with added content and 3D engine upgrade, 
 but the serious technical bugs drag it down enough to prevent playing it beyond the initial campaign. 
 That is unacceptable, especially with a series that was such a hit originally with a loyal fan 
 base that would have waited for a finished product. Especially considering it is based on such 
 a simple, proven game engine and gameplay style. If you can get this game for under $20, it will 
 give you enough value to justify the purchase, otherwise play the demo and be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neozander227
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I liked Stronghold 2. Its a good game but not a Great game. There were bugs, and quirks that made 
 wonder what the hell was going on. But still, its a good game just not much in the way of variety. 
 All military units look like clones of each other, though giveing them names was a nice touch still. 
 See one spear man you see them all. Speaking of which, I know knights are the bad asses of the 
 medieval time but I sent a army 500 spear men and 200 archers against a small wooden fort defended 
 by the lord and 5 knights plus some men at arms. HOW THE **** DOES ONE KNIGHT KILL HALF MY SPEARMEN?! 
 ARGH!
  
  Still, once I was allowed to build units otehr than the basic spear men and archers, I had fun 
 with the military aspects. Though it might just be me I liked the path of peace more. Meh, personnel 
 preference. But still that was a little iffy. Limited land and fast expansion dont mix well. Still 
 if you like sims and the medieval era this is a worth while game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_lost_knight
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is actually pretty good, the only thing that's bothering me about this game is that, 
 no trainers that actually works, and basically there is NO WAY of getting past the last 2 levels 
 as good or bad. The thing is about this game, you actually get to see your economy and see what 
 everyone is doing, its a city of your own, you need to consider every possibilities in this game. 
 Another flaw for this game is that, .... there is no difficulty levels for it.
  basically you want it to be easy? no way. you want it to be harder? no way. overall its alright, 
 in my personal opinion, worth buying at least 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirTim427
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Graphic were OK but really could have been better. I really didn't like the fact that when you 
 go and attack another castle the can rebuild just as fast as you can tear it down, ( once it's 
 down it's down ) . I do like having better control over single men unlike LOR3. I would recommend 
 it to anyone who likes games like this. I give it a 7.9 just because I do like games like this 
 and the whole Medievil times concept, and how you really look after your people and if they get 
 out of control like stealing you can punish them by putting them in the stock or if you want to 
 go to the extreme you can hang them, But over all not a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikhil14
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I liked the game very much ,as a strategy game,
  But it must have some more upgrade sort of things for the solders and bombers.... else the game 
 is nice.
  The enemy in some situations are given some more gr8 defense than what we have ,this is a bit where 
 we have to fight against with .
  As the enemy approaches us with full forece its verry fun and challenging to defend our castel.... we 
 have to be on o ur toes...
  As pers the graphics is concerned i think they could have done a bit more better,, but even though 
 the way its is ts fine, worth playing.
  I liked the feature of ladders ,which i seriously lag in the AOE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nokiakevj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  this game has many up's and downs. one pro to this game is the gameplay. while u engage into a 
 battle, you can actually see your men fighting with different techniques (somehting different than 
 the old versions) . i previously bought the older versions and were Very Good. they graphics on 
 this version is comparable to the older versions but it is very boring. the actual ingame play 
 isnt all that bad. one thing they need to work on is the campaign. its VERY boring... unlike most 
 games, they have special units in campaign. this one, i dont think there are that much (played 
 very little) . this might've been one of the worst letdowns to the stronghold class. this game is 
 though still comparable to the new version, Stronghold Legends . ive seen that game at friends 
 places but doesnt keep with the stronghold concepts. they added magic units into the game which 
 is a major change to the entire strongehold series. all the games, were based on skills and castle 
 building. Stronghold 2 might stlll be a little behind on my top list of games but it shows great 
 improvment from the older much cheaper looking versions (Stronghold Crusader) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMC1706
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 was a much awaited game. Without the bugs it would be a great game. The idea is fun 
 and when it works almost properly, it is a fun game. The castle building and operation is different 
 and original. When it finally came out, it was a disappointment to everyone who bought it. Slow 
 loading time, difficulties installing (sometimes not installing at all) , and freezes throughout 
 the game make it a waste of money and time. Next time take the time to fix the bugs instead of 
 worrying about money because in the end, all they did was lost money in making the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle8674
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The game has a very very simple tutorial. It took me a long time to figure out all of the extras. 
 Another thing I don't like is the popularity rating. Sometimes it gets too hard to keep it above 
 50 and everyone leaves your castle. Even though it has many bad points it is a very intertaining 
 game. There are unrealistic parts that are very funny and make the game worth wile. There was one 
 level I did where my king was getting attacked and he hit a bunch of enemies off the top of the 
 castle with his sword and they fell like 8 stories and they survived! It was kind of funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eraldi
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  You know when i first saw the game i was shocked wow i said a 3d game play and a RTS to this got 
 to be good i said so i got the game well on the begining it looked good but whne i started to play 
 the game it sucks bad you can't do so many things in here , and the map editor sucks bigg time 
 so if you see this game don't even pick it up i am so serious about it its badd , that is why i 
 gave this game a ....... or if you like to build and deal with ppl and that is your game  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This Game is A total letdown I've played the first ones and They ROCKED this game is OK
  
  Gameplay: The Story mode is well... how can I put it.... Odd. You are a guy named Mathew Stone (er) 
 and you are helping a Sir William find your King. I don't like the campaign because its weird and 
 boring. The Kingmaker or as you old Stronghold fans know it as Skirmish mode. That part really 
 saved the game. Although this game is really glitchy ( I sometimes can only play this game 10 minutes 
 at a time) It has Great Skirmish mode. The cool part Swordman Fight Like they are dueling which 
 is a nice tuch. You also get newer units like Bersekers and axe throwers and monks with swords.
 
  And Newer traps like burning logs Graphics: Are Not that great for a newer computer game. You 
 don't see faces at all in this game. I mean You can but they're blurry. The archers Don't even 
 have strings on their bows.
  
  Sounds: Are OK I guess. All though villagers sound like some Hill billy with Potatoes in their 
 mouth ( Sorry but it's true) The Spearman Sound somewhat alike. The sound is pretty good though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 places you in a medieval world, full of vikings, bandits, and other lords. In the 
 campaign you play as Sir Matthew (I forget the last name) . You can choose either to go the path 
 of protecting the King (of England) , or you can betray the king, kill him and take over England. 
 Overall though, it isn't a very convincing story line. The king goes into hiding cause he's scard, 
 you look for him, and so on. You never feel like your getting into the game and knowing your character. 
 The graphics are descent, but I was hoping for something a bit more 2004ish. They aren't very impressive 
 at all, and I think Firefly Studios could of spent a bit more time on that part of the game. Also 
 in the game, there are killer framrate drops. It's amazing. One second you fine and next you can 
 hardly move your camera. I will say that the sound was pretty good, except for the voice acting. 
 The voice acting is terrible.
  
  It is a pretty deep game resource wise, however. Food is stored in your granery, and if your granery 
 dies, you lose all your food. Raw materials, like stone, iron and wool, are stored in the stockpile, 
 which can not be destroyed. I never really understood that part of the game. Over all this is an 
 okay game, and I would reccommend it to people who enjoy building castles and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  sum it up i have game own game no deamon tools or anything period.
  i installed game and i was able to play it but i took out my IDE dvd player and i installed plextor 
 SATA DVD dual layer burner now i got copy portection error saying that security modul can not start 
 up.
  
  i asked company told them my issue and respon was my SATA device.
  
  turns out that SATA optical drivers are same as black listed by all anti priacy portection programs 
 example be like star froce buecase they sometimes come up driver wise as SCSI device.
  
  senes SCSI device and so forth are black listed as use by emulators and my SATA device comes up 
 as a SCSI device becuase its no an IDE device vbecusae its SATA its black listed and i cant play 
 the game.
  
  I notice same thing has happend to me with X3 and silent hunder 3 i get the same issue with copy 
 portection crape where it cant regnize the legimticay of the drive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I really don't know how to describe this game. 
  I really think in should be a bigger than it is, and many things, should go other way as it is. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  well gameplay is the same as it was in original stronghold and worse than in crusader. When attacking 
 the castle, all soldiers pack in one square millimeter. They stay in their place, even if archers 
 shot them. (realism)
  Defending is a little better. And I hate one thing. Why soldiers don't attack civilians. That is 
 crazy. Those little formations don't add anything. Gameplay is bellow average.
  
  Graphics:
  Well, LOL. I don't get the point of making outstanding graphics, when they don't really 
 present much new that a bit better looking soldiers. It has even it's worse side. Stockpiles are 
 now enhanced by a roof. Now you need to click it to view.
  
  Sound:
  If there is anything good in this game it's music. I really enjoy it. Sadly, the most of this game. 
 The only thing that i can say, it is cool.
  
  Well, for beginers, it would be cool looking but think twice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gasperbojanc
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Stronghold je simulacija graaka, pod igar obveznosti sodi vse ivo, od postavitve 
 lastnega utrjenega domka prek skrbi za jede inu pije do rekrutiranja vojacljev za obrambo lastne 
 oziroma zavzem sosednje riti. Ne gre za igro tipa Warcraft, marve se zadevina bolj 
 spogleduje s Settlerji (ne s tazadnjimi) in njihovim gospodarskim modelom. Masovna proizvodnja 
 soldatov je namre le del poetja, pa e za to moramo najprvo utrditi ekonomijo. Vse 
 se prine pri lesu in kamnu, ki je potreben za sleherno zidavo. Zato sta postavitev kamnoloma 
 in drvarske utice prva na spisku. Ker prazen akelj ne stoji pokonci, mora
  
  3D srce ne doprinese isto niesar. Nova grafika ima celo en dlakocepski minus: poprej 
 je bilo skladie odprta pload in si koj videl, koliko je doloenega materiala. 
 Sedaj ima objekt streho in je treba za vpogled nanj klikniti. 
  mo podlonike krmiti. Monosti za pridelovanje futra je veliko: lov na divjaino, ivinoreja 
 in njivarjenje. Praviloma nam pridelovalci postreejo le s polizdelki, denimo s penico ali jemenom. 
 Da to dvoje uinkuje na elodce, moramo postaviti e mlin, pekarno, varilnico piva in krmo. 
 Podoben sistem velja za vse ostale panoge. Delavnice oroja potrebujejo les in elezo, olje iz 
 movar nam rabi za kurjenje sovranih mejakov in tako dalje. Stronghold vsa ta rokovanja s 
 surovinami in robo predstavi na najbolj privlaen moen nain, saj striki kar naprej 
 tekajo od svojih manufaktur do skladia po material. Seveda je grad uspeen samo, e 
 so tlaani sreni. Dobro poutje je izraeno isto matematino, in sicer 
 kot setevek ve dejavnikov, kot so hrana, davine, cerkev in pivo. Na vse to resda 
 imamo vpliv, saj lahko pazantom z drsnikom po mili volji odmerjamo obroke ali pivo in doloamo 
 davek, vendar se moramo ob radodarnosti sooati s posledicami, kot sta prazna kaa in 
 blagajna. Zato je treba finomehanino iskati vmesno pot, kajti e nas prina rulja 
 zapuati, potem ni niti delavcev, niti nabornikov. Brez slednjih pa se kaj rado zgodi, da 
 nam selo pogejo banditi, potacajo medvedje ali nam ga enostavno zasedejo sovragi. Oboroene sile 
 v obliki lokostrelcev, ve vrst peakov in konjenikov so seveda kljunega pomena v vojaki 
 kampanji (druga je ekonomska) , katere cilj je braniti svoj kup kamenja ali razstaviti onega na 
 nasprotnem kuclju. V ta namen imamo vrsto obrambnih in napadalnih sredstev. Med prve sodi veliko 
 vrst zidov, stolpiev, dvinih mostov in okopov ter ebri vrelega olja, za napadanje 
 pa so obvezne lestve, ovni in katapulti.
  
  Avtorji niso mogli popraviti oziroma urediti niti take malenkosti, kot je razporejanje delavcev 
 po elji. To bi prilo prav, ko zane raja beati, crkovati ali trajkati in na lepem ostanemo 
 brez kake kljune panoge. 
  
  Tole je bil v bistvu sploen opis prvega Strongholda, ki bil leta nazaj zavoljo sveine, pestrosti 
 in privlanosti precej igran. Hkrati pa vse te vrstice veljajo tudi za dvojko, ki je za tiste, 
 ki smo priakovali poteno nadgradnjo, dobili pa le neoptimiziran, strojno zahteven trirazseen 
 izvirnik, precejnje razoaranje. Ne reem, v drugo se igra ravno tako dobro in misije, 
 ki jih v kampanjah povezuje torija, so zelo razgibane. Vendar okus pelina ostaja, kajti novitet, 
 vsaj takih, ki bi izkunjo naredile kolikaj naprednejo oziroma druganejo, ni sploh. 
 Novosti so malenkostne in predvsem koliinske, ki skupnemu obutku zaradi nepotrebne 
 zakompliciranosti prej kodijo kot koristijo. Petim prehrambenim panogam so se tako pridruile 
 svinjereja, ribogojnitvo, zelenjavarstvo in vinogradnitvo. Za obratovanje cerkve so nujne svee, 
 ki jih menihi izdelujejo iz voska, ki ga pridelajo ebelarji. (A ne pravi neka urbana legenda 
 o drugi 'surovini' za menike svee?) . Ovce dajejo volno, ki jo v predilnicah spremenijo v 
 blago, iz katerega grajske dekle delajo oblaila. Podloniki nas sedaj cenijo e po zabavi 
 (organiziramo lahko smenj in viteke dvoboje) , kriminalu (potencialne zlikovce ustrahujemo z raznimi 
 muilnimi napravami) in svinjariji (obvezno moramo namestiti drekpumparje in sokolarje) . Noviteti 
 sta e poslovanje s sosednjimi provincami in ugled, ki ga nae lordovstvo slui z gostijami, plesi, 
 igrami ter zglednim vodenjem grofije. Repekt, ki je hudo posiljena pridobitev, vnovimo pri 
 novaenju boljih enot, recimo vitezov, ali v nekaterih misijah za nakup blinjih ozemelj. 
 
  
  Zavzemi trdnjav niso niti sluajno tako uivantski in vzduni kot v Castle Striku, marve 
 so nepregledni in kaotini. Ponavadi se vse enote nagnetejo v par kvadratnih centimetrov, 
 zato nam e ena ognjena krogla iz katapulta zdesetka vojsko. 
  
  Posebnih vojakih novih rei ni in e vedno sta preglednost ter nadzor med bitkami slaba. 
 Postroji so, a neuporabni, monosti oznaevanja istih oronikov ni (v enki je bila) , eprav 
 bi morali biti zavoljo lajega upravljanja vsi suliarji recimo e kar samodejno zdrueni 
 v eno enoto. Nekatere posamine misije, v katerih branimo ali zavzemamo, so zato pravo muenitvo. 
 Raunalo vedno uspe ubraniti grad s peico mo. Res koda za poloviarstvo in lamparijo, 
 zakaj Stronghold 2 je bil eden mojih redkih priakovanih naslovov, ki pa je pod rto 
 prinesel le e ve Strongholda. Za novinca to konec koncev ni ni groznega, navduencem 
 pa bolj priporoam istotematski, a dosti domiselneji Castle Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I give Firefly some props just for trying to create a sequal, but dissappointed me 
 to find out the game was trying to run off a new engine keeping up with the other games such as 
 War Craft 3, Empires Earth, Age Of Empires 3, but it just doesnt cut it.
  
  I highly recommend Firefly stick with the 2D graphics from Stronghold Crusader. It frustrates me 
 waiting for a sequal to such a great game, but to find out it was a complete flop trying to experiment 
 with a new engine. STICK WITH YOUR RESOURCES!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game was terrible from the beginning. Everything that the review by gamespot states is true. 
 Except they didnt rate it low enough. I was a huge stronghold 1 fan. Also played crusaders. Great 
 job on those. I loved the micro management. Great job making teh game feel like a lackluster console, 
 cant move the view around efficiently peice of garbage... great job.
  
  But please, in the future if you get a game that works firefly, stick with it. Dont go try and 
 change things for the worst. Please. LISTEN TO WHAT GAMESPOT SAYS IN THE REVIEWS AND IGNORE THE 
 FANBOY IDIOTS THAT SAY THIS GAME IS GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimfreek14120
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  well, ive gotta admit, unless you install the lates update (1.3 i think) this game sucks! but if 
 you have the patch, it is amazing!!!!! If you liked the first or second stronghold, you will love 
 this game. it is essentially stronghold + stronghold: crusader + 3d graphics. by that i mean, it 
 has some things from the original (siege maps, 1 part campaign) and from crusader (single player 
 skirmish, mercenaries) plus, it has some new things, which although make it more realistic, make 
 it a little harder to learn how to play. so overall, this game is amazing!
  
  GET IT NOW!!!!!! ESPECIALLY FOR THE LOW PRICE OF $20!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Vast video improvements off of the original series which is understandable considering the technology 
 available. But along with that comes slow downs, areas that can glitch, and all the Murphy's laws 
 you could think of. So far it has been along the lines of the original, only allowing so many buildings 
 and industries to be introduced at a time, but lacks clear and concise in game help. You need to 
 rebuild a keep with stone. Okay, so if you aren't familiar with the first one, how do we do that. 
 I understand this game is over a year old, but it is still one of the better castle sims available. 
 If anything improves in the warring scenarios, i'll post, but I can foresee an enjoyable and occasionally 
 challenging sim. If you find it in your bargain bin, and enjoy these type of builders, i'd suggest 
 picking it up and enjoying both the peaceful and warring scenarios. Of course, value in the bargain 
 bin brings it up a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjeff2112
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The AI is pathetic, the command over troops is ridiculous. This game is a complete rip off. I wish 
 I could get my money back. I will throw this in the trash rather than sell it someone else. What 
 were they thinking releasing this game in this kind of condition? Even installing the patches to 
 v. 1.31 didn't help improve the poor AI of the game. I only rated it very hard because of the ridiculously 
 inept control you have over your troops; you can't target single units, they wander to a way point 
 even after you've change location, banding fails if you go outside the play screen even if the 
 troops are highlighted. Shameful, awful, pathetic is all I have to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masokid
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I am not into managing my settlements and I prefer the constant battle for the old 
 strogholds, but if you like to manage everything constantly, then this is a game for you.
  For me, there is too much to do. Too much to manage and I hate the fact that when a villager goes 
 bad, you have to rebuild his/her buisness.
  Should have improved the graphics but left the gameplay as it was.
  The develpoers tried to make 
 it way too realistic and instead made it way to involved.
  Too bad, it had lots of potential. Great battle scenes though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampaio_poa
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Some bad reviews have distorced the image of the game.. but here is the truth... All want a very 
 easy game, but Stronghold is not easy...
  
  The Game have an excellent gameplay and graphics.... you can do all than you want... is the MOST 
 realistic game of the Strategic games.. 
  
  You Need Much of Inteligence.. because you need to control: the Crime of your City, the Plagues, 
 the Trash, etc; Before you create some soldiers you will need the weapons..
  
  So... the game is more Complex than you can Imagine...
  
  If you have some Intelligence.. Play 
 it !
  
  If not.. go play some Age of Empires or other game more easy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueSinew
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't know were to start with this game. It didnt even resemble the first game. 
  Bad graphics and audio, poor troop control and many bugs. 
  Everything is different from the 
 first Stronghold, and all in a bad way.
  
  The original Stronghold is great and I still play the game.
  I was so used to the controls and 
 how to build and setup
  everything in the first game, that I would have settled 
  for some additional maps, new campaigns, some new 
  competitions added on to the original.
 
  
  I like the new 3D technology and I realize games will improve,
  as gamers always want more for their money. However, 
  I rather play a good upgrade than a bad 
 sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason14yr
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Look it starts off like crap, because you have to wait like 5 mins. just to get to the selection 
 screen. And the freezes during battle are just unbearable. Oh yea, and that tutorial guy, he is 
 just as annoying as a naggin mother telling you to clean your room when you are playing the elder 
 scrolls 4 oblivion, which is a perfect game by the way. The storyline.... hmmm. it is plain **** 
 to be honest. It is the most stupidest storyline i have ever withstanded, and did i mention that 
 tutorial guy? This is an ok game if you are a stronghold fan, but personally , i am not. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of sim games in general i have to admit i was a little dissappointed in the simplicity 
 in the castle management, but later in the game it became much more involved. As a strategy game, 
 this one is top notch. While it can be a simple matter of defending yourself long enough to stack 
 the odds in your favor by outnumbering your opponents, it can be a very enjoyable expirience rushing 
 out with very few top tier knights and hoping they mop up the competition. I am one of those that 
 judge thier enjoyment of a game on the challenge it presents. While it can be very challenging on 
 certain missions (almost impossible it seems) once you have played the game a few time, and learn 
 the flow gamplay almost becomes too easy. The weaker points are a challenged* AI and weak multiplayer. 
 As a whole though i still found this game enjoyable, and one ill find myself returning to later 
 as i get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantiman45
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of a kind control your castle, raise an army everything. all siege equiptment 
 in medieval times is in this game. amazing graphics zoom in up to about 2 feet in front of a character 
 and the character won't be blocky or anything. gameplay get's a little hard as your empire grows. 
 you have to manage wars and make sure your town runs smoothly. You have to take care of crime, 
 make sure everyone is working, and the people who commit crimes you need to punish with the appropriate 
 devices, stocks, gallows, branding chair and the rack. i give this game a nine because it's such 
 an awsome game for only $20. Gamespot is so wrong on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordhorder
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  pros:
  -build your own castle
  -the editor is very in depth (you can even edit certain sounds)
  -more than one fighting animation 
 per unit (eg. a swordsman will strike with his sword, stab with his sword, bash with his shield, 
 kick etc)
  -knights that can mount/dimount a horse 
  - your Lord can mount/dismount a horse and ride into battle with his troops
  -good voices (still 
 has the funny sayings etc) including the spearmen who sound alot like Bob Geldof
  -siege weapons have more realastic affects (eg a ballista will go through several units, whereas 
 in SH 1 it would simply hit 1)
  - diffrent modes (castle builder, skirmish, editor, peace and war campaigns and castle attack)
 
  -in depth management of castle goings on
  -see inside buildings and the combat continues inside Towers and even in the great hall of the 
 Keep)
  -editor extends lifespan
  -i like the graphics ( many would argue against me here but i see the graphics as good looking 
 and they do allow gamers with lower spec PCs to play)
  
  cons:
  -in castle attack the AI can build a siege camp (when attacking) whereas you cant
  -hard to use 
 triggers and events in editor
  -editor is generally quite hard
  -management is a bit over the top (including assigning Gong farmers, falconers and guards)
  -you 
 always get criminals, no matter how happy your people are
  
  so its a good game, but i still prefer SH 1 and SH C, maybe you should get them first and give 
 this series a try. Good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksoulhunter
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I was anxious to play this game ever sence i heard about it. When i bought it all i cold say was 
 wtf... poor Ai, horrrible bugs and a lackluster story make this the worst game in history. I could 
 tell the editors did a horrible job and the producers had little or no effort put in this. As far 
 as im concerned don't buy this game. even if you are a hardcore fan this game deserves to rot. 
 save your money and pray Stronghold: legends is better, because the horrid Ai, annoying bugs mar 
 this wannabe strategy game. the Ai is the most notable bug. In kingmaker the ai will do little 
 or nothing to fight you and will not respond to assults. overall I was dissappointed, that one 
 of the most antipated game came out with a horrid story, poor Ai and a boring story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  having played both the old SH and SH'crusaders this one is better of the 3s in the term of graphics 
 and more indepth historic game play but its still lacking something to make it grand
  
  the only real draw back i find is the stupid estate areas where you can build on it but cant use 
 the items unless its shipped to your castle
  
  seems to me if you build up an estate you should beable to atleast put up palasades and other fortifacations 
 to protect it or atleast the town should also the starting land maps are always so small. 
  
  mearly enough room for a fully walled in keep or an exposed fort with every production possible.. you 
 wind up either poping out troops inexchange for defence or poping out defence inexchange for troops 
 and economy
  
  personally i think the game should have had more of a scirmish mode that didnt require the use 
 of the small game maps that clump everything in one little spot.
  
  all of the 6+ maps that i have tried only have castles in a 5x10 area when you need atleast a 20x20 
 area for fort walls and econ.
  
  but over all the game is pretty fun i love the zooming in to buildings option kind of cool to see 
 the insides for a change :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grae530
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  If you played any of the other Stronghold games and thought about picking this one up because you 
 liked the others well save your money. This game was a huge disappointment. I enjoyed the original 
 Stronghold games and was waiting for a new release that would top what I thought was a solid series. 
 This game tries to take Stronghold in a revolutionary new direction but fails miserly. It barely 
 hung on to the key components of what made the past games great. One thing I do like is the new 
 3d world but with so many glitches and odd behaviors it ruins it for me. But the new look feels 
 empty and unfinished. It seems like this game was pushed and forced to be released early. All the 
 patches and updates in the world cant save this game. 
  
  Simply this game fails! - Check out Age of Empires III or any of the other Stronghold games, just 
 stay away from this one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Ok I am reviewing this pitiful game because you should be warned of its disastrous effects, I felt 
 betrayed that Stronghold and Stronghold Crusader were solid games and then my dreams were dashed 
 on the rocky shores of computer animation. Anyone who rates this game over 5 seriously has never 
 played a good game.
  
  Gameplay: (3/10) : Sucks, nowhere near as good as the original Strobghold's gameplay, the new units 
 and new buildings etc are merely just ornamental, not of much practical use. The units walk like 
 they're blindfolded, so not much I can say on the AI. This game is also ery, very laggy and buggy 
 here and there.
  
  Graphics: (4/10) : Don't let the title screen picture fool you! Graphics are not that decent for 
 a game of this day and age, horrible frame rates forced me to give this the graphics a 4.
  
  Sound: (5/10) : Backgroubd music was pretty decent, nice medievil instrumental sounds being 
 played. However when the narrator finally convinced me that he wasnt a slack-jawed idiot and trying 
 to tell the story I had already given sound an average 5.
  
  Value: (2/10) : Wow, for a game that boasts 32.99 it sure can wind you when you find out you've 
 bought Stronghold 2.
  
  Tilt: (4/10) : Not much tilt, the game in itself is quite linear, not much twist to the storyline.
 
  
  So theres my review, hope you found it useful. And please, if you are considering buying Stronghold 
 2, don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MieLanme
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Those kind of titles always have been trying to exploit a niche market that consists in the kind 
 of gamer that wants to "do-it-all". Not many souls can enjoy the subtleties of running a medieval 
 economy that is not spamming farms all over the map like in most other RTS games, or not having 
 an invisible bow, sword, crossbow and armour factory that can produces weapons at will. Unfortunately 
 for such gamers, you will not find simpleness in this release.
  
  After seeing the mediocre scores professional reviewers like Gamespot put on this game, I was really 
 wondering whether or not should I buy this game. I had loved the original (however lent to me by 
 a friend ; I bought it right after I gave it back to him) , but the less-than-average score was 
 still unnerving me. I took the risk, and the enjoyment I got (and still get) out of this game was 
 the deciding factor to prove to me risks are good. I had good old "DIY" liquid about to the neck, 
 from torturing evildoers that thought it would be a good idea to forage in your granaries to overtaxing 
 the population with "extra cruel" taxes but buying them off with jousts, traveling fairs and generous 
 ale distribution through my inns so to not resent the effect of unpopularity. Good old "bread and 
 games" tactics that helped Caesar with his empire helped me here too.
  
  The empire management and construction is very thorough. Instead of the good old system of "build 
 one farm, have your people mysteriously nourished while not waiting for the crops, and never resenting 
 eating the same thing continually", we have here a quite complex food distribution system. Yes, 
 instead of the farmer's house hiding a whole mill in his house, you'll now have to build one so 
 people that specialise in growing wheat can get it milled into flour. Keeping with the realism, 
 that same farmer won't come with the farm, and the millboys won't come with the mills. Rather, 
 you'll have to assign citizens to these jobs (although the game automatically does so, which is 
 convenient) .
  
  Citizens won't come in your empire unless you keep your people happy. Who wants to live in a kingdom 
 where the king abuses his citizens? A statistic called "popularity" does just that. Keep it over 
 50, and people will swarm to your little feudal castle. Should it fall under 50, however, you shall 
 feel the evil waves of emigration as people will desert you to find a better life elsewhere. Declaring 
 war and capturing other kingdoms won't affect your popularity, however, which is a good thing. 
 Only 8 things affect it : "taxes", "food", "rats", "gong (which is a polite term for feces on the 
 ground) ", "crime", "ale", "religion" and "entertainment". Strangely, your popularity will go down 
 if you put even low taxes, apparently these people aren't as accustomed to taxes as we are today. 
 You will also need to keep these citizens working, be it cutting wood, using falcons to kill rats, 
 hunting for meat or shoveling feces on the ground to keep your empire tidy. Speaking of that, let's 
 grease honour. You gain honour points every time you keep justice over the castle or that you allow 
 your peasants a good life. With honour points, you can train knights and mercenaries.
  
  As this game revolves around castle-building, you will find the options even more diverse here. 
 You can choose between a cheap wood barricade that even infantry can demolish, to single-, double- 
 and even triple- layered and crenellated stone walls, which are invincible (unless the enemy has 
 siege) . You have the choice between cheap lookout towers, tall and weak, to warn yourself of possible 
 invasions, low-laying bastions for quick defence and surveying, square towers to put about anywhere, 
 round towers to keep an eye on the sides of your castle and the almighty great tower to keep near 
 the front doors. You can also have a moat (and the appropriate drawbridge if you build a large gatehouse) , 
 rows of pitch for your archers to light, so invading forces suffer a burning agony, and various 
 wall-mounted defence, from cheap stone baskets for the non-bow-toting infantry to throw to almighty 
 burning logs to squish enemy units, as well as various traps to ensure no unit will even get past 
 the first wall. Just to be more evil, you could also build a staircase to your walls and put archers 
 on it to shoot wandering enemies.
  
  Likewise, combat is as diverse as building your empire. It has been historically proven that shooting 
 arrows on a stone wall will do about as much damage as throwing snowballs at a tank. Therefore, 
 a good tip would be abstaining to use archers to attack stone fortifications. Instead, clear the 
 enemy tower garrison and hijack the tower to use as your own, practically reversing the enemies' 
 defences against him. You will also need various siege engines to pierce enemy walls and ultimately 
 reach the keep to checkmate the Lord. Strategies that worked in real life will work here, including 
 ambushes, hit-and-run, and even a full retreat to the relative safety of your castle. Also, realism 
 is kept with the weapons : archers will not hurt swordsmen incased in armour worth a fortune substantially, 
 while crossbowmen equipped with bolts will pierce through the armour and deliver much more damage. 
 Ballistas will knock back units on their backs with a little flight (try to make them fall from 
 the walls of your castle or your towers, more damage that way) when they do not outright kill. All 
 in all, great attention was put to realism as well as balance.
  
  As with job buildings, barracks does not include secret cloning vats to create fresh humans ready 
 to take the arms. Rather, your army is created from your jobless citizens near the campfire, over 
 at your keep. That is, if your armoury can supply them. You will also need to equip your army yourself, 
 brewing fletchers, armourers, tanners, polemakers and blacksmiths in your populace to create the 
 various weapons needed for a competent army. No, no more armouries with infinite stock hidden in 
 the bowels of your barracks! From the lowly spearmen (with a rather goofy voice, might I add, it 
 makes me laugh everytime I hear them say "men at arms, ADVANCE!" or "remember your training!") 
 to knights (which can be mounted and dismounted at will) , you will have the full medieval plethora 
 of soldiers to work with, including powerful crossbowmen ("pull up these weapons, you dogs!") to 
 "your loyal archers" (which are the coolest unit in the game in my opinion, but then again, I'm 
 a big archery fan) and laddermen. Also, when you have the building, you can train mercenaries, 
 whom you do not need to equip but come with a huge fee in gold.
  
  All of this done in an incredibly gorgeous realm with no lag whatsoever with a good machine, and 
 great music and sound. I can almost affirm that you will dream of epic Stronghold 2 after playing 
 this game. That is, if you're a DIY kind of guy. If not, you might as well pass this title and 
 move on.
  
  *if there's any spelling errors or grammar mistakes, I blame it on my French mother tongue*
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falfy90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Siege and Defense AI needs to be better - smarter. I would suggest they develop characted AI's 
 for the computer players- agressive, defensive and such to mix it up more. And for a professional 
 game, the cut scenes were hokey! Nonetheless, I've lost a couple of evenings to this game so it 
 must have something to it - it is fun and addicting. If they do another one, SH III or another 
 similar theme, I'll probably have interest but they better not short cut it like I think they did 
 this one. This was a step down it seems from Crusaders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Stronghold and Stronghold Crusader since they came out all those years ago 
 and I loved them.
  
  So it was with great anticipation that I picked up a copy of the new version, installed it and 
 sat back for another fun installment of my favourite castle building game.
  
  At first I was a little shocked, it looked good but seemed very confusing and not a lot different 
 from the first two games. But I pressed on and after finding out some of the bugs (make sure you 
 patch this game, it really does make a difference when you are trying to play) I started to get 
 into it a bit more.
  
  Basically, it is just an updated version of the first two, I personally would have named it Stronghold 
 1.5 as for me it has just had a few more options added and a graphical overhaul.
  
  There are some good things about the new version but what lets it down most is the AI. The game 
 does just seem to go off and do whatever it wants, even down to something as basic as the pathfinding 
 of your men. I have lost count of the times my soldiers have just run into something and instead 
 of trying to go around they just keep running at it!
  
  But I would not totally discount it, there are many hidden layers to the game and plenty of options. 
 You really can build and manage a proper castle and it seems that nothing has been left out. For 
 an insight into what life was like back then, this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcobra666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  I strongly agree among other reviewers that this is indeed one of the greatest real-time strategy/castle 
 sim out. I believe gamespot under estimated this game by far, personally I find this game is an 
 evolution to the stronghold series and its powerful 3d engine sets it to new highest. Overall the 
 game play is pretty solid, and the only downside about this game would be its multiplayer aspect. 
 Honestly this game has intense realism that makes the game feel more challenging offensive and 
 defensive, and tons of new unit and siege equipment never included in the first game. If you enjoy 
 playing the original game, then you should defiantly consider picking this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc2daMAX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 started out being one of the biggest let-down games that I've ever purchased. The 
 quality of the gameplay was not bad as far as it's content goes, but the graphics were DEFINITELY 
 causing some severe memory leaks - thus causing some of the worse choppiness I've ever seen... 
 and I have a GOOD computer. Over time (a long time it seemed) Firefly studios promised to fix this 
 problem, but it took them almost a year to do so properly, causing a lot of angry fans/costumers. 
 The patches that were given only seemed to fix some minor gameplay issues (mostly with the torturers 
 guild) . Until FINALLY, they released the latest patch v. 1.31!
  This story is one in the few that have a VERY happy ending. All of those bugs are now fixed. So, 
 for those of you that love to build a medieval town, and then storm the town of your foes, this 
 game is for you. If you get bored with the regular skirmishes, there are a lot of maps to download 
 online if you look for them, OR   you can get fancy, and make your own maps, and play them with 
 your friends. Also, Firefly studios added 3 extra foes to spice up your single-player stronghold 
 experience, as well as adding a new 'Crusaders' campaign where you storm or defend actual models 
 of real life castles in existance today. This game is all about replayability, making it a very 
 fun and strategic way of spending a few hours either on your own, or with a friend or two. So, 
 to enjoy the game, it is now safe to say that you can now BUY the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmareseh
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Behind the game there was a great idea. But what comes out of that idea is nothing good.
  I don't recume this game to have in your collection.
  You really should get better the other 
 stronghold games...
  They are better and not of such bad quality.
  The 3d idea has flopped and it looks now like it's a game that just realised there is 3d for a 
 couple of years.
  There are a few things that good like the idea to give me player that he really is in the middle 
 ages.
  To work with the plagues of that age.
  Overall the game is not worth playing for. The bet thing you should do with your money. Spend it 
 on the other stronghold games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasman99
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Having read some of the scathing reviews of this game I can totally see what would drive people 
 insane about playing it. The cut scenes are horrific, that is for certain. The biggest obstacle 
 I have had is in the performance of the game. In missions where time is of the essence the last 
 thing a user needs is drag, and this game has plenty of it.
  
  The battle sequences are very complex, although I would have to agree with other reviews that have 
 said that commadning only one unit at a time is difficult. That being said... why would you want 
 to? It takes an entire army to win most of the sieges and battles so what is one lone unit going 
 to do for you?
  
  Any person who played and enjoyed the first Stronghold will enjoy this game I think. The upgrades 
 to the look and feel and most importantly the impacts of daily life within the castle are much 
 improved. Let's face it, gong, rats and crime are real life events, ignoring those in the first 
 game left it less realistic.
  
  Never played a game like this? You may want to find someone who has it and try it on for size before 
 buying it. I find myself drawn to it even in the most mundane of missions. As I fail in those I 
 find myself addicted to the possibility to completing it.
  
  All in all, it's better than other castle siege games I have played but certainly not flawless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigden50
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I really enjoyed Stronghold 1. I have to say, I'm disappointed with 
 Stronghold 2. How could some one make such a fun game and ruin it like this. I stopped playing 
 after a short time because I was getting upset with the controls, and the game play just didnt 
 see to as fun as in the first game. I also hate the new graphics. Yes they have more detail, but 
 it looks like a cheap overlay for Ultima Online. It's not an improvement. I'll try it again some 
 day when I 'm in a real good mood. I would not recommend buying this game. However, if you must 
 have it, I have a copy I'll sell you for a real good price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pffy420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Slow paced, yet exciting. you need to have a good economy to even be able to , very fun to siege 
 castles and provide your village with food and wine and beer. I like this game because it gives 
 you the opportunity to build a castle and make sure you keep your own castle up and in good condition 
 before you can even think of attacking your neighbor. realistic action and play for the time period. 
 
  you have to learn how to play, and what the different buildings do, but once you know that you 
 can begin to make your economy work for you. I like the way that you must take raw materials, use 
 it to make something else, and then use that to make food or troops. I like how many different 
 things you must do to get a strong soldier. The winner is not the person who has the most money, 
 its the person who can use thier resources to make goods that are a necisity to build other useful 
 things. Great multiplayer, mideaval weapons, troops, and village life equal good mideaval game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedstough
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  I have noticed a lot not liking the game that much. I totally disagree. The custom map feature 
 is so easy to use and gives a lot of life to the the many possibilities. I find other RTS games 
 map creation tools are a lot more complicated to use. Stronghold 2's is simple!!
  
  Also, the AI characters are very creative. There is been a lot of thought put into the characters 
 and the details of the game.
  
  The graphics are as good as any other RTS on the market.
  
  Also, remember that this is not just an RTS game, but to some extent a SIM game like Sim 4, 
 but just in the days of knights and damsels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donkeymullet
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  I am so disappointed with the latest installment of the Stronghold series. Both Stronghold and 
 Stronghold: Crusader were fantastic, yet reasonably simple games. Stronghold 2 was promoted as 
 being an improvement of both games, however this has failed. You have very poor control over your 
 castle, its very hard to keep an organized castle, new buildings are highly pointless and dont 
 provide a better gaming experience. But maybe most disappointing of all is that the producers have 
 taken away the fantastic skirmish mode of Stronghold: Crusader. New challenges added into Stronghold 
 2, dont provide any additional fun, just annoyance. Overall, a huge disappointment. AVOID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3o0oDY
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  well i cant dont have alot to say to u guys but my friend really adore this game try it dam do 
 i always have to write one hundred words lol hmm lets see i would say (WORLD OF WARCRAFT) RULES!!! 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutly
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  Well, having played stronghold: crusader and having been very impressed with the game i thought 
 hey, its gonna be a really good game. How wrong can one person be?
  
  First its full of bugs, then its been made ' realistic' which is just another word for very complicated. 
 They took a good game. Made the units 3d but not very good, and then they made it too complicated 
 to work on a lot of machines.
  
  Just don; t waste your money. the previous game was so good i thought it was gonna be good. My mate 
 actuallky offered this game to me for free it is so completely crap. Im dead serious, i was very 
 disappointed with this game.
  
  It lacks polish, it lacks gameplay, it lacks well... everything that an RTS should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_g17
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  My friend and I played the game for the first time a few months ago. I was whomping his ass when 
 suddenly, on the screen, it said i lose. I was thinking this was a bug when i screenpeeked and 
 saw he won. This is because the hills look like the cliffs of stronghold: crusaders. That is the 
 game i'm used to play. I found out that i accidentally mistook a hill for a cliff and didn't build 
 a wall. He just sent 2 unmounted knights and a king into my unmaned castle and he killed my king. 
 This is the thing i hate most about the game. Also, i didn't like that you have to take care of 
 crap and crime. I kept loosing some popularity to this and people hated me. Also, it is too easy 
 to get honour. I had about 5 statues and my honour went up like 100000000000000000 a minute. The 
 graphics are great and i like how you can rotate 25 degrees and zoom in and out. The sound is also 
 great, but like all other games, the explosions and battles seem to have the same sound. This game 
 has erratic gameplay and has aspects that are too easy and some that are too hard. Overall, I rate 
 this game a 7.4 on my game scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grobas
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This stronghold is best for the grafix i fink most likely i dont find anyfing new. what is with 
 game creators. thet could make few new fings to ceap me aweak. i spent three days to end all misions 
 and i can say it dont me left any complications. game a little to easy and if you want some done 
 right first wen you have this game download paches. there a a lot of bugs left that can make you 
 to destroy your keybord ;) so if you want just good serry of stronghold its game for you if dont 
 better go to the movie with yuor girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odin23warrior
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:19 am PT
Review:  when i was reading in magazines of this game,, i was so happy that thay made another stronghold. the 
 gameplay looked new and graphics were better. but when i finally bought it i was disopoited at 
 the fact that there is hardly any map to play and the fact that it was so long to get to the highest 
 rank possible. overall i was disopited and hardly play the game. i was so disopotied that all i play 
 any more is stronghold crusader with my friends 
  if you were looking for a good stronghold game buy stronghold crusaders and don't waste your time 
 or money on stronghold 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdrumso5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I classified it as underapreciated because of the absolutly terrible score Gamespot has given this 
 wonderfully in depth game. I am not sure if the rater was on medication or if he olds something 
 against the series, but this was the worst rating I have ever seen. This is one time when Gamespot 
 is completly WRONG!
  
  The game has a very wide variety of new buildings that allow you to branch off in many directions. 
 Along with a complex new tech tree, the game also has new problems in your kindgom. These range 
 from piles of dung, to rat infested allies, all with their own special way of elimination. 
  
  The battles, although perhaps not as fun as the Crusades, still hold that autheticity in. With 
 a wide range of mercs and your own men, you have a large selection of how you want your army made 
 up. And, although the AI is not all it could be, it is still amusing to watch the different characters 
 as they prepare for war against you!
  
  Even though it is not a ten, it is definatly worth it and more importantly, better then a 5.9! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobsterbushcrab
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  This game was good, but the bugs in it were very bad and cant be over looked like most games because 
 theyre so noticeable. The AI is really stupid and is so practicable. While the first one was great 
 and original this one was not, it would of been better to just do a full remake of the original 
 in the new engine.
  It did have a few good things like crime and gong quite amusing but this affect your castle life 
 and before the 1.3 patch your gong worker turned to crime leaving your castle to get covered in 
 crap literally.
  
  Overall its an OK game but I wouldnt pay $80AU like I did unless u wants to waste money or rich.
 
  
  THIS WAS A COMPLETE LET DOWN FROM THE FIRST what was firefly thinking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  I don't think this is the best game ever but I did enjoy so aspects of the game, I mean I did enjoy 
 the feel of the middle ages that it gave me and I liked managing my settlement and building my 
 castle and I mean I really enjoyed having those banquets in the castle but I just wish they had 
 built on those small cool things to have a better game.
  
  The graphics are ok and the games play in fine (it could be better of course) so all in all what 
 I'm trying to say is it's an ok game that could have definitely been ALOT better, I hope I'll see 
 a Stronghold 3 soon with all that it takes because this series has what it takes to be a great 
 one, it just needs a little tweaking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostagent
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far better than the first its 3d game play is way better than any other game like 
 it ie age of empires. how ever takes some getting use to with all the gone and thifes you really 
 have to know what your doing to go out and start a free build i would recomend just playing the 
 game once and learning ever thing then go have fun with it. but. once you do get it all you will 
 want to do is free play. i would recamend this game to any one who liked age of empires or the 
 first stronghold. i would have to say that its more of a game to just play around than to try to 
 beat in a hurrie. cuz ever time you try youll die.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I sincerely hoped for greatness in this game. For starters, the price was right ($30 bucks or so 
 I believe) , and it looked as though it could be a modern-day interpretation of the greatess medieval 
 game of all time, Lords of the Realm 2.
  
  The concept of gong farmers, chandlers, boiling oil handlers, and falconers made me think that 
 it could even come out AHEAD of the Lords series with it's use of "real life" Middle Age occupations 
 and situations.
  
  Then the problems came.
  
  For starters, the install seemed very large in proportion to the size/graphics of the game (well 
 above 1 GB I believe)
  
  Additionally, the incredibly long introduction sequence was not skippable, and the load time between 
 the end of the intro and the menu screen was also very, very trying on the patience. 
  
  As far as gameplay problems go, it seems to me as if the developers of this game thought that it 
 would be enough to just put good concepts "out there" and thought very little about the delicate 
 and complex innerworking that would be necessary to tie them all together in a fun, challenging, 
 and overall satisfying gaming experience. 
  
  For instance, I can remember a couple of times where I was JUST ABOUT ready to start forming an 
 army or militia of some sorts. 
  
  Then something would happen, something that might be either dismissable or totally unreasonable 
 in another game, and would literally send me back to square 1. 
  
  Maybe a Gong Farmer got arrested, or a pack of wolves killed the ENTIRE POPULATION, or a cow got 
 killed. 
  
  I never did get an army above a couple of spearmen. It wouldn't have mattered anyway though, because 
 the macro-management required just to keep my stronghold afloat took up 99% of the time spent in 
 the game. 
  
  It got to the point where i needed one gong farmer for every 4-5 huts, as well as 1 wheat farm, 
 1 dairy farm, one falconer, etc. Never before have I seen a RTS where you need this many supplemental 
 buildings. You will spend all whatever little income you have making sure there are about 5-6 falconers 
 to clean up all the rats that apparently run rampant in a town of just 20-30 people. 
  
  To conclude, this program had much potential, and it is a shame to see that the developers and 
 publishers of Stronghold 2 thought enough of themselves to completely tear down the RTS cookie-cutter 
 formula and create and new and utterly indecipherable one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 11, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 is actually the third installment of the franchise, and after playing Strionghold: Crusader, 
 there wasn't a game I was looking more forward to! For weeks I watched the game boards, read reviews 
 and wished it would be late April already, when the game was due to come out. The day came when 
 it hit stores and I woke early to get to the nearest EB games to purchase what was sure to be my 
 new love for endless hours of entertainment, alas, it wasn't to be.
  
  Initially the game was almost unplayable, so I set it aside and waited for patches. The game looked 
 great and the premise was there for something very special, but the lack of simple quality that 
 allowed me to immerse myself into Crusader wasn't there. Clearly this was a very quickly thrown 
 together game that lacked any amount of serious beta testing and the disappointment felt can only 
 be summed up with the words: utter letdown.
  
  Stronghold 2 is worthy of your time, if you pick it up for a bargain price, so look for it in a 
 year from now and enter with lower expectations and it will deliver.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickboy
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  --Its basicaly one huge patch, (but its not) , giving the original stronghold a graphics update 
 in great 3d, but gameplay is still pretty much the same, with perhaps added complexity. 
  --Battles and military units arent that great, castle building is a little more satisfying than 
 the previous one but fairly alike.
  --If you liked Stronghold or its expansion, and you have high hopes for this one, you will probably 
 be dissapointed as i was. but if you really got to have a casttle sim, and dont mind worrying about 
 where the towns poop is going the go ahead and RENT it, or maybe get it from a certain Peer to 
 Peer program similar to a pack animal. Because its just not worth buying. With great RTS games 
 already here and more on the way, a castle sim is a thing of the past, unless that dude from SimCity, 
 SimTower, SimGolf,  creates one heck of a simulator (another) . 
 but i wouldnt recommend it for the average RTS gamer, maybe if you like turtling up in your base..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawksolo24
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 8, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  lets get to buisness on this one shall we. First i wanna say im a fan of the stronghold series 
 and ive played over 100 hours for each.
  
  Gameplay: From the previous stronghold series this i think truly stands out from the rest. The 
 new engine, The size of the maps have grown in size consideribly, the amount of people, armies, 
 and buildings has improved alot. You are still capped at the size of your amry but you have to 
 imagine you dont need 1,000 guys to take over a castle. The economy side of the game at first takes 
 you for a ride trying to figure out what does what. the most crazy part for me was soon as you 
 started you found yourself building more guard post and courthouses, and even torture equipment 
 just to get your community to respond right. Which is quite the pan in the caboose. here you are 
 trying to build a army so you dont get attacked, and you have to worry about people stealing literly 
 every 2 minutes. they have added more choices of traps, food, buildings, and even new units. Military 
 side of the game is pretty much the same, you sell all your good's to produce the mass unit army 
 you are dreaming of, Of course this time you cant just make guys cause they charge yah honor points 
 now per unit, Which means now you have to make a kitchen for your king and more types of higher 
 ups food, Which then leads back to more crime lol.. Its a vicious cycle.
  
  graphics: this area has grown alot, From the angles of the last 2 installments, You can now view 
 from many new view points, Zoom has been increased alot. Now keep in mind their is still alot of 
 squares lol, Now im running two 6800 ultras in SLi and i still dont get clean graphics, Some things 
 like huts, fire still look pretty low pixeled. But over all the grpahics are pretty solid.
  
  Ai: the ai in the game was the low point for me, The computer ai would constantly just build 
 a army in one spot then only move 15 guys out of 80 every 5 minutes, so you could almost expect 
 where they are coming from everytime. Traps where very scripted, Once you had a even 8 guys near 
 a rolling log trap they would drop it but if their where 7 you could run bye lol. Voicing was annoying 
 every time you click on your units they would say the same thing over again. 
  
  editor: they have come a long way on the editior, You can now place cell sounds, and even change 
 colors of terrain. Will take more than a few hours to get the hang of it. Once you have mastered 
 the editor this is where i think the game will shine a little brighter.
  
  Overall: the game is defitanly a improvement over that last 2 but i still think they should have 
 taken their time with this one and change a few things. If yah like constantly watching to see 
 if your people are behaving and chopping heads off, then maybe this is your game. If yah like war 
 and want huge army's then you should just go buy rome: total war cause you wont get that action 
 here my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astro_man26
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 3, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  The idea behind the game is actually very interesting. Managing your castle, while battling and 
 keeping your peasants fed and happy could be a whole lot of fun. Unfortunately, this game disapoints 
 and doesn't deliver the promising ideas it put forth. Bad graphics are not so much due to the textures, 
 which are fine, but to the ugly and simplistic animations. Battles look ugly, and the physics is 
 just a notch after plain bad.
  The world is not fully interactive and well built, as peasants and soldiers alike walk through 
 building corners and mountains. When you build your buildings, they just pop out of nowhere, and 
 you 'place' them in the world. Not interesting.....
  
  Crappy gameplay, with ordinary graphics and an annoying voice cast (the music is not so bad though) 
 make for a disapointing game. 
  I should have tried the demo before buying this crap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 24, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game really should have been great, but they ruined it by releasing it way before it was finished. 
 In multiplayer mode, the option to have co-op is listed on the screen, but you can not enable it. 
 Why? Because they didn't finish adding it into the game. To load the game, takes f-o-r-e-v-e-r, 
 even on a high end machine. Game has crashed in 2 out of 5 LAN games so far. 
  
  Let's see... What else... Chat text goes off the screen. If you click on a archer and tell him 
 to attack a unit that is far away, he will just sit around because he is not within firing range; 
 so you have to manually move the archer into range. If you move a trebuchet once, it will automatically 
 unpack itself... And so far, I haven't been able to find a way to pack it back up. 
  
  The game is not all negatives however. The game can actually be enjoyable most of the time, despite 
 its flaws... They are releasing patch 1.2 soon... So I hope they will have fixed the critical problems. 
 Get this game only if you have interest in building castles, and don't mind waiting for a patch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 23, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  Stronghold 2: Man the parapets
  
  If youre not of the age to remember when living in a castle was the day to day business, then 
 Stronghold 2, from firefly studios, will be the closest thing you can get to without literally 
 building a time machine and travelling back in time. Besides what are the odds of the time machine 
 actually working anyway? Trust me, Ive tried and sadly failed.
  
  But for real time strategy gamers and lovers of castles, and perhaps the odd time travelling weirdo, 
 Stronghold 2 will have something for everyone.
  
  Since the original there has been very little in terms of competition for the castle building RTS, 
 well in fact theres been none. While that may have led to a lack lustre game (hows the saying 
 go  A little bit of friendly Competition never hurt anyone) thats simply not the case this 
 time around.
  
  Carrying on where its predecessor left off Stronghold 2 will turn you from a worthless freeman 
 into Lord of your manor. Boasting new and improved graphics, game modes, map editor and a sandbox 
 mode as well as the come to expected new units, buildings and our favourite, more ways to torture 
 those peasants that just wont behave properly.
  
  Game Modes  Variety is a good thing. 
  
  There is something for everyone. That pretty much 
 sums up the variety of game modes on offer. For the gentler folk among us who perhaps think war 
 is barbaric and brutal there is now a campaign that sees you assisting the King restore the lands. 
 Each mission will give you requirements to meet and these can range from the anything between gathering 
 enough food for your own castle while having to stock one of your nearby estates with food as well, 
 before the granary runs out, to gathering enough food fit for a king in order to throw a royal 
 feast thus earning you valuable honour, which Ill talk about later on. So if the gentler, peaceful 
 way of life is for you and you enjoy the economic side of games then the peaceful campaign is right 
 your alley.
  
  Fear not those of you who crave War, for what would be a Stronghold title without the combat I 
 feel so fondly of, after playing it for the first time in the original. So you dont like the economic 
 side of things to much, but prefer to spill some blood on the battlefield, then the second campaign 
 is just for you. Through out this campaign you will follow the story of the missing King and along 
 your way to uncovering the truths of the tale you will of course encounter the Lords that stand 
 in your way. Of course there is only one way to deal with them, war.
  
  Regardless of what campaign you choose, both do take a bit from the others boat so dont go into 
 the peaceful campaign thinking you wont encounter any skirmishing at all and vice versa, youre 
 going to have to do a bit of economic managing to make sure all your army is equipped and ready. 
 The good news is, now lovers of both peaceful and war game types can now choose to play a campaign 
 designed around their play styles.
  
  Both campaigns are relatively long and as youd expect get more and more difficult as you progress. 
 Needless to say playing through either of the campaigns will bring you lots of fun, hmmm I shouldnt 
 have built that there and most definitely a lot of oh well, maybe next time.
  
  Another game mode for you to pit your wits against is Siege, where you find yourself either side 
 of the castle walls with the intent of either defending the castle or attacking it. Playing through 
 this game mode will see you take control of real life castles including Hastings, Pembroke and 
 many others for you to conquer or defend. Siege is most definitely worth a look at as it offers 
 you the chance to take a break from the hard work that can be the campaigns.
  
  The Kingmaker is similar to the siege mode but with one added difference, this time you build your 
 castle before attacking. Its pretty much like playing a multiplayer game but with CPU opponents 
 instead. Choosing from a selection of maps a variety of options is available to you and youll 
 have the ability to add more opponents, change the starting locations and even vary how much gold 
 you start with. One you enter the game the race is on to build a large enough force to destroy 
 your enemy but be sure you dont neglect your defences as the computer will have the same thing 
 on his or her mind, just like you. Once your defences are built, your keep enclosed behind 500 
 tons of stone, your archers are poised, flaming arrows at the ready, siege towers wait patiently 
 for any troops to enter within their range and your lord sits comfortably in his keep enjoying 
 a feast of Pigs, Eels, Geese and other food fit for a king safe in the knowledge hes got 500 plus 
 men waiting, ready to die for him. By all means thats not to say you should wait for the enemy, 
 if you feel your forces are adequate then strike the enemy you shall, venture off into their estates 
 converting their town banners to bare your colours, thus expanding your empire even more giving 
 you the option to send vital supplies to your castle, be it food, weapons or maybe a resource youre 
 running pretty low on.
  
  On my command  Attack!
  
  Attacking the enemy takes a good bit of planning now as new units and wall defences mean you have 
 to plan your route in advance, trying to avoid those rolling logs that quite literally can send 
 half your forces into next week if youre not careful. So youve avoided the logs, and other tower 
 mountable defences such as falling stones.
  
  All your old favourites are there as well such as pitch pits, moats, hounds and the brutal killing 
 pits are as dangerous as ever. So youve navigated past the defences but now youre greeted by 
 stone walls, time to call in the engineers. Siege camps add a lot of dimension to the battle this 
 time around and you will often find yourself calling upon the aid of your engineers. All the usual 
 ways to knock a castle wall down are included, catapults, trebuchets and without forgetting the 
 battering ram which can quite literally leave a wall with a gaping hole in it. 
  
  This is of course without forgetting that on top of these walls, towers and gatehouses youre knocking 
 the proverbial crap out of is in fact men. A well placed group of archers can rip your advancing 
 squad of pikemen to pieces in quite literally seconds and those ladders youve had placed upon 
 their wall, consider them knocked down before your advancing troops can get even near the wall. 
 Did I forget to mention that while all this was going on you may also be contending with the siege 
 towers that contain catapults and ballistas which with the new graphics really do send your troops 
 flying through the air, more on graphics later.
  
  Building units is a bit more difficult this time around, as unlike in the first outing, you can 
 no longer rely on peasants and gold to build yourself the units you require. This time around you 
 require honour, and its honour you gain through various ways. Simple things like feeding your peasants 
 more than one type of food will gain you a little honour that you crave for. While other options 
 are available to you such as feasts, in which your lord sets down to dine in his keep accompanied 
 by some distinguished guests. Depending on how much food you provide will depend on how many guests 
 are invited and in turn how much honour you receive. While honour is needed to build quite a lot 
 of your troops, for example you need to part with 12 gold coins and 2 honour to build an archer, 
 a reasonably good feast can see you obtain up to but not limited to 100 honour. Theres plenty 
 of other ways to obtain the elusive honour, such as building statues of yourself so with a little 
 planning you shouldnt find it too much of a problem acquiring the desired amount.
  
  Graphics  Queue the technical jargon.
  
  As youd expect from a sequel, the graphics have 
 been updated and also some very nice effects have been added, especially in the war department. 
 Without going into the technical jargon that only a small handful of people actually understand 
 Ill just say that yes the graphics have been updated and now your castle looks even more detailed, 
 which I think is what most people will be satisfied with hearing anyway.
  
  The most noticeable change in graphics comes in the form of effects while in the midst of battle. 
 Siege weapons such as catapults and trebuchet along with castle defences such as rolling logs now 
 when they hit a successful hit onto units now causes the units to fly high into the sky a few good 
 few meters away from where they were initially standing, casing either instant death or a fair 
 whack of damage lost to say the least.
  
  Overall the graphics are a nice improvement compared to the originals and are a pleasant view to 
 gaze upon as you look out across your courtyard.
  
  Verdict  So, whats it going to be?
  
  Overall Stronghold 2 is a fine addition to the RTS genre and contains enough to keep both the 
 military and economic enthusiasts entertained.
  
  However it does lack one or two minor things and its these that do bring the rating down. Lack 
 of maps will be a problem to those Stronghold enthusiasts as youll soon find yourself having played 
 through the entire selection.
  
  When its all said and done Stronghold 2 is definitely worth checking out and if you are a fan 
 of the RTS series then you will want to see about adding it to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solah-dax
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 5, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I find it hard to control events during a game, which I must admit, it is challenging.
  
  Stronghold 2 has a lot more more economics than normal RTS have; like crime for which you have 
 to place guard posts, a courthouse, dungeon, torture guild and of course torture equipment of which 
 there is a vast selection. 
  
  Also honour plays an important role in stronghold 2 as you need it to rise up the ranks from free 
 man to Duke, which affects the number of knights you can create. 
  You gain honour by setting up tournaments, feasting (for which you have to set up several more 
 food chains including eel farms) and having lots of different types of food in your granary. 
 
  
  You even have to make candles to run churches, as well as cloth for clothes. 
  
  Perhaps most important is the disease aspect, this can be tricky to handle as well.
  
  The 
 game interface itself is one of the simplest I've ever played, but when it comes to the way you 
 manage things and buildings, Stronghold 2 gets complicated.
  
  For instance, there is a wide variety and ways to crush your foes and defend your castle from your 
 enemies, including rolling burning logs offer your walls and dropping stones on their heads. I 
 find pausing, before making a move, a big help. 
  
  Now you can also conquer or buy neutral or enemy lands as the map is divided into realms. 
  
 
  Even though I am not having too much fun with this game so far, I believe this is a brilliant 
 sequel, no matter what anyone else might say. If you liked the original or just like combat RTS 
 combined with castle sim you will love this game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 5, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  As many who read my reviews know, I don't look for graphics to judge a game. In fact games like 
 this one intrigue me since, in my view, they should make up for in gameplay what lacks in graphics...
 
  
  Stronghold 2 gives it a squire's attempt, when a Knight was needed to do the job. FireFly studios 
 seemed to really rush this title, or at least it feels that way. After playing for a while it becomes 
 pretty apparent that the publishers pushed out what easily needed another 2 months work.
  
  If it weren't for the bugs, and maybe some touches on interface and implementation, Stronghold 
 2 could have been a solid title this year, even as a budget class game. But, budget game or no, 
 the bugs that Gamespot themselves noticed in pre-release should in no way, shape, or form still 
 exist in the release product. 
  
  The gameplay would be great if it weren't so buggy. The castle building, watching the people go 
 about their chores, going inside the buildings to see whats going on, its all actually quite fun. 
 But, with its predecessors being stronger releases than this one, its hard not to notice the faults 
 as you play through.
  
  I was not a fan of the series, in fact, I played it completely backwards, starting with SH2 and 
 finishing with the first set. I found them to be a great deal more fun and polished. 
  
  When all is said and done, SH2 is worth a look if the price goes down to $10, but other than that, 
 developers need to learn that products this buggy come release should not be rewarded, especially 
 when other budget bin developers have released some awesome products given their predicaments, 
 this really is no excuse.
  
  Graphics are sub-par and grainy, but they fit the game. Sound is probably the game's most rewarding 
 feature. Other than that, the bugs will drive you nuts before long.
  
  worth a look at $10 or less, otherwise you may feel bitter at paying so much for an unfinished 
 product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I found Stronghold 2 to be fun but I also found it to get boring very, very fast. 
  
  The game seemed more like SimCity medieval style then a combat RTS, which I may have missed the 
 boat completely on what the game was about before buying it.
  
  For castle building game it is very fun and interesting. The peasants move very slow and you must 
 understand the tech tree before doing anything, which I found refreshing since you shouldnt be 
 able to make blankets without wool! 
  
  The graphics are great. While I noticed one review saying there was a framerate issue I have yet 
 to experience this myself. I am running a Pentium 4 3.06 processor, 1 GB of RAM and have an nVidia 
 6800 GT video card. Ive experienced no problems with performance in any aspect of the game.
  
  The quality is very good. The peasants say some funny things but that gets a bit repetitive.
 
  
  You are in to medieval times and castle building is your thing this is for you. If you want a combat 
 intensive game I would suggest something more like Rome Total War or Warhammer 40,000. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrajch
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 1, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I must say, I was really excited for nothing about Stronghold 2. The game does add alot of features 
 that I love in my castle sims, but, due to the poor framerate on any system I have seen it on you 
 rarely get to enjoy the new items and features. Someone surely should have caught the poor framerate 
 issue as it appears to be a problem in the beginning of the campaign. Other then that the sound 
 and graphics are not at all impressive which leaves me at a loss with the framerate issue. The 
 sound acting is poor and the storyline is weak at best. But if you just love to play castle this 
 is a good game. It will surely be better if they release a patch soon that solves the framerate 
 issue. My advice, is to wait until a new patch comes out so you can actually enjoy playing the 
 game.... and by patch I mean beyond 1.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seneardon
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  A great improvement over the first title even with the bugs. If the thought of some seriouse issues 
 scares you, wait another week or so for the next patch before buying. The developers "got it" in 
 terms of new features... more strategy and dare I say it slightly "sim like" features in the context 
 of a RTS. Nice balance between the different aspects of the game. That said, some of the gamepplay 
 bugs (Broken justice system) are VERY inexusable, and speak very poorly of the publisher... as its 
 clear the developers knew the game had problems and were forced to wrap it up. I must say, this 
 latest official review from gamespot , when combined with other recent off-the-wall reviews is 
 starting to make me question this sites proffesionalism when it comes to the review staff. At worse 
 this title deserved a low seven...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_altan
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 29, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Did Stronghold 2 deserve the rating it got on Gamespot? Honestly, no; it deserved something way 
 worse, even harsh - anything to warn the consumer about this wreck of a game. I can't believe I 
 wasted $60 hard-earned dollars on what promised to be a 'fun' experience.
  
  GAMEPLAY: I run an AMD Athlon 64 2.4 GHz system, complete with 1 GB of RAM - way over the reccomended 
 specifications. Yet, for some reason, the game is very choppy with an inconsistent framerate. If 
 I want to move the screen in any direction just a little, I will end up moving it to the edge of 
 the map. When I try to rotate the camera, I end up zoomed in on a plot of land. Yes, this affects 
 the gameplay, especially in siege warfare. Stronghold 2 is full of major bugs, too - not just bugs 
 that are easily overlooked - bugs that not only crash the game, but crash YOUR ENTIRE SYSTEM. In 
 the passed two days, that has happened to me at least five or six times.
  
  GRAPHICS: Don't let the images on the box fool you. Stronghold 2 possess a 'soft' graphical feel, 
 making the entire game look fuzzy. Even my ATI Radeon 9800 Pro can't work miracles. When you have 
 a large number of troops grouped together, they will run into each other and look like one heaping 
 mess. Units occassionally walk through buildings. The only decent graphical standpoint is when 
 you zoom up really close.
  
  SOUND: The sound is okay. While the music is fit for the medieval setting, it is just not satisfying. 
 After an hour or so, it gets repetitive. All the voices seem poorly done, and each character says 
 only one or two things. When I first heard the voice of the narrator, I figured he was trying to 
 convince me that he wasn't an idiot, as opposed to telling the story.
  
  VALUE: Is this game worth 50-60 bucks? No. 40? No. 30? Maybe. 20? That's more like it. When I usually 
 get a new game, I am all-rilled-up about it, eager to play. Instead, I find myself here, writing 
 my first-ever review on a game that should still be in beta. Hopefully, EB games will trade it 
 in for something that isn't crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veejer
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 28, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is great Stronghold fun, but I can't get beyond 1.5 hours of gameplay before the game 
 bugs somehow. Various different ways but every one made it unplayable. So, I start over and it 
 happens again. Four times in a row, all different bugs.
  
  One time, my villagers got stuck coming out of the Keep. They were stacked up at the doorstep doing 
 their animations.
  
  Another time, my choppers all stopped working and some rode their carts to out-of-the-way places.
 
  
  A third time, I was stockpiling wood into the default stockpile, but it wasnt available for me 
 to build with. I think this happened a second time but I resolved it by deleting the stockpile 
 and building it closer to the keep.
  
  I wish I hadn't bought it yet. It's pointless to play, yet difficult not to play it, since it's 
 here and uptil it bugs out, it's fun.
  
  Good try, Firefly and Take2, but you're not on my 'best devs' list. Those games I buy right away. 
 Like Ensemble Studios among a few others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 is a very good idea of a game and the sequel is better then the first stronhold. I 
 bought this game 2 weeks ago and have not stopped playing it since. Correction, I have not VOLUNTARILY 
 stopped playing it since. Even though this game was built very good and had a very solid idea the 
 people at Firefly Studios created a very big problem with crashes. Not to say that it crashes all 
 the time but i have yet to play through a single player or multiplayer game without it crashing 
 on me ONCE. I held this review off until the patch came out and since the patch is out here's my 
 review.
  
  The gameplay in this game takes a bit to get used to and may require a person to read the manual 
 a couple times over to get a real good handle on it, but once you do, you're solid. The one good 
 thing that Firefly Studios did was it made it simple enough to play, they didn't try to confuse 
 you with multiple buttons to push for multiple actions or send you off to the middle of nowhere 
 right in the middle of hell. So a big thumbs up to Firefly Studios on that aspect.
  
  The graphics though get a smaller thumbs up because as long as you keep the camera zoomed out the 
 graphics look spectacular. Though on the other hand the graphics don't look that bad zoomed in 
 they just don't look very polished, grainy actually. Also if you can bare the mediocre graphics 
 while zoomed in you will easily enjoy the fully animated workers or peasants that do what they 
 do. The only true reason to zoom in is to watch your loser criminals get punished by a torturer 
 after your judge gets done ignoring there plea. 
  
  The sound in this game gets a very good score because lets face it, there wasn't much to worry 
 about. The music is from the medieval period which is still heard today and the rest of the sounds 
 are birds, wolves, people and water. Like i said, wasn't much to worry about they just had to go 
 out to times square for a few hours and press record and they would have had it all.
  
  Now the campaigns in this game are quiet fun if you choose the war route and can save constantly 
 in case of another crash, which is inevitable until a better patch comes out. The wars are quiet 
 fun and filled with anxiety, nervousness and laughter... yes i said laughter because once you know 
 you will win dumping the rocks over the wall and watching them fall on the unsuspecting victims 
 is just too fun. The peace route is a bit boring but i urge you to play it first because it will 
 take you through the makings of a very good kingdom and how to make one. Now even though the peace 
 route is boring don't think you wont have problems, the game will send wolves, small raid parties 
 or other mischevious people to come and cause some fun for you, but there's no worry as long as 
 you have enough archers and knights you'll be perfectly fine.
  
  So for anybody who likes castles, medieval war, and torturing criminals please have fun and go 
 out and buy this game. Though until Firefly Studios brings out a later patch (still crashing on 
 v1.1) then i suggest you wait to get a coupon for $10 off. So have fun my mere peasants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 does not follow the standard recipe of other games in the strategy genre, instead 
 it walks away from the standards and dares to create something unique. The single player campaign 
 is split in two parts, peace and combat. In the peace campaign you have to build your stronghold 
 from the ground up, while keeping your citizens happy. You have to deal with crime, rats, fires, 
 and many other things, because if you don't, citizens will leave your stronghold. Likewise, if 
 you keep them happy, more people will join you. There are plenty of buildings to choose from when 
 building your city. Each of them have a different effect on your citizens.
  
  The combat campaign consists of both building up your stronghold, creating military units and attacking 
 your enemy. A storymode is present in this campaign which introduces several characters. It has 
 an on-going story, which makes it more interesting. The combat part in Stronghold 2 is very different 
 from what you see in regular strategy games, it focuses more on strategy instead of creating the 
 biggest amount of troops to win the game. It is really cool to see your balistas smash a hole in 
 your enemy's wall (especially because the walls have real-time physics!) , or setting his buildings 
 on fire. You can choose from a huge amount of tactics both when defending and attacking in this 
 game, and you have a big variety of units to choose from. You can also place a lot of cool defensive 
 buildings and traps for your enemy to fall into.
  
  Stronghold 2 is packed with the best graphics of the genre. The textures and models look great. 
 All the buildings and units have bump-mapping, which adds a lot of detail to them. Many shaders 
 are present in the game, which makes the water in particular look great. The biggest thing when 
 it comes to the graphic are the animations. The models walk incredible realistic as you can literaly 
 see them take every footstep. The amount of animations each model perform is high, as you can see 
 them in detail doing a lot of different things.
  
  The sound in the game is also nice. You can click on different peasants and hear them talk about 
 their current mood. During the game a royal advisor will also tell you how your kingdom is doing. 
 In the single player campaign there is also a lot of dialogue between the different characterss. 
 Listening to old fashioned English being spoken is quite different and amusing. The music also 
 adds a nice touch to the game and is relaxing.
  
  This game is a must get. It adds a refreshing and new style to the old and overused standard strategy 
 games out on the market. The game also comes with a map editor, so you can create your own maps 
 to play with in single or multiplayer. The only negative I have to say about it is that there are 
 a few clipping errors (units walking through walls) , and the multiplayer part of the game is not 
 enjoyable because it has too few options and some rather nasty bugs (the game crashes back to the 
 main menu after playing it for a certain time) . While this might ruin your multiplayer experience 
 (until the developers decides to fix the crashes) , you are sure to have a lot of fun with this 
 game in single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - It might take awhile for people new at the game to get used to it, if they don't do 
 the tutorial. Playing Stronghold and it's expansion Stronghold: Crusader it didn't take me long 
 to get used it. The hardest part of the game to master is the economy and your castle duties/problems. 
 Economy for me is managing your food and raw materials, selling/buying of it, and deciding how 
 to use it. For example: you need wheat farms for wheat, and wheat for bread, and bread for food. 
 The lord (which is you) has to worry about honor, popularity, crime, etc. Honor can be used to 
 get knights and buy new terrorities which are like towns. Popularity is how the people love you, 
 if it goes below 50% you lose citizens. 
  
  The war part is the easiest for me at least. Castle building, defense, offense are the obvious 
 things. When you are assaulting and being assaulted using weakinesses in castles is needed. Unlike 
 other RTS games rushing doesn't really work. You do build a lot of troops to attack but sending 
 them straight at a castle is stupid. Siege weapons, tunnelers, and the certain mix of troops is 
 the way to go. It seems more of a sim then a RTS at times. 
  
  In the warfare-centered campaign (Path of War) you have two big things to worry about. Economy 
 and of course the Warfare part. The economic-centered campaign (Path of Peace) focuses mostly on 
 the economic part of the game. I suggest doing the Path of Peace if you haven't played the first 
 game. Then after you beat the PoP you got the economy down for the PoW. 
  
  Graphics - For an RTS it has great graphics, as good as any other one of the market as of now. 
 Zooming in doesn't look good but isn't extremely blocky. You won't be zooming in that much anyways. 
 Looking into your keep and other building is very nice. 
  
  Sound - Nothing to write home about here. Your peasants say things but gets old after awhile. Music 
 is well done and fits the theme of the game. 
  
  Value - The two campaigns are lengths enough but don't have too much replay value. The economy 
 and warfare parts are fun if you know what you're doing. Haven't played Multiplayer yet so can't 
 comment on that.
  
  Tilt - At first the bug where very annoying and frustrated the hell out of me. The patch came out 
 fast and fixed most things. This isn't a major breakthrough in RTS but is a nice change. If you 
 don't want to worry about economy, citizens happiness, and just want battle SH2 isn't for you. 
 Might be overly complicated to people new at it but adds a lot of depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 24, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 is another in a small line of "castle simulation" real time strategy games. As a constant 
 in the series, equal emphassis is placed on both keeping your peasents happy, building up strong 
 defences, and waging war.
  
  Stronghold 2 makes some great refinements to the game, while managing to keep it generally the 
 same experience as previous titles in the series, albeit with a much more engrossing graphics engine.
 
  
  For those unfamiliar with the series, the gameplay is a mix of a game like Sim City and Warcraft 
 mixed into one. When you start the game, you'll have a keep with a few peasents waiting outside 
 of it. You'll then have to place a stockpile to hold supplies, and a granary to hold food. Then 
 you must move on to producing some of the basic things the castle needs to operate, namely food 
 and wood. You'll need to place a sawpit quickly, so you can continue to harvest wood that will 
 allow you to build most of the buildings in the game. As well, you'll want to build a few farms 
 or hunter's posts to bring in food for your peasents.
  
  From there, the game continues to expand. There is a heap of buildings available, and a solid array 
 of defenses and walls to erect as well. You'll find as your castle grows that you might have a 
 rat problem, or a waste problem. So to counter these problems, you can create gong pits to dispose 
 of the waste, and falcon posts to kill off the rats. Unfortunately, nobody really wants to work 
 a gong pit, and their workers often turn to a life of crime, raiding the local granary. To counter 
 this, you'll then have to create some torture devices, a courthouse, and an executioners guild 
 to train people in the ways of getting rid of criminals.
  
  And you need to do all this while building up castle defences and generating an army, too! To build 
 armies, you need free peasents, the apropriate weapons available, and some gold and honor. Gold 
 is made by taxing your people, while honor is gained by treating them well - erecting an inn that 
 serves beer, a chapel, holding feasts, etc. To create the weapons needed, you'll have to create 
 specialized workers who will take the necessary bare componenets needed from your stockpile and 
 then turn them into weapons to drop off into your armory. (Example - a fletcher will take wood 
 and turn it into a bow or crossbow)
  
  As well as maintaining an army to fight off invaders, you can also build trap-like devices to assit 
 your troops in fighting off invaders. Fake castle entrances, pits of spikes, torches to light arrows 
 on fire with, tubs of rocks, a pile of wood, and of course, the always popular moat and drawbridge. 
 Of course, you also have the more standard varying sized towers and walls to station your troops 
 on, too.
  
  The whole time, you'll be totally engrossed by the games excellent graphics engine. Watching your 
 peasents on one side of the castle harvesting ore and carrying it to your stockpile while some 
 sheep herders wander around with their little mutton buddies, it really sucks you into castle life. 
 During battles, watching all the seige equipment work and soldiers running around, its great. However, 
 the sound is quite minimal, just generic dings here and there, which kind of detracts from the 
 game when your soldiers are wacking on somebody and not making any noise. but hey, at least it 
 looks gorgeous.
  
  Stronghold 2 has several game modes, 2 of which are campaigns. The first campaign is more focused 
 on keeping your people happy, while the second is more focused on raising an army and fighting 
 wars. Through both campaigns you expand your castle, aquire new counties to control, and try desperately 
 to balance your peasents happiness and armies strength. As well as the two campaigns, we also have 
 Siege mode, letting you recreate battles at real castles, "kingmaker" mode, which is basically 
 a skirmish like most RTS game have, pitting several players against eachother, a free build mode, 
 where you can build a castle without worrying about invaders, and of course, up to 8 person multiplayer. 
 Also included is a map editor.
  
  Stronghold 2 is a feature filled game, the only downfall is that you cant select the difficulty 
 level of the campaigns, and in some cases the missions can get quite difficult. Also, all the management 
 could be a bit too much for most RTS fans. All in all, Stronghold 2 is a good solid game, but it 
 probably isnt a game everyone is going to end up loving. If you like management games and RTS games, 
 give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  If you are tired of RTS games where the only point is to click your mouse as fast as you can and 
 build the same squad of units faster than your opponent, then this is your game.
  
  Instead of concentrating on big battles and rushing thru epochs, this game emphasizes placement 
 of buildings, establishing a strong economy and strategic attacks.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and the game runs very smooth.
  
  A good thing is that you can choose 
 a peaceful campaign or a more aggressive one, so it will appeal people that want to focus on economy 
 and building and to the ones that like more action.
  
  The only complaint I have about this game is the fact that is a bit on the hard side after the 
 3rd or 4th campaign mission. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 24, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  After all the hype and craze I got my hands on Stronghold 2, expecting something extraordinary 
 and fun. What I got however was a bland and redundant base building game with little strategy.
 
  
  Upon starting up the game, I was greeted with a 2 minute long load screen, how exciting it is to 
 wait, specially with high end system specs, turns out this game has more memory leaks than Microsoft's 
 windows 98. if the memory leaks we'rent enough, getting 20 frames per second in a game that looks 
 like it was made in the year 2000 really put the icing on the cake. The maps are the size of a 
 football field, there's clipping everywhere and the units walk around as if they're blindfolded.
 
  
  The campaign missions are some of the most terribly designed atrocities ever seen in a RTS. Mission 
 descriptions are lacking, unit managment is harder than picking up a grain of salt with beer goggles 
 and overall flow of storyline is non existant. I could go on forever on how much of a disappointment 
 this game is, but then again I've got better things to do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 is a worthy successor to the series. The gameplay is very much like the first Stronghold, 
 but the economy is even more in depth. You can tell that the developers had a passion for this 
 game, and it shines through everywhere you look.
  
  I will start by saying that Stronghold 2 is a bit of a hybrid -- it's not a classic city-building 
 game like Caesar, Pharaoh, etc., but it's also different from your standard RTS in a lot of ways.
 
  
  A big part of this is the economic model. Peasants form the backbone of your kingdom. If they aren't 
 happy, they start leaving. No peasants means no labor and no troops for your military. Everything 
 in the game ties into everything else. A properly run keep runs like a well-oiled machine. But 
 if you get a fly in the ointment, it doesn't just affect one area, it affects everything. Because 
 of this, you can get caught up in a snowball effect.
  
  For instance, if your peasants get unhappy about sanitation issues, they'll continue on for a while. 
 If you don't take care of the problem, eventually they'll start leaving which will start pulling 
 workers away from your other industries. The happier they are, though, the faster they'll come 
 into your kingdom. This isn't so important if you're just looking for labor, but if you're trying 
 to build your military, you want fresh troops as fast as possible.
  
  There's also another concept - honor. You generate honor in a variety of ways, but you cannot neglect 
 it because many of your troops require honor to produce. This is yet another example of everything 
 dove-tailing neatly together.
  
  From a strategic viewpoint, Stronghold requires you to think about tactics. It's not just a matter 
 of being able to outnumber the enemy - a relatively small group of archers can hold off a much 
 larger force if they have a tactical advantage. Siege weapons (both to storm a castle and to repel 
 invaders) also provide a level of consideration. Poor planning will result in your troops being 
 slaughtered, while putting into action a carefully engineered plan is very satisfying.
  
  In conclusion, Stronghold is a Real Time Strategy with an intense economy that also requires strategic 
 management. The attention to detail is superb - as an example, you can enter in your name (Lady 
 Anne, in my case) and every time you load the game you will HEAR the narrator say "Greetings, Lady 
 Anne!". It's little touches like that that draw you into the game and keep you there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealFrek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  System Tested on:
  
  ASUS A7N8X-Deluxe
  AMD 3000+ (overclocked to roughly 3400+ speeds)
  1 Gig Corsair XMS Ram @ 420 effective MHz
 
  BFG 6800GT OC (overclocked to 390/1.2 GHz)
  
  Difficulty: Comparable to other games such as Rise of Nations or Rome: Total War the difficultly 
 factor is a little bit higher. You simply cannot approach this game like other RTSs where you 
 just box click a bunch of units and attack. Nor will sheer numbers give you an advantage if youre 
 on the offensive. In fact in the latest patch released the developers noted that they turned down 
 the difficulty of some of the missions in the campaign. This game requires a little bit more thought 
 than your average RTS.
  
  Learning Curve: Highly subjective but if you are an experienced RTS player you can expect to have 
 a good understanding of the game within 30 minutes. After an hour or so of play you will also begin 
 to adjust to the unique style of play.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10  Unlike other RTSs on the market there is a huge amount of options when it comes 
 to how you want to play Stronghold 2. The main campaigns in the game are broken into the Path 
 of Peace and the Path of War. Unlike just about every other RTS on the market there is an entire 
 campaign for you to play through that focuses on just building your economy. You dont have to 
 fight against an enemy other than to protect your peasants from wolves and bears. It is actually 
 a lot of fun to play through this mode because the game has a very deep economy system with so 
 many options that I couldnt possibly list them here or go into detail about them.
  
  The Path of War as you might guess not only calls for building a successful economy but you also 
 will have to fend off large invading forces as well as do some invading your self. Its also important 
 to note that unlike other RTS games on the market the AI simply doesnt build up forces and mindlessly 
 attack you. The AI also seems to be very good at locating where the weak point is to attack. That 
 said though the one flaw with the AI is that once they breach your defenses they seem to make a 
 bee-line for your lord (killing your lord essentially means you lose) . So its important to make 
 sure that you have your lord well protected.
  
  Other game modes include a free build mode where you can build your economy and military until 
 your hearts content and then you choose when you want an enemy to attack you. There is also a full 
 game map/scenario editor that is extremely customizable. You can expect the scenario building community 
 to be quite happy with the options available and expect there to be lots of custom maps to play 
 with for download from fan sites. And if that wasnt enough there is also a Kingmaker mode where 
 you control several castles at the same time while trying to defeat the AI enemies.
  
  It is also important to note that unlike other RTSs on the market, Stronghold 2 is unique in that 
 there is a great amount of detail in the economy side of the game. It truly is a castle sim as 
 well as an RTS game. You can spend a great deal of time in the game just watching what your peasants 
 do. I really cannot stress this enough that the economy side of the game is unlike any other RTS 
 on the market and you will end up being sucked into occasionally watching some of the events going 
 on in your castle. You can hold feasts in your keep, jousting tournaments, hold court and sentence 
 your peasants to a punishment of your choice.
  
  The game also features a lot of very cool things like releasing burning logs onto your enemies 
 as the approach your walls. You can also lay pitch traps, man-traps, war dog cages and a few other 
 surprises. Personally I found it to be a lot more fun on the defending side of the game but it 
 is worth noting there is a huge amount of ways to go about attacking a defended keep. There are 
 a multitude of specific siege weapons to choose from.
  
  Graphics: 8/10  The graphics arent going to make you stare with your jaw open at awesome eye-candy 
 but they also arent going to repulse you either. If you have a nice system to be able to turn 
 up the graphics options the graphics are quite appealing. All the different peasant units have 
 a very distinctive look them as well as the military units. You are able to zoom in on the action 
 and you will note that Firefly did a very nice job of putting in the small details. Comparatively 
 speaking to other RTSs you wont find the graphics lacking.
  
  Sound: 8/10  There is a lot of varied sounds for just about everything that can go on in your 
 castle life. A few of the sounds though can get irritating such as the apple sound. There is 
 enough variance in sound though to make your castle feel alive. There is even varied random things 
 your peasants will say to you when you click on them. They might comment on the tax rate or they 
 might simply make a comment on what they are doing at that moment. Some of the things they say 
 are quite funny as well.
  
  Value: 10/10  Seeing as how Stronghold 2 does not even retail at the usual full price of $49.99 
 I simply cannot state how amazing the value of this game is. It has a lot more replay-ability to 
 it than most other RTSs on the market. You get 2 very distinct campaigns to play though as well 
 as an endless variety in customization for skirmishes, including a full map/scenario editor, a 
 "free build" mode, as well as the "Kingmaker" mode. The play options are simply far and above any 
 other RTS because Stronghold 2 is also a castle sim as well as an RTS game.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 9/10  Stronghold 2 is very addictive and offers a wide variety of play options. 
 This is definitely one RTS game that no fan of the genre should miss. It features a depth that 
 most RTS games miss due their focus solely on the fighting part of the game. It is also a lot 
 of fun to just play the free build mode and try to design an invincible castle and then put it 
 to the test by choosing an invasion. If you really enjoyed games like Empire Earth or Rise of Nations 
 then it would be a shame for you to miss out on Stronghold 2 due to its much deeper game play options. 
 It truly is a game that has advanced the genre in terms of the economy side of it. After playing 
 Stonghold 2 you will forever be spoiled to go back and play an RTS such as Rise of Nations.
  
  In my books any future RTS games that I pick up will be compared to Stronghold 2.
  
  As 
 a final note I did not get into the Multiplayer aspect of the game but it should be noted that 
 Stronghold 2 offers full support for playing Multiplayer games over the Internet or a LAN.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Its been quite some time since the original Stronghold game had been released. Some say the original 
 has gained an almost cult following. No doubt thats because of the wonderful gameplay this series 
 has to offer. Stronghold has always been known for great graphics, magnifcant sound, and gameplay 
 features that leave you craving for more. But enough of the roses talk, its on to the review to 
 see just how great this game really is. Does this castle sim shape up to its "medival" predesccor?
 
  
  The first thing your introduce to when the game loads up is the amazing sound score. As soon as 
 the opening movie plays, you know you're in for a real treat. The narrator's booming voice tends 
 to send chills down one's spine. Of course, this also holds a backseat to the actual gameplay ambiance. 
 All the sounds going on in your workforce are so intricatly done it leaves you spellbound. I constantly 
 find myself dazing off into a half-dream hearing the clanking of picks, or the bows of hunters 
 firing and the screaching of the animals they kill. I find that just the sound alone makes the 
 game worth its price tag.
  
  After you're finally past the sound, you realize just how beautiful this game is. While it suffers 
 from a few FPS bugs that are getting fixed, it truly stands up there with some of our more graphically 
 inclined. The water, people, and landscapes all add to this sureal sense of immersion. Stronghold 
 2 even offers many different camera angles, my favorite being "The Lord's Eye". I can't tell you 
 how often I sit on top of me' castle watching my pesants toyal in their little jobs. It makes you 
 feel almost god-like.
  
  The final thing that sets in is the actual gameplay. There are many different styles of gameplay 
 ranging from peace mode, which allows you to build without worry of enemies. There is also war 
 mode that allows you to build with well..... enemies. There are three different kinds of styles 
 within these modes. A story simulation, free build, kingmaker, and a few others. There are also 
 a few novelty features, such as naming your king. Whenever you load up your game the little avatar 
 at the menu keeps saying, "Hello [Insert name here] ." It actually makes you feel like your part 
 of the game. The multiplayer is also outstanding. While not as good as singleplayer, it adds many 
 more hours of enjoyment. There is also a map builder, which allows you to play your own custom 
 maps.
  
  Overall, this game is a truly engrossing experience. While the learning curve is a little steep, 
 once you get into the game theres no getting out. I've only had for two days, and already I'm hooked. 
 This game is truly a recommended buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game has very much improved from the old versio "Crusader". The 3D environment makes the game 
 totally stunning in every aspect of the game, it enables you to see a fully effect of anything 
 while viewing the 3D object, This is a game to remember by me, i adore it from its previous game. 
 There are Many Many buildings in which to select from in your choice, only to do this you might 
 need for Example : Wood or Stone
  
  For this you need a Woodcuter and 
  Stone cuter which you can happily
  watch how they cut it.
  Overall the game is stunning, although 
 there are a few mispached bugs in it but deeply i enjoy this game and would recommend for Medieval 
 Strategy players
  
  =P ** A game to remember **
  
  Out of 5 stars i give this game,
  * * * * stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmband21088
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  If you loved Stronghold and Crusader then you have to get this game. Its the same as Stronghold 
 but tweaked up a bit. Many new buildings, chains, units and better gameplay.
  
  The new 3d engine helps the game a lot. Not only does it look better it helps you to see where 
 ever you want in the castle unlike the old 2d engine. 
  
  It sounds good. The different unit chants and cheers are cool and funny sometimes. The sounds of 
 the game are also good. The music is also one of my favorite parts. There is some music from the 
 orginal Stronghold, as well as new music. It really helps to get a Medieval feel to the game.
 
  
  I do find it a little harder than the first. There is more to keep up with with all the different 
 buildings and crime. Make sure you keep up with gong and rats and things like that. You have to 
 keep you popularity up. But its real fun.
  
  Must get for Stronghold fans, I suggest this game for any pc gamers. Its good. And for only $40 
 its not a bad deal. 
  
  9.6 may be a little high but when i thought about it, I could not see any reason for going lower.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyg_20
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have played only a limited amount of time but wanted to write a review for those of you curious 
 whether to get it or not.
  
  The game plays, like the last one, but way more indepth, they have removed some of the old stuff, 
 but not much. (just minor things, like how the inn has no innkeeper to run the barrels around)
 
  
  One bug i must point out that is realling bugging me: Be careful when sending supplies with carts, 
 as i have found that sometimes the first load, will just back out, then disapear, taking the supplies 
 with it, then the cart takes another load. I find it only does it once. so i donno make your first 
 load small maybe.
  
  Some additions that i noted:
  Hunters have unlimited game, no more trying to manage those deer, they will either go get the deer, 
 or a constant amount of birds fly in nice and close to your hunters posts, and the dogs take the 
 birds right to the granery, easy food producting, and cheap.
  
  Granaries now hold unlimited food, this is useful, i find myself with a huge granery all the time.
 
  
  The carts are a lot of fun. you can specialize some estates to certain resources, then run them 
 all to your main land. It can be difficult protecting them though sometimes.
  
  The crime system is cool, and fun to watch, but you dont get to choose what punishment they get, 
 and even when you have a firepost available, it can take a while to capture, have a trial and execute, 
 so you may need to build an extra gong farmer during these times, (i find gong farmers go to crime 
 a lot lol, not a surprise though, what a job)
  
  The honor system, is well, amazing, best part of the game if you ask me. I thought though that 
 knights would be more rare, and cost more armor, but they are only 25 honor, an archer is 2 honor, 
 the knights also cost 100 gold and the basic weapons, but if you have a good economy and good honor 
 coming in, you can get quite a few knights, i dont know if there is a cap on them, but i just made 
 8 and ran them around killing with my lord. 
  
  More on the honor system. I found one thing a bit annoying. The lord was always feasting it seemed, 
 the church gives lots of honor, but he only attended once, i donno why he wont go more, i also 
 cant get him to go to joust (or bet on them like they say you can) or go to the traveling fair. 
 feasts happen every 6 months or so, and in fast gametime thats fairly often.
  
  Theres many more additions to the game, including many new unit types which are very interesting 
 and can play in many cool strategies. But i could write 10 pages of my thoughts so far on the game, 
 but i wont. Onto the general comments.
  
  
  Gameplay: As i was mentioning before, its amazing, the gameplay is what shines in this game. The 
 campaign is quite good, im not too far in yet, but enough to see its a great story, with nice cut 
 scenes, interesting plot too, and the missions are planned out well, with good difficulty. I havent 
 yet tested the AI in skirmish so i cant comment on that. But in my battles ive done, one notable 
 addition is that archers will fire automatically on anyone that fires on them, and it shows you 
 with X's over all their heads, its cool to see them attacking people on the walls on their own. 
 The estates part is neat too, with carts and all, very useful.
  
  Graphics: Well as you may have heard, the game is a bit buggy, this is one of the problems, the 
 game lags pretty bad. If i turn off all background programs and such, it runs alright, but even 
 so on recommended quality, only at about 20fps, sometimes dropping to 10fps, which isnt tooo sweet 
 lol. as far as looks though, the game looks fantastic, lots and lots of detail throughout the game, 
 especially cool to zoom in and see people working, or people on trial, or your lord feasting and 
 dancing. Hopefully they improve the lag a bit though.
  
  Sound: Well im not much of a sound guy, but so far no complaints here. The music fits, the voices 
 of the guys is a bit annoying on some, but adds to the atmosphere. One thing is if you click , 
 say , a peasant, and stay on him, he will keep repeating what he said first, which is really annoying. 
 The cut scenes are great, voices fit well, the guy with the lisps is great.
  
  Value: well i donno how long the campaign is, but with a skrimish, multiplayer, and editor, free 
 build, economic campaign, etc etc, i can see people playing this game a long time. Its just plain 
 fun once you learn how to work everything, and can get past the bugs.
  
  
  Well overall when i first started playing, i wasnt too impressed, a little worried in fact but 
 as i play, the game is growing on me, im discovering new things, and learning to deal with the 
 additions, as well as deal with the bugs. This game will definitelly stay part of my collection 
 for quite a while. If you loved the last stronghold, you will most definitely like this game. If 
 you have never played a castle sim before, well maybe wait for the demo, see if its for you or 
 not, hopefully they will fix the bugs soon too. (Please note these are just my first impressions 
 after playing last night and today. )
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zef82
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  This game is better in every way than the first stronghold. great Job. The battles are fun all 
 the units are great, the new honor system is cool. I still can't figure out how to place bets on 
 jousting tourneys but no big deal. Building a castle is so much better now witht he 3d engine. 
 i didnt think I would like the upgrade since i tend to enjoy playing those 2d graphics but it works 
 well. 
  
  A couple things I don't like: No stats screen when you finish a game, just a picture saying victtory 
 and click done. I loved this about Age of empires, or any game that has your stats at the end for 
 that matter. They needed this! 
  
  Either I can't figure it out or you cant choose to customize your emblem. I dont like lions! 
 
  
  Honestly, if you liked the first stronghold you'll love this so much more. I had to delete the 
 old one of my computer to retire it because I know I'll never play it again after this one. I can't 
 wait to see what new expansions they will make! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This is far more than a real-time strategy game and really fed my need for economics. This game 
 has it all and more. 
  The new 3D buildings in the game are massive and impressive. With Zoom feature you can really get 
 a grasp of whats going on inside your community. Some of the actions peons take are quite humorous.
 
  
  Graphics and sound are solid and I could find little fault with either. 
  
  The combat has been redone perfectly and the battles seemed exteamly large! I always feel like 
 im on that fine line of control vs out of control. Which is really where I like to feel in this 
 type of game, borderline chaos. One new feature I like is the real need for seige equipment now 
 that infantry units can no longer damage your stone walls. This was a real pet peeve of mine in 
 the original series.
  
  The control of your peasants has become more of a challenge and if you let your guard down they'll 
 be stealing from your stockpile. This can become a real challenge when your in a skirmish with 
 a bordering enemy. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
