-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rebelwithoutapulse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Zombies.
 Terrific sense of humor.
 Superb speech, screams, and moans.
 Great soundtrack.
 Exciting gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Painfully short.
 Great soundtrack is underused.
 System requirements seem a little high.
 Keyboard and mouse controls don't do the job.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,072 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Wideload
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 21, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eating the brains of the living to form a massive army of the undead is extremely satisfying, often 
 hilarious, and, unfortunately, almost painfully brief. 

  When you think about it, zombies have a pretty limited skill set. But the things they choose to 
 get themselves into they're usually really, really good at. Take eating brains, for example. Zombies 
 eat brains like no one else can. It's like they were born to eat brains. Eating brains is the primary 
 activity in Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pause, a third-person-perspective brain-eating-zombie 
 simulator. And the thing you'll quickly learn upon firing up Stubbs is that eating the brains of 
 the living to form a massive army of the undead is extremely satisfying, often hilarious, and, 
 unfortunately, almost painfully brief.  

          Stubbs is always smoking. Doesn't he know those things will kill you?     

  The game's 
 manual will give you a slight bit of backstory into how Stubbs came to exist in his undead form, 
 but it's far more interesting to learn these bits of info from the game itself. The game metes 
 out its story in tiny, measured doses that don't truly take shape until the game's final confrontation. 
 This works well, because the game starts with little to no point or direction beyond eating the 
 brains of cops, scientists, and civilians. The game takes place in a retro-futuristic take on the 
 1950s, mixing social Puritanism with a city of the future, complete with hovering cars, robot assistants, 
 and laser blasters.  

  Also, Stubbs is an absolutely hilarious game. This is a particularly important achievement because, 
 really, most games aren't funny. The games that attempt humor are usually the ones that fail the 
 hardest. But Stubbs manages to work its concepts into a variety of fantastic situations. Watching 
 a zombie give a military-style pep talk to a group of zombies in the style of  Patton  is especially 
 hysterical, considering the only word zombies can say with any clarity is "brains."  

  The gameplay in Stubbs the Zombie is extremely satisfying but ultimately comes off as a little 
 shallow. You start the game with no zombie powers, so you're pretty much limited to eating the 
 brains of humans and slapping them silly until they're dead. Any method of death-by-zombie will 
 turn your target into a zombie, eventually giving you quite a little posse of troublemakers. But 
 your control over the other undead is quite limited. You can shove them around, which comes in 
 handy, since you can just use other zombies as bullet shields while you attempt to get close enough 
 to do some serious mind sucking. You can also whistle to your zombies to get them to head in your 
 direction... at least most of the time. Who said zombies were supposed to be reliable? Besides, 
 your undead crew is expendable, since you're always making more. So you'll rarely need a heavy 
 set of them in any situation, and it's no big deal when your brain-feasting boppers get wasted. 
 Though in the higher difficulty settings, having a lot of zombies between you and the armed humans 
 on the other side really helps.  

          Build your zombie armada!     

  As you progress through the game, you'll earn four special moves. The first is a gaseous blast 
 that stuns everyone around you, making them easy targets. Then you'll get the ability to throw 
 (and regrow) your pancreas. This is done with the L trigger, and a second press causes it to explode, 
 which is handy. It's really a hand grenade that you can use to zombify humans from a distance. 
 You'll also learn how to remove your arm, which plops to the floor and gives you control. You can 
 scoot your arm along on the ground, climb up walls, and hop onto the heads of humans, which possesses 
 them and puts you in control. This lets you use humans to flip switches or use their firearms to 
 eliminate a bunch of other humans by remote. The final power lets you take off your head and bowl 
 it on the ground, which takes out anything it hits and explodes, similar to the pancreas move. 
 Each attack is governed by a meter, and eating brains partially refills all four of them.    

  The game doesn't change much from start to finish, though you'll encounter a few breaks in the 
 action with some vehicle sequences, a couple of boss fights, and a dance contest, which is where 
 you get the obligatory "Thriller" reference. Also, the game isn't very difficult. Like any good 
 zombie or space marine, Stubbs regenerates his health if you can go for a few seconds without getting 
 hit. Considering you'll usually have a bunch of other zombies running around and causing havoc, 
 you can usually afford to hang back and heal back up to full health, even in the middle of a confrontation 
 with well-armed soldiers. There are four difficulty settings, and the higher settings add more 
 enemies to the game's levels, which adds some challenge, but not enough to warrant multiple play-throughs. 
 All told, Stubbs the Zombie is a game that you could very easily finish in one sitting. Part of 
 this is because the gameplay is so much fun that you won't want to stop. But also, its 12 levels 
 may take you only five hours to complete.  

          Believe it or not, Stubbs uses the Halo engine.     

  The split-screen cooperative 
 gameplay found in the Xbox version of the game is missing here, which isn't a terribly huge loss. 
 On the PC, the game has the potential to look better than its Xbox counterpart, but the system 
 requirements listed on the box are misleading. We ran the game on machines that far outpaced the 
 recommended requirements, but we still encountered plenty of unsightly frame-rate issues. Also, 
 the game has a video filter that makes it look like an old film, and it makes most of the game 
 look like poorly compressed video. That effect looked a lot better on the Xbox. As far as control 
 goes, Stubbs really requires a gamepad. While it has mouse and keyboard support, a controller that 
 mimics the basic design of the Xbox controller (like, say, one of Microsoft's new Xbox 360 controllers, 
 which plugs right into a PC) is easy to configure and works much better with this game.  

  The use of the Halo engine might not seem obvious if you weren't looking for it. But with the Halo 
 tie-in mentioned both on the front  and  the back of the box, it's hard to miss. Little things 
 that you probably wouldn't think of as Halo-related include the game's setup for player profiles 
 and level section, though the game's handful of vehicle sequences are the portions that actually 
 manage to feel a bit like Halo. Also, the chief of police is named Chief Masters, which is clever. 

  Stubbs' visuals are great artistically, but the frame-rate troubles drag it down a bit. The game's 
 environments are nicely varied, and places like Punchbowl, the city of the future, are extremely 
 well designed and appropriately cool looking. The game also has some awesome animation in it, particularly 
 the way Stubbs sort of shambles up the street. We imagine that motion-capturing a zombie must have 
 been hard work, but the in-game results are incredibly realistic. A few minor things stick out, 
 though; for instance, in some of the brain-eating animations it doesn't look like Stubbs' mouth 
 is connecting with the head of the human he's viciously attacking. But both technically and from 
 a design standpoint, this is a great-looking game.  

          The game's likable to the end, and it's a real shame that the end comes so swiftly.    

  Never before have the sounds of zombie moaning been done so well in a game. Considering there are 
 roughly 9,000 new zombie games released every year, that's saying a lot. The environmental sounds 
 and weapon effects are pretty standard, but it's the moans, screams, and speech that set the game 
 apart. The humans get a little repetitive when you eat their brains, but their lines are still 
 very funny. The sounds of your zombie crew being shot apart or feeding on brains are really what 
 sell it. From the gurgling of a hungry zombie to the funny, too-long scream that some of them let 
 out when they're blown apart, you'll have a great time listening to Stubbs. The game also has a 
 really cool licensed soundtrack that goes underused. It's a cover album, featuring current bands 
 doing old '50s songs. You'll hear Ben Kweller doing "Lollipop" and Death Cab for Cutie doing a 
 great version of "Earth Angel," and Oranger's take on "Mr. Sandman" is particularly great. But 
 outside of the dance contest and a few limited sequences later on, you rarely get to hear this 
 great music. That's unfortunate, as this is one of the few licensed soundtracks released recently 
 that seems worth listening to on its own.  

  If only the game were longer. The ability to finish Stubbs quickly really cuts into its appeal, 
 though its high production values and addictive gameplay make it a game that's worth playing. It's 
 unique and exciting enough that you should think about adding it to your collection, especially 
 if you decide to wait for a price reduction.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: crazycerain111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. It is quirky, humorous, and immerses you into eating brains! The game is very 
 funny, with Stubbs, the leader of the zombie apocalypse, who you play as, goes around a city called 
 Punchbowl, Pennsylvania, and eats brains!
  
  The game play when you first start out is great, you eat brains, and as you eat human brains, the 
 humans will rise up again as zombies! There is tons of blood, almost too much! But you go through 
 many different challenges, and to help you fight humans, you have 4 special abilities. You discover 
 each one as you advance along in the story. Unfortunately, that's about it, you go around eating 
 different brains, and fight a few different bosses, and bring chaos to Punchbowl. The game gets 
 way too repetitive after awhile. you go around, and eat brains. you go to another area, and eat 
 more brains. you just eat brains until you beat the game. This game would be unbelievably more 
 excellent, if there were at least 5 more levels. I completed the game in about 3 hours. At least 
 include modding tools. This game would be great if you could create new human and zombie types, 
 create new levels, add new weapons and vehicles to the mix, and overall make the game just at least 
 a little bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie is a very unique game because you play as a zombie in the 1950s. This game is 
 funny to a degree and it has tremendous novel value- and that's about all 
  it has going for it.
  
  You start off in this city called Punchbowl, Pennsylvania, which is 
 just a big futuristic city with robots and flying cars. The first area is a little tutorial to 
 introduce you to some of the special abilities Stubbs has at his disposal, but first things first: 
 you play as a zombie, and zombies are bent on eating brains. The primary thing you will be doing 
 is eating brains of the poor inhabitants of Punchbowl. And if you know one thing about zombies 
 it is their reproductive power; after a victim gets their brain chomped on they transform into 
 a zombie. And these zombies ultimately become a part of Stubbs' army of the undead to seek out 
 brains of the living and make them zombies. These zombies will lumber around and follow you for 
 the most part, but Stubbs can use a shrill whistle to get their attention. Most of the time Stubbs 
 must melee attack an enemy in order to "stun" him or her to give himself an opening to get their 
 brains. This is done by clicking the mouse button two or three times in quick succession. This 
 is about as exciting as the combat gets and unfortunately it is not very satisfying-at all. That 
 is 90% of the gameplay right there, but Stubbs has an array of other abilities to help him get 
 brains. As you make progress through Punchbowl you will learn new abilities thanks to the helpful 
 "Guidebot" NPC. There are four abilities in all and they all have their own degree of use. The 
 first ability you are likely to use is the one where Stubbs removes one of his organs and tosses 
 it, and with another press of the button it will explode, and if humans are nearby they are knocked 
 back and eventually become zombies. The second ability allows Stubbs to release a potent flatulence 
 that stuns nearby humans and leaves them wide open for Stubbs or his minions to munch on. The third 
 ability is a fun one to use because Stubbs will literally rip off his arm from his elbow down and 
 throw it, and you can control where it goes whether it be up walls or along the ceilings. And the 
 cool thing about this ability is the hand can grab hold of someone's head and possess them. And 
 if that individual was using a gun you take control of it as well. The fourth and last official 
 ability Stubbs gets involves him removing his head and sending it rolling like a bowling ball into 
 a throng of people. And like the previous ability the head can explode as well causing damage and 
 creating zombies. Another more unofficial ability Stubbs gets is the "skill" to rip off someone's 
 arm and melee attack them with it. All of these moves have on thing in common: their novelty. While 
 at first they are enjoyable to use and feature some truly unique mechanics they are, when the rubber 
 hits the road, not very fun to use after a while. And with the singular goal of consuming brains 
 things can get repetitive. The game will take you through twelve levels and you will encounter 
 a number of foes and despite the fact you are a zombie you will take damage. Though fortunately 
 if you take a quick break your health will regenerate, though you can heal quicker by eating brains. 
 The game is challenging, but never really overly difficult because Stubbs will almost always have 
 additional zombies nearby to run interference or consume brains. Even if you begin with no zombies 
 things are still fairly easy to manage, and within minutes literally you can have five to ten zombie 
 minions in tow. These zombies are not particularly intelligent AI-speaking (they are zombies after 
 all) , but they do enough to distract foes or possibly allow Stubbs to sneak up behind or just run 
 past. And speaking of running, there really is no running per se because we are talking about zombies. 
 They tend to either clunk and lumber along and the same thing goes for the game. It is realistic 
 but it can be a pain because getting from point A to point B is cumbersome. Overall gameplay in 
 Stubbs is good for a while but things can become repetitive. And as I mentioned earlier the game 
 relies strongly on its novel value to pull itself off.
  
  Graphics in Stubbs are done well and they emit a charming and even silly atmosphere regardless 
 of the fact you play as a zombie. Stubbs himself is unique by way of zombie fashion because he 
 wears a hat, he smokes a cigar, and he is mostly a green color. Other zombies in-game are pallid 
 and pasty with numerous holes all over their skin, and the only thing they are after are brains. 
 Humans that become zombies will sometimes have no arms or no legs and it is fun to watch them try 
 to function with their handicap. Zombies will often appear completely headless. Stubbs also exhibits 
 regular emotions such as love like when this busty blonde lady appears on a billboard early in 
 the game. A cutscene comes on when he sees this billboard and little pink hearts begin to emanate 
 from him. This is the core of the game's charm and it is also what makes it unique. There are other 
 funny elements throughout the story as well involving the residents. The city of Punchbowl itself 
 is unimpressive with futuristic-looking buildings, flying cars, and laser weapons. The little sequence 
 where Stubbs directs his severed arm around is both funny and grisly as it scurries along. The 
 actual instance where Stubbs takes control of a human is satisfying and very funny. The one thing 
 that will permeate the game will be blood. There is plenty of blood that will spray, squirt, and 
 drip as you take a bite out of mankind. Often if you just attacked a crowd of people it is not 
 unusual to see blood on the walls and on the floor. Overall the graphics in Stubbs are mediocre.
 
  
  Sound is the shining gem of the game because not only does it feature great tunes but also it offers 
 funny and professional voice work. The tunes take an interesting approach because the game takes 
 place in the 1950s and most of the tunes come from 80s and 90s bands. One tune straight from the 
 era is "Mr. Sandman" and the song fits very, very well. The voice work is done enormously well. 
 Most of the funny voices you hear will come from people you munch on or mutilate in some other 
 way. They will yell something like, "My braaaaains!" or if you rip off someone's arm they will 
 cry, "That was my shooting arm!" or something similar. Often during a brain-munching you can hear 
 the juicy and satisfyingly sickening squirting of blood or the crunchy and cracking sound of skull 
 and brains. Overall sound is excellent and brutally humorous.
  
  Stubbs sports a premise that is promising but unfortunately the game pulls its weight with mostly 
 its novel value. And to make matters worse the game is extremely short clocking in at only five 
 to six hours. When a game is frighteningly short and relies on its raw novel value to gain appeal 
 then one might wonder if the game is worth purchase. I say no as I think I made clear previously, 
 but if you are a fan of short and purely novel games then you should definitely consider Stubbs.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  we played this game a long while ago, never got around to writing a review for it.
  
  music, visuals, style, dialogue, jokes... all wonderful.
  
  price wasn't anything to brag about 
 then, but now that the game has fallen off the map it's a bargain. it's next to nothing now, $5 
 on steam? yeah, hard to beat that.
  
  we think it's a good game, but there is a reason it's at $5 right now. it's a bit on the repetitive 
 side and some of the gameplay is just tedious. there's a bunch of neat little tactics at the zombie 
 protagonist's disposal... but it doesn't seem to matter much.
  
  the most fun part of the game is just catching lone victims to form a little posse of undead scourge... 
 then just zerg the barricades of defending humans.
  
  maybe they could have done more with that to flesh out those moments. the game is cartoony and 
 charming, but there isn't much to the story or characters. still, we have to say we do like this 
 game a lot. if it wasn't for the next point it's score would be bumped up there with the present 
 player score average.
  
  what brings this game down in our eyes, and subsequently its rating, is that it's one of those 
 games with the intrusive starforce copyright protection software unavoidably embedded into it.
 
  
  that's entirely why we haven't brought this one out of the vault for casual play. we really don't 
 even recommend this game to friends. yeah, yeah, yeah, developers have a right to safeguard their 
 intellectual property, but if it bothers the consumers it'll end up killing their sales. can't 
 say for certain that's why this game never got the acclaim it deserved, but we'd say it's likely 
 a contributing factor. it's a shame though, would have made for a pretty cool franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venom250
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  At last. All i can say: "at last". At last great zombie game. Zombie theme is really interesting 
 for me, i saw a lot of zombie-horror movies. From Night of the dead to Dairy of the dead. Movies 
 from George Romero are really great, he showed us new horror classic character. Zombies has caught 
 a lot of fans from all the world. So film by film and no zombie survival games.... why ? Well... 
 maybe we were waiting for this one ? I can say for sure, this is first good-great-superb zombie 
 game, it's a history :)
  
  Gameplay:
  Story of game is really interesting. The lawyer called Stubbs comes to village to take taxes, casually 
 it appears in bed with the daughter of one farmer, for what that kills him, and the lawyer is revived 
 as zombie and starts to terrorize some small town. Gameplay is really unpretentious third-person 
 zombie action, many action and not to many buttons to use. As i remember less then 7-8 buttons 
 + mouse to operate camera. But... developers made some interesting abilities to our main hero.
 
  - he can fart to poison people
  - he can tear off a hand to seized it on a head of the human, then Stubbs will operate its brain
 
  - he can use the body parts as grenades, they blow up
  Also camera, it's very easy to operate it, no problems or glitches. So gameplay is easy, funny 
 and ambitious. But it's really short... and it's sad. But at all it's great, very great.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics is same unpretentious, but very pleases. Game looks really old-school by 
 the way. Very old conditions with elements of the future i think. All game looks life film at all. 
 It's pretty, beautiful and some new feelings which i did not feel from graphics earlier. Superb!
 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is amazing. A lot of dialogs and extraneous sounds. Quality of sound is very good. No words, 
 superb!
  
  So what do we have in the end ? First long-awaited zombie action game that have some unique old-school 
 style. Instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: When you pick up the controller in Stubbs, you'll be the one initiating the undead infection. 
 You'll eat brains and turn your victims into your followers who you can control to, well, eat more 
 brains. The gameplay in Stubbs is pretty straightforward. Your mission is to kill everyone you 
 see. To do so you have a range of special powers. You can fart and stun the enemy, throw explosive 
 gut bombs, use your hand to control an enemy, and use your head as an explosive bowling ball. In 
 addition, you can perform melee swipes, eat brains, and rip off the arms of your foes which can 
 be subsequently used to beat them in the face. As grotesque and intriguing an arsenal as this sounds, 
 you'll soon find some attacks to be far more effective than others. One thing that I find frustrating 
 is the melee combat is the fact that enemies will back away from you faster than you can catch 
 up to them. This may seem logical since zombies typically move at a slow pace.
  
  Graphics: Graphically the game isn't all that impressive. The positives include swell character 
 models and solid animations. On the PC, however, the framerate gets a little choppy when large 
 groups of enemies gather onscreen. The negatives are that while some background details are interesting, 
 a lot of the game's textures are boring.
  
  Sound: The game's sound is of a much higher quality, especially the futile cries from civilians 
 and armed foes as you dig your teeth into their heads. The songs during the dance-off sequence 
 with the police chief are hilarious given the context, as are the news reports on television sets 
 and the sickening, squishy, scalp-munching sound effects. 
  
  Value: All in all this is a very fun take on a zombie game where you get to play as a zombie for 
 once and get to use a whole bunch of diffrent powers but you also have some disadvantages that 
 come along with it being a zombie and all. I would recommend this game to anyone who is looking 
 for a change in gameplay for these type of zombie games. I give this game 8.5 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lOh_Noesl
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie is a fantastic action game, with equally as good graphics that still runs on 
 old to mid range PC's. The whole game is as follows: make way through level, unleash all hell, 
 build zombie army by eating brains and move on to next level.
  
  This game has some utterly fantastic moments in it, that are both hilarious and strangely pleasing 
 as you mutilate the poor population of the futuristic town,"Punchbowl City". The combat is very 
 very simple, its usually just swiping at one enemy at a time, and finishing them off by eating 
 their brains. But when confronted by several enemies at once, you have a range of special attacks 
 such as the putrid area-of-effect fart attack, and throwing an explosive internal organ at your 
 enemies (acting just like a remotely detonated grenade) . 
  
  Be warned that there are a couple of downsides to the gameplay though, such as how saddening-ly 
 short the game actually is. 'Stubbs the Zombie' can be beaten in a few hours of solid play, and 
 since this game has very little replay value, it's not that fun after completion. The other down 
 point to this game is the difficulty, although there are four selectable difficulty levels, there 
 is a MASSIVE difficulty gap between the easiest mode and the one straight after it, leaving things 
 slightly awkward for the player if they want to play through the game on the next difficulty after 
 completing it on easy, making them have to adjust everything that they had learned on the first 
 play through to succeed in the new mode.
  
  The sound in 'Stubbs the Zombie' is fantastic, whether it's the stupid comments made by civilians 
 watching as you wreak havoc upon their city, or the stomach churning sound of someone getting their 
 brains chewed by one of your fellow zombies. The soundtrack is nothing short of original either, 
 taking songs from what I presume are from the 50's-60's, and putting a whole new spin on them making 
 them sound as if they were a strange modern hit, whilst being nostalgic.
  
  The graphics are good as well, I can run it on my old to mid-range computer without any hassles, 
 BUT for some strange reason my monitor doesn't cope with some elements in the game, meaning that 
 i can only play 'Stubbs the Zombie' in safe mode, meaning no blood or other special effects which 
 leaves things rather bland but still enjoyable.
  
  So, if you're looking for a couple of nights, or a lonely day's comedic entertainment, head down 
 to your local game store and search the bargain bin for this diamond in the rough, because this 
 is seriously a must have for any zombie movie fan, or any gamer who prefers horror/action games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabloRaul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  If you love Zombies, this is the game for you. Stubbs the Zombie is absolutely hilarious with a 
 wonderful soundtrack to boot. It features songs from the 50's (Covered by modern bands) in the 
 background as you devour policemen, jocks, S. W. A. T. members, and other people commonly found in 
 society. The game is built off the Halo engine which provides some awesome features such as drivable 
 vehicles, body part grenades, and a hand which takes over human victims and allows you to control 
 them. This is extremely fun because it allows you to use pistols, machine guns, and other weapons 
 the humans use to kill other humans. Stubbs will also convert his victims into zombies which will 
 aid you in your quest. The in game humor and lack of seriousness the game has are what makes it 
 shine because it makes such a violent, gory game into a comical joke. Think Shawn of the Dead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Alrighty, I saw this game got released on STEAM, and was midly interested, however with a 20 dollar 
 american price tag (im in AUS) it didnt seem worth it. Then whilst browsing one day I dound it 
 for 10 dollars in a bargain bin... and so it began..
  
  The title Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel without a Pulse should give a clue to the comedy factor in 
 this game. basically you play Stubbs and go where the wind takes you, eating brains and smackign 
 people round the head with that other guys left arm.
  
  The sounds are excellent, and while the cries of distressed humans becomse a little repetative, 
 its nothing too worrying. On a graphical scale, its no 1080p but it does the job. using the halo 
 engine, there is very little clipping or graphical flaws that i came across.
  
  overall? its very satisfying to create a horde of zombies and whistle them over to a group of unsuspecting 
 humans. Its a really big breath of fresh air, and one that I hope will be taken to the next level. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Stubbs the Zombie. Go eat brains and cause havoc.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special, nice art style with a 50s feel.
  
  Audio: Great dialogue and voiceovers.
 
  
  Missions: Usually just kill anyone in your way, control them, escape from capture.
  
  Controls: Overall good and feels fine.
  
  Features: You can eat brains, control dead humans, 
 detach your arm to attack, throw your spleen, just awesome.
  
  A. I.: Just run for their lives, usually easy to kill.
  
  Loading Times: Average.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 None.
  
  Requirements: Kind of steep for the graphics look.
  
  Weapons: Your arm, spleen, zombies, not your conventional weapons.
  
  The Good: Just a fun 
 time.
  
  The Bad: Weird mini games, boss battles.
  
  The Ugly: You eating someone's brain. Cool!
  
  Replay Ability: Pretty much once, maybe twice 
 if you really like it.
  
  The Bottom Line: This is a fun game that was over-looked, check your bargain bin and just try Stubbs! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Once a week I go to some of my local game stores to check their bargain bins and this one turned 
 up. Although I had checked the demo before, I didn't consider this title for a full price. And 
 to put this on the table right away, it's not worth full price. This review was written with a 
 game/value where I only paid EUR 5 (~ USD 7) .
  
  The game puts you in control of our main hero (as always with first/third person shooters) and 
 again of course our hero doesn't speak. This time there is an excuse of course because our hero 
 is a zombie. A zombie with a sense of bogard style always wearing a jacket and tie, a hat and a 
 cigaret in his mouth. I guess smoking is still allowed on zombies in this politically correct world.
 
  
  Our hero starts in an ideal city somewhere in the distant future. After some initial brain eating 
 on innocent bystanders he sees the girl of his dreams and the chase is on.
  
  Stubbs will get into all kinds of situations and actually this is one of the few third person shooters 
 that's not a shooter. Stubbs doesn't have 8 or 10 different weapons at his disposal. Initially 
 he only has a slapping and clawing attack. But of course he is a zombie, so if he kills someone, 
 that person also turns into a zombie and can both be used to attack or distract. This way you can 
 build up a zombie army to go around. Next to that, Stubbs does have some additional tricks at his 
 disposal, not the least his regenerative powers, his hand to take over someone, a zombie-fart to 
 temporarily disable one or more people, stomach bombs and the super head attack (bowling your enemies 
 to death) .
  
  All of this sounds a bit out of the ordinary which it is. The gameplay is a little different from 
 other games. The game is also filled with funny comments and quirky little intermezzos. All in 
 all I did enjoy the 6 odd hours I spend on Stubbs to finish the game. This was enjoyable although 
 personally I did get a little tired of some of the repetitive nature in the final 2-3 levels. So 
 conclusion, if you browse your local bargain bins and find it, get it, otherwise leave it (it's 
 simply not good value for money at full price) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Meet a city that is more evlved than the others. Robots everywhere, new technology, etc. You're a... 
 zombie. All you have to do is to go trough the levels (easy pathfinding) ,&amp; eating the brains 
 of all those who you'll encounter. They will soon transform into zombies,&amp; help you by converting 
 other people. But you can also punch the enamies, throw with internal parts at them as grenades &amp; 
 other combat ways. You can use a shooting hovercraft,&amp; when you posses a guy with your hand, you 
 can shoot with his revolver. Once, you get to dance with the chief of the Police. But even being 
 so bloody &amp; with a poor story, it's a very funny game. The sound is superb because it's made 
 in such a funny way, even though it's not realistic.&amp; the voice acting is so funny, that you 
 can't stop laughing. Well, again, the graphics ain't that good, but contribute to the funny atmosphere 
 in the game. It's short, simple, but you'll have a lot of fun with it. You should try it. You'll certainly 
 like it. If you don't, I'll eat your brains... (just kidding) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The city of Punchbowl is a marvel. Set in an alternate 50s America, it's the kind of sanctuary 
 most would jump at the chance to live in. All the naive idealism of TV's 1950s coupled with modern 
 technology enabling various robots and transport options, among other things. All teenage boys 
 wear sports jackets or leather jackets (black hair, gelled.) ... that sort of thing. Into this 
 idealic oasis stumbles Stubbs, a putrid rotting corpse with organs sticking out a hole in his side. 
 As you can guess, this game won't be taking itself very seriously. Stubbs is, at its essence, a 
 simple action/adventure beat-em up. However, hidden beneath this go-there kill-all design is a 
 game that's entertaining, challenging, and frequently hilarious. We've all killed zombies before 
 (in games, I hope) . They amble along, you fire at them. Been there, done that. How many games let 
 you experience the other side of the 'undead conflict'?
  
  For a start, Stubbs needs to feed on brains. While your health will regenerate if you stay out 
 of trouble long enough (one of many nods to the Halo engine it's based on) , eating brains helps 
 recharge 'ammo' of various organs you can use in battle. While you can, for the most part, rely 
 on frantically clicking the mouse near an enemy and trading blows with him until he dies, sometimes 
 you need that extra bit of help in the form of a gut grenade or fart. Not to mention using your 
 disembodied hand to grab an enemy to do your bidding. And while these various abilities all add 
 to the tactics you can use to get through areas, the real charm (if one can call it that) in Stubbs 
 is in creating your undead army. It just never seems to get old. Now, let's be frank, the zombies 
 aren't all that useful in battle. They're great shields and will distract enemies, but they have 
 a short lifespan if everyone's shooting at them, so carefully managing them is important, as is 
 creating large amounts of zombies. The game aids you in this, because you don't necessarily have 
 to eat someone's brain to zombify them (a finishing move, in essence) , a normal kill will also 
 raise a zombie. So if you take an active stance in your attacks by, for example, circling an enemy 
 that's shooting at one of your minions and then eating his brain, there aren't really any obstacles 
 you can't get around. The only real problem with eating brains is that it's sometimes difficult 
 to tell what state your victim is in. For civilians a simple push of E will do, but policemen and 
 other victims take a few hits to subdue and if you're not careful you may end up missing your window 
 and slapping them to the ground instead. You still get the zombie out of it, but no brain energy 
 refill. Sometimes I resorted to an efficient pummeling of both the mouse button and e at the same 
 time and the game would register the E press the moment it was usable. This helped, but it made 
 the game feel more like one of those boring press button quickly to get out of this situation!!! 
 gimicks. The game features an over the top level of gore, but still maintains a comedic stance 
 to all the proceedings. The tutorial that teaches you that you can immediately eat the brains of 
 an enemy whose back is turned to you, for example, features a policeman wanting to take Stubbs 
 to the station in his squad car but not wanting to touch him as Stubbs stinks. So I'll just stand 
 with my back turned to you while you get in, sir. he says, and it's one of the many times you giggle 
 with glee at the chaos you can unleash on this beautifully naive little city. A jock tries to convince 
 a girl it's time to move on and forget about her boyfriend who died over three hours ago before 
 Stubbs lands on the trunk of their car and screams ensue from everyone involved. One thing that 
 Stubbs does excellently is the loopy humour, as any other approach to this kind of game would have 
 been just too dark - not that Stubbs doesn't have its own dark moments, such as your victims at 
 times screaming they have a wife and kids. Other times they scream stop... eating ... me! so it 
 balances out I suppose. Actually, the taunts and other audio of the citizens of Punchbowl is one 
 of the best parts of Stubbs. Personally, I just hate barbershop quartets and while the inclusion 
 of some enemies that sing (and dress) in this fashion is suitably wacky, their voices just irritated 
 me so much it was a great relief to get rid of them. In the end I'll concede it's a matter of taste, 
 but I would have preferred something else. Or at least had them keep their mouths shut. As you'd 
 expect, Stubbs doesn't have much of a storyline, although there are some back stories that are 
 revealed during the game, story isn't the focus here. In fact, I found the story to be somewhat 
 lacking as it, in my opinion, failed to properly justify just why the whole city has to be zombified 
 in Stubbs' act of revenge against the mayor. If you just take the areas you're in and how you get 
 from one to the other the story works fine. After all, the main focus here is always on zombie 
 chaos. Stubbs also features some vehicle combat (another nod to Halo) and other bizarre minigames 
 like a dance competition to give the players a change of pace and for the most part these work 
 very well. It's also funny to see a zombie hop into the passenger seat of a vehicle Stubbs is driving. 
 The soundtrack to the game is excellent, featuring 50s classics interpreted by good-yet-not-too-expensive 
 bands like the Dandy Warhols and the Raveonettes and works very nicely. So nicely they've released 
 it as a stand-alone album that I'm actually contemplating purchasing, as I grew up listening to 
 mum's oldie station in the car and something touched that nostalgic nerve as I was playing Stubbs. 
 Despite all the gushing blood, ha ha.
  
  So what's the final verdict on Stubbs? It's not an original game, basically being a 3d person action/adventure 
 game, but it packs in so many interesting features (like controlling enemies or rolling your head 
 around) that it stands out quite well in its genre. Add in the fact that there's no real opportunity 
 in the gaming world (that I know of) to play as a zombie and you've got a real winner. It's got 
 its flaws (such as not being able to run on command) and feels rough around the edges at times, 
 but always seems to redeem itself in the end leaving you satisfied and entertained. And no one 
 had to lose any brains either. Definitely recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  What i could have easily beaten in a day, took me 2.
  If you don't play the first level (after the little section at the beginning where you learn to 
 bite peoples heads off) and say AWESOME!! HAHAHA!!! then you probably won't like the rest of the 
 game.
  in a nutshell: you are a zombie with a background in this town. you have some people to get even 
 with for your death, and a girl to get back to. so you run around town biting, beating or possessing 
 people using your arsenal of gut weapons. yes, all your weapons are made up of your body parts. 
 this sucks when you are at a distance and they are shooting at you with unnatuarally good accuracy.
 
  this would be a major con. the fact that it is unreasonably hard to hide from the enemy, especially 
 when you're facing the military, and you have no ranged weaponary. i have found, crouching behind 
 sandbags can immediately cause them to forget where you are.
  
  good: you get to bite people's heads off, watch blood fly everywhere, and create a semi-large horde 
 of zombie companions. plus, its about as close as you'll get to dead rising without a 360
  bad: very short, but i was starting to get tired with it anyway. stupidly hard parts when you encounter 
 groups of military with powerful guns and excellent accuracy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VLADIFTODI
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  its a fun game with a lot of humor (bloody humor that is :D)
  it is very addictive at the beginning and very goo
  but it gets boring later...
  the is freedom 
 but not to much you don't have the gta freedom, the zombie cant take directly m himself items, 
 like guns and stuff, but can poses people and drive cars ...
  its kinda hard on some missions to understand what needs to be done and must explore half an hour 
 to find the exit door
  it's a good game
  i enjoy it, but there is a moment in the game when you get bored and tired of all killing and stuff, 
 and only the story may keep you alive
  the lack of freedom, like using weapons, maybe some combos kicks :D and other things would make 
 the game perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pzco
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? I had some pretty high expectations for this game... looked awesome, and I was looking 
 forward to being a crazed zombie man munching on people's brains in an open-ended environment.
 
  
  Yet....
  
  This game is anything but open-ended. There are maybe 2-3 tracks you can follow through each individual 
 level, but you absolutely must go through it until the end. It's as if they're forcing you, there 
 are no cool side-missions, anything of the sort. You can jack some cool vehicles and drive around 
 blasting the crap out of everything, but the novelty of that wears off quickly.
  
  And it's not like you get your money's worth here, either. The levels are quite short, and the 
 average gamer could probably make it through the whole thing in 5-6 hours, maybe less. Much too 
 short for my taste.
  
  The gameplay is quite disappointing. All you basically do is run through the level, eating the 
 brains of whoever you see and converting them into your zombie minions. They then follow you around, 
 in turn, mopping up the remains... it's quite cool to look at, and very entertaining for a while, 
 but then you see it's just the same old thing all over again. Stubbs has no cool weapons. You can 
 gain access to them by possessing people with your zombified detached hand, but this too gets old 
 quickly, there's just not enough gameplay variation.
  
  Graphics? Eh, standard stuff, but they do have some really sweet lighting effects interspersed 
 throughout...
  
  The one area I thought the game really shined was the soundtrack. There's some pretty awesome 50s 
 pop music in here, and the scene where Stubbs is having a dance-off with the Police Chief really 
 demonstrates this well. The music was always great to listen to.
  
  Apparently there is a 2 player co-op mode on the XboX version, which I don't have any experience 
 with, but I suspect it's much the same thing. You'd probably get some more chuckles playing with 
 your buddy, but there likely wouldn't be a reason to beat it more than once.
  
  This game really has no replay value, you'll get bored after you get through it once. It's not 
 a bad game, but definitely not what it was hyped up to be either. If you're itching to play it, 
 might be a good idea to just rent this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylekatarnsbudd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Well I loved going through the game the first time.... it gets sorta repetitive, but if you make 
 each kill fun then its worth playing. Honestly, ive heard you love it or ate it..... I have very 
 mixed feelings about it though. The sketchy controls got to me a bit as did the the repetitive 
 screams from your victims. The high points to the game include, use of giant undead hordes, various 
 weapons like the fart and the rolling head, many different types of enemies, and of course the 
 COMEDY! Thats right this game pulls of comedy very very well! If you've played you may remember 
 the farmhouse level and the barn with the American flag painted on it, if you don't check it out. 
 All in all the game has room for improvements but is pretty solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Definitely one of a kind, when you mix a zombie king, with a zombie army, and a zombies dream to 
 make all humans into zombies with comedy and actually make it work its got to be given props. This 
 isnt a scary game at all but there is a lot of fake blood all over the place. Funny quotes like 
 when you rip off guys arms he claims that was my juggling arm and how am I suppose to juggle anymore 
 lol its a great game that deserves respect.
  
  I think more people should play this game because it may not have made any differences to game 
 play right now but in the future I think this game will get mad respect for bringing comedy into 
 games the way they approached it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whathaxya
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  While everyone knows what its like to hack their way through a horde of zombies. Stubbs explains 
 what its like to be in the squalid shoes of a quarter-rotten corpse with a hole in his side and 
 a keen eye for brains, only looking for love. In this exclusive interview, Stubbs takes us through 
 the sights, sounds and tastes of a retro-futuristic city.
  
  As you have probably guessed by now, Stubbs here is a zombie. While he has had a lot of fun eating 
 everyones brain within the city of Punchbowl he has agreed to take some time aside and talk to 
 us about his ordeal. It turns out that after rampaging through all those innocents, all he was 
 looking for was his old girlfriend. Apparently, Stubbs got shot by his girlfriends crazy farmer 
 father, after he found out about Stubbs and his daughter.
  
  So, umm Stubbs, how was the buffet?
  Well my friend, it was kind of clunky moving around. I 
 found that accelerating to my shambling run was an arduous and lengthy process. And while it was 
 fun to jump around and eat brains, I found it very hard to aim. My jumps are sometimes slightly 
 erratic and hard to control. What do you know, my leg muscles arent what they used to be, but 
 my arms muscles are a different story. Its currently pretty easy to beat people up, but once I 
 wished for more, so I brought an arm extender. I found it on this cop, came off his shoulder, and 
 for some reason he screamed like a little girl when I tore it off. Works well as a club though, 
 so I keep doing it.
  
  Dont you know that smoking gives you cancer?
  I thought that you had realised that eating brains revitalises me, and if I grow a small tumor, 
 Ill tear it out and throw it at someone. A few empty heads and I should grow back that healthy, 
 half-rotten tissue. I do take a few intentional detachable goodies along for the ride however. 
 My pancreas, for one, is helpful, just like a grenade, because it provides me with a way to deal 
 some serious zombification at a distance with the added advantage of me growing it back quickly. 
 My left arm comes with a mind of its own and goes for a walk when I ask it to, it also comes with 
 mind control, just attach it to someones head and voila, instant and total dominance. And of course, 
 last but not least, is my head. Bowling is fun, but rolling an explosive ball down a hallway full 
 of adversaries has some extra perks.
  
  Out of simple curiosity, do you have a drivers license?
  No, but do you really think that's 
 stops me? If I see a jeep, I'll take it because it's the fastest way to get around. I don't always 
 need that speed, though. Tanks are also handy pieces of machinery that provide me with a high-caliber 
 turret and some stronger armor. Mow 'em down, I say.
  
  Is that a glass eye, or two?
  No, I can see fine. Though my vision is slightly blurred and flickers on and off occasionally. 
 But that might just be a side effect of me being dead for a few years. Aside from that, the city 
 of Punchbowl is very pretty. Lots of lights and trees, but for some reason I had the feeling that 
 I was eating an army of twins, very few different faces around. And even though the buildings seem 
 to have some variety, they looked a little lax, colour-scheme-wise. Blood had some good spray and 
 colour to it. Bite that guy and it flies in huge sheets, in every direction, splattering everything 
 around in a vivid red. Yum.
  
  Im sort of surprised that your voice box hasnt rotted away.
  I can talk fine, but its generally 
 easier to grunt. Most zombies can put more information into our wide variety of grunts than the 
 people of Punchbowl seemed to fit in their vocabularies; the screams were fun to hear though. It 
 might just be me, but every so often I heard music, good music. Probably the longest time I heard 
 it for was during that dance competition with the police chief.
  
  Would you do it all over again?
  Oh, hell no, once is enough for me, Im not sure what it is, 
 but its getting a bit boring. There arent that many different ways for me to eat people, and 
 its no fun beating up random weaklings with guns. Its the river for me, with my girlfriend. Were 
 going to leave all this behind and settle down somewhere.
  
  Was it worth it?
  Yes, I found her. Isnt she pretty? Shes a bit green currently, but as soon as she eats a few 
 people, shell be right as rain. The journey to find her was good fun, but getting around was a 
 bit of a hassle unfortunately. And the environment was a bit drab and dreary. On the plus side, 
 I proved that zombies could dance brilliantly, especially to the outstanding music that we had 
 on offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie is a very original idea for a game. The concept of you playing as the zombies 
 is downright funny and could get even more funny if a sequel coms along (More zombies on screen!) 
 anyways, lets get crackin!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  This game works well with both Mouse and Keyboard and gamepad. I used an Xbox 360 controller to 
 test how it was with gamepad, and it work suprisingly well (despite a little calabration error with 
 my 360 controller and PC, making Stubbs look to his left all the time when I stopped moving) . The 
 only other complaint in gameplay is that the zombie AI is too dumb, making it where your zombie 
 buddies die too much.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  While amazing when the Xbox first came out, the Halo engine's graphics are showing their age in 
 this game. While looking pretty damn good, the game could use some polish, considering this came 
 out years after Halo.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The soundtrack of stubbs is very well done and also goes with the game so well. The "Mr. Sandman" 
 remake is probably my most favorite of the soundtrack. The Sound FX, on the other hand, were ok. 
 The Zombies sounded pretty good, but The gun noises were reclyced from Halo, which is just sad.
 
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  Being its only 10 bucks nowadays, I definately say buy it. If you have the Xbox, I would buy it 
 on that, since there really isn't any mods for the game, and the Xbox version has an exclusive 
 Co-op mode. If not, its worth it on the PC as well.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  I loved the game, and I reccommend it. Only thing I wish that would have happened is more vehicle 
 support, and for goodness sake, your zombies would actually get in the gunner seat!
  
  Pros:
  -Being a zombie is awesome
  -The controls are great
  -The story is very funny
  -The 
 music is amazing
  
  Cons: 
  -The vehicles are pointless
  -Dumb Zombie AI
  -Too short
  -No Co-op on PC
  
  Overall: 8.4/10
  Pretty sweet Zombie game, but it won't 
 last you long... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the personal story, shall we? Ahem.
  
  I don't like zombie games. I tend to consider that the "survival horror genre" is now increasingly 
 populated with more of the same, under slightly different varnishes each time. I repeat, I DO NOT 
 like zombie games. One of my close friends is a Resident Evil nut, and I'll confess that the one 
 dent in our relationship has got to be the debates we launched ourselves into, concerning the absurdity 
 and lack of sense of the Ashfield family legacy. I'm the first to admit that Resident Evil 4 was 
 fun, while I'll probably go against the bandwagon in saying that I didn't think it was that great.
 
  
  However, I like Romero's Dead Quadrilogy, the "Return of the Living Dead" series, and everything 
 both in film or print that has to do with shambling corpses. The idea of a human body forcefully 
 awakened from its state of decrepitude, long after death, either to exact bloody vengeance or to 
 simply sate a primal yearning for human flesh, is something I find morbidly fascinating. I've even 
 looked around for fanfics centering on either Big Daddy from "Land of the Dead" or Bub from "Day 
 of the Dead".
  
  The thing is, I just don't care for the survivors in most "survival horror" games and movies. Seeing 
 a human driven by only the most primal of urges is infinitely more intriguing to me than watching 
 a group of generic personalities argue about "those things" outside. As per the zombie holocaust 
 canon, no survivor can even THINK of the true nature of what they're up against. 
  
  In other words, as told in "Shaun of the Dead", don't say the Z word.
  
  That's the main story. 
 I like zombies for what they are and just don't care for the setting they're placed in. Maybe I'm 
 not right in the head, eh? Although I really am looking forward to Dead Rising. Does that make 
 me just an itty bit more normal?
  
  Anyway. You, the player, are presented with the character of Edward "Stubbs" Stubblefield, a down-on-his 
 luck travelling salesman that bit the dust during the Great Depression in obscure circumstances. 
 Next thing you know, you wake up and smell the roses, it's now the Glorious Fifties in all of their 
 aseptized, bigoted, carefree, paranoid and self-centered magnitude.
  
  Welcome to Punchbowl, Pennsylvania, a city which was built over your hastily dug grave, where crime 
 and injustice seem to be a thing of the past. Given Stubbs' background and his currently decomposed 
 state, you're obviously here to offer a reality check to this little metropolis. A reality check 
 in the form of spilt blood galore and a growing army of the undead, of course.
  
  One of the first reasons this game excels is in its story. Delightfully quirky and perhaps a tad 
 morbid, it succeeds in making you care for your grunting and moaning protagonist. I'm surprised 
 at how Matt Soell's grunts and sighs actually managed to give this walking corpse a sense of depth 
 and of true personality. Okay, so maybe Stubbs isn't Lucas Kane, but his quest and desires perfectly 
 fit in with the eclectic universe that's developed around him. Suffice it to say, said quest involves 
 bloody vengeance, love, and the end of a losing streak that lasted for the whole of Stubbs' active 
 lifetime.
  
  What, zombies can love? They sure can. Go see "Zombie Honeymoon" if you don't beleive me.
  
 
  Hands-down, however, Stubbs is a blast. Built with the somewhat dated, if still functional Halo 
 Prime engine, it may not pack a graphical punch, but Punchbowl's decidedly Langian inspiration 
 (as in Fritz Lang, the director of "Metropolis") gives weight to the emotional perception most 
 of us seem to have of the fifties. This was a time where everything high-tech had a chromed finish, 
 where teens tried to outwit each other in Archie Andrews and Betty Cooper impersonations, and where 
 flying cars seemed to be just a few months or years away. It may not be perceptible if your screen's 
 too dark, but the scenery is covered with a post-processing effect that makes the game look like 
 a dated movie, complete with squiggly lines and sudden scratches. This further emphasizes the fact 
 that Stubbs is the gaming equivalent of B Movie Heaven.
  
  We're obviously talking about a comedic reversal of the "survival horror" genre. That implies an 
 action-oriented gameplay. Most, if not all of the humans you'll cross are slated for brain-munching 
 (which remains satisfactory throughout the game) , said cortexes and brain stems being essential 
 for the maintenance of not only your greenish figure, but also of your peculiar arsenal. Stubbs 
 can bowl down enemies with his detachable head, throw his explosive pancreas at enemies and regrow 
 it, let out wallpaper-peeling farts and use his detachable hand in a few stealth sequences. The 
 hand can also be used to posess enemies.
  
  All of these abilities have their strategic value. Bowling your head is good for dealing with clusters 
 of high-powered foes, whereas your gut grenades will become a frequent, if alternate attack. Your 
 atomic farts, however will be relegated as a last-ditch weapon. The hand sadly doesn't have much 
 use, except in a few sequences which are clearly designed to have you use it. Yes, you can use 
 it to posess an armed foe and then gun down those pesky humans, but then you miss out on valuable 
 infection carriers.
  
  This brings us to the true weapon Stubbs posesses, which is his zombie horde. Using two crude commands 
 (push and whistle) , you can "order" your undead minions around. Note that we're obviously talking 
 about zombies. Don't expect your fellow infectees' AI to shine with foresight. They shamble straight 
 ahead, oftentimes into the path of bullets, and rely on their sheer numbers to overcome their still-human 
 relatives. You're the only one, as the Alpha (as referred to by the end of the game) that can afford 
 to spend a few dead brain cells strategizing. Not that it's especially needed, as you'll fare the 
 very same if you charge ahead instead of sneaking up on your opponents. The game's array of difficulty 
 levels offers some replayability, and in some instances, you will find yourself preferring the 
 sneaky route to the more obvious path normally taken by a self-respecting undead flesh-muncher.
 
  
  Gameplay and presentation aside, the atmosphere obviously helps to sell the game. As you incarnate 
 the overpowering odds in this game, the level design and sound design combine to create an atmosphere 
 where the terror experienced by the humans onscreen is the cause of some sadistic grins or of outright 
 laughter. Most victim will utter an idiotic, funny and comedically heartfelt rebuttal to the fact 
 of having their brains munched off. Most notable is the generic voice used for the soldiers, accusing 
 you of being a "brain-eating zombie undead commie scumdog", or something close to that mark. You'll 
 play through Stubbs with a definitive smile on your face, from start to finish. Oh, and keep your 
 eyes peeled for that death ray-weilding barbershop quartet!
  
  Overall, Stubbs the Zombie is an original twist applied on a tried and tested genre. In my humble 
 opinion, the next best thing might very well be Dead Rising, which should hit shelves fairly soon. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgab
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  While the game is fun and inventive, it does get repeatative continuingly killing the same ways 
 and killing basically the same characters over and over. 
  It was nice to be able to play in the place of the zombie, killing and eating humans, instead of 
 the typical grabbing guns and shooting slow zombies over and over.
  Plus has fun zombie weapons of farting around surrounding enemies to stun them. Tossing some of 
 your guts as grenades to kill enemies. There was also ability to remove your head and roll it like 
 a bowling ball taking down humans like pins. Then the best weapon Stubbs had was removing his hand, 
 controlling it, avoiding getting shot, then sneaking up behind a human. Then grabbing his head 
 and taking control of that human. Which worked best when controlled a human with a gun.
  Then of course like any good zombie movie or game, when you kill or bite any living human, they 
 become part of your undead army. Which makes great for mass attacks (can have them follow them by 
 whistling in their direction) , and also having them distract the humans. This allows you to attack 
 without taking damage.
  And just like any good game, there are some vehicles that you can steal. Such as a truck with a 
 gun on it, a jeep, a tank, and a pickup truck. All, except the tank, you can pick up other zombies 
 letting them go for a ride with you.
  For the cheap price I paid for it, it was definately worth buying and gave me plenty of fun. Yet 
 it did end quite quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie: Rebel Without a Pulse (just to be called Stubbs from this point forward) , is 
 a new twist in the Zombie munching genre. Instead of blasting wave upon wave of undead vermin, 
 you are the undead vermin. The game is framed with an insanely funny story and retro visuals. It 
 will keep you playing while you slog through the repetitive action sequences.
  
  Stubbs is a simple guy. He is in love with a beautiful woman, has just moved into a new city and 
 is dead. Yep, you have come back from the grave to find the woman that you love and exact revenge 
 on all those that have done you wrong in life. Instead of pulling this off as some superhuman come-back-from-the-grave 
 type guy, you come back as a brain chomping zombie. Your arrival is a bit of a mystery, but as 
 you play through the dozen or so levels, you are slowly acclimated with your past. You are fed 
 small bits that will add up to the whole truth by the end of the game. It sounds a bit weird, but 
 it really works on a lot of levels. And if playing as the zombie wasnt enough, they give you the 
 beautiful city of Punchbowl to exact your revenge.
  
  Punchbowl is the first thing that will bring about the visuals in the game. This game is downright 
 beautiful. The city of Punchbowl stands out because of it retro-futuristic style. Ford Fairlane 
 cars that fly, robots that perform menial duties, it is what all of the sci-fi movies of the 1950s 
 described but never happened in real life. It has the stark feel of a communist society with the 
 uniform style of buildings and architecture. You cannot help but get lost in the design of the 
 city. Few games that are designed today give this much attention to detail, especially an action 
 game.
  
  Character models are also quite detailed. Stubbs is an amazing model when you realize the engine 
 has to model for the missing parts of his body. Facial expressions are clear and give you an idea 
 of what is going on inside the gnarled brain of that lovable zombie. To think that the game uses 
 a modified version of the Halo engine is surprising, because this game looks steps ahead of Halo 
 on the PC. Boss characters also are given lots of details and features to set them apart from the 
 crowd. Unfortunately, the generic characters are all too repetitive. The game needed about half 
 a dozen or so more models so you didnt feel like you were beating up the same guy every 30 seconds. 
 But even with their generic feel, they still employ a tremendous amount of detail. All of this 
 detail will come at the cost of a high end system. The game is a resource hog and you will need 
 a beefy rig to get the full detail of the game.
  
  Stubbs also goes all out when it comes to the sound in the game. First thing you will notice is 
 the soundtrack. While the designers could have taken the easy route and licensed some existing 
 music, they put some thought into it and decided to get current cutting edge bands to update and 
 record classic tunes. Hearing Cake perform Strangers In The Night, or Death Cab for Cutie playing 
 Earth Angel, is a bonafide treat. The soundtrack overshadows the fact that the main character does 
 not say all that much. In fact grunting is his main thing. The bit players in the game are voiced 
 well, but their catchphrases are quite repetitive. Explosions have a full sound and give you a 
 nice wallop though your speakers. Of note is the disturbing gurgling that Stubbs makes when feeding 
 on a freshly stunned human. It is quite repulsive, yet wholly satisfying on some weird level.
 
  
  Gameplay has its moments, but starts to fall flat after several missions show the repetition in 
 the action. You can feed on a stunned or unexpected human, or beat them until they die with your 
 dead hands. Some less traditional attacks that you can use include your gastric grenade, which 
 uses your stomach as a flung explosive device. Or maybe pulling off your own arm to scurry about 
 and possess a human that can help you get past a difficult part of the game. This was a great bit 
 of fun, but you never really have a need to use it until the later stages of the game. Using your 
 head as a bowling ball and extremely deadly flatulence round out the special attacks you can use 
 in the game. While this all sounds like a basket load of fun, it just feels like Dj vu all over 
 again on each stage. The story kept me going though the action sequences towards the end because 
 it was just the same thing over and over.
  
  The game for the most part is fun, but has some weaknesses that keep it from being at the top of 
 the list. The game is short. It is fulfilling, but you just feel like there were some sequences 
 that were way too short and could have been expanded. It will keep you entertained, but you feel 
 a bit cheated when the end comes. The aforementioned action sequences are a bother, and take you 
 out of the game a bit as you get into the late stages of the game. Technically, there are no problems 
 with the game with the exception of one scene where everything went black and the screen would 
 not redraw until the character was moved manually to a different area. Not too bad, except you 
 have to do it while you cannot see. It may be a unique occurrence, but it should be noted.
  
  Stubbs is a great game that gives the player a new type of character to play. The cut sequences 
 will have you rolling on the floor with their insane humor. The visual feast for the eyes and orchestral 
 genius that is presented for the ears will please you to no end. It is just sad when the ride ends 
 a bit prematurely. Hopefully for us gamers, a sequel will finds its way to us soon to continue 
 the adventures of the lovable dead guy that is Stubbs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueteckz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs, This is a great zombie character. Funny, Man-Of-Action, and Hungry. But there is something 
 that the game was lacking. PC Power. This game is just as hungry for Hardware as Stubbs was hungry 
 for Brains. To really enjoy this game you must ether 
  A.) Have a Top of the line computer
  
  Or
  
  B.) Get an X-Box. 
  
  This game is kinda like GTA 3 with little story. It's blood 
 gore fun action is great for an Hour then it slowly repeats itself over and over and over. It's 
 best to play this game little by little. Music was really change of pace. Oldies mix with todays 
 bands and you get... Good remixes. 
  
  Stubbs has lots of fighting tools and moves. You have a gut grenade (just as it sounds) , The Nuke-Gas 
 move ( In English : BIG FART ) , And his left arm ( or was it his right? Anyways he rips it off 
 his body and you can control it to Possess people.. Cool ) And the people you bite, Will become 
 part of your zombie army. But.. Since you ate their brains. They are not to much of use. Only good 
 for is to push them into battle or, Zombie Shields.
  
  This game has lots of levels mix with the Past and the future in one time period. The game has 
 Comedy, Blood, Action, Blood, Puzzles, Blood, and Blood. Did I say that there was lot's of Blood 
 in it. This game has so much of it, and can break a vampires diet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  
  This game i didnt really like too much at first until i got used to it. I didnt like the way that 
 you didnt really have any clear objectives and seemed to just be wandering to different points 
 but later its just to finish the level which works pretty good. The graphics on this game arent 
 that great like the character models seen up close but stubbs the zombie looks great and the animations 
 are very cool. The sound effects are good and the voiceovers are funny. i like the part where you 
 just finished eating everyone in the barn and stubbs gives a speech in front of the flag and all 
 he keeps saying is braiins brainns Braaaiins brains Braiins.. i thought that was funny. I think 
 the concept of this game is awesome and they should try to make another stubbs game with better 
 graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Stubb's the zombie is a really fun game. I dont normally play this kind of game. (im into FPS games) 
 but Stubb's is really really good. You are a zombie (of course) and you are in a futuristic city 
 but it is in the 1950's. You roam around killing people by, smacking them and ripping their arms 
 off, eating their brains, killing them with your own organs, or... well alot of ways to kill people. 
 Every person you kill, with Stubb's gets infected and they are like your 'squad' of zombies. The 
 game has lots of stupid funny jokes in it. The graphics are pretty good, the textures look clean 
 and real. The sound is awsome... like when you rip a guys arm of and smack him with it you can 
 hear the tearing bone crunching noise. There are vehicles too! there is a car that fires S*** out 
 the cannon and jeeps ect... Long story short this game is worth a try... i really am enjoying it.
 
  
  Good Stuff:
  Great sound
  Innovative gameplay
  Vehicles
  Funny
  Good graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without A Pulse is a really great game. The sound is really good because 
 of the dynamite soundtrack and the absolutely perfect zombie moans. Plus, this game is hilarious. 
 I could not stop lauging at some points. The graphics are pretty good except sometimes there are 
 frame rate issues and it can get kinda clunky. Other than that it is all good. The gameplay is 
 really good too considering you can eat brains! Who dosen't want to do that every once in a while. 
 It is a really easy game too. Anyone looking for a good zombie game or a really funny game should 
 really check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I love this new wave of retro games which use old concepts such as 1950's 
 sci-fi and horror and make them into new video games. Stubbs the Zombie falls right in line with 
 a fellow old-skool-made-new-again-title Destroy All Humans. Lets get into the meat of the review, 
 shall we?
  
  You assume the role of Stubbs the Zombie. As the games literature states (Im not really quoting 
 here, just summarizing) : Edward Stubbs Stubblefield was a traveling salesman in 1933, during 
 the darkest days of the depression. The only thing he could rely on was his unnatural bad-luck. 
 One day this strain of misfortune reaches its ultimate conclusion when Edward is shot in the stomach 
 and buried in a shallow grave somewhere in the remotest areas of the Pennsylvania countryside. 
 Now its 1959 and the site where Stubbs was buried is now a quasi-futuristic burg known as Punchbowl. 
 Punchbowl is the brain-child of Andrew Monday, the worlds richest man. He has an obsession with 
 technology and he created Punchbowl as the shining Utopia to which all cities of the world should 
 look for guidance. This includes robots (the gas station pump-bots are the funniest of them all. 
 If you play it you wil see what Im talking about!) and flying cars. Stubbs is now loose in this 
 city and is ready to inflict chaos and destruction upon its inhabitants.
  
  However, there is a love-story type plot in which Stubbs seems to fall in love with Andrew Mondays 
 mother. Relax, she looks like shes every second of 20... no biggie. You spend the bulk of the game 
 tormenting Punchbowl and ultimately turning it into a Zombie Apocalypse while trying to get to 
 Mrs. Monday. Its not very complicated but it comes with a nice twist at the end.
  
  The story may be simple but lets get into the game.
  
  The meat of the game is pretty straight 
 forward. You are here. You need to be there. Between the two lie a multitude of hapless victims 
 to destroy. Every time you kill someone (without the aid of a vehicle or weapon) they become a 
 zombie who is now just a simple piece of AI that does nothing more than attack living beings and 
 eat brains. Every time they kill someone that victim becomes a zombie, too. In no time youll have 
 your own horde of mindless zombie minions munching their way through Punchbowl. Doesnt that sound 
 Neat-o?! It gets a little repetitive after a while and commanding the zombies is restricted to 
 pushing them or calling them over to you. They never gave me any real trouble and proved to come 
 in handy in over-crowded areas. They swarmed humans and helped me make short work of them. Nice 
 touch! This does get repetitive after a while but fans of campy horror will love this games fractured 
 take on the 1950's.
  
  The developers have granted Stubbs with a few abilities to make your zombie rampaging even more 
 enjoyable. These abilities include Unholy Flatulence, which stuns all nearby foes making them much 
 easier to feast upon; Gut Grenades, these are explosive organs which Stubbs pulls from the gaping 
 hole in his side (remember the shotgun wound that killed him) and lobs at people; his severed arm, 
 this roams around independent of his body climbing walls and walking on ceilings which allows him 
 to possess anyone at any time; and Head Bowling, for this Stubbs removes his own head and bowls 
 it at the competition. You can detonate the head causing even more peripheral damage as a bonus. 
 All of these things are charged and replenished by Stubbs brain eating. If you need more Gut Grenades 
 or another shot at using your arm then just munch a few brains and recharge your system. 
  
  The arm itself was a good tool which offered up many innovations in the realm of stealth and 
 tactics but it is only necessary to use it a couple of times. They didnt elaborate on it too much. 
 And stealth is rather hard because everyone notices the victim has a severed zombie arm attached 
 to his head. The head rolling and other stuff is pretty fun but the basic mechanics of the game 
 remain the same: Whack em till theyre dizzy and then eat their brains. This is repetitive but 
 the game is pretty short (too short) so it works out in the end.
  
  However, the game throws you one hilarious twist early on. You clash with the head of the police 
 in Punchbowl and he keeps mentioning that hes going to dance on your grave. He isnt kidding. 
 When you finally meet him you find out that hes roughly 4' nothing and has a fetish for dancing. 
 You now land yourself in a short, but quite pleasing, rhythm game with the four main walk buttons 
 functioning as your input keys. You face off against the chief in 4 rounds which are fairly easy 
 even if youre new to the rhythm game scene. However, its a fun break from brain munching and 
 they do work in a quick parody of Jack-Os Thriller. I thought it was perfect with the games 
 out-of-sorts, what-the-hell-is-going-on-here presentation.
  
  Lets head over to the audio realm now and see what Mr. Sound has for us!
  
  The game makes 
 great use of music. A bunch of (sadly) Emo artists and similar bands lend their talents to the 
 soundtrack by re-recording old songs from the 50's such as Mr. Sandman and Lollipop. This is 
 a great touch. Occasionally you find yourself in a situation with this music playing while youre 
 munching on brains. The voice-actors are very well done and I have no complaints about any of the 
 audio. Ive always been of the mind that when audio is done correctly you dont notice it, but 
 the first time they screw up you know it! This is a nice strong and stable point for this game. 
 Kudos!
  
  Now, this is where the game really shines and the reason I have taken to it so well... PRESENTATION!
 
  
  This game takes place in a 1950's-ish city built to be the model for the way everything will be 
 working in the year 2000. The game adheres to the old 1950's zombie movie styling right down to 
 the film grain present even during game-play. The clothes and voice acting are almost satirize 
 of their real-world counterparts. Even the instruction manual carries on this tradition. The game 
 remains committed to this bit from the title screen clean through the credits! This is an excellent 
 touch and adds a level of unbelievable humor to the game. I have to tip my hat to the crews responsible 
 for this aspect of the game. It is truly the games strong point. Its dedication to the genre and 
 campy presentation make this a must-have for any fan of 1950's horror.
  
  All in all this game is a refreshing departure from the myriad FPS, MMORPG, and RTS games which 
 dominate the PC line-up. If you can find this game at a cost of $30 or less than I advise you to 
 get it, post-haste. The only reason I put this price cap on it (and in my opinion the only short-coming 
 to this game) is that it is quite short.
  
  Also, because this is a multi-platform game from its initial release, expect to have that same 
 raped and violated save feature. However, the auto save works often enough so it isnt as big a 
 deal as it is with other games. All in all I loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  If you are required to stick to the supposed rules of zombie nature, then this game just would 
 not have worked. Aspyr have changed the rules slightly to make Stubbs more user friendly but have 
 kept the essentials intact. The result is a hilarious and thoroughly enjoyable game.
  
  To play the game as arguably the bad guy (hobbling around munching on innocent peoples brains!) 
 is great fun although you do tend to feel a bit guilty as you bite into peoples skulls to restore 
 your health and charge up your special powers. It is only a video game though and the opportunity 
 to make this game really funny has been well taken advantage of. The jokes are hilarious and it 
 does kind of forgive the fact that the game play becomes a bit tedious and repetitive. But you 
 are controlling a brainless zombie after all and there is obviously a limit to what Stubbs is capable 
 of doing.
  
  The special attacks are good fun to execute. You can use your head as a bowling ball and also rip 
 your arm off and control the severed limb! Memories of the Addams family come flooding back! It 
 does take a lot of brain munching to recharge these attacks though which is frustrating.
  
  I cannot highlight anymore faults with this game and it really is a breath of fresh air into the 
 action/adventure genre. The 1950's soundtrack is great and adds to the humour too. This game is 
 all about laughter and fun. So if you want to play an action game that you can enjoy and laugh 
 at, get Stubbs The Zombie and as the game quotes, "Be the zombie!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  People complain a lot that theres no creativity or innovation in games anymore. If you feel this 
 way, then you should try Stubbs the Zombie: Rebel Without a Pulse, because its certainly unlike 
 anything that you have ever played before. Instead of shooting all of the zombies, you get to be 
 the zombie. Besides being an interesting and funny idea, this makes for a great game mechanic that 
 works really well. Its very easy to pick up and play, and its fun immediately. The downside of 
 this game is its simplicity makes it repetitive at times, and its not very long. This is a great 
 game overall though.
  
  You are probably wondering how you could have an action game where you play as a zombie. Does a 
 zombie use a sword, shoot a gun, or use martial arts? Can a zombie run fast? Well, no, but there 
 are plenty of action elements in the game. The game generally involves encountering groups of enemies 
 and eliminating them by eating their brains, beating them down, or using some of your special weapons. 
 When you kill an enemy, he gets right up and becomes a zombie on your side. Pretty soon, youre 
 eating brains, and your zombie friends are eating brains, and your zombies are multiplying geometrically. 
 Its great fun to enter a room full of enemies, make a few zombies, watch them make zombies, and 
 then watch the last enemy scream in terror as he is swarmed by his former friends. The basic mechanic 
 of making zombies out of enemies may not sound like much, but it makes this game totally different. 
 The downside is that your friends are as dumb as rocks, and they don't follow you across loading 
 zones.
  
  The action in this game can be pretty hard at times, and it requires some thought. This game is 
 very heavy on tactics. There is always a variety of ways to approach each tough situation. You 
 shamble slowly, and your basic brain-eating attack can only be executed at close range, so you 
 occasionally have to use your special abilities to gain an advantage. You can posess enemies, use 
 body parts as grenades, and emit an unholy fart that stuns enemies. These abilities are useful 
 but limited in number. You can only regenerate them by eating brains. There you have the game mechanics. 
 They are fairly simple, but man, are they fun.
  
  The fun of the gameplay is greatly enhanced by the games atmosphere. It could best be described 
 as Happy Days meets Resident Evil. Its set in a parody city of 1950s America, but with one 
 major twist. It also has a bunch of hokey sci-fi additions. So, you see 1950s cars and you hear 
 music like Mr. Sandman, but scientists are shooting laser guns at you, and youre piloting hovercrafts. 
 Its like the future, as depicted in 1950s comic books. The games visual style makes it look 
 like an early technicolor film, which drives home the theme. It tops it all off with dozens of 
 funny taunts and soundbites from your enemies. This is a funny parody of American culture that 
 you might see in a Rockstar game. When you combine all of these factors, its impossible to not 
 laugh at repeatedly during this game. 
  
  Its easy to tell that this game uses the Halo engine. Its uncanny how similar the two games are, 
 in some ways. Like Halo, Stubbs sports a small number of excellently refined game mechanics, 
 and then repeats them over and over in a variety of situations. (This game isnt nearly as repetitive 
 as Halo though) . There is little scripting, and enemies rarely surprise you. You can hide to regenerate 
 health. There are vehicles, and the game is almost perfectly seamless and devoid of loading times. 
 The fact that you can pilot tanks, jeeps, and hovercrafts is one of the many funny ways in which 
 this game does not take itself too seriously. A self-aware zombie running over enemies in a tank. 
 Who thought of this? The AI is also very good, and so is the games physics system. Unfortunately, 
 the game also has some of Halos repetitive architecture. There are a couple of areas in this game 
 where you can get lost, because youre wandering through identical hallways. 
  
  This game has been criticized for being pretty short, but its not horribly short. I finished it 
 between 8-10 hours. Thats not very good, but at least it has no filler, and there are a lot of 
 different situations and settings that you find yourself in. There are a few really hard battles 
 in this game, and each of the last few chapters ends with a major boss battle or a big challenge. 
 It helps that the game isnt full price. 
  
  Stubbs the Zombie: Rebel without a Pulse is one of the most unique games that I have played in 
 a long time. Not only is it different, but its well put together, and very funny at times. If 
 you like action games and youve got a sense of humor, then I highly recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riyad_94
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  You know when you watch a movie and you say "when are they going to make a game about a zombies 
 perspective?" well know they have. This game is amazingly fun. You have a whole bunch of ways to 
 infect the humans near by. you can either roll your head like a bowling ball, throw your gut as 
 a grenade, throw your hand to control other humans, best when the humans have guns, and the funniest 
 is when Stubbs farts, making every human around him go dizzy leaving them vulnerable. There are 
 some bad things though for instances if were dealing with the creators of Halo, why arent the 
 graphics as good as Halo? And the sound is pretty badly made. The thing that made me sad the most 
 is that the game is way too short. I was hoping on a HUGE game, one that you can play over and 
 over. But sadly it isnt that long, about 0-10 hours to complete. But other than the graphics, 
 sound and gameplay its a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moto19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  Stubbs the Zombie takes place in a town set in the 50s' but well ahead of it's time compared to 
 other rural American cities in the time. You play as the Zombie, Stubbs, who has risen from the 
 dead and begins his feast upon the living. The story is vaguely put together and you don't get 
 much of it at the end.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I loved the gameplay, well of course I love any game where there involves Zombies and brain mushing 
 and limb eating. You can use various special attacks to thrwart your enemies such as the rolling 
 head explosive or the intestine grenade throw or the detachable hand that can possess your enemies 
 and last but not least your odour that unsuprising itself comes from down below on the backside.
 
  
  Sound 
  
  The sound is good especially when the enemies complain when you're eating there brains "There is 
 someting in my mind!!!" and sometimes there could be music playing in a diner that could just go 
 great with the brain eating action thats going on around you.
  
  Graphics
  
  The Graphics stand out you can see the anti-aliasing and the nice textures and displacement mapping 
 put into making Stubbs and the textures of the world are alright but not fantastic.
  
  Overall
  
  Good game, maybe not worth the purchase but good at killing time:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cordata
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I had nothing but trouble installing this game... For some reason, every time I installed it and 
 tried to run it, the game tried to reinstall itself. I later found out that the desktop shortcut 
 doesn't work, so I had to manually launch the EXE file. That's strike one against the game...
 
  
  Once I finally was able to play, the first 3-4 levels are beyond repetitive. I actually started 
 to get tired of running around to make people into zombies. Luckily they eventually introduce a 
 few vehicles into the game, but they handle worse than Halo and you only keep them for a few minutes.
 
  
  Later in the game it's not as repetitive, but the whole run into a room, kill people, make zombies 
 still happens over and over again. At least they give you a warning something is going to happen. 
 It's called AutoSave...
  
  Overall, this is a maybe rent game, definitely not a "own it" game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Pros: Like I said, this game is al about eating brains. You are Stubbs, a zombie that rises from 
 the dead in a '60's version of the future. You come in a town where peace is living. You ate a 
 guys brain, commanded by a guide droid, and that's when all the trouble starts. Police will follow 
 you everywhere, and later on you will also get Soldiers comming after you, and this all in a very 
 commical way. The basic story is; Stubbs sees an beautifull lady and want's here as his girlfriend, 
 and so you're following here the whole game. In the meantime you're creating your own army of the 
 dead by eating everyones brain and so turning them into zombies. The controls are very good (since 
 it's a console port) . Your arsenal is also very funny; from stunning enemies with a ***** to bowling 
 your head into enemies. Deffinatly a must-try! 
  
  Cons: Sometimes your objectives can be confusing and eating brains can be repeatetive. The bossfight 
 against the Police commander is not very well ported and will make you stress out a couple of times! 
 (Don't worry after a couple of times you can skip the fight!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeheart6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I tried this game out since it had such an interesting premise. Within the first five minutes I 
 was laughing every few seconds or so. Being a zombie and eating brains is certainly rewarding. 
 You can create your own army of undead by killing humans. Once they rise and kill other humans, 
 you have a horde of zombies killing everything in sight. 
  
  FIrst I want to speak about what I like about this game. The voice talent is pretty sweet. You 
 will hear things like "You just killed the only man I ever loved." from one male cop after you 
 have killed another cop. They are alot of remarks like this. And there are enough remarks present 
 in the game that you do not get too tired of hearing them. (Of course the game's shortness helps 
 in this respect.) The soundtrack is A+ in the game, with alot of cover songs from the 1950's present, 
 as well as some original songs made for the game.
  
  The graphics are OK. I guess they are based on the Halo engine. They serve as a nice background 
 but they is no interaction at all with your enviroment. Bullets and explosions don't leave any 
 marks on the walls. The only things you can interact with are buttons, doors, windows, about 4 
 different types of vehicles, and a few other misc. things. This isn't really a bad thing since 
 those things don't appear alot in the game anyway. 
  
  Combat is a breeze, you can use the keyboard or the LMB to attack. You can bind the keys whichever 
 way you want them, but since you only use about 8 keys total for the game, it's not necessary. 
 You can do a basic melee attack, you can eat brains if you are behind someone or stun them during 
 combat, eating brains allows you special attacks like a huge Fart that stuns nearby enemies, or 
 you can throw your guts out and explode them like a grenade, also you can bowl your head and steer 
 it into a crowd of humans and detonate it. Last but the most helpful is you can detach your lower 
 arm and it goes crawling away to find a human to possess. Possessing a human is the only way to 
 use guns in the game thus you will be using it alot to avoid direct damage to yourself. Any damage 
 you take is healed after standing still for a few seconds so you can survive alot unless you take 
 a massive amount of damage in a short time.
  
  There a a few "boss" fights which you sort of have to figure out on your own how to defeat them. 
 It took me a while to figure how to kill the tank until I "disarmed" a soldier. The possession 
 trick comes in handy verses overwhelming odds. 
  
  The only negative thing I have to say about this game is that it only took about 8 hours of play 
 to beat. The really isn't any reason to replay this game. I suggest renting it if you have an Xbox 
 otherwise find a friend who has the PC version and borrow it for a weekend. The game is easy enough 
 for kids to beat but it's a little mature for them, I would give it a PG-13 rating for violence, 
 language, sexual themes, and bodily function humor. 
  
  Overall I liked it. Too bad there was so little of it. I hope Wide Load releases a sequel that 
 offers a lot more gameplay value and perhaps a multiplayer mode in the future. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liam_2
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I got my hand on a early release in September '05 for the Xbox from a friend and have waited till 
 now to review to avoid suspition of how I got it so early (a friend working at Wideload games sent 
 me a beta release) .
  This game is like stated above is a cheap replica of Pandemics Destroy All Humans with u playing 
 as zombie stubbs in this brain dead game where all there is to do is rip peoples arms off and eat 
 peoples brains.
  However the game is good in some areas such as the fact that u can face off against the police 
 and the military in vehicles such as sod-o-mobiles which are s**t throwing buggys, army jeeps, 
 tanks and... thats about it actually the game has only 3 vehicles.
  The good thing about this game is that if u get bored of fighting endless mindless A. I. characters 
 is that u can do it with a friend which for a strange reason adds slight depth to the game (very 
 slight) what I find annoying is the fact that the Halo game engine is totally wasted on this game 
 as the backgrounds are basic to say the least, they are dull and monotonous. 
  The city levels are the worst this is because your character can vanish into the backgrounds.
 
  Now my favourite criticism has to be the total lack of any storyline whatsoever, to me the game 
 seems uncomplete and a waste of an oppertuninty to make a great game that could have been a rare 
 original classic but has been wasted. The only things that may make u buy it is the 2 player mode 
 which is still dull and the fact u can use your body parts as weapons and the ability to posess 
 people the last good thing is probably the comedy which is not all that good with only one funny 
 bit in the whole game when u have a dance off against the chief of police.
  Overall the game is slightly comedic but lacks playability any story and discraces the Halo engine.
 
  
  Review done by Liam_2 and GnRsHeP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mopic70
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the zombie is a pretty cool game. I usually play first person shooters but I read about 
 this one on game spot and decided to try it out. The premise is quite funny. Game play is interesting. 
 Sometimes it is not clear what you are supposed to do to complete a level. To get past the part 
 where you urinate into the reservoirs, you have to pee in each one. If you get stuck in the levels 
 that have tanks, use your head bomb to hit the tank and then you can drive it around. I think 
 its fun to drive the vehicles around and run over the enemy. To shoot down the flying barbershop 
 guys, I usually posses someone who has a gun and then shoot them down. Not bad for a third person 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquel1983
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, it's hilarious and innovative!! I stopped playing anything else since i've installed!! 
 The bad thing is that it's too short! And if there were to be a cooperative mode (for multi playing) 
 it would have been a REMARKABLE GAME!!
  That's about it! i don't know how i'll fill the rest of the review.. :-??
  I know!! With BRAINS!! 
 :)
  BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
 BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! BRAINS!! 
  =) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game takes place in the 1950's in a futuristic town. You are a zombie that just goes around 
 killing people and making a zombie army with a couple of different moves like throwing your gut 
 and then making it explode like a bomb, Farting and stunning people around you, ripping your hand 
 of and making it control people and use their weapons and ripping your head of and using it as 
 a bowling ball knocking down people like pins. 
  
  I really wished that they used the awesome music that's mostly in the main menu and in a dance 
 off m ore. The music is the old songs like Mr. Sandman covered by new bands I think. I could sit 
 in the main menu forever just to listen to the music. The only reason I'm not giving the sound 
 such a good score is because I didn't think they used it enough.
  
  It even has comedy which you don't see in many games or that you do see in games that isn't any 
 good.
  
  The graphics are awesome even though that the screen does look a little strange than normal games 
 which I don't know if it's supposed to be like that or not.
  
  The game is a little short but the story and the humor will help make the whole game really fun.
 
  
  I would have to say that everyone that would like a good laugh gets this game. I know that I was 
 glad I got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  this game starts off delight full with the hole 50's timeline but his game is not what i expected 
 at all and i mean that in a bad way not good a bad way.
  The graphics are mediocor and i have seen them on some of the worst graphical games for any of 
 the systems. the game on PC is actually blocky at times also.
  the game also is jumpy a bunch and boggs down your system.
  all in all i can't say much about 
 gameplay since all you did was create a army of zombies to take over the world and what is up with 
 the power ups i never got that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  coll game , funny , nice , rock , what i can say????
  i think this game had alot of advantages things so it hardly to find disadvantges
  so i'll say 
 the good things for my opinion
  1- cool character
  2- good story
  3- verey good soundtracks and background music
  4- driving car and tank engine was so decent 
 
  5- i liked the special abilities like the ideal hand and throung organics
  
  but there is a few bad things
  1- why the zombie can't fire a gun or use a machine gun 
  2- 
 only one soure for feeding and it is the same for filling up my abilities
  3- can't drive civilian cars
  
  thats it 
  Oh i also liked the speech that the hero said 
 to the zombies soldier in the country mission so i want to say it again
 '' BRAIN BRAIN .. Brain .. Brian  
 
  B R  nnnnnn ''
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodbatgot
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  O. K, I admit it, I'm a zombie fan, I've seen quite a number of zombie movies, ranging from Re-Animator, 
 going through the Romero films and a load of others in between, incluiding some obscure italian 
 ones you must avoid at all costs (say, for example, the one billed as zombie 4, total rubbish) 
 so obviously the prospect of a zombie game where you actually get to BE the zombie, got my juices 
 flowing... after some wait, the game was finally installed in my hard drive...
  I was greeted by some videos, and some 50ish music, that kinda reminded me of the Misfits (hmm... zombie 
 fans too in the end heh) and was a bit disappointed by the fact that they didn't include a Misfits 
 track (being called rebel without a pulse and all...) considering they have an album called Project 
 1950... after having a bit of a hard time deciding how to map the keys (way too many in my opinion 
 :S) and figuring out the "crouch" mapping NEVER worked until I got a new mouse and mapped it to 
 one of the mouse's buttons I managed to finally begin the adventure...
  O. K... the graphics are well... err... really nice textured, character wise, but world wise, it's 
 like I was playing inside a big cube with some seams here and there... I recall Quake 1 had a more 
 detailed architecture... and that game was released aeons ago, that's probably the fault of the 
 game being developed for XBOX and the ported, as far as I know, instead of the other way around 
 (the way it should be done, let's face it console graphics are still sub-par next to a powerful 
 pc...) though I did like the meaty chunks after you eat someone's brain...
  The controls could be tighter, some people might complaint the game's slow... but well, you're a 
 zombie remember? Running zombies are never good... zombies are sloooooowwww (braaaaaiiiiiiinsssss) 
 but even though they could be tighter and you're a zombie, they manage to get the job done beating 
 humans into submission, eating their brains and turning them into your endless zombie army... you 
 get to do some driving too, but I mostly found the vehicles pointless (except one particular vehicle 
 towards the end...) also, running people over is never as fun as eating their brains :)
  Stubbs has quite an interesting arsenal: His rotten gas that makes enemies dizzy, a gut grenade 
 (that only too late I found you could detonate at will :S) , his head (no, really! you can bowl 
 it and blow it up) and the all mighty hand... using the hand, you can possess virtually any character 
 in the game (that isn't wearing a helmet or is inorganic, nice detail :) ) and then the game turns 
 into a sort of 3rd person shooter, now... Stubbs is a zombie, but the humans are well... not yet... so... why 
 are the humans so damn slow??? A guy carrying a bazooka is understandably slow... even a sniper 
 rifle... but a hand gun??? It was fun possessing the flying guys though... now, all these powers 
 are not available right away, you have to well... discover them as Stubbs finds out his body parts 
 can be detached hehe also, in a very specific part, you use... other bodily fluids... fun fun fun
 
  A wonderful part of this game is the sound, the dialog is really, really funny with all the zombie 
 cliches you could hope for, as well as the cultural references and puns, hearing the audio was 
 probably part of what kept me playing; from the zombies craving "Braiiiins" to the civilians begging 
 you to stop... all really well done...
  The game offers a nice variety of boxes... err sorry, playing environments, ranging from streets 
 to corn fields, all complete with a traditional inhabitant of said environment... and a nice "I'm 
 stuck inside a cube" feeling
  The game also offers bosses... which are easy to defeat once you figure their pattern and the way 
 to hurt them... the best boss was probably a reminder of a John Landis video...
  So... I finally got to the end... and was really disappointed... too short , funny, but too short 
 :S
  Adding it up, it's a fun, short game, with sub par graphics, the concept really rocks, but a better 
 implementation would probably have been better, both control, graphic and lenght wise... after a 
 while you get tired of defeating the same enemies over... and over... and over... and over...
  The only curious thing is that the scientists in this game must have gone to the BOFH's school 
 of science... as they sometimes pack some real nasty heat...
  Bloodbat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie is not a graphically amazing game, it does not have great physics or revolutionary 
 gameplay, but there's something about munching on brains that really appeals to me. Stubbs has 
 a unique array of attacks which, unfortunately, there are too few of. You can possess enemies with 
 a detachable hand, fart to intoxicate your opponents, and even use your head as a bowling ball. 
 However, there really only are about five different attacks which get pretty old. Stubbs the Zombie's 
 best achievement, in my opinion, is the humor. Stubbs is the only game I have ever played that 
 I found hilarious. The guys at Wideload have an excellent sense of humor that really makes this 
 game a gem. If only the gameplay was as good as the humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Very interesting concept, but for me, it really didn't work out. The gameplay if just to repetitive. 
 They try and introduce new powers every so often throughout the game but its lame. I really expected 
 more from it. 
  Also the comedy value seemed to ware off extra fast for me. Usually I love games that make you 
 lauph and have a different style of play. This one just tries too hard! Another shander is the 
 music, it had a great soundtrack. Just never used the damn thing! I almost enjoyed the menu more 
 than the game itself.
  
  I am sorry to say, but it stinks. If you wan't a funny game check out Freedom Force Vrs. The Third 
 Reich...... and if you want something unique try, Darwinia.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindstormpt
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review and the somewhat unusual theme got me quite interested in this game, but ten 
 minutes playing it were enough to make me regret it.
  
  There's nothing incredibly interesting about the game.. The graphic engine is good, but the developers 
 chose to give a "dead" tone to the image, which might work on consoles but doesn't really look 
 good on a PC. Same thing for the mouse+keyboard controls, which simply don't work. The mouse isn't 
 even locked to the main monitor, which is a terribly stupid mistake nowadays. 
  
  As for the game itself, it's really just a matter of going around farting and eating people's brains. 
 It might be a new concept, but it's not a lasting one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProjectDad
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Stubbs the zombie in my opinion is a great game. Being the zombie instead of gettin hunted down 
 by zombies or other creatures is kind of a refreshing change. The thing i like about the feel of 
 the game, the mixing of the gore and comedy, it's like a Bruce Campbell idea, and everyone knows 
 Bruce Cambell rules. The gameplay is very similar to regular shooter games such as socom or other 
 military games especially. And nothing can compare to the fact that everyone u kill not only fills 
 up ur weapons and strength, but they come back up as zombies and start an awesome dawn of the dead 
 attack on ur enemies with you. One would have to admit the game does have it's corny points, such 
 as the old ass music and some of the storyline just seems to be too odd, but i have no problem 
 at all with the gameplay. I'd easily recommend it for someone to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkshipman
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  DEMO version. This was not a very fun game. Game play was very basic. Hopefully the full version 
 is better. VERY generic in game play. Kind quality was like what you might expect in the $5 game 
 from Wal-mart. You would think that the DEMO would be as close to the retail version of the game 
 to get users to buy it. Such as FarCry and Half life 2 the graphics, sound and gameplay was great. 
 In light of the game play the game has some funny and different ways of killing people. The The 
 death by Fart and the brain eating was ok. In any case I will not buy the game because the DEMO 
 was not very good. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The game's manual will give you a slight bit of backstory into how Stubbs came to exist in his 
 undead form, but it's far more interesting to learn these bits of info from the game itself. The 
 game metes out its story in tiny, measured doses that don't truly take shape until the game's final 
 confrontation. This works well, because the game starts with little to no point or direction beyond 
 eating the brains of cops, scientists, and civilians. The game takes place in a retro-futuristic 
 take on the 1950s, mixing social Puritanism with a city of the future, complete with hovering cars, 
 robot assistants, and laser blasters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerTruffle
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I'll just cut to the chase - this game was *not* designed for users with dual monitors. This is 
 the only third-person shooter style game I've ever seen that actually allows the mouse to move 
 over to your second screen while playing. You actually SEE the mouse cursor on your second monitor, 
 moving around when you've moved it far enough that direction. I wouldn't care about that since 
 it still controls where you look regardless of which monitor the mouse is apparently on... except 
 that if you click any mouse buttons while the cursor is visible on your second screen, you're dropped 
 instantly out of the game and focused on whatever you clicked on.
  
  Yes, there's a workaround. I could use my display properties to disable my second monitor. But 
 I shouldn't have to. There's absolutely no excuse for designing a game that requires any major 
 changing of settings back and forth from standard just to play it. What little I could see of the 
 game looked interesting, but it's so unplayable, I couldn't test it enough to feel confident recommending 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greydawg
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  I have a great video card, the latest nVidia drivers released a month ago, and the demo just makes 
 my computer screen dissappear, indefinitely. I'm having a hard time understanding how developers 
 can keep making games for the PC with compatibility issues like this. I guess that's why some say 
 gaming on the PC is dead.... just like stubbs...
  There is no good way to try pretending that I could say anything nicer. I was looking forward to 
 at least seeing this game, but that's what happens sometimes with freakin' PC games, ugh. I was 
 looking forward to at least seeing this game, but that's what happens sometimes with freakin' PC 
 games, ugh. I was looking forward to at least seeing this game, but that's what happens sometimes 
 with freakin' PC games, ugh. I was looking forward to at least seeing this game, but that's what 
 happens sometimes with freakin' PC games, ugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakooza1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  I really liked the game play and the control, especially on hand mode (before you catch someone 
 with it) . I like to sneak with it.....
  AMAZING GAME! but too short! Even for a demo it's short.
  First bug that I found is that if you're 
 jumping and someones shooting on you with Lazer gun, you do a 'double jump'... thats annoying and 
 almost always i fell into the ocean.....
  Anther bug (not sure if it was on purpose or it wasnt) is- the zombies that aren't me can't survive 
 when they fall into the 'pool'.... o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carmav
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game and installed it. I did have video issues which they have a patch for now. 
 The game is so bizarre, I love it. Fun just to sit and watch Stubb's mannerisms. After he stands 
 for awhile he will fart and then wave his hand behind him in some cases driving the other zombies 
 to go into some crazy dance. I could go on for hours. You have to play this game to get the full 
 fun of it. Can't say enough about this game. first your ammused then your thrilled. Right when 
 you think your into the swing of things the game throughs you a curve. woow someone you can not 
 chomp on a big plowboy with a chainsaw that is not going down easy. Throwout the game you get these 
 guys so limber up your fingers and start fighting big time. Go ahead break into a sweat it's going 
 to happen. Open your ears and listen to all the humor. This game will be played time and time again 
 by myself you can't get enough of it so don't make plans to go anywhere. Expect hous to flyby like 
 mins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and makes you want to play it a few times after you beat it. The game starts off 
 with you as a zombie eating away at the new FUTURE city of world. The neat thing is the people 
 you eat they become your new friends making them follow you to do your dirty work... so if your 
 the one that doesnt want to get your hands dirty leave it to your evil zombie army.
  
  The game gives players the ability to control enemy soldiers using your hand allowing you to use 
 that enemy's weapons from rockets to submachine guns. The game also allows you to drive cars if 
 you know how... aka some cars/vehicles are locked leaving you to walk. Missions are fun and also 
 hard missions have sometimes a skip so if you cant do a mission because its hard to you then fail 
 it and sometimes a message comes up allowing you to skip it and move along the story.
  
  The game has some sad points, such as not allowing the player to explore the city like a gta style 
 and also enemies seem to sometimes get on your nerves such as trying to kill a tank with only your 
 zombie skills.
  
  Over all great game and you should buy it if your the one that loves zombies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivikingu
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  OK this game may be a little short, but aren't best things in life to short?
  its a great game, lots of fun, i enjoyed this one a lot!
  
  the graphics are not so great [like 
 all the other titles out there] but who cares?
  i mean all the games recently seem to have just fancy graphics, and nothing more!
  most games 
 these days are just run and shoot at anything that goes your way!
  
  this one is different, the best thing in the game is the atmosphere, you can feel the zombies. i like 
 the lightning and shading of the levels.
  controls may lack a little, and are not so precise, but this is an adveture sci-fi,
  so no prob 
 :)
  
  
  i recomand this game, and i dont recomand games that easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply Stubbs the Zombie rules. You get to eat peoples brains, rip off arms and use them 
 as weapons and sow the seeds of chaos with your undead zombie hordes. The game takes place in the 
 city of Punchbowl which is what a utopian city was supposed to look like to the people of the 1950's. 
 Stubbs returns from the dead to avenge his murder, A simple enough story.
  
  You would think that a zombie being undead and all would be unarmed, You would be wrong. Stubbs 
 has an array of bodily weaponry from a nasty paralyzing fart, a gut bomb that can turn people into 
 zombies upon death, a hand to possess people and he can also use his own head which he bowls with 
 to kill people and last but not least eating brains. Not only is eating brains fun but it is also 
 part of a balanced diet for a healthy zombie so go out to your local sidewalk kiddies and bite 
 into the skull of a police officer to get to that delicious brain matter. It's not illegal it's 
 fun!
  
  The victims of sudden brain removal usually let out long drawn screams of anguish or just scream 
 "MY BRRRRRRRAIN!" then after a few seconds become zombies. Stubbs can control the zombies to a 
 point, He can whistle and summon them to his position or just push them in the right direction. 
 There are some hilarious movie moments in the movie like when some cops fly up to a gas station 
 to fill up and a perky robot gas tank makes the droid with two backs to fill up the tank nudge 
 nudge wink wink know what I mean? also after destroying a farm full of right wing militiamen stubbs 
 rights a sheep to the old time music of a western. Good times, This game has the potential to be 
 played over and over again and still be fun. Solid graphics and easy controls make this game even 
 better. Buy this game or else I'll eat your brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  For those unfamiliar with the premise of Stubbs the Zombie, the game allegedly pits drifter-turned-zombie 
 Edward "Stubbs" Stubblefield, a bum from the twenties who wakes up in a sci-fi 1959. My guess as 
 to what the hell happened is that the town was placed right over his grave, although the game offers 
 no conclusive evidence, to the contrary or otherwise. 
  
  Stubbs' flaws are more than apparent when you boot it up - you can't skip the cutscenes, despite 
 the fact that they're repugnant and are about as useful as the ability to call your zombies. More 
 on that later. The game's erratic save points seem to be activated by a - pardon the pun - Ghost 
 in the machine, sometimes occuring when you pass through a door, others when your swamped by enemies 
 in the middle of a room. 
  
  When the game begins, you're simply dropped smack in the center of town, with no form of direction 
 or prompts as to what your actions should be. The only form of guidance you get is from a low-poly 
 robot with an incredibly annoying voice. Her little monologues come with benefits, however, as 
 she tells you - unintentionally - about new moves that you can use after she sparks your creativity. 
 Aside from your bare hands, your move repertoire consists of brain eating, Gut-Bomb throwing, "Unholy 
 Flatulence", and Head Bowling. None of them really work as they're supposed to, which will ultimately 
 lead to many re-loads and frustrating back-tracks. Stubbs also possesses a move whereby he can 
 latch his hand on to a host's head and control them. Frustratingly, this is the only time you can 
 use a distance weapon. You'll find yourself playing the game more as a possessed enemy than as 
 Stubbs, as the combat becomes much easier with a distance between you and your foes. 
  
  Stubbs, being a born leader, can summon his fellow zombies, although the controls for this are 
 a joke, and its' uses questionable. It takes all of fifteen seconds to summon your zombies, and 
 that's just to get them moving towards you. Obviously, if you're in the midst of a heated battle 
 and need your boys to back you up, you're gonna be toast before the cavalry arrives. And once they 
 do, they're probably just going to mope around idly, throwing the occassional punch towards the 
 guy filling you with hollowpoints.
  
  As to the game's engine and aesthetics, it was a great idea, and the developers gave it the old 
 college try, but it just doesn't quite make it. That isn't to say that certain things don't look 
 good, just that when you're using a five-year-old engine (Halo) , you may want to re-vamp it. As 
 it stands right now, the level design/detail is some of the worst I've seen in recent years, consisting 
 of low-res textures pasted over what is, for all intents and purposes, a maze. 
  
  The game does have redeeming aspects, however, such as the Original Soundtrack. Covers of classic 
 Fifties songs litter Stubbs' world, so you can groove to a Flaming Lips' cover of "If I only had 
 a Brain" while beating a cop to death with his own arm. 
  
  Stubbs also has some inventive mini-games and sequences, such as that of a gas-pumping robot being 
 fellated by an automobile, or a Dance-Off with the Chief of Police. And there's nothing quite like 
 tearing the top of someone's skull off and eating there brains while his comrades yell, "He just 
 ATE BOB'S BRAIN!"
  
  Satisfaction in every bite. Too bad they're small bites, and Stubbs doesn't have enough of them 
 to make a part of your permanent collection. Thanks for Reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advanced-Shadow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Just finished taking it back to store after a booring period of playing it and it just plain sucks 
 eating peoples brains is fun but without a compass or anything to tell you where your going and 
 wat your doing when you get there it takes the fun out of it Graphics a little outdated but not 
 that bad i would say this games somthing like Destroy all Humans but even that was more fun it 
 trys at times to be funny but its not at all i say rent it first and if you like it then buy a 
 used copy and then return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  Is it really that difficult to make a unique game these days? Just take the corniest possible idea 
 for an action game and then turn it completely upside down. Don't offer the typical swaggering 
 male protagonist who sets out to save the world. Instead, give the player a walking, rotting corpse 
 to do the job, or to put it plainly, a zombie. Aspyr and Wideload Games seized the opportunity 
 to realize such a unique idea, and so Stubbs the Zombie in "Rebel Without a Pulse" was born.
  
  Stubbs the Zombie is one of those games that doesn't bother to concern itself with any profound 
 story-telling. It features little to no dialogue and rather limited characterization. Frankly, 
 there's not much to say when you want to depict the dismal existence of a zombie. Players are thrust 
 into the tattered threads of a ravenous green-skinned zombie named Stubbs, who got bored of lying 
 around in his coffin all day, counting dead worms and thinking of new and interesting ways to entertain 
 himself. So, he heads out on a traditional zombie killing spree through the beautiful city of Punchbowl. 
 He also has his heart set on a dame. (Hey, zombies have feelings too!) Each time he sees her on 
 a TV screen or billboard, he grows wild with desire. He CAN contain it mind you, so don't get any 
 perverted ideas about a horny zombie humping mail boxes just because his piece of tail is out of 
 reach. Anyhow, his love for the big-breasted lass is the sole thing that keeps him going through 
 all his endeavors as a full-fledged member of the undead. During the game you won't find any intriguing 
 plot twists or anything resembling an actual plot for that matter. Actually, it's not until the 
 very end of the game that you discover a rather amusing back story related to Stubbs and his family, 
 but that's all there is to it. For those who enjoy a good spoof, Stubbs the Zombie has its fair 
 share of silly humor and pranks that can be witnessed around every corner. 
  
  The game begins as Stubbs bursts out of the ground right onto an unsuspecting courting couple. 
 Having devoured both (or at least one) of their brains, Stubbs comes across a friendly service-robot, 
 determined to give him a guided tour through Punchbowl. Punchbowl is a fictional 50's-style city 
 with hover-vehicles and laser technology - it's quite the freaky combo.
  
  There are a few basic rules you need to follow in order to accommodate to the life of a zombie. 
 The aforementioned robot offers suggestions, often inadvertently, on several moves Stubbs can use 
 on victims. Listening to the robot's advice comes as a brief and straightforward tutorial. A small 
 number of tips is all it takes to master the art of zombie fighting. Once you've learnt the basics, 
 the carnage may begin.
  
  My initial disappointment was with the game's slightly outdated visuals. Character models are decent 
 enough, and some people might enjoy the 'grainy film' special effects perpetuated throughout most 
 of the game. However, I wasn't all that pleased with the backdrop in most areas. Each level has 
 generally poor texture patterns that were clearly made to suit the older hardware of the Xbox. 
 This, of course, doesn't come off too well in the PC version. Still, there's plenty of blood and 
 gore and solid character animation, so you'll soon forget the rather flimsy console-esque visuals.
 
  
  At the beginning I felt a bit disappointed given that most of my activities in the game involved 
 scratching, punching and gnawing at civilians and policemen. Fortunately, things got better after 
 I completed the first stage and once I was able to utilize some of Stubbs's cool zombie skills. 
 Sucking the life out of an innocent passer-by charges several special powers Stubbs may use at 
 the opportune moment to boost his attacks and eventually damage multiple enemies. Lobbing a few 
 belly grenades and loosing unholy flatulence are usually your best bet for confronting several 
 enemies at once. When you reach a certain part of the game, you will also unlock the ability to 
 roll the main character's zombie-like head across the floor and then detonate it when it reaches 
 its target. It's kind of like bowling, but with a special destructive flavor added to make things 
 a bit more interesting. Oh and need I mention that the pins were substituted with live targets. 
 Joy. It's basically how Stubbs likes to spend his spare time. After an exhausting day of eating 
 brains and ripping off limbs, there's nothing better than going out on the town for a good game 
 of head-bowling.
  
  Possibly one of the best aspects of the game is Stubbs's ability to influence weak-minded opponents 
 via his detachable arm. This segment of the game reminded me a lot of Alien vs. Predator: Primal 
 Hunt, where you see everything from the perspective of a freshly hatched alien. Similarly to the 
 blood-thirsty baby alien, the detached zombie arm crawls across walls, pillars, tables and almost 
 any surface that gets in its way. In many situations the arm introduces a wide range of possible 
 strategies to battle your way through without even injuring Stubbs himself. You pull out the arm, 
 move in on a specific target, and when the victim is in range, simply press the 'E' key and the 
 unlucky individual is yours to command. The possibilities are practically limitless. You can manipulate 
 soldiers, civilians, policemen and farmers, using a variety of ranged and melee attacks in the 
 process. You can also order people to enter vehicles and do all the dirty work for you. Whether 
 you decide on controlling someone else or using Stubbs, there's a variety of challenging ways to 
 go through levels that are usually crammed with fresh meat (i. e. your prey) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie: Rebel Without a Pulse is a very unique game. Every other zombie game on the 
 market allows you to become a survivor, part of the resistance against the zombie menace. Yet, 
 Stubbs allows you to join the other side  the zombies themselves. The game manages to deliver 
 an interesting experience of what it feels like to actually be a shambling, undead, brain-eating 
 zombie. The game offers an insightful perspective on the un-life of a zombie in an entertaining 
 and often funny way. Too bad, though, that the experience doesnt last too long.
  
  Generally, a zombie doesnt require a background story  after all, a zombie is driven by his incessant 
 desire to eat brains, and not by any convoluted plots. Stubbs the Zombie, however, still has a 
 background story, which explains exactly why Stubbs, a former traveling salesman, found himself 
 zombiefied under a park in the city of Punchbowl. Although the story can be ignored almost entirely, 
 as the only thing that the player needs to concentrate on is eating enough brains, it still adds 
 more flavor to the game. The storyline, like many other elements of the game, is simply funny. 
 
  
  Since one thing that has to be admitted about the game is the fact that it is funny. While it might 
 not be extremely challenging, it is still very entertaining and amusing. Few other games allow 
 you to witness the kind of hilarious chaos that ensues in Stubbs every time you consume enough 
 brains to create an army of zombies to do your bidding. The game is, in fact, quite easy, even 
 at higher difficulty settings. This, however, does not detract from the overall experience. The 
 thing that makes Stubbs fun is the set of gameplay mechanics that allows to create zombies, and 
 have them do the players biddings. In fact, it is fun to simply sit back and watch Stubbs zombie 
 hordes advance and deal with all the alive humans themselves, without any interruption from the 
 player.
  
  To add to the simple mechanics of eating brains and hitting humans with their own, ripped out arms, 
 there are other things that Stubbs can do. One entertaining option that he has is ripping out his 
 own hand, and then throwing it away. The player can then control the hand, making it climb walls, 
 and, eventually, attach itself to a human. The player can then control the character, and use their 
 weapons. This allows the player to, for example, soften the opposition of a squad of soldiers by 
 taking over one of them, and then shooting the rest. Other special attacks by Stubbs involve throwing 
 his, apparently poisonous and explosive body parts at people, or farting. Overall, the nice thing 
 about the games gameplay is the fact that its incredibly amusing, even though its not too complicated 
 or challenging.
  
  Another thing that adds to the great atmosphere of zombie mayhem is the sound effects. They are 
 what you would expect from a zombie game  moaning, groaning, sounds of brain-munching. Except, 
 in Stubbs they are done in such a way that they contribute to the games hilarity. Its simply 
 funny to hear the wet sound of munching as Stubbs tears through someones skull, and begins chewing 
 their brains. The music fits with the whole retro-futuristic-50s theme that the game features, 
 although you dont really hear that much music during the game. The voiceacting, on the other hand, 
 you often hear too much. Your victims often repeat the same lines over and over, which can make 
 the game somewhat duller. The lines that they say, however, are most often as funny as the rest 
 of the game. Yes, a lot of the time when you rip someones arm out theyll inform you that it was 
 their second favorite arm, but that doesnt make it completely unfunny.
  
  The graphics are one of Stubbs weaknesses. The game uses the Halo engine, which, as we all know, 
 isnt really a great thing for a PC game to do. The game manages to run fairly smoothly, however, 
 it doesnt look that great. Some sections of the game are somewhat bland, and overall, the game 
 doesnt really look as great as some other titles out there today. There is a lot of post processing, 
 in form of various filters being added when, for example, in autonomous hand mode. Overall, the 
 design of the levels and graphics is good; however, the blandness, characteristic to the engine 
 can be witnessed in the game.
  
  Stubbs certainly is a game that is fun. The game itself doesnt disappoint in any way, and, in 
 fact is quite good and fun. What disappoints about the game, though, is its length. It simply is 
 too short, even by todays standards. The game is too linear to offer much replayability, and that, 
 together with its shortness really harms it. It just ends too quickly, and leaves you craving for 
 more BRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAINS. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourOldFriend
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie: Rebel WIthout A Pulse is an ambitiously created PC/XBox game developed by Wideload 
 games (Founded by Chris Taylor of Dungeon Siege fame) and published by Aspyr. It released originally 
 on XBox and shortly thereafter on PC.
  
  Stubbs puts you in control of a zombie character known as, yeah you guessed it, Stubbs. Stubbs 
 was a traveling salesman who was murdered and buried underneath a field. That place eventually 
 came to be a little Pennsylvanian town called Punchbowl. This all takes place in the 1950's mind 
 you, but the whole city has a futuristic view and design to it. Remember though, that's it's futuristic 
 to those from the 50's, so the robot cops and guide-bots that roam the streets with the people 
 look just like they did in 1950's sci-fi movies with the tubing arms and pincer hands. It's really 
 classic and fits brilliantly together.
  
  The meat of the game involves "recruiting" people into your zombie army. You do this by killing 
 or eating the brains of the citizens of punchbowl while they scream out in terror. Along the way, 
 you'll learn four special attack moves. These include: Rolling your head like a bowling ball and 
 then detonating it, throwing your regenerating liver as a bomb, pulling off your hand and having 
 it take over an npc so you can use their guns, and finally, my personal favorite, farting and making 
 all the npc's around you go numb and stop reacting. All of it is great fun.
  
  This leads me to the true highlight of the game, the humor. Many games attempt humor and fall flat 
 on their face. But where they have failed, Stubbs succeeds. From little quips from farmers to the 
 screams of zombies when they are being blown apart, this game is a comical masterpiece. While you 
 are eating the people's brains, they scream out lines like, "Ow, you're eating me!" and, while 
 slightly repetitive as time goes on, are quite entertaining. Also, the general action of the cutscenes 
 is great, Stubbs is quite funny himself. Finally in the humor category, the randomness of the gameplay 
 made me laugh out loud multiple times. I don't wanna spoil it, but there is a particular segment 
 in which DDR makes its own special appearance. There's absolutely nothing better than watching 
 a dancing zombie.
  
  Regretfully, not all is great in this game that seemingly came out of nowhere. First off, there 
 are regrettably many technical issues. Most people haven't had this problem, but my copy crashes 
 often, primarily upon scene transitions. This isn't devastating since the loadups are incredibly 
 fast, but it doesn't help. Also, even on quite a fast computer, frame rates can take dives, most 
 likely because of the sheer number of zombies onscreen and their AI taking place. The game is based 
 on the Halo engine, so it was somewhat expected for it not to be very well optimized. At least 
 the sounds of the shuffling masses and ambient noises are fantastic and all seem to fit.
  
  Also, the game ends quite quickly and almost abruptly. You'll want to keep on playing it, but if 
 you do, you'll most likely finish it in one or two sitting. It is easily finished in 10 hours, 
 but I'd think that it's better to have a short, fun, high quality game than a long, drawn out dull 
 one. Sadly, there's very little replayability too. The jumps in difficulty merely add better aim 
 and a few more enemies, but it is still easy to take them on with your shambling horde, especially 
 since you regenerate health. So there's really not much incentive to replay the game on higher 
 difficulties.
  
  Overall, I had a blast with Stubbs. I thought it was a really original idea to be the zombie instead 
 of the post-apocalyptic action hero. For all those guys who have always wished for that special 
 zombie game in your life, here it is. It's only those niggling little bugs that keep this from 
 getting my own personal editor's choice, but is still definitely worth picking up and giving it 
 a shot. I can almost guarantee that you'll be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny123532
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  In this game as you already know you play a zombie called stub's. The game is a first of it kind 
 ive played and I think it quite good. The best points about the game are the graphics and the Zombie's 
 A. I . The game its self is quite short but its enjoyable and fun to play there are also mini games 
 through out the game that i didnt exspect to see in it at all. The game could be improved dramaticall 
 by adding more of a story line to it. In the game you can command over 50 Zombie's at one time to 
 cause real havork over the city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neunet
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Exellent Graphics , story , sound , but for me was too easy.. its not for wasting time try this 
 game !!!!
  My firs impression after downloaded it (sorry get it illegal : ( ) was terrible , some guys said 
 that is piece of **** :) , but after playing 10 minutes i was feeling happy ( or scared 0o ) 
 
  The game can be better , but the developers must be proud with this game!
  How i say its not for wasting time , try the game.. But i dont thing its the briliant horror :)
 
  shh there is something behind you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jwawrosz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  if your a horror and comedy fan, then stubbs the zombie is just what you wanted!! A funny storyline, 
 great graphics and lots and lots of blood are just some of the great things in this game, one of 
 the best things in this game is the fact that you ARE the zombie, not some human with a little 
 pistol, this time you eat those humans, and the human comes back, as a zombie!!!!
  I say that if your a hardcore gamer, you should check this game out, it is unlike any other game 
 iv'e seen, so anyone with the money should buy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svensweden
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  Ripy-time is obviously an idiot & had not even played the game he reviewed. In this game YOU are 
 the Zombie. Meathead. 
  Best Zombie game yet. Only real gripe, needs to be longer. 
  Could use some tighter controls.
  It's hard these days to find games that are truly funny & not 
 just try & fail.
  More of this please!
  Game maker please send us a cheap add-on with longer missions.
  Otherwise great.
  Ripy-time, 
 You are not a survivior of a post holocost zombie invation. You ARE the zombie invation starting 
 with you in this game.
  P-L-A-Y the game before spraying trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leibniz
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse is fun only for the first 10 minutes when you get your 
 zombie that is smoking and attacks people.
  Graphics are not bad but nothing fancy.
  Some of the sounds are funny but it just gets old very very soon. Plus there's nothing that will 
 make you make even the tiniest laugh.
  I uninstalled the game after 20 minutes of playing.
  If there's a demo somewhere get that it would be more than enough.
  I doubt they'll ever release 
 one though.
  Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse is the worst game i was tricked into buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waqashussain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This is an exellent game and i like this game so play this becouse this game is really an interesting 
 game if u will play thiis game u will not even bore fron this game so try this game it it is one 
 of the most horror games but it is not really diffcult game .
  Every level is different from other level its graphics sre superb and very high i like to play 
 this game because this is great game .thats why i like this game after read this review u also 
 shoud write your review.
  i have short time to play this game but i play this game my self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Stubs the Zombie. The story was superb for a third person shooter. The music was 
 pure 50's and enhanced the story and gameplay. The AI was good and the gameplay was lots of fun. 
 I especially enjoyed the vehicle levels, and the tanks near the end of the game were my favorite. 
 Framerates were excellent on my rig with all details maxed out, except of a segment of one level, 
 where they slowed down to a crawl. My only real criticism is that the game got extemely difficult 
 at the final levels. I had to use the halo cheat to get through it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BammBammBamm
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:23 am PT
Review:  Meet Stubbs, he isnt your average brain eating zombie hes a zombie with a sense of humor, and 
 you get to satisfy your brain craving hunger vicariously through him. I will be blunt. The game 
 play in this game clearly isnt its strong point. The overall feel is generally clunky, which hopefully 
 is intended seeing as youre a zombie. It gets pretty old pretty fast, seeing as all you do is 
 limp around beating the snot out of all sorts of 50s clichd characters. Now when I say beat the 
 snot out of there are a few different ways to do so. You can literally slap them to undeath, beat 
 em a bit then feast on their skull buffet, hit em with a gut grenade, bowl your head into em, or 
 fart and see how many you can snack on before they recover from your particular brand of undead 
 stank and control their actions via your detachable hand. Every method of killing via Stubbs brings 
 people back to until your following simply roams around and tears apart the fragile humans. By 
 and large the best part of the game is the use of your autonomous hand. Its something new and 
 novel that I have never seen before. While running around with this wayward limb you can climb 
 on the walls and ceiling, basically any surface in a constantly changing perspective. That is until 
 you find a target ripe for possession. If you can get close enough to an enemy you can control 
 their actions. This gives you instant third person perspective on a soldier, civilian, scientist 
 etc. So you can try out all the weapons in the game from baseball bats, rifles, shotguns, machine 
 guns, bazookas, laser pistols etc. The most fun were the snipers, bazooka men, and the barbershop 
 security jetpack thugs. The inclusions of a few random vehicles were fun. The graphics were highly 
 stylized so they are hard to rate. They werent supposed to look clean and they didnt. At times 
 they were too dark, and when brightened they looked even worse. The game featured non-stop humor, 
 aside from the cut scenes and boss comments, the human fodder all had something to say when you 
 were chowing down on their brains. The more people you eat the funnier it gets. Until youve heard 
 everything and then you wish they would just let you eat in silence. Other than that the sound 
 is standard, the only thing that goes bump in the night is you. For what it is, it was great. I 
 would recommend this game as a lark more than anything else. If youre looking for a fast paced 
 action game that will occupy all of your senses look elsewhere. However if you want a game that 
 will make you laugh and finally have a chance to play the other side you should check it out. Mos 
 def a rent, not own. At times bumpy, but all in all a fun ride.
  
  Bamm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just finished Stubbs the Zombie, and I have to say: what a blast! Playing Stubbs has been 
 some of the most fun I have had with a game in quite some time.
  Most "zombie" games out there have you trying to either wipe out the zombies, or just survive them. 
 But Stubbs is totally different in that you ARE the zombie. Your mission: eat brains, and convert 
 the citizenry into your personal zombie horde.
  Although an action game, and (sort of) a shooter, Stubbs cannot use guns; the only weapons he has 
 is his own decaying body. He can bite, swipe and kick, and eventually learns special zombie powers, 
 like using his internal organs as explosive grenades, and a detachable hand he can use to possess 
 humans with, in order to access the weapons he himself cannot actually use.
  Stubbs can also use his own head as an exploding bowling ball (truly bizarre!) , but the funniest 
 weapon at his disposal is "unholy flatulence". Stubbs' zombie farts give new meaning to the phrase 
 "clear the room".
  Graphics are good, but dated as the game uses the Halo 1 engine. I wish the devs had picked something 
 a little newer, but then again you don't need a supercomputer to play because of it. Some people 
 love the grainy "old movie" effect, but I would have preferred they left that out. But that's just 
 my personal preference.
  Sound is very good. The music soundtrack is excellent; covers of '50s tunes by indie bands. It's 
 so good I intend to buy the soundtrack CD. Sound effects and voice acting are great; the zombie's 
 gurgles and moans, and their human victims' comments are frequently hilarious.
  Game controls are somewhat klunky; the PC keyboard is not the best way to play this game. And for 
 a game based on such an ancient engine, it shouldn't chug on high-end systems, but still does at 
 times.
  But those are minor complaints, and the game is good enough you will want to keep playing to see 
 what happens next. Which leads to the only major problem with the game; it is way too short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just finished Stubbs the Zombie, and I have to say: what a blast! Playing Stubbs has been 
 some of the most fun I have had with a game in quite some time.
  Most "zombie" games out there have you trying to either wipe out the zombies, or just survive them. 
 But Stubbs is totally different in that you ARE the zombie. Your mission: eat brains, and convert 
 the citizenry into your personal zombie horde.
  Although an action game, and (sort of) a shooter, Stubbs cannot use guns; the only weapons he has 
 is his own decaying body. He can bite, swipe and kick, and eventually learns special zombie powers, 
 like using his internal organs as explosive grenades, and a detachable hand he can use to possess 
 humans with, in order to access the weapons he himself cannot actually use.
  Stubbs can also use his own head as an exploding bowling ball (truly bizarre!) , but the funniest 
 weapon at his disposal is "unholy flatulence". Stubbs' zombie farts give new meaning to the phrase 
 "clear the room".
  Graphics are good, but dated as the game uses the Halo 1 engine. I wish the devs had picked something 
 a little newer, but then again you don't need a supercomputer to play because of it. Some people 
 love the grainy "old movie" effect, but I would have preferred they left that out. But that's just 
 my personal preference.
  Sound is very good. The music soundtrack is excellent; covers of '50s tunes by indie bands. It's 
 so good I intend to buy the soundtrack CD. Sound effects and voice acting are great; the zombie's 
 gurgles and moans, and their human victims' comments are frequently hilarious.
  Game controls are somewhat klunky; the PC keyboard is not the best way to play this game. And for 
 a game based on such an ancient engine, it shouldn't chug on high-end systems, but still does at 
 times.
  But those are minor complaints, and the game is good enough you will want to keep playing to see 
 what happens next. Which leads to the only major problem with the game; it is way too short.
  There are only 12 levels, and on easy level you can easily finish the game in 6-10 houea. I just 
 wish there had been more too it; even playing very casually I was done in only 2 days. Haven't 
 tried the hard or "insane" difficulty levels yet, but even those won't add all that much to playing 
 time.
  Still and all though, Stubbs is a great game. Just wait until the price comes down a bit, as no 
 game is worth paying full retail when 10 hours later you're already done. Hopefully though, there 
 will be an add-on or two in the game's future...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaizerblade
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a unique approach to the zombie genre, instead of being the followed or the hunter of zombies, 
 you get to be the zombies.
  
  The set is filled with the classical 30's to 50's movies, including the simplified robots and laser 
 guns. togheter with the option to use special effects of snow and noise to make it well put togheter. 
 This gives you the feeling that you are playing in an old zombie movie.... with colors.
  
  The game starts very slow, but your skills in brain munching and gut throwing will be put to the 
 test, as you continue to convert the populace into mindless (No need for AI here) zombies. And 
 I must admit that I found it very irritating when I try to get close to some people, that they 
 somehow managed to keep the wee bit of distance between us, so that I couldn't even touch him. 
 When thinking about AI, the zombies don't need anything more than random walking and random attacking 
 pattern, but this too was irritating as they seemed to block corridors (Maybe the reason why you 
 can shove the zombies) .
  
  Overall I give this game 6.6, maybe a little too short, but very entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Tired of killing zombies? Tired of being the good lawful guy? Then Stubbs the Zombie Rebel Without 
 a Pulse is for you! I Installed this game today, Im finding it pretty fun. Quite cartoony but in 
 a good way. Basically it looks like the future but the people look like they're from the 1950's 
 when things were more "proper". You play a zombie and you eat peoples brains, bash them to death, 
 Farting to stun them, Throwing body parts, after killing a human they will turn into a zombie and 
 fight for your cause. Its a humorous game like robot gas pumps having sex with a police car... 
 lol. This game is definatly worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is a brand new view of the zombie genre and a great one at that. Have you ever 
 wondered what does a zombie truly do when he strides along looking for brains well this game lets 
 you answer your own questions. 
  How it all began... In 1933, Edward "Stubbs" Stubblefield was just another traveling salesman trying 
 to get by during the Great Depression. His lifelong losing streak reached its logical conclusion 
 when he was brutally murdered and ignominiously buried in a remote Pennsylvania field. In the close 
 future when the world is controlled by Mr. Monday, Stubbs comes back to life what to know why? 
 Play the game and find out. 
  
  Its not a very bloody game, but this is a good thing because the game has a comical approach to 
 all events; to blood would have ruined the effect. The game may not excel at graphics and sound 
 but it more than makes up for it in game-play and story. Speaking of game-play, its very simple 
 and very easy to learn. So lets leave it at that.
  
  But the real things that make you play the game are the characters, your team and its story. 
 Everybody in the game looks like people from the 1930s to the 1950s and act like it stupid dialog 
 and the rest; but not only humans live in the city robots complete the list of inhabitants. Now 
 when I say robots I mean robots form the movies in the 1930s and 50s I mean 3 boxes on top of 
 each other with an inanimate faces with tubes for arms and pincers for hands with the same comical 
 and classical language. Your team is formed from your victims I just love 5-10 zombies attacking 
 one police officer. 
  
  The story wheal play the game and find out :D 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
