-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sub Command
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/subcommand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 113 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Sonalysts
Genre: Submarine Sim
Date:     Sep 12, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It is a sophisticated simulation for people who like their sims sophisticated. 

 Sub Command is the kind of game most publishers would be afraid to release. It is ambitious, complex, 
 difficult to learn, and slavishly devoted to realism. You spend most of your time looking at control 
 panels and wondering what's out there. There's a lot of waiting and guessing. The average gamer 
 would hate it -- but Sub Command isn't for the average gamer. It is a sophisticated simulation for 
 people who like their sims sophisticated. If you're a hard-core simmer -- the kind of person who 
 revels in a meaty manual, who thinks relaxed realism settings just teach bad habits, and who scoffs 
 at putting a 3D engine in Harpoon because you'll only be using NATO symbology anyway -- then Sub 
 Command has your name written all over it.           A Seawolf releases a burst of chaff to foil 
 an incoming torpedo.    

  Sub Command was created by Sonalysts as a follow-up to its last submarine sim, Jane's 688 (I) Hunter/Killer. 
 688 (I) was easily the most realistic contemporary sub sim when it was released, but it was criticized 
 for having canned scenarios and a linear campaign. Sub Command continues this trend, but there's 
 more variability in the scenarios. Also, the campaign missions are interrelated, so your performance 
 in one mission will have an effect on the setup of the next mission. It's not a dynamic campaign 
 per se, but there's a sense of continuity. Since you can play the campaign and most of the scenarios 
 from the US or the Russian side, there's more replayability than there was in 688 (I) . Furthermore, 
 there's a comprehensive scenario editor, so expect to see plenty of player-made scenarios on the 
 Internet.   

  The most immediate difference from 688 (I) is that Sub Command lets you control your choice of four 
 different subs: the 688 (I) improved Los Angeles class, the next-generation Seawolf, or one of two 
 variants of Russia's bulbous Akula. The controls range from the Seawolf's sleek touch displays 
 and the 688's smartly military panels to the Akula's clunky spread of tickers, switches, knobs, 
 and cranks. From the inside, these subs have a tremendous amount of personality. There are also 
 differences in their weapon loadouts and sonar suites. However, it's hard to tell how much they 
 differ in capability. The Akula and Seawolf are light-years apart in terms of technology. The Seawolf 
 should be so quiet that it can cruise at relatively high speeds with little risk of detection, 
 and the Akula should be a noisy clunker in comparison. But there's no indication of these differences 
 in the game or manual.           Your sonar offers clues as to who is out there and where they 
 are.    

  Sub Command's manual is a 208-page Adobe Acrobat file. Be sure you've got a printer with plenty 
 of toner, or about 15 bucks to print it out at the local Kinko's. Even then, the manual is only 
 slightly helpful. It does a good job of explaining  how  you do things, but doesn't offer a whit 
 of advice for  why  you should do things. There's no information on avoiding detection, evading 
 incoming torpedoes, or how to best use your sensors. It's as if Sonalysts expects you to already 
 know what you're supposed to do once you're in charge of a nuclear submarine. This makes the game's 
 steep learning curve even steeper. There are three short tutorials that offer only basic information 
 before suddenly ending, leaving you with more questions than answers. It's insulting enough that 
 EA doesn't offer a printed manual; it's just pouring salt in the wound that such a big manual contains 
 so little helpful information.   

  Once you get the hang of it, Sub Command is basically a hide-and-seek game with advanced electronics. 
 In a contemporary sub, you're more of a high-tech detective than a warrior. Instead of fighting 
 a battle, you're solving a mystery. Who's out there? Where exactly are they? Where are they going? 
 Have they heard me? Should I shoot at them? You're putting together pieces of a puzzle, one shred 
 of evidence at a time. Through patience and careful analysis, you draw conclusions and act accordingly. 
    

 For instance, it takes several steps to figure out that a Russian destroyer is five miles away, 
 moving across your bow at 10 knots. First you hear the sound and match its frequency against a 
 database of vessels. Then you figure out its speed by demodulating the sound of its propeller to 
 count the number of blades and calculate how fast they're turning. Cross-reference that number 
 with known data about that ship type and you can estimate its speed. Over time, you'll plot a series 
 of bearings. Once you figure in the vessel's speed and compare it with these bearings, you can 
 triangulate its range. This is how you eventually make an informed guess about where the ship is. 
           The Akula enjoys a view of the sunset through her periscope.    

  To many people, this will sound tedious. It is slow and it requires a lot of patience. But if you 
 can appreciate the tension inherent in high-tech warfare -- and if you're willing to wade through 
 a lot of trial and error to make up for the manual's shortcomings -- then Sub Command is a true delight. 
 There's something uniquely gratifying about everything coming together just right when you successfully 
 manage to put a torpedo on its target. This sim doesn't shy away from presenting the methodical 
 business of submarine warfare in all its detailed glory. It takes work, but it pays off.   

  Jane's 688 (I) had a full 3D view of the action. Sub Command offers this, but only as a representation 
 of what you think is out there. For instance, if you pick up a sonar contact, it appears as a wireframe 
 sphere at the estimated location. Perhaps you'll determine it's a surface contact, at which point 
 it takes on the appearance of a generic ship. When you then determine the specific type of ship, 
 it takes on the appearance of that vessel. But this model is only a representation of your best 
 guess. In reality, it may not be the ship you think it is. It may not even be there. Sub Command 
 uses its 3D engine as a visual supplement instead of a cheat. It adds a nice touch of eye candy 
 to a game that would otherwise consist solely of control panels.   

  Another nice touch is the use of voice commands to drive the sub and perform higher-level functions. 
 You can turn over the sonar and weapon control stations to computer-controlled crewmen and use 
 a microphone to coordinate everything. However, the voice recognition, supplied by Microsoft, isn't 
 very fast or reliable.           A hapless destroyer falls prey to a Tomahawk missile launched 
 from a sub.    

  One thing conspicuously absent from the game is damage control. Just as any flight sim player revels 
 in the prospect of landing a damaged bird, wrestling to keep a flooded sub from sinking should 
 be part of any submarine sim. But modern-day weapons are more lethal than World War II-era depth 
 charges. If the first hit from a torpedo doesn't kill you, you'll probably be rendered so blind 
 and noisy by the damage that the coup de grace is a mere formality. Perhaps this is why Sub Command 
 didn't bother to include damage control. Instead, your sub's "hit points" are represented by a 
 health bar that looks like something from a first-person shooter. This is particularly silly considering 
 the level of realism in the rest of Sub Command.   

  On the whole, Sub Command is one of those rare and delicious projects that's 90 percent simulation 
 and 10 percent game. Although it may be the last of a dying breed -- it's hard to imagine Sub Command 
 being commercially successful -- it is heaven-sent. It's a latter-day throwback to the sort of sims 
 released by MicroProse in its heyday. Electronic Arts should be applauded for releasing a product 
 with such limited appeal without dumbing it down. If there's a next time, here's to hoping there's 
 a better manual to go with it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game, but is pretty hard. You have to get used to it before you can master it. Great 
 multiplayer. Pretty good singleplayer. You can keep track of your missions and view replays of 
 them. If you are going to get or already have this game here is what you'll need.
  
  http://www. gamespyarcade. com - Gamespy Arcade, for multiplayer, stat tracking, gameplay time tracking, 
 chat, files, joining games, hosting games, and creating a server.
  
  http://www. comrade. gamespy. com - Gamespy Comrade, for multiplayer, stat tracking, gameplay time 
 tracking, chat, and files.
  
  http://www. xfire. com - Xfire Incorporated, for multiplayer, stat tracking, gameplay time tracking, 
 chat, files, and in-game messages.
  
  http://web. archive. org/web/19990424145410/http://www. xfire. com/ - Xfire, required for multiplayer 
 with EA Matchmaker, equivelant browsers may also work.
  
  http://web. archive. org/web/20011211174541/http://www. ea. com/worlds/games/sub_command/home. jsp - 
 MatchMaker, for multiplayer and chat.
  
  http://files. filefront. com/xfire_gamesini/;6694016;;/fileinfo. html - Xfire Games, required to play 
 Sub Command on Xfire.
  
  http://www. hamachi. cc - Hamachi, for multiplayer, file transfers, and chat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerX5187
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Game is really great in all aspects except the controls. The chance to fight in a russian sub is 
 really awesome and the gameplay is easy. The best part is a real sub sim since the Silent Service 
 on pc platform the Amiga. I really like this game. And if you want this game buy it in the Naval 
 Action Pack by Sonaylsts. Also try out Fleet Command and 688 (i) Killer/Hunter. Sonaylsts did a 
 great job on bring this back from the stone age. Congrats to Sonaylsts systems and their fine work 
 hopefully they will make some more Military sim games in the future. i will be happy. Maybe even 
 do a PTO 4 on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 28, 2004 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better on the eyes than its predicessor, which is a good thing. However, although 
 the overall gameplay has been improved, the campaign aspect has suffered. The missions are too 
 hard, and in many cases I have followed my directives perfectly and accomplished all my objectives, 
 but am not given credit for it. For example, I need to take pictures of a missle launch in one 
 mission, but despite doing this, I get yelled at for failing and my next mission is harder than 
 had I succeeded. Fun to play, hard to do anything in campaign. It would be nice if they made the 
 campaign easier, and added a medel and award feature to give you something to strive for. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
