-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Submarine Titans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/submarinetitans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 16, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 155 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Ellipse Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 9, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game's slow pacing, simple combat, weak production values, and other shortcomings collectively 
 prevent it from being much fun. 

 Despite its seemingly unusual premise, Submarine Titans is a rather conventional 2D real-time strategy 
 game that takes place in an underwater setting. It features three different playable factions and 
 several interesting units and technologies, as well as a complicated and fairly original resource 
 model - and of course, the aquatic setting itself. However, the game's slow pacing, simple combat, 
 weak production values, and other shortcomings collectively prevent Submarine Titans from being 
 much fun.   

  You play Submarine Titans from an isometric perspective, as with most any other 2D real-time strategy 
 game. An interface bar covers the bottom portion of the game screen, and while it's obtrusively 
 large at the lowest resolution setting, Submarine Titans supports resolutions up to 1280x1024, 
 in which there's plenty of room to see what's happening. The interface is split down the middle, 
 and it lets you oversee base infrastructure and unit micromanagement simultaneously; it's an effective 
 design, although the interface buttons themselves aren't intuitive, nor are the names and appearances 
 of the various structures and submarines that you can build at any point. In fact, sometimes it's 
 very difficult to identify a submarine amidst its surroundings, as the structures and submarines 
 are drawn with the same exact colors, which tend to blend together. Otherwise, Submarine Titans' 
 2D graphics are fairly detailed, and the copious amounts of undersea life scuttling about lend 
 a lot of detail to the environment, but you'll just as quickly realize that almost all the maps 
 in the game look identical. And furthermore, the game doesn't really provide a good sense of being 
 underwater, because sea creatures and a sea-color tint aren't enough - some sort of shimmering 
 or color-cycling effect would have helped convey the sense that Submarine Titans actually takes 
 place under the ocean.   

  Submarine Titans has a very steep learning curve, partly because the interface and technology take 
 getting used to, but especially because the single-player campaign missions are very difficult 
 from the outset. Each of the game's three different factions has its own ten-mission campaign, 
 and you can play the campaigns in any order. Even though you can toggle the level of the computer 
 artificial intelligence, Submarine Titans will initially prove to be much harder than most similar 
 real-time strategy games, even on the weakest setting. Some players will doubtless appreciate the 
 challenge, but most will sooner find the campaigns to be unbalanced - either way, the campaigns 
 certainly aren't very interesting. Though Submarine Titans has an elaborate back story that's detailed 
 in the manual, each mission is introduced simply with scrolling text and a plain voiceover. These 
 introductions are usually long and not very clear, while the actual mission objectives tend to 
 be either predictable defense- or offense-oriented scenarios or escort missions. Fortunately, you 
 can also play single scenarios against one or more computer opponents or take on other players 
 over a network or the Internet. Submarine Titans also includes a seperate scenario-editor program 
 with a random-map generator.   

  The game's three playable sides - the militant White Sharks, the scientific Black Octopi, and the 
 mysterious alien Silicons - aren't as different as their stories make them out to be. The former 
 two are functionally identical with the exception of their slightly varied technology trees, while 
 the latter one uses a different resource model and has different types of military submersibles. 
 Part of the problem is that Submarine Titans simply lacks character - the unit-acknowledgment speech 
 clips used for each side are not only repetitive and boring, but also identical for every unit 
 in the faction; similarly, each unit in the game blows up in just the same fashion when it's destroyed. 
 The graphics and design of Submarine Titans are clearly derivative of Blizzard's hit Starcraft, 
 even though Starcraft did a much better job differentiating its three factions. Ultimately, each 
 side in Submarine Titans has analogous structures and defenses, but since they look different - 
 and none of their functions are immediately obvious - it'll take you a while to figure out how 
 to play the game.    

 Submarine Titans has three playable tutorials, one for each side, but all of them are tediously 
 slow and are not very useful. They simply walk you through laying down base infrastructure without 
 really explaining what it is you're doing. Nevertheless, the tutorials take a long time to complete, 
 which isn't surprising, considering Submarine Titans features half a dozen different resources, 
 three or four of which are used for any individual faction. The Sharks and the Octopi need oxygen 
 sublimators to power all their facilities, at which point they can harvest metal and the element 
 corium, which are both used for creating military submarines and facilities. They must also create 
 gold sublimators that produce an occasional surplus of gold from the ocean water, and you'll need 
 to spend it on new research projects. You even need to build arms depots to maintain a surplus 
 of ammunition for your submarines. It's a lot to keep track of and to have to balance, especially 
 since the metal and corium patches tend to quickly dry up, but at least the Sharks and the Octopi 
 can also build a marketplace structure that allows for the exchange of resources. Meanwhile, the 
 Silicons must build silicon extractors that gradually produce their basic resource, energy accumulators 
 for extracting power from metal, and corium extractors, just like the other two factions.   

  The resource model in Submarine Titans is complicated compared with most other real-time strategy 
 games, so it'll be tempting for you to use the option to delegate control of your resource management 
 to the computer, which will invariably do a better job until you've had a great deal of practice. 
 You can actually automate your defense production or even automate your entire operation - and 
 while these options sound useful, they effectively strip away layers of complexity from the game, 
 making what's left that much less interesting. That's because if you remove the resource model, 
 you'll find that Submarine Titans is otherwise a very simple game. Combat proves to be highly chaotic, 
 as dense packs of opposing subs fire similar-looking weapons and blow up in identical explosions. 
 Though each faction has a few support subs that can potentially inflict a lot of damage against 
 dense groups of enemy units, you'll typically find that these dense groups of subs will sooner 
 win. Part of the problem is that base facilities in Submarine Titans are very flimsy, so an aggressive 
 suicide rush tactic aimed straight at the heart of the enemy base can often have devastating results. 
   

  All your subs move sluggishly, and there's a lot of busywork with resource micromanagement and 
 base building to occupy your time when you're not trying to get your subs to go someplace. Consequently, 
 there's not a lot of momentum in Submarine Titans matches, which makes them rather unexciting. 
 The combat is too straightforward to allow for any significant tactical subtlety. Even though you 
 can maneuver your subs between five levels of undersea depth - and they'll automatically dodge 
 up and down in battle when you set them to aggressive mode - the effects of this are negligible 
 in practice. So what happens is if you're ever unprepared for an enemy attack or if you have a 
 greater number of subs of your own, the subsequent battles will tend to play out predictably.  

  As with many old-fashioned real-time strategy games, Submarine Titans ultimately becomes an exercise 
 in resource gathering, because the players who build and expand their infrastructure faster will 
 almost certainly win. This wasn't perceived to be a problem in real-time strategy games a few years 
 ago, but considering that many games in the genre have since abandoned resource gathering altogether 
 in favor of sophisticated tactical combat, Submarine Titans seems like a step backward - instead, 
 its resource gathering is what's complicated, and the subsequent combat is unsatisfying. And since 
 its production values aren't commendable either, there remains little about the game that's worthwhile. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pdfanboy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Submarine Titans was the first Real Time Strategy game I played and that's why I think it is suitable 
 for beginners. Please, read and enjoy my review.
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay is mainly slow and this fact makes you have quite a lot of time to react your next 
 move. In addition, the main feature here is that there's no a main building, unlike most of RTS 
 games, and each building has just one purpose; for example, if you want to collect and store supplies 
 you must build two buildings: one to collect and the other one to store. Or if you want to purchase 
 new technologies you must build a tech facility where all the upgrades are available. So if you 
 need something, just build the appropriate structure which gives you that purpose. It's as simple 
 as that.
  
  The campaign is broken up into three civilizations: White Sharks (WS) , Black Octopi (BO) and Silicons 
 (SI) . The WS and BO have more similarities than differences whereas the SI has unique structures 
 and specially a unique base-building methodology. The reason why WS and BO are quite similar is 
 because they can steal technologies from each other in order to build enemy structures and use 
 them against the enemy itself. This fact makes the game surprisingly fun and challenging because 
 the best way to destroy your enemy is by using enemy technologies. Why? because they don't have 
 suitable structures which can protect them from their own technology.
  
  However, the game also has two notable flaws. The three civilizations are not balanced and prevent 
 you to play LAN with different factions. In addition, the frame-rate usually drops when there are 
 a lot of units and structures, and this fact is painful because the game is quite massive, specially 
 in LAN games. Fortunately, the campaigns keep being fun and challenging because they are not as 
 massive and the balance issue doesn't affect them.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics are quite good and don't need high PC requirements. The textures include plenty of 
 details such as fishes, starfishes, mountains and colourful sand. These details make the game quite 
 fantastic and are the main reason why everything looks so beautiful. Overall, I think the game 
 has coherent graphics for its hardware demand.
  
  
  STORY:
  
  In the past, a meteor crashed to the Earth and the see level has risen many thousands of feet, 
 covering all the land. Now, the year is 2047 and two civilizations (White Sharks and Black Octopi) 
 compete against each other in order to collect Corium, the only natural source which makes possible 
 the underwater life. However, a third alien civilization which is also interested in the Corium 
 arrives to the Earth in order to prove that the Corium only belongs to one. Cool, eh? I think it's 
 quite original.
  
  
  
  In conclusion, I think Submarine Titans is not a bad game but could have been much better. I recommend 
 it for those who have never played a RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the games that you can play for hours if you don't have a system to play better 
 games. The concept of having a battle between two submerged nations along with an unknown alien 
 race was quite good for me to have it for myself, but repetitive maps and slow gameplay soon took 
 away all the fun in the game. There are still some aspects of the game that I found unique like 
 the TV balloons at the bottom of the screen (like the one in WarCraft 3) . After playing it you would 
 feel, "Only if it were faster".
  
  The idea of presenting an underwater world went quite well though. In spite of not using a very 
 high demanding graphics requirement, it does give the right effect. The details of the game are 
 made imperfect for the effect. In short, a close inspection will reveal a not so brilliant graphics, 
 but the entire color and surrounding animations make the graphical effect quite appealing.
  
  The campaigns were surprisingly fun if you leave out the slow pace of the game. The story lines 
 of the campaigns were really good and if you can play a game just for the stories sake then it 
 wouldn't be a bad choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redgate55
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  I have had a change of heart. my old review said:
  This game had no realsisim or desanty to it. if you were to buy it you might want to think twice 
 and if you alreday have... Send it back mate!!!! i can't think on how to descrbe it it's that poor. 
 although the graphics are ok but not the best it improves game play it is still not worth playing. 
 the difficulty even at max is prety easy so it is a easy game to master for all u new people out 
 there that aren't the best at stratigy games it's for you and if you don't have a taste in good 
 games this is also for you.
  My new one says
  This game can be thrlling and challnging as you get further towards the end or you set up the skirmish 
 just right. Beacuse of the game i can't tell you how to set it up. once you get into it you get 
 hooked and can't realy let go. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
