-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SubSpace
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/subspace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 46 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for a fun multiplayer action game, SubSpace is for you. 

 It's not too often we review a newly released game that already has 150,000 regular players and 
 two newsgroups, plus many dedicated fan sites and privately hosted servers. SubSpace achieved this 
 level of popularity through a two-year beta testing process accompanied by minimal fanfare and 
 media attention. Now, with this commercial release, SubSpace may finally garner the attention it 
 deserves.  

 SubSpace is a massively multiplayer, Internet-only, real-time action/strategy game. It began as 
 a game developer's dream. Virgin Interactive Entertainment executives hired producer Rod Humble 
 who had worked on the boxed version of Kesmai's arcade hit, Air Warrior. They asked him what kind 
 of game he wanted to make. "Internet-only," was his reply and they said, "Sure, go ahead and here's 
 the money." True story.  

 Humble hired his programming buddy Jeff Petersen and they set out to make something like Air Warrior 
 in space. But first they wanted to solidify their Internet technology. In one month Petersen created 
 an Asteroids-style overhead 2D prototype engine that incorporated Newtonian physics - an object 
 in directed motion tends to stay in that directed motion. That physical predictability helped overcome 
 the Internet's notorious latency problems. Then they quietly put the game, code-named Sniper, on 
 a test site and awaited comments. Their plan: incorporate what they learned into their much larger 
 game.  

 After about four months of tweaking and experimenting they announced they would close the site. 
 The vitriol from perplexed and addicted beta testers floored Humble and Petersen. So instead of 
 sticking to their original plan they began refining what they had.  

 After two years of adding "cool things" on a nearly daily basis, Humble and crew have created an 
 easy-to-play, difficult-to-master marvel. On a simplistic level, it's a nonstop, blast-every-enemy-in-sight 
 shooter. But the gameplay subtleties mean it may take several months before a "newbie" can begin 
 to control his destiny.  

 You select one of seven spacecraft, each with strategic strengths and weaknesses, and use the arrow 
 keys to control it, including the down arrow for reverse thrust. You enter a game by selecting 
 a server based on its proximity and gameplay approach, from beginner and so-called Chaos shoot-em-up 
 sites, to capture the flag (s) and hockey-like sites.  

 You start each game with minimal capabilities and have to stay out of harm's way until you've collected 
 sufficient items, weapons, and power-ups (killing a new arrival with a low "bounty" is considered 
 bad form and will lower your overall rating) . Your weaponry includes guns, bombs, and mines each 
 with several options and three strength levels. Plus you can use multiple defensive tools, like 
 radar cloaking, invisibility, shields, decoys, walls, and warping portals.  

 In a typical game the server automatically assigns you to a team. That means virtually nothing in 
 a blast fest, but is very important in the capture the flag or hockey games. The gameplay takes 
 place in customizable zones of varying sizes with a sort of Lode Runner-esque look and feel. Walls 
 (some are pervious) , passageways, and randomly operated doors create many strategic opportunities. 
 Your spacecraft (and some weapons) bounces off those walls with 80 percent of its original speed. 
 That can be unnerving for a beginner, but experienced SubSpace gamers learn it's also a clever 
 means to elude or subdue an opponent. A radar screen tracks nearby enemies. The pace is frenetic, 
 fast, and furious, and death comes quickly and frequently. But not to worry, each time you will 
 simply be resurrected in a random location and will have to gather power-ups again.  

 Communication is also key, from taunts to congrats. Eventually you may come to know players and 
 by using the many fan web sites, may be able to join a team. Statistics can be maintained on a 
 site-by-site basis or uploaded to Virgin's dedicated site for what amounts to an international 
 rating. As you play you can call up the stats screens and see just who you're up against. You can 
 easily customize what appears on screen, even create your own player logo.  

 The principal drawback is the lack of a clear goal other than increasing your skill level and moving 
 up in rank. Those who succumb will play, play, and play. Even Rod Humble warns that "burnout" is 
 common. The graphics and sound are less than exciting, the controls are very difficult to learn 
 and master (Virgin does provide a much-needed keyboard template) , and newbies will get wastedand 
 wasted. An informative and very helpful strategy guide comes with the game, but it was written 
 for the beta version and does not cover all aspects of the current gameplay (it's missing one of 
 the new spacecraft for instance) . Ping (latency) and packet loss (percentage of packets lost in 
 transmission) sometimes lead to choppy action and disappearing bombs and bullets. You may "see" 
 that you hit someone dead center, but if your bullets are lost in transmission your opponent will 
 survive.  

 Those who have used the beta version can continue to play with it, but they'll lose their "handles" 
 ("demo" will appear before their onscreen name) . The retail version has new graphics, adds several 
 ships, has an editor to customize the ships and add sound effects, plus lets you set up your own 
 server. You'll need a PC with Windows NT, 64 to 128MB of RAM, 4GB of hard drive space, and a very 
 clean Internet connection (28.8 will barely suffice) to accomplish that.  

 While Virgin has made no official announcement, it appears it'll continue to operate three free 
 SubSpace servers with five to ten zones apiece for at least the next six months. The timing depends 
 largely on how many private zones crop up.  

 If you're looking for a fun multiplayer action game, SubSpace is for you.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shujikun07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out for how long now? Before it was released in stores, it went through a ton 
 of different beta iterations released to the public to test. Unfortunately for VIE (Virgin Interactive 
 Entertainment) the game didn't do too well in sales, but it's had a cult following since day one. 
 VIE ended up releasing the game to the public and the community has kept this game going since. 
 
  
  If you're ever looking for a nice little game and don't mind out of date graphics, this game still 
 has a lot to offer! One of those 90's gems that keeps on giving, thank you VIE and everyone who 
 worked on it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyC84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has been in existence for over a decade, and has always held a consistent player base. 
 The community is exceptional, and ever expanding, with new zones continually being added and enhanced.
 
  
  I have to give you a fair warning, in the beginning it might feel a bit difficult to become good 
 at this game and the people you'll meet as first won't always be as helpful to newbies. However 
 if you continue to play for a few weeks, you'll discover this game has a lot to offer, different 
 events within the game, leagues, tournaments etc, more than you can imagine when you first enter.
 
  What has kept me going for so many years are the leagues and a community full with interesting 
 personalities. 
  
  Also this game is the only game out of all the games I've ever played where it doesn't get extremely 
 redundant! You know which games I'm talking about, WoW, Everquest, etc. Those games with millions 
 of people are all about how much time and money you can waste! Not this game, the beauty of this 
 game lies within two things: It's community and the ease of play. 
  
  An important tip: When you first load up the your resolution will probably be on a low setting, 
 so click the resolution tab on the load up screen and select the highest resolution your computer 
 will go to. 
  
  Note: The game was rewritten to eliminate cheat programs and is now known as Continuum as a result 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitcher812
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  What a game I was introduced to this fine game while I was working for a large company in the US. 
 Simple game plans good graphics and game play was fast even in the age of 33.6 modems. What a starter 
 this game had become, while some may argue with me I do see it as part of the starters for the 
 ongoing craze internet gaming pack.
  While simplistic in its approach it hooked so many of us in to playing it night after night. The 
 features of the programing were fluid and caused little or no lag at all. Graphics were smooth 
 and small keeping the issues of lag low. While there were several different games that one could 
 play. Though in the end the cost of running such a server based game was the downfall of this starter. 
 It still has a loyal fan base that is playing the game after creating their own servers. If you 
 have the time and want to try it out it can be found and your will enjoy, simple fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
