-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sudden Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/suddenstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  2, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Fireglow
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jan 23, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sudden Strike is just like most any other 2D real-time strategy game, except without the depth introduced 
 by building or resource management. 

 Sudden Strike is a real-time strategy game that takes place during World War II and has lots of 
 little soldiers, tanks, and artillery pieces. And that's it. The game might initially rekindle 
 nostalgic childhood memories of playing with plastic toy soldiers, thanks to its clean graphics 
 and its variety of authentic-looking World War II military units. However, Sudden Strike's simplistic, 
 straightforward gameplay prevents the game from staying interesting for very long.   

  Despite how it looks, Sudden Strike is not a realistic war simulation. There may be a superficial 
 resemblance to the Close Combat series, but Sudden Strike doesn't attempt to model any of the factors 
 - weapon lethality, vehicle armor thickness, and unit morale - that made Close Combat a real-time 
 wargame. Sudden Strike takes the conventional 2D isometric real-time strategy perspective and, 
 instead of filling it with aliens or futuristic tanks, fills it with the sights and sounds of World 
 War II. It's an interesting setting, and it gives a great first impression. However, though the 
 graphics are superficially attractive, it can be somewhat difficult to discern different infantry 
 types, especially behind obstacles. Nevertheless, the game does superbly reproduce a number of 
 historical units, and this helps give Sudden Strike its realistic appearance. But that realism 
 doesn't carry through to the gameplay, which would be fine if the gameplay had something else to 
 recommend it. Unfortunately, it doesn't.   

  In practice, Sudden Strike is just like most any other 2D real-time strategy game, except without 
 the depth introduced by building or resource management. Each scenario starts with a fixed force 
 of mixed units (that may be increased by reinforcements later on) , which you must use to achieve 
 your objectives. Your units have capabilities that don't exactly correspond to real life: Infantry 
 can easily destroy tanks, antitank guns are equally deadly against armor and infantry, and the 
 standard real-time-strategy fog of war replaces any kind of realistic line-of-sight system. While 
 there are tactical considerations to troop deployment, there is little real strategy that doesn't 
 involve marshalling your forces and attacking en masse.   

  The simplicity of the gameplay in Sudden Strike might be bearable, but the unit pathfinding is 
 so bad that it makes the act of moving units over anything other than short distances an exercise 
 in frustration. You can set waypoints and queue orders, but since your units typically can't find 
 their way from one waypoint to another, these features aren't of much use. When dealing with some 
 of the larger scenarios, this problem even threatens to make the game unplayable. Luckily, Sudden 
 Strike lets you pause the game to give orders to your units. Without this ability, the lack of 
 formations and the abysmal unit pathfinding would reduce the game to the equivalent of cat herding. 
 In the single-player game, you'll have to pause often to sort out the units that will inevitably 
 stray and scatter when they perform even the most basic maneuvers.   

  Sudden Strike includes full campaigns from the German, Russian, and Western Allied sides. The solo 
 campaigns contain some truly huge missions, which have literally hundreds of individual units doing 
 battle. Furthermore, the game comes with an entire second CD of additional scenarios, which brings 
 the total number of scenarios to 50. This only partially compensates for the fact that there is 
 no skirmish mode, which means that you can't just choose a map and some starting units and have 
 the computer generate a scenario. The lack of a random scenario generator is a big drawback for 
 the multiplayer mode as well. Also, the absence of a campaign autosave means that you can lose 
 a lot of progress if you don't explicitly save your game from time to time. But moreover, because 
 of the fundamental lack of depth in the gameplay, Sudden Strike boils down to tedious pointing 
 and clicking (exacerbated by that awful pathfinding) that wears thin as soon as the novelty of 
 the World War II environment wears off.   

  The designers of Sudden Strike cleverly recognized what 8-year-olds around the world have known 
 all along: It's fun to watch little toy soldiers and tanks get blown up. Unfortunately, Sudden 
 Strike can't get past this simple idea - but once you've seen it enough, there's no reason to stick 
 around. All the clever animations, amusing sounds, and pretty battle graphics in the world can't 
 replace an interesting combat system. It's enjoyable to see little tanks and airplanes act out 
 their little version of World War II in Sudden Strike, but this doesn't make the game fun to play 
 - at least not for long. Sudden Strike sometimes manages to evoke the atmosphere of World War II, 
 but this atmosphere is all that's going for it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  This was the first RTS game that I ever played that involved nothing but strategy. There were no 
 resources. No factories. No reinforcements. What you had is what you got and you just had to make 
 due and find the best strategy to find the map. It certainly wasn't a game for everyone, but being 
 a huge war buff and loving a good challenge made this game extremely fun for me. It was a slow 
 paced game and the graphics were pretty decent for the time but nothing to marvel over. One aspect 
 that I really enjoyed was the FULLY destroyable terrain and how it helped increase the line of 
 sight for units near by. Also another interesting aspect was the limited ammo and fuel for all 
 units. Even ground units ran out of ammo and needed to be resupplied by an ammo truck. Many found 
 this feature annoying but I actually enjoyed this added realism. Also it's one of the few WWII 
 RTS games that let you play as nearly every major country in a campaign, including Germany. All 
 units are historically accurate and well balanced to their performance in the war. Though this 
 game was highly criticized over it's difficulty, I for one loved the game's realism and challenge 
 and for me it provided me with plenty of hours of pure entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sat_purush
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is ok, even good. Of course it got some serious flaws, but maps like Stalingrad 
 is extremely addictive to play. I spend almost 10hours the first time I played the map.
  
  The graphics are ok, the sound is good. I only wish that the ability to reload your cannons were 
 better.
  
  If you are looking for a WWII RTS, this is a good choice (Until Company of Heroes) and if you got 
 splenty of time on your hand
  
  The briefing before every map is very good, and detailed.
  
  Sudden strike 3 is just around 
 the corner, lets hope It is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macacd
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  It seems slightly ironic that, after a war of unprecedented hatred, where across the Soviet Union 
 no quarter at all was given between the German invaders and Russian forces, that a Russian software 
 developer and a German publisher have come together to realises a game recreating those same events. 
 Less ironic, but more importantly, they have combined to create a game that is original, epic, 
 fun and - within the realms of real time strategy at least - realistic.
  
  Sudden Strike is set during World War II and offers elaborate Russian, German, French, American 
 and British Missions. The fantastic depth of the game, the endless tactical opportunities and the 
 magnificent game play will never cease to enthral you. Capture enemy fortifications; win the fight 
 for possession of the buildings and call for paratroopers and fighter bomber reinforcements.
  
  Game Play
  
  Great once unit management have been mastered, the game has endless possibilities.
 
  
  9 / 10
  
  Audio
  
  Unbelievable, unbelievable, each weapon, shell and unit has a different sound dependent on whether 
 it hits it target or missed, his a wall, the floor, whether the floor is desert, snow covered or 
 a normal field.
  
  9 / 10
  
  Replay ability
  
  Extraordinary, this game have everlasting play time, the only thing that could effect the replay 
 time of this is that you could damage your CD due to over use.
  
  9 / 10
  
  Game : - Sudden Strike
  Platform : - PC
  Genre : - World War Real Time Strategy
  
  Best 
 Bits
  
  The diversity of units and vehicles is phenomenal; I never knew there were so many different tanks 
 and A. P. Cs.
  The game will last for ever with the huge amount of time needed to complete each mission and the 
 months needed to complete each military side.
  
  Worst Bits
  
  The shear size of units and infantry under you control is overwhelming, and will take some time 
 to master unit management.
  The occasional mishaps with unit accents occur, leading to some confusion but this is rare.
  
 The choice of having a techno come trance intro theme is strange, and doesn't fit the genre of 
 the whole world war saga.
  Mission Descriptions by Stereotyped commander are occasionally unclear and confusion, leading to 
 the loss of units due to over eager exploring.
  
  Pros
  
  + This game will run and run
  + Simplistic control system
  + Various missions, from conquer, 
 escort and survival
  + Thousands of military vehicles
  + Three choice of military powers
  
  Cons
  
  - An Extreme Learning Curve
  - Poor Tutorial
  - No user defined war
  - No 
 Editor
  - Only one on one battle ( unless online )
  - No Automatic Save
  
  Summary
  
  A must have for any world war game lover or a real time strategy lover, this game has all the 
 entertaining of command and conquer with out the building and retrieval or resource materials.
 
  
  So .. ..
  
  Up until now close combat series has been the set benchmark for World War II real time strategy 
 games. Tactics aside, sudden strike takes things a significant step further, with bigger battles 
 and better graphics by far.
  
  Alternatively
  
  Close Combat range, Command and Conquer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is suitable only for people that like war and strategies at the same time. The game play 
 in the game is addicting when you learn how to play it. Its easy to learn how to play but in this 
 game actually the player must think a lot and decide who to send first the tank snipers, or other 
 units ahead. The campaign in this game is not bad but ordinary mission maps are better. The multi 
 player is pretty good for this game although I still dont get it why do you have to capture those 
 ridicules weird balloons. And I am sure youll hate the fog of war this is probably the best game 
 in which fog of war means a lot! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
