-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sudden Strike II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/suddenstrike2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 254 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Fireglow
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 26, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sudden Strike II is a classic example of how to make a real-time strategy game and then completely 
 undermine it with a bad user interface. 

 World War II is a very popular setting for games these days, from first-person shooters like Medal 
 of Honor: Allied Assault and Battlefield 1942, to mods like Day of Defeat, to adventure games like 
 Prisoner of War. However, with the exception of one of Empire Earth's 14 epochs, Russian developer 
 Fireglow's Sudden Strike games are the only traditional real-time strategy games with a World War 
 II setting. So it's all the more disappointing that Sudden Strike II has all the weaknesses of 
 its predecessor with only a few improvements.           The new Japanese campaign introduces South 
 Pacific terrain.    

 Although the Sudden Strike games play like traditional real-time strategy games, they depart from 
 the standard RTS formula in a couple of important ways. Like in Bungie's Myth series, there's no 
 building or economic management, so you're free to concentrate solely on battle tactics. Some scenarios 
 are scripted to provide reinforcements as you play, but you're usually dealing with a fixed number 
 of units in your effort to accomplish your objectives. Another important difference is that historical 
 vehicles are modeled, so instead of broad definitions like light, medium, and heavy tanks, you 
 have very specific units like PzIII Type Gs and M4A4 Sherman Vs. There are artillery units of different 
 caliber, various antitank guns, transport trucks, jeeps, and even motorcycles for reconnaissance. 
 There are at least a dozen different types of infantry, some with special abilities like healing, 
 laying mines, or extending your line of sight with binoculars. In addition, Sudden Strike II has 
 a few features that seem conventional to real-time strategy games, even though they're completely 
 unrealistic, such as the hospital trucks that heal your infantry and repair trucks that repair 
 and rearm your vehicles.   

  The first Sudden Strike title had a number of historical trappings, but it didn't go very far toward 
 encouraging historical use of them. A bunch of riflemen could chip away at a Tiger tank's hit points 
 until it blew up. But this time, the developer made more of an effort to model realistic factors 
 like armor penetration (those riflemen won't have as much luck against Tiger tanks this time around) , 
 morale (it fluctuates between a bonus or a penalty to unit combat values, depending on the situation) , 
 and line of sight (the game has fairly complex rules about range and facing, depending on factors 
 like whether a tank is buttoned up, whether an infantrymen is prone, and on which floor of a building 
 a soldier is standing) .           Use recon aircraft to scout for the enemy.    

 Unfortunately, Sudden Strike II doesn't fix many of the problems from the first game. The interface 
 puts an emphasis on showing as much of the map as possible at all times. This would be an admirable 
 goal if it didn't mean sacrificing important information. There's no indication of a unit's range, 
 firepower, or armor. You have no way of telling which units are more powerful than others. It's 
 bad enough if you don't already know a Sherman from a Pershing, but even a World War II hardware 
 buff will have to simply guess at the difference between a Texas rifleman and a British gunner. 
 When you drag-select a group of units, there's no indication of who is in your group, so you'll 
 often send vulnerable units such as trucks, medics, engineers, and officers directly into combat 
 by accident. In fact, the only way to find out which unit you've selected is to hover the cursor 
 over it. This is bad enough with moving vehicles, but it's next to impossible trying to pick out 
 a 10-pixel infantryman running among trees. Since infantrymen are so difficult to tell apart from 
 each other, you'll spend a lot of time sorting them out with your cursor and assigning them to 
 groups. This is all ultimately futile, since the pace of combat is such that by the time you realize 
 your men have come under fire, they're dropping like flies faster than you can tell them to go 
 prone, scatter, or take cover.    

 Keeping your units together is made even more difficult by Sudden Strike II's awful pathfinding, 
 which is just as bad as the first game's pathfinding. Units will take the long way around to reach 
 a destination. They'll sometimes get stuck on the terrain or simply not respond to commands. Infantrymen 
 will stand in front of an oncoming train and get run over. Units told to cross a bridge will get 
 so hopelessly jammed up that sorting them out is like trying to untie a wet knot. There aren't 
 any formation options, and even the command for all units to move at the same speed does a poor 
 job of keeping them together. Then there's the frustration of trying to control aircraft, which 
 uses a completely separate system of ordering missions, setting waypoints, and waiting around. 
           Bridges like these are a bottleneck for the pathfinding AI.    

 The bottom line is that Sudden Strike II, like its predecessor, requires a lot tedious micromanagement 
 with precious little help from the interface. Playing the game well involves fiddling around with 
 unit facing, vehicle crews, and aircraft missions. You have to button down tanks, tow guns, assign 
 vehicle crews, and manually order men to go prone. You have to lay mines (three different kinds) , 
 heal wounded men, pick your officers out of the crowd, and arrange them in buildings. It's like 
 the worst parts of micromanaging the tiny infantry units in Westwood's original Commander &amp; 
 Conquer have been made into an entire game.   

  To its credit, Sudden Strike II looks great, even when it's unwieldy. The 2D art and animations 
 are top-notch. Although the game can look a bit cluttered, there's no denying that it presents 
 some thrilling battlefield scenes, with men running across beaches to storm bunkers with aircraft 
 zooming overhead and tanks bringing up the rear. In city environments, buildings burn and collapse. 
 There are effects like splashing water, explosions kicking up dirt, and black smoke. The sound 
 effects are also very good, from crackling machine gun fire to thudding artillery and clattering 
 tanks. Eventually, you can tell what kind of units are fighting by the sound of their guns. If 
 the accents weren't so uniformly awful, even the briefings and unit acknowledgements would be pretty 
 good. It's a shame that such good-looking graphics are undermined by such a poor user interface. 
           The engine does a good job of presenting impressive battlefield scenes.    

 The campaigns in Sudden Strike II are an improvement on the previous game's campaigns. There's a 
 campaign for each of the major combatants in World War II, with the introduction of the Japanese, 
 who weren't present in the previous game. But with only five missions, the Japanese campaign seems 
 like an afterthought. Some missions are interconnected, playing on the same map with persistent 
 damage carried over. The objectives are varied enough that you're not always attacking against 
 overwhelming odds -- there are also a lot of defensive situations in which you have to hold off waves 
 of attackers. Unfortunately, the AI seems completely scripted, with no adaptive behavior, which 
 would explain why there's no skirmish mode and why you can't include the AI in multiplayer games. 
   

  If the pace were more manageable and the interface were more helpful, Sudden Strike II could have 
 been an interesting combination of history and real-time strategy. The engine is certainly up to 
 the task, and the developers have a handle on how to make an interesting scenario. But unless your 
 idea of a good time is herding soldiers, Sudden Strike II is a classic example of how to make a 
 real-time strategy game and then completely undermine it with a bad user interface.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wanzers123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  the best WWII strategyc game ever made
  Why?
  
  1 reason: Gameplay
  2 reason: Pure strategy, AND I SAY PURE
  3 reason: again strategy, having a lot of tanks dont 
 mean the victory but where you put them, thats the point, you cant kill what you cant see
  4 reason: lot of FIREWORKS, riflemans, sub machine gunners, heavy machinne gunners, flamentrwower, 
 panzerfaust, bazzoka boys, anti tank rifles etc
  5Reason: Lot of tanks, want one? just take it, u have them all, ALL I SAY ALL!
  6 reason: Crewman: 
 Sir, our boy wont move, i request back.... BLOOOOM
  7 reason: MULTIPLAYER OPTION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  Sudden Strike 2 is a real-time strategy game with great gameplay, tanks are actual tanks that were 
 used in WW 2 so is the AT-cannons, the airplanes and the artillery. The best part is that buildings 
 and tanks don't get destroyed if you shoot on them with enough submachine-gun fire like in Red 
 Alert or other games. The game is just great on so many levels because it's so autenthic and real-life 
 based. 
  
  In one second you can turn a peaceful little town to a pile of rubble, dead soliders and destroyed 
 tanks with a 88-Anti Aircraft gun. So you can really see where you have had your hardest confrontations.
 
  
  Some say that the micromanagement is annoying, well i like it and i think that what makes the game 
 great. I've sometimes accomplished more with a single Sniper aginst an enemy hardpoint then what 
 i've accomplished with a full scale tank assult. 
  
  The other thing is that you have complete control, if your orders say to capture a town YOU decide 
 HOW you want to capture that town. Flank it, bomb it, pound it with artillery, capture it house 
 by house and so on.
  
  The graphics on this game is just right, you get the feeling that you play with small scale models.
 
  
  If you play the game you WILL enjoy it, just be patient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webviper2005
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game I have fell in love so quickly it's so hard to understand. Well maybe easy. But people 
 who live these types of games will live this game. And this game is the most realistic game ever 
 I have played. Commandos series are just like the same but not. This game you can have mortars, 
 planes, tanks, and much more! Transport trucks are also in. There are so many soldier types it 
 is so cool. It has Riflemen, flamethrowers, motar men, rocket launchers, crew men, officers, snipers, 
 gunners, and much more.
  
  But I wish the next game will have spies and then this game will become amazing. So if you are 
 a third action or first action shooter this game might be a good game for you. But I say.... this 
 game is amazing! 10/10 score rating!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasan71
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:03 pm PT
Review:  i have played all the sequels of this games and i enjoyed all of them throughly. I do not understand 
 why people are so rude to this . the game got five point something but they are certainly worth 
 more. the games is throughly recommended to those who like to play tactical strategy games like 
 blitzkrieg or something like that. Sometimes sudden strike is more interesting than blitzkrieg, 
 specially who have old PCs. However there are scopes for improvements as well ; the lack of care 
 in the later version of the sudden strike series became acute as i went on with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 13, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of similar WWII RTS games, Sudden Strike II can become a bit boring at first glance, 
 especially once one has played the campaigns included in the standard game.
  
  The real fun starts when one gets into creating new battles or even accurately re-creating WWII 
 battles with your own maps, units and AI scripts.
  
  For those really into "modding", this game offers a host of "open" features, such as the ability 
 to create new units, change existing units, etc.
  
  While the latter is not the easiest thing in the world to do, it does create a unique sense of 
 achievement once it works and you get your first new map and units posted on some of the familiar 
 forums out there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
