-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sudden Strike 3: Arms for Victory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/suddenstrike3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bombastic battles so big they can leave you shell-shocked.
 Terrain heights and other features add tactical considerations to battlefields.
 Great selection of historically accurate vehicles and troops.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Huge, chaotic battlefields are in desperate need of a better control system.
 Terrible pathfinding.
 Multiplayer modes support only direct IP connections.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 204 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software Entertainment USA
Developer: Fireglow
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Apr 1, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has some lingering problems, but bigger battles and a more impressive scope make this latest 
 Sudden Strike the best yet. 

  For a game franchise nudging the two million mark in total sales, Sudden Strike doesn't get a whole 
 lot of respect. But the latest addition to the family might just turn things around, thanks to 
 new epic-scale battles and an intensity unmatched by its predecessors. Sudden Strike 3: Arms for 
 Victory remains a long way from tactically minded World War II real-time strategy perfection, and 
 it needs some serious battlefield refinements before entering the big leagues, but this is still 
 the best game in the history of the series.  

           Beach landings are dramatic, intense, and spectacularly chaotic. True to life, sure, but 
 more than a bit frustrating.      

  Scale is what really differentiates Arms for Victory from the first two games in the series and 
 their expansion packs. Whereas the WWII battlefields re-created in the earlier games could be conquered 
 in no more than a couple of hours, the scenarios here are absolutely massive. You still don't have 
 to worry about any base-building, given that gameplay is a straight-up tactical blitz of ordering 
 around troops and tanks as well as calling in artillery fire and bombing runs. But each of the 
 campaign missions and the one-off custom scenarios depict hundreds of square miles of terrain occupied 
 by hundreds if not thousands of troops, tanks, trucks, and artillery, making for lengthy, amazingly 
 intense battles that can take full evenings of play to finish.  

  Battles now consist of multiple stages that take you from the initial moments of an assault through 
 numerous objectives, such as taking out German artillery on D-Day, helping the British at Sicily, 
 and helping the Russians steal from German supply depots before demolishing a train yard. Terrain 
 features are also realistically modeled. Instead of blitzing from one end of a map to the other, 
 you now have to take into account geographical complications. Maps are gorgeous, with intricately 
 modeled trees, muddy turf, murky swamps, and so forth, but the real impact is on tactical considerations. 
 Enemies can hold the high ground on hills, necessitating a tough decision on whether to head up 
 with a frontal assault or try to go around them. Artillery buried in a forest can force you to 
 consider an armor attack or one of those precious, limited air strikes (which may not even be a 
 sensible option if the enemy still has AA guns in operation) . And swamps can stop an advance dead 
 in its tracks; the muck bogs down tanks and heavy vehicles so much that you have to send troops 
 across the terrain on foot.  

  This is a much more complex, strategically demanding game than previous Sudden Strikes. Unlike 
 in earlier games in the series, which leaned on straightforward tank rushes against insane levels 
 of enemy opposition, here the battlefield seems more level. Whereas before it seemed like the game 
 was cheating by throwing spectacular numbers of enemies at you, now you seem to have a fair shot 
 of winning against reasonable numbers of bad guys, at least as long as you think ahead. Long-term 
 planning is a must on every map because you need to take into account troop strength and terrain 
 obstacles before committing any troops to battle. Otherwise you can easily wind up sacrificing 
 so many troops while storming beachfront fortifications that later mission objectives become impossible 
 to pull off. It's the same deal with calling in artillery and air-strike support. Sure, you can 
 take a "rubble doesn't cause trouble" approach in the beginning and make enemy positions look like 
 the surface of the moon. But this will inevitably leave you empty-handed later on, when you desperately 
 need a timely bombardment to take a hill or some other heavily defended fortification.  

  Unfortunately, the control system and basic game engine haven't kept pace with the expanded scope 
 of the action in Arms for Victory. The minimalistic control scheme just isn't always up to handling 
 troop complements this numerous spread across such huge maps. There are no formation commands for 
 troops, no way to order them to hit the dirt, no way to even have them run or walk depending on 
 the circumstances. Likewise, you can't separate them according to classes such as machine gunner, 
 officer, medic, and so forth without individually selecting each soldier. So even though there 
 is a tremendous range of troop, vehicle, and artillery types in the game, you can't fully take 
 advantage of their specialties. All you can do is give general attack commands such as assault, 
 attack ground, and scatter. Pathfinding is pretty much atrocious, too. Unless you keep units together 
 by holding down the Ctrl key when issuing movement orders, troops frequently take the long way 
 around to objectives and wind up getting ripped to shreds by enemy fire.  

  General lack of cohesion isn't helped much by the many battles that begin in the chaos of all-out 
 assaults, such as beach landings. In these situations, about all you can do is band-select troops 
 after they run off of the landing craft and throw them at dug-in enemy trenches and pillboxes, 
 hoping for the best. Expect to do a lot of experimentation with various approaches before figuring 
 out the smartest way to approach these maps. Real WWII battles probably really were this chaotic, 
 but at times such a sense of realism leads to more frustration than anything else. Most battles 
 eventually slow down and let you issue more measured troop orders, refuel vehicles, load up artillery, 
 heal soldiers with medics, and so forth. But even then, it often seems as if you're stuck with 
 too many troops spread over too large an area.  

           Managing this many troops on such huge battlefields is tough but worthwhile in the end. 

  Many missions deal with stock WWII battles that you've no doubt fought many, many times before, 
 with only the two Iwo Jima ones offering a dash of newness. Terrain graphics are generally sharp 
 and attractive, as noted above, but troop animations are choppy and reminiscent of goose-stepping 
 stick figures. Major tearing is also common whenever you scroll the map. Audio effects offer up 
 fantastic, atmospheric battle sounds, although the use of canned unit acknowledgements that have 
 no basis in battlefield reality ruins a lot of this effect. Hearing "It's a trap!" over and over 
 again is awfully annoying. Finally, multiplayer is supported only via direct IP connections, so 
 you can't go online and find cannon fodder via matchmaking servers.  

  Some aspects of Sudden Strike 3: Arms for Victory will no doubt turn players right off. There are 
 some potentially serious issues here with chaos and controls. But at the same time, you get a good 
 trade-off courtesy of huge, realistic battlefields that hammer home the epic scale of major WWII 
 engagements in a way that isn't often shown in RTS games. That's a real plus, and this bonus makes 
 wading through the frustrating moments worthwhile.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:49 am PT
Review:  you will HATE this game at first. The style is completely different and while CoH is a great and 
 fun game, the tactics used there are will get you slaughtered here. 
  
  I was a huge fan of the original Sudden Strike, but for my own reasons, I have stayed away from 
 the series until recently and that really put me in a bad position with this game at first.
  
  It had been 9 years since I last played Sudden Strike and recently all I had been playing was 
 Company of Heroes but I was hungry for large battles, with historical accuracy. So I got Sudden 
 Strike 3 and jumped right and within a few minutes... I was slaughtered. So I tried it again using 
 a bit different tactics and I got slaughtered again and again and again and again. I searched for 
 cheat codes (just until I could polish of the rust) and found none. I was just about to give up 
 and uninstall when I decided to use a more conservative approach to the game. Saving often, avoid 
 frontal assaults (especially when the enemy had the high ground) , started flanking, using artillery 
 as a shield, slow and deliberate movement (gaining ground inch by inch) . All of sudden I was starting 
 win and everything started to come together. It took several several hours before I won the first 
 battle (on easy) but it was worth it. That was several hours of entertainment... on one mission 
 instead of a few hours of entertainment on an entire game. 
  
  Basically if you just take some time to get use to playing a different type of strategy game (one 
 that actually REQUIRES the use of strategy) then the game becomes very enjoyable. 
  
  The graphics are decent, and really don't seem that much better than the original. Don't get me 
 wrong, the game looks nice but nothing close to other recent RTS games. 
  
  The sound is just outstanding. Honestly all the effects are just pure gold and really pleasing 
 to listen to. The mission voice though was done somewhat poorly however you really do not hear 
 it much. 
  
  Path finding is somewhat poor in some areas (trying to navigate around other vehicles/infantry 
 in motion is the main problem I have with it) . 
  
  All in all it's a great game IF you are willing to actually LEARN it. Learning can be fun and it 
 actually rewards you with the feeling of accomplishment. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaqknife
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game a lot to offer. Too bad it doesn't work. There are many campaigns to play. The visual 
 and sound effects look and sound great too. However when I installed this game on Windows XP SP3. 
 I found that there were invincible enemy units and graphical bugs on the beach of the Omaha map 
 where white lines appeared for no reason. I do have all the latest drivers for my computer but 
 that didn't help. I tried to find support at the FIREGLOW website where they can barely write passable 
 english. They told me to install the game in safe mode or create a new partition and install it 
 there instead to see if that would help. What a rip off!!! None of those things fixed the game. 
 I am so sick and tired of comapnies charging $50 for a game that doesn't even work. As far as I 
 know they aren't even working on a new patch to fix all these problems either. How sad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game wher eyou can fight as the Germans, Russians (blah) Americans or Japanese. 
 They have added a pacific theater to the game Iwo Jima which I think saved there butts because 
 every other theator has been done to death. I would like to see a game where you can play as the 
 Americans, Japs like Pacific Storm but instead of just Navel combat you can play a land battle 
 game like in SW Empire at War to invade the islands or Japan, America. 
  
  SS3 is the closest to this with Iwo Jima. A great map and sadly its why I bought this game. I've 
 played every WWII rts game under the sun from COH series to Heroe's but there is something different 
 about ss3. Since I have not played the previous title I can't rate this against them but rather 
 against the other rts games out there based off the period. The maps are huge and the units are 
 historical. 
  
  What ss3 does right is strategy. You can't rush into the heat of things expecting good results. 
 No. Instead you must devise a strategy and use your units in away that spares there little lives. 
 Ah, yes don't be wasteful now.
  
  The graphics are adverage if not dated but the sounds more than make up for what this game lacks. 
 Booms and explosions are all great sounding and immersive. 
  
  There are five campaign maps, Allies, Crimea (Russian) , Iwo Jima (American, Japan) and Germany 
 late in the war. The early war battles have been left out due to under powered weapons of the time 
 but I would have liked to seen the Battle for France, Holland, Belgium, Crete, North Africa, etc 
 in here somewhere. However, Fire Glow plans to release a free addon next month that will add more 
 campaign maps (France included) and multiplayer support, parachute troops that can be dropped on 
 the battle field and rideable units like tanks.
  
  This game is no small feet. The maps or battles are huge covering square miles in real units so 
 its easy to get overwhelmed here but if you take your time and learn the strategy it will be worth 
 your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amamam42
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me get one thing clear to you guys. This game is something that maybe does not sound too good 
 from reviews, maybe the pictures aren't that fascinating. But when you start your first mission, 
 you'll not stop until you beat the whole thing. It GROWS ON YOU! Yes, it has some minor bugs but 
 they will not spoil your game experience... The critics say the control is bad too. But think about 
 it. The game like sudden stricke does not have to have good controls. Not being able to control 
 everything at once makes the game harder and more interesting...
  But don't look at the bad sides on the game. Sudden Strike 3 introduced many new units, improved 
 graphics, and so on. As the reviewers from Gamespot said, those pieces get put together and form 
 something more you did not expect. Something you don't want to miss...
  So go and get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  maybe i am crazy, but i would like to compare this game to "medieval2 total war". no, its not the 
 amazing graphics, or great replay value of the game. its simply the realism of both.
  at first, you wont know what is going on. maps are huge, armies are big and you wont really be 
 involved in anything until you learn all the options.
  i almost gave up on this game after an hour... but still gave it a chance and didnt left disapointed.
 
  sudden strike brings all the realism you could handle.
  ok, maybe the game doesnt have great or even avarage multiplayer game, and the controls are a little 
 off line, and not enough description of the units (i sill hate t he part when you cant tell the 
 difference between the soldiers... they are way to small nad very dificult to control) but all 
 this can be fixed by the developer, or if you play long enough you will get over it. i keep hearing 
 that this game sucks couse it doesnt have a good multiplayer. who cares about multiplayer? i wanna 
 play the game, hopfully finish it, and go..... 
  when i look at reviews of sudden strike 1&2, i cant beleave how low the scores were. that game 
 brought so many ideas to the table. for example, we all liked company of heroes. lots of things 
 in the game were tried first in sudden strike. i loved the idea you could pick up enemies weapons, 
 hide in buildings, run low on ammo and etc...
  same with this one. it should have gotten a higher score for sure. thats it.
  
  
  i give 
 it an 8 plus. it has a great new tough to the rpg genre. good replay value, amazing battle fields, 
 and i bought it for less money than i bought all my other games. so give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtinsc2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Having played the Sudden Strike series since 1999, I am probably biased BUT - This newest version 
 in 3D with huge maps and real time action with thousands of units is fantastic. When the editor 
 comes out (soon) , my addiction could go on forever! This game is great fun, very challenging, and 
 not typical of other games of this genre. Think you can win easily? Forget it - you will get sucked 
 in and never want return to return to work.:) Takes a minute to get the hang of it but you can 
 control up to 4000 realistic profiles armor and soldier units with the MOUSE! If you have never 
 played Sudden Strike and you enjoy real time realistic war gaming, you'll like this game. It's 
 a 10, just like the previous editions, still played today by thousands, maybe 100's of thousand 
 fans. 10 on a 10 scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  This game stays close to its predecessors when it comes to the actual gameplay!! However at the 
 same time tons of new features have been introduced. There are massive variety of land, air and naval 
 units ranging from your everyday riflemen to deep underwater submarines and it all goes together 
 pretty well. This game has lots of things to keep you engaged for a while!!
  But after some time it will seem a bit tedious and boring!!
  If you like the previous two installments 
 of the game then you will surely enjoy playing this latest installment in the suddenstrike series!!
 
  For those who didnt like the previous two installments this installment dosent have anything new 
 for your likeness!!
  However i do recommend giving this game a second try due to the tremendous improvements in graphics 
 and massive additions to the variety of units!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutou
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  the game represent a series that no other titles can compete with imho. one of the key factor is 
 the reality of the game style. with the new 3D engine, it bring this title to a new era by adding 
 even more real elements into the battlefield such as hill slopes, building heights and other obstacles. 
 i've also been playing a lot of multiplayer SS3 games, and found it really challenging and fun. 
 
  
  there are so many strategies and tactics to employ on the fast changing battlefield. for instance, 
 i normally will use massive artilleries and frontline guns to bombard into the enemy territories 
 (in the fog) , and order my infantries to move forward and hide behind tree by tree. followed are 
 my 4-6 tanks squadron keeping a distance to avoid being seen. if the army strength is really strong, 
 i would use another advancing party to form a flank assault and capture hills and other key points 
 to support my frontal assault. it's just my style, and i am still a rookie for this game.
  
  i love this game so much that i am going to rate a 10 for it, and with future patches, i believe 
 it will become a perfect strategy game for everyone, and a legendary title just like its ancestors 
 once achieved. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JHKotcher
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Sudden Strike game and expansion packs. It did a good job bringing realistic 
 damage to an RTS game, almost to the point where it became a flaw. Tank armor, angle, range, gun, 
 and crew skill all played into the damage done. Infantry have longer sight range but are obviously 
 very easy to kill. The first games flaw was that even if the computer didn't have a spotter they 
 would continue to fire pin point artillery on your forces. This game MAY require them to have a 
 unit spotting for them. I can't be certain. Somehow, Fireglow screwed up the mouse interface on 
 this demo. Scrolling is disgusting. I don't know how they messed that up but it certainly makes 
 it difficult to try and enjoy this demo. I've never played the second game so I don't know how 
 they did their naval units; it may be the same as this game. To me, it seems OK. The landing craft 
 did start to sink when I moved them away from shore. I don't know if this was because some of them 
 were so shot up they sunk when they moved off the shore or if thats a game bug.
  The fire support interface is nice. You get a battleship and an aircraft carrier to support your 
 forces. However, when selected the targets, I wasn't able to use the small tactical map. So aircraft 
 couldn't be pin pointed on an individual target. Instead they would bomb an empty area of the field 
 near the tank I was trying to target. Maybe there is a way to use the tactical map for more pin 
 point targeting... I just haven't found it.
  There are still problems with some units not moving, or moving in a different manor than you would 
 expect. Also, the infantry can't move through narrow areas of the port like that you would expect 
 them to be able to. Areas between buildings that look like alleys to narrow for tanks are apparently 
 too small for infantry as well. Thats too bad because it would give infantry far more use if they 
 were able to make use of terrain to flank enemy forces.
  Its only a demo and I hope that Fireglow will fix these issues. One thing I'm a little upset with 
 is the graphics. I don't mind 2D RTS games but for the second game in the series it really doesn't 
 look graphically better than the first and thats a problem.
  I was really looking forward to Company of Heros. I thought it would have better damage profiles 
 and be less arcade-like than it actually is. That game, while pretty, was very disappointing to 
 me. GS gave it a great review but GS undoubtedly gets kickbacks from large software companies. 
 This game could have been the opposite of CoH. It could have had modest graphics with great game 
 play and historical accuracy instead of childish comical sayings from the units. So far it failed 
 to succeed in doing that or even being a better game than its predecessors.
  
  I hope the full game fixes these issues and has better graphics. I doubt, at this point in the 
 production, graphics can be changed much but some of the bugs can and must be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frissbee
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  If you played the other sudden strikes, I think you and I will enjoy this one. Let's hope they 
 don't change too much. My screen jumped around alot but it may be my computer. I do know it needs 
 to be smooth and the screen scrolling fast acting for a game like this. I will keep my eye on this 
 one..
  One thing I would like to see are actually smaller scale battles with more tactical sense. I noticed 
 I couldn't blow the houses up like in the past. Thats a bummer, I remember in past sudden strike 
 games having to blow up trees for a better view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntheiss
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  I'd like to give this game the benefit of the doubt. It definitely puts the Real in RTS. It's large 
 scale battles are a plus. It's very realistic, ground units can't drive 300 miles per hour off-road 
 like in some of the more arcade style RTS games. Naval units are well proportioned and the realism 
 of the battleships devastating artillery fire and planes launching from the aircraft carrier and 
 zooming in off the ocean on bombing raids is majestic. The pace of war seems much more reasonable 
 and the accuracy of units is very real, they actually miss, quite a bit actually. Sounds of artillery 
 exploding all around coming form who knows where is very realistic. The graphics are detailed but 
 static, and your zoomed out too far to appreciate some of them. Men look a little goofy. If I had 
 a manual, possibly unit control could improve, but I found it was hard to advance troops without 
 sending them to their demise, hard to successfully engage enemy. Would benefit greatly from infantry 
 platoon control vs infantry unit control to minimize micro management. Also way point movement, 
 and more coordinated attack, units work together instead of roaming to their death. As units move, 
 they fan out too much to be effective, and invite unwanted enemy fire from units that otherwise 
 could have been avoided. Tanks have a hard time getting from point A to point B. End up getting 
 lost and stopping. The control bar is non descriptive, what buttons do what? What do the four bars 
 above the tanks represent? What weapons are the infantry carrying? Who knows? Again manual, or 
 info when mouse is over buttons. Ultimately the learning curve is slow and battles are drawn out 
 (not necessarily bad) . So if your very patient and looking for an intensely large scale, strategic, 
 realistic WWII game and like to measure game time in 1/4's of days instead of minutes or hours, 
 this game could be for you with a little fine tuning on the developer's part. I'll look forward 
 to the release version as the game has potential. I'd say if you don't like turn based strategy 
 games, the pace of this will be too slow. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
