-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Summoner
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/summoner/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 334 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 19, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can tolerate its problems, you'll find that Summoner has an interesting combat system, an 
 intriguing story, and an enjoyable multiplayer mode to boot. 

 You may already be familiar with Volition's Summoner, which originally debuted on the PlayStation 
 2 console, from the hilarious  342121  Summoner Geeks movie  that the developer created some months 
 ago. But you may not be familiar with the actual game: Summoner is a 3D role-playing game that 
 tells the story of a young man who's born into a prophecy of sorcery and betrayal. The game itself 
 features elements of both traditional console and computer role-playing games as well as a powerful 
 3D graphics engine and both single- and multiplayer modes of play. Although it's fundamentally 
 a good game, Summoner has a number of problems that often make it frustrating to play. And that's 
 a shame, considering how promising Summoner seems, but perhaps not surprising, considering how 
 many different things it attempts to do.           Summoner features impressive special effects 
 and scenery.    

  Summoner is a fully 3D role-playing game; just about everything in the game, from its well-animated 
 characters to each of its huge areas, is rendered in true 3D. Unfortunately, not all of Summoner's 
 graphics are terribly detailed; certain of the game's environments use simple, repetitive textures 
 that look washed out and blotchy at some points. In addition, many of Summoner's larger areas suffer 
 from rather obvious draw-in that's poorly hidden by fog. But the game's powerful graphics engine 
 also allows for some of the biggest, most colorful, and most picturesque vistas ever to appear 
 in a 3D role-playing game. Summoner's enormous towers, throne rooms, and chapels compare favorably 
 with the best environments in other graphically impressive role-playing games like Vampire and 
 EverQuest. Summoner also features excellent special effects: As your characters grow more powerful 
 and learn more magic spells, they'll be able to create blazing walls of fire and bolts of white-hot 
 lightning. And though you may find it strange that each of the game's characters has pale, gray 
 skin, you'll definitely appreciate your characters' fluid movements, expressive facial animation, 
 and wide variety of weapons and armor -- items that all appear on the actual character models when 
 equipped.           The characters in Summoner are expressive and memorable.    

  However, even though the game's 3D graphics generally look impressive, they present a number of 
 problems that tend to detract significantly from Summoner's gameplay. Specifically, the game's 
 3D camera is completely inadequate, even though it's clear that the developers tried to make the 
 camera work well. Summoner lets you change from a behind-the-back third-person perspective to an 
 overhead perspective, rotate the camera, and zoom in and out slightly. Unfortunately, these options 
 just don't seem sufficient in practice. For instance, unlike the console version, which lets you 
 freely move your character using an analog stick, Summoner only lets you move by pointing and clicking, 
 as in Blizzard's action role-playing game, Diablo. But Summoner's restrictive top-down view doesn't 
 let you see far enough into the distance to spot important landmarks or wandering enemies, and 
 in the behind-the-back perspective, your characters and any nearby scenery or objects will tend 
 to obstruct your movement so that instead of clicking to a point ahead of you, you'll often end 
 up clicking on and selecting one of your characters instead. This becomes especially frustrating 
 in both cramped dungeon areas and areas with varying heights. In either case, you won't be able 
 to get a good look at your characters in action, since you won't be able to see them behind a wall 
 or above the curve of a hill. The camera does cut away some barriers; that is, it makes them transparent 
 as you move in front of them. But for every town building that conveniently cuts away, Summoner 
 has a thick dungeon wall or winding cavern that doesn't. What's more, Summoner's camera isn't entirely 
 under your control; at times, it will automatically rotate to center your characters onscreen and 
 will occasionally rotate continuously unless you move your character. These problems can make combat 
 needlessly frustrating. And because of these camera problems, and the general size of most of Summoner's 
 areas, it's easy to get lost even with the in-game map -- especially considering that the map itself 
 takes up half of the screen and restricts your immediate field of vision even further.      
       Combat can be frustrating because of the awkward camera angles.    

  Summoner's camera problems wouldn't be so frustrating if they didn't interfere with combat. Summoner 
 has an unusual and complex combat system that borrows heavily from Square's console RPG, Vagrant 
 Story. Though you can gather a party of up to five characters, Summoner only lets you control a 
 single one at a time. In combat, your active character may fight enemies with "chain attacks," 
 which are continuous strings of special attacks that must be triggered with the proper timing. 
 Your character's chain attacks, as well as any other special abilities, like casting spells, are 
 limited by its supply of action points; once your character has run out of points, it can't perform 
 a chain attack. Interestingly, Summoner's chain attacks prolong your character's turn in combat; 
 that is, as long as your character is successfully carrying out a continuous chain attack, an attacking 
 enemy can't fight back. And if you use chain attacks regularly, your characters will learn new 
 and more powerful chain-attack maneuvers, like magical life-draining spells or crippling slashes. 
 In addition, Summoner features a tactical combat system that applies bonuses and penalties based 
 on whether your characters are attacking from the rear, flanking an enemy, or are holding the high 
 ground. Furthermore, your characters not only learn new attack skills as they gain levels, they 
 can also develop their combat abilities by spending skill points at each level, as in many PC role-playing 
 games. Finally, though Summoner only lets you control a single character at a time, you can set 
 behavior patterns for your other party members: You can decide whether they'll tend to attack an 
 enemy directly, support their allies, or stay back and cast spells; however, these artificial intelligence 
 patterns are inconsistent. At its best, Summoner's combat system is surprisingly enjoyable, as 
 it lets you take full strategic advantage of your surroundings and your party's abilities. At its 
 worst, your carefully prepared trap will fall to pieces the moment you try to maneuver your lead 
 character in place, only to have your sight blocked by an opaque wall or when one of your other 
 characters decides to move without your orders, which may cause the camera to automatically rotate 
 the screen and throw off the placement of your characters as well as the timing of your chain attack. 
   

  Despite its other problems, Summoner has an excellent story. Though its basic premise of a young 
 peasant boy being a prophesied savior is thoroughly clich, the actual storyline is superb, 
 fraught with treachery and genuinely surprising twists and turns, and is interesting enough to 
 provide incentive to continue through the game's sometimes frustrating combat areas and quests. 
 Over the course of his adventures, the game's protagonist, Joseph meets with three other companions: 
 Flece, the thief; Rosalind, the wizard-monk; and Jekhar, the soldier. Each character has its own 
 motives, and each views Joseph differently. The game's player characters and nonplayer characters 
 are all made interesting because of Summoner's generally good writing and solid voice-acting; voiceover 
 is only provided in the game's in-engine cutscenes, though it's generally quite good.          
  The story has many interesting twists and turns.    

  Summoner also lets you completely ignore the story by playing the game in multiplayer mode on THQ's 
 recently launched online game service, www. thqmultiplay. net. In this mode, you can play through 
 each of Summoner's main areas as Joseph, Flece, Rosalind, or Jekhar. Summoner's multiplayer mode 
 replaces all nonplayer characters with hostile enemies that you can fight to gain levels and earn 
 loot. This hack-and-slash multiplayer mode is reminiscent of Diablo in that you can create an account, 
 then you create a character to play in online games that you or other players create and join. 
 Though Summoner's multiplayer mode doesn't randomly generate maps (as Diablo and Diablo II do) , 
 and it doesn't feature anywhere near as many items as Diablo, it's still enjoyable enough, as it 
 lets you make more use of your character's skills and chain attacks without having to worry about 
 babysitting unpredictable party members. And during peak hours, you can actually find plenty of 
 games to join.   

  Summoner is the result of a lot of ambitious plans; plans to combine console and PC role-playing 
 conventions; plans to make an enjoyable single- and multiplayer game; and plans to make a fully 
 3D role-playing game with huge environments displayed with an intelligent 3D camera. Unfortunately, 
 not all of these plans succeeded. Many of Summoner's flaws, like its inadequate camera options, 
 its unreliable party-member AI, and its bland, ambient music become apparent within the first few 
 hours of play. However, if you can tolerate its problems, you'll find that Summoner is a game of 
 hidden depth; a game with an interesting combat system, an intriguing story, and an enjoyable multiplayer 
 mode to boot.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pitol666
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Summoner is one of the greatest games I've ever played, one of those that we want to paly all the 
 time! I've run on to it in a news paper. That was a demo, but in next days I've searched for full 
 game. Everything is just right as it suppose to be. Difficulty, Characters, Story --  everything. 
 All the wonderful days I've spend playing this game. I've played it 5 or 7 times and want to paly 
 more. Almost hundreds of hours every time. I've searched for a game that will be close but with 
 no gut results... Game was relased in year 2001 with gfx normal for these years, now its not so 
 great in 2008 but it makes no difference its the best game! I hope that some wonderful day some 
 one makes a remake of summoner. With 21st century gfx and fx. That will be the day of my life. 
 Not THE DAY but it will be really close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  I'm not entirely sure if i played an extended version of Summoner or not but it took me ages to 
 complete it. Games designers have to find a way to limit or extend a duration of a game depending 
 on its addictiveness. But in the case of Summoner they just got it wrong. The game it seems has 
 two distinct endings. when you get to the 1st one. You feel satisfied that you've completed a good 
 challenging game. But thats where the shock stars as you find out theres more to do.
  
  Apart from the lengthof the game (which for me is too much) Summoner has some cool features. Its 
 spell casting and Fighting mechanism are quite unique and more enjoyable than in other games. Graphics 
 are also not bad for a game that was released in 2001. And although there are sub quests in the 
 game they wont effect the final outcome hence just be there to increase your experience and help 
 your character level up faster.
  
  Overall although you might get tired of playing this game (especially at the end) . Its likely that 
 you will enjoy it enough to keep playing it till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dana2503
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  My favorite game.
  Even now, after so many years after beating it, it gives me that strange good feeling when I remember 
 it.
  The story is the best one I experienced in all games I played, even comparing it with the games 
 that are the most popular and known to all gamers. You can never guess what next will happen in 
 the game, since it is full of twists and turns, some of them are so unexpected, that it leaves 
 impression: Oh, my... What have I done?... All I have been fighting for, they crashed!!! Must show 
 them who is the boss!!! ...
  Exactly... The people you trusted most, let you down... The ones who hated you, actually were helping 
 you all the time... But all that is hidden so well, and you have a feeling that you are really 
 in that game, and you find yourself asking: How could I believe to him??? 
  The thing I liked the most, is the moment where your party is separating, and it makes you feel 
 like you're playing two games in the same time... Watch your actions with one part of your party, 
 because it may influence the other one.
  Eventually, you will control every character of your party, which gives you knowing every one of 
 them. Be wild soldier, like Jekhar is, or be subtle thief like Flece is... The destiny of one of 
 them, depends on how you will act like the other one.
  Also, chain hits are great! During the game, you learn more chain moves, and you can format them 
 as you like, choose four of them, which will do the best in given situation, like push, or kick...
 
  The camera is the only thing here that can be annoying, but after awhile, you get used to it.
 
  No matter what, this game is so playable and with such a good story, that eventually it makes 
 you to simply live in that game, without paying attention on some other things, that you might 
 not like.
  Excellent story, great characters and combat, make you forget all you thought it was bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Beautiful world with many dungeons, ruins, wizards, unique monsters.
  Easy to learn interface, convenient battle system, easy to use magic spells.
  Not a big variety 
 of spells, but effects of casting looks great. Enemies also look great, can have magical or physical 
 resistances. Possibility to train your characters by learning different battle, magical or sneaky 
 skills. The party will raise in the number of members by completing specific quests, there will 
 be rogue, wizard and fighter by your side, the last slot is for a summoned creature only, which 
 will only appear for a limited amount of time; though some summons do an enormous amount of damage 
 for the price of the large dose of mana. There are certain rings you will get and only then will 
 be allowed to summon specific creatures. Music in the game is fantastic. Graphics are great, field 
 of vision is fairly wide, but all maps is a locked up place, that has only one or few entrances 
 and exit. Enemies always reappear on the world maps. There are special encounters (and special 
 quests) , which i like. Well, the game doesn't become boring at all, not just because there is always 
 somebody new to defeat, but and for something new to see and learn (the story itself is a huge 
 part of the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  SUMMONER (2001) 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 5/7
  Fun Element: 5/7
  Camera: 6/7
  Tradicionality: 6/7
  Atmosphere: 5/7
 
  MPAA Rating: 6/7
  Plot: 6/7
  Music: 7/7
  Originality: 7/7
  Likeability: 7/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 8.4/10
  
  Genre: Multi-character Role-Playing Action Adventure
 
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every four years
  
  + : deep and very interesting storyline, a lot of side-quests, accumulating quests, four major 
 characters with different skills but same importance to the game solution, unique creatures, memorable 
 music, nice font, second-person camera
  
  - : very little dialogue is audiable, too long conversations, some too difficult side-quests, respawning 
 creatures 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I expected nothing from this game, but found instead that it greatly exceeded my low expecations 
 in every major area.
  
  Good graphics, sound, story, characters, and surprisingly entertaining combat. I never found myself 
 bored in this game, and I often found myself playing well beyond the amount of time I had intended 
 because of how much I was enjoying the game.
  
  Definitely recommended if you enjoy a good action CRGP with excellent combat, story, and NPCs and 
 with a fairly epic scope and multiple endings make this a superb game.
  
  If you can find this game in the bargain bin or used at Amazon, you will get great gaming value 
 for your money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  First of all, a game like this needs a good story and this game has a spectacular story. One of 
 the best and yet believable and not many games of this type has a believable story. The plot strings 
 the level design and goes hand in hand and you'll fell that this whole game has been one awesome 
 experience.
  
  The whole game spans around 2 continents and huge continents at that. The level design is wonderful 
 and the soundtrack this game boasts is ear candy and it fits each level perfectly. 
  
  The gameplay is great. The battle mechanics as the developers said is a hybrid system and is a 
 joy to use. The chain attacks should be set to manual in my opinion to fully enjoy the battles. 
 
  
  The character design is so wonderful that you'll find that each character is like a real life person. 
 The voice over should've been better but its good nonetheless. The animation during cutscenes isn't 
 smooth but it is ok. The bosses ae designed so well that you'll feel like you must kill the boss, 
 its that good.
  
  Apart from a few bugs, this game is great and the multiplayer action is good and there are 3 different 
 difficulty settings for the multiplayer action but once you complete it, you feel that there should've 
 been more action but the online community more than makes up for it.
  
  This is a great game and will surely live on as one of the best rpg games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This has a very brilliant story line, I can\'t find a flaw in it at all. The story is about a young 
 male farmer Joseph that has the ability to summon creatures of great destruction with rings of 
 summoning powers, but when he was a young child he summoned an entity of great strength and power 
 that destroyed he hometown, Ciran. He was looked upon as an outcast and was exiled from his village. 
 A man named Yago offered to help Joseph tame his power, but Joseph threw the summoning ring down 
 a well and told Yago to leave him be and said he would never use his powers again. That is where 
 the game takes off. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, the characters and surroundings look very realistic, very well done. 
 The sound however sometimes crackles a bit, but usually it\'s not all that bad. The character voices 
 are very good, sound of attacking, music, it all sounds very good and well done. It\'s just the 
 sometimes having crackles that doesn\'t get it a ten. 
  
  Overall it gets a ten out of ten. I guarantee this will be put on your top ten list if you play 
 this game beginning to end. Everything about this game is brilliant. I would buy this game instead 
 of renting it. The game is so magnificently done. You will not want to put down the controller 
 until you beat this well laid out RPG. So do to almost not a thing being wrong with this game I 
 give it a solid ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  What makes this game stand out is it's intuitive battle system. When approaching an enemy you click 
 the left mouse button to begin your attack -- once an attack is started you will be prompted with 
 a little chain icon above the character and if performed correctly a chain move will occur. This 
 can be repeated as many times as you can correctly click the right mouse button. You can also use 
 ALT, CAPS, SHIFT, and CTRL to use specific chain moves. There are only four moves allotted to the 
 chain attacks at one time which can be changed at any time by going to the character screen. Each 
 character has unique chain moves and as the character progresses they will learn new chain moves. 
 The battles are extremely different than some RPGs in the way that you cannot just hack at a creature. 
 There is a delay in the attacks to give a more traditional turn-based hybrid that combine with 
 spells that can be cast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This was a game that was spun off from the PS2 and converted to the PC for PC fans.
  
  The story begins with farmer Joseph who has a "gift" to summon various creatures with the help 
 of special rings that initiates his quest -- turns out this "gift" is responsible for the destruction 
 of a village! Thrust into an adventure to save his land from the Emperor of Orenia, Joseph will 
 meet A LOT of people. And in order to complete everything Summoner has to offer, you'll need to 
 talk to all of them. As with a majority of role playing games, various characters will join your 
 party. Summoner has taken some of the more popular aspects of RPGs -- like Diablo -- to create a unique 
 hybrid that is extremely engrossing to play. And not unike Diablo, there will be plenty of items 
 that can be found (and sold) to some merchant on the way. Also, not every item in universal; there 
 will be some that can only be used by Joseph. The use of skill points is another RPG convention 
 used here -- whenever a character increases a level you can choose what points you'd like where, 
 but you cannot put more points into an attribute than what your current level is. Saving can be 
 done at anytime in the game and it is recommended to save often! Considering the multitude of tasks 
 you have to partake in, it would be a bummer to have to do them all over if you die.
  
  What makes this game stand out is it's intuitive battle system. When approaching an enemy you click 
 the left mouse button to begin your attack -- once an attack is started you will be prompted with 
 a little chain icon above the character and if performed correctly a chain move will occur. This 
 can be repeated as many times as you can correctly click the right mouse button. You can also use 
 ALT, CAPS, SHIFT, and CTRL to use specific chain moves. There are only four moves allotted to the 
 chain attacks at one time which can be changed at any time by going to the character screen. Each 
 character has unique chain moves and as the character progresses they will learn new chain moves. 
 The battles are extremely different than some RPGs in the way that you cannot just hack at a creature. 
 There is a delay in the attacks to give a more traditional turn-based hybrid that combine with 
 spells that can be cast.
  
  The characters are designed well and there's a wealth of non-playable characters in the towns and 
 other environments. There are a few glitches in some of the cut scenes involving characters and 
 the graphics overall are a bit lower than expected. Textures are sometimes a bit quirky -- by having 
 a plane that is fractured and placing textures along as the characters progress makes the ground 
 appear as it were stretching and twisting around you. These problems take away nothing from the 
 game itself, but they definitely could use some more work.
  
  Normally when I hear the sound of a baby crying I usually cringe in fear, especially when I am 
 engrossed into a good story. Babies are but one thing that will make your ears sing. Running water 
 will get louder or softer depending on the distance between you and the source. Other little sounds 
 along the way just heighten the experience. The music is nice and doesn't distract from the mood 
 that is trying to be put across and remains in the background where it is supposed to be.
  
  One of the biggest potential killers of games can be the interface. If the game is to difficult 
 to maneuver around or even see everything your character will be dead in the water before you know 
 it. Summoner does its best to make sure that the interface helps instead of hinders, beginning 
 with the camera angle which has been a constant source of grief for gamers since the inclusion 
 of the third person perspective. The camera in Summoner gives the control back to the gamer. You 
 have the option to rotate the camera 360 degrees around the character as well as the option to 
 zoom in or out depending on your preferences. A nice addition is whenever there is something to 
 do such as search a barrel for items, it will flash in order to let you know. The layout of the 
 HUD is clean and compact, not wasting any space with trivial things that you will not need. There 
 are hotkeys that will bring up various windows with arrows on them to cycle through the various 
 screens. The map is typical in that it will not let you know what is up ahead, just where you have 
 been.
  
  Not wanting to just port over the game itself, THQ decided to introduce a multiplayer function 
 not in the PS2 version, so there are some extra goodies for the PC owners out there. Multiplayer 
 allows up to four people to play cooperatively, building up your characters as you steal the occasional 
 item from another. While this is a nice addition it's the single player story that makes this game 
 shine.
  
  With a ton of RPG's out there for the PC market it is becoming increasingly difficult to find one 
 that is worthy of the time and effort -- Summoner is worth the time and effort. The characters are 
 well written and there's a vast amount of quests to complete. The minor problems of Summoner are 
 not ones that affect the game in any significant way. In Summoner, story is king -- long live the 
 king!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics are wonderful (unless you compare them to today's standards) , and quite detailed. Almost 
 too detailed really; when in towns, there is alot of unused space which is somewhat dissapointing. 
 
  
  Combat, in my opinioni, is really fun. You have special moves, spells, and then normal attacks. 
 Nothing extraordinary, but enough to be entertaining. Elevation plays a role in combat, with those 
 on higher ground dealing more, and those on lower ground dealing less. There's also 'chaining' 
 attacks, which is when you click right as you make an attack, which allows you to do a special 
 move, and if you're able to click the same time you hit with that, you do the next special move, 
 etc... 
  
  There are 4 characters in all, plus a summon (you are the Summoner afterall) , which makes a total 
 of 5 characters in your party. The AI isn't half bad either, so you won't have to switch between 
 characters too often (unless you want to) . There are numerous summons that you can... summon, which 
 can level up too. They start of extremely weak, so you'll have to level them up before they can 
 really be effective though. 
  
  If you can find this game cheap, I'd recommend getting it. There's really nothing that will absolutely 
 turn you away from the game, though you might not be extremely impressed by it either. All in all 
 Summoner is good fun to be had. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
