-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SunAge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sunage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Atmospheric music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Loaded with show-stopping bugs.
 Deeply generic and dull game design.
 No proper skirmish mode.
 Worthless multiplayer.
 Ancient visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 5.0, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GamersGate
Developer: Vertex 4
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Incredibly buggy, packed with design flaws, seemingly a decade old... SunAge is a real-time strategy 
 disaster. 

  Al Gore's darkest dreams have nothing on SunAge. This real-time strategy game from Vienna-based 
 Vertex4 takes place in a future when Earth has been turned into a crispy fritter by a combination 
 of global warming and centuries of war. But this forward-looking setting is hampered by the presence 
 of dozens of crippling bugs and screwups, such as no multiplayer support on launch despite promises 
 to the contrary. Add in a backward design that was last in vogue when people were still freaking 
 out about what Y2K was going to do to airplanes, and you've got an RTS that couldn't be more offensive 
 if it came to your house and kicked your dog.  

           Generic troops. Generic terrain. Generic explosions. Er, what RTS from 1998 are we playing 
 again?      

  SunAge was released in a spectacularly unstable state that included the gold standard of bugs: 
 crashes that corrupted save files and sent you right back to square one. Other major flaws included 
 the game's refusal to start after installation, mission-breaking scripting errors, absurdly long 
 saving and loading times, and the complete absence of the multiplayer modes plugged right on the 
 back of the game box. A series of patches now up to version 1.08 have made the game much more stable 
 and have added the MIA multiplayer, but there are still loads of major bugs. Troops regularly stop 
 responding to commands and sometimes move off in a random direction after being selected with a 
 single mouse click. Buildings occasionally can't be placed, even in apparently clear areas. Mission 
 objectives are regularly impossible to complete. Previously explored areas are lost in saves, so 
 every time you load a game you've got to start peeling back the fog of war all over again. This 
 game was obviously kicked out the door way too soon, which is awfully odd because it was apparently 
 in development for about 11 years.  

  Even if we could venture to a fairy-tale land where SunAge is bug-free, the dull design wouldn't 
 win it many fans. This is an old-fashioned three-civilization RTS like Blizzard used to make, with 
 the nice-guy human Federals, the evil mutant Raak-Zun, and the neutral robotic Sentinel factions 
 being about as bland as minute rice. Aside from the mild innovation of making the Raak-Zun dependent 
 on slaves, the three sides offer no surprises. This is deeply derivative RTS gaming, where you 
 build bases, scrounge for resources, and grind out generic troops and tanks and aircraft for use 
 in nonstop mindless battles.  

  And "mindless" really is the key word. Combat is a blend of the dumb and the obtuse. Head-on tank 
 rushes are your main pastime, given the general absence of anything like terrain or a sensible 
 rock-paper-scissors formula. The AI always attacks full-out, charging your troops no matter what, 
 so all you can do is respond in kind. As in all the best old-time RTS games, this sort of mayhem 
 is oddly satisfying. But it isn't mixed up with even the slightest bit of tactical thinking, unless 
 you're figuring out how to navigate the often mazelike maps. So after a couple of missions, the 
 gameplay becomes as monotonous and predictable as the ticking of a metronome.  

  Battles also feel clunky due to a bizarre design choice to take firing orders away from you. Instead 
 of right-clicking on enemy troops to get the guns blazing as in almost every other RTS ever made, 
 here you have to move your troops within range of the bad guys to make them open fire. Also, your 
 troops don't automatically follow enemies once battles have started, which turns many battles into 
 irritating chase sequences where you have to run after enemies to keep them in firing range. It's 
 hard to understand what Vertex4 was trying to accomplish here. There aren't any obvious pluses 
 to making this drastic change to such a longstanding RTS convention, so this offbeat movement mechanism 
 will only frustrate players.  

           Comic-book cutscenes are usually a treat, but not when the artwork is this shoddy.    
   

  Virtually all of SunAge's frills are as ineptly handled as the core game design. While the music 
 is stark and ominous, the visuals are absent any personality. Buildings and troops lean on a standard 
 RTS style that's about as distinctive as blades of grass. Cutscenes are even more amateurish, thanks 
 to the worst comic art this side of early '90s Marvel. Gameplay options are just about worthless 
 beyond the three solo campaigns played from the perspective of each race. You can skirmish against 
 the AI only by hosting a multiplayer game and choosing computer opponents, which doesn't give you 
 the option to save progress. And the actual multiplayer involves free-for-all and team games limited 
 to just four players (which isn't much of a problem, actually, since there are never more than 
 a couple of people hanging out in the online lobby) .  

  Trudging through a game like SunAge is painful at best. Retro-RTS gaming is a great idea if you're 
 into nostalgia, but the number of bugs and design miscues make this one an uncomfortable trip back 
 in time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mudpuddle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out - yes it had issues. So i set it aside either as a write-off 
 or (i dared to hope) something that would get fixed and live up to its true potential.
  
  I'm very happy i waited to play it. Its been a few months since release - version 1.08.1 (i believe) , 
 and the show stopping bugs have vanished. Various control schemes are now optional, 3 skill levels 
 available, etc.
  
  This is a fun game!
  
  Anyone who has bought it but set it aside in frustration, get it updated and try it again. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
  If you have avoided this game because of bad reviews, take a second look. The best / most accurate 
 review in my opinion is at honestgamers. com
  They actually rated it higher than i would have but the game description is right on.
  
  It 
 really doesn't deserve the super low scores it has received - certainly not at its current state.
 
  
  Check it out - its a lot of fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  The review on Gamespot doesn't surprise me much anymore. They tend to burn everything that doesn't 
 use a standard formula for gameplay and the 2,5/10 score really comes out of nowhere.
  
  The game isn't perfect, but it packs some great fun for those who are willing to spend a bit more 
 time getting used to the unusual controls and gameplay. It's worth it. The comic cutscenes really 
 aren't all that bad either, but I guess that's purely a matter of taste.
  
  It's a whole different story when it comes to gameplay. It's pretty challenging and quite well 
 balanced. It's not your average RTS game, but instead it dares to do things differently. If there 
 really were a lot of bugs then I must have missed them. There probably were a few, but nothing 
 terribly ruining the experience.
  
  Controls could need some patching up, it's a bit too unusual at times and it's quite hard to get 
 used to.
  
  Having said all that though, there still remains a game that's quite good. The 2D graphics and 
 nice effects really do NOT show a game that looks like 1998. Sure, it's no 3D Supreme Commander-like 
 stuff, but that game wasn't very pretty anyways, just huge. :p
  
  As usual I won't spoil anything from the story, but it's quite nice. Voice acting isn't the best 
 we ever heard, but nothing too annoying either.
  
  A far more fair score would be 6.5/10 or perhaps even 7/10 because at times it's really a fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3UrOn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  For one moment when I saw this game I thought one of my old friends that started to develop a RTS 
 game on his own some years ago (just for fun to test his programming and graphics skills) actually 
 kept the work and finished it :) . But i was wrong... I'm sure though if he wasted his time alone 
 for 2 years or so making that game he could have done a better job then SunAge.. SunAge looks and 
 feels like Tiberian Sun combined with some Starcraft ... no innovations no nothing .. is a complete 
 waste of time. I actually wonder if someone can develop this game in Java. I don't relay now why 
 they launched this game just to be ridiculed by gamers allover the world. Who will actually buy 
 this ... scripting that is because I certainly will not. If you are nostalgic about old games play 
 Starcraft .. :) .
  
  (edited)
  
  Yes i was wrong. After installing some patches the game became more stable and some bugs got fixed. 
 This game is not so bad after all .. needs some getting used to but it works. 
  I changed my Score from 1.0 to 6.5 because I realized that the game is on a very low budget (the 
 reason being under production for so many years) .
  The only way to help this game is to buy it.. and if the budget grows im sure SunAge 2 (if it will 
 ever be one) will be a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk1946
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  this game belongs in the rubbish bin , it is a total waist of time, why release something that 
 nobody is going to play, and waist money on, I tried it and found that it was so full of bugs, 
 that it was nearly impossible to finish a level even with the patches loaded, the attach mode is 
 impossible when you point your troops in one direction and the actually go the right way you are 
 lucky, most of the time they just stay or wander of in any direction much to my disgust, they the 
 enemy don't stay and fight, so I have to Chase them all over the map, specking of map the maps 
 is totally confusing and very hard to follow.
  Lets face it this game is badly written, and the story line and the way it plays is totally lost 
 and extremely boring as well as all the bugs in the game itself, so it is definitely a no Hooper 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
