-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Superbike World Championship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/superbikeworldchampionship/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Milestone
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may not be the most realistic racing game ever created, but it certainly raises the bar for PC 
 motorcycle racers. 

 You might expect Superbike World Championship to be just another arcade-style racer, a fun and flashy 
 game with very little realism and nothing much in common with the sport it simulates, save the 
 name. Fortunately for motorcycle enthusiasts, Superbike from EA Sports has a lot more going for 
 it than a fancy 3D engine and a thumping soundtrack. Superb gameplay and a substantial dose of 
 simulation-style realism make this one of the best motorcycle games to hit PC screens in quite 
 a while.  

 Superbike offers the same basic gameplay options you'll find in any good racer. Both single races 
 and championship seasons are available, and you have the choice of either action or simulation 
 mode for each. Six additional game options (difficulty, weather conditions, and so on) let you 
 tailor each race to your tastes and skill level. If you choose simulation mode, you can also adjust 
 nine realism settings, including the use of real Superbike rules, computer-assisted acceleration, 
 braking, and the occurrence of engine failures.  

 The game includes 12 Superbike tracks, including Phillip Island, Monza, and Laguna Seca. Each is 
 well rendered with plenty of detail to create a reasonably realistic racing environment. Just about 
 every track has at least one particularly memorable bend, twist, or curve - Laguna Seca's trademark 
 corkscrew turn, for example.  

 There are five bikes to choose from: Ducati 916, Honda RC 45, Kawasaki ZX7R, Yamaha YZF, and Suzuki 
 GSXR. Each is evenly matched but offers a slight variation in instrumentation, engine noise, and 
 color scheme (for the aesthetically minded gamers among you) . In simulation mode, you can modify 
 your bike's chassis (rake and trail) , transmission (gearbox sprocket, rear-wheel sprocket, gear 
 ratios) , suspension, and tires for optimum performance. There's even a nifty telemetry analysis 
 tool that lets you see how your bike performed in a particular race, so you can make the necessary 
 adjustments. As with most racing games that let you modify your vehicle's setup, it's best to leave 
 things alone unless you know what you're doing.  

 Action-mode races and championships are fairly straightforward: You pick your bike (and your track, 
 for single races) , select automatic or manual transmission, and then hit the track. Simulation 
 mode gives you more options but also ups the challenge level quite a bit. Single races involve 
 an entire racing weekend, including practice, two rounds of qualification, and two official races. 
 It seemed odd that no overall winner was crowned after the second race, but that's the way the 
 Superbike Association does things, apparently.  

 Gameplay itself can be quite challenging, especially if you've let your reflexes and driving skills 
 go to mush with pure arcade racers like Moto Racer 2 or Redline Racer. Superbike has more in common 
 with UbiSoft's F1 Racing Simulation and Papyrus' Grand Prix Legends than with the arcade crowd, 
 so be prepared to crash (and lose) often in the early going. Thankfully, the game lets you practice 
 at your own pace and also lets you scale the difficulty to fit just about any level of driving 
 skill. Another bonus: Even if you do wipe out a lot, Superbike offers some spectacular crash animations, 
 as your bike skips along the ground with sparks flying, and your driver tumbles along behind. You 
 can even choose to walk your bike back onto the course manually if you want (the default setting 
 just plops you back on your bike at the point of the crash) .  

 Unlike arcade racers, where the brakes are optional and you can bump and smash your way to victory, 
 Superbike is all about finesse and control. Most of the tracks are very curvy, so you must slow 
 down to take the turns - on the best possible line - to move ahead of the pack. Unfortunately - 
 and this is one of the game's notable flaws - the AI is not all that great, and computer-controlled 
 drivers will not always pose much of a challenge. They tend to follow the track well enough and 
 will certainly take advantage of any mistakes you make, but your biggest foe is the track itself. 
 If you crash a lot, you'll lose. If you stay on your bike and on the best possible line around 
 the track, you'll win. In fact, if you manage to get the pole position during a championship season, 
 you have to really screw up horribly to lose the race.  

 Graphically, Superbike is stunning. The tracks, bikes, and riders all look great, and even the distance 
 rendering is pretty good. Fantastic animations for crashes, turns, and angry fist shaking (when 
 another bike bumps you) make the game very lifelike. A decent array of sound effects helps also, 
 though the engine sounds can become annoying after a while. It was pretty cool to hear the crowds 
 cheering when I passed the grandstand, however.  

 I did encounter one weird graphics problem with Superbike: The interface graphics shimmered a bit 
 when I loaded the game using a pair of Voodoo2 cards as my primary 3D device. And occasionally, 
 the game would quit abruptly, claiming a DirectDraw error. When I switched to my Riva TNT board, 
 everything worked fine.  

 Despite the minor graphical glitch, however, Superbike is one impressive game. It may not be the 
 most realistic racing game ever created, but it certainly raises the bar for PC motorcycle racers. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shorty-96
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  i bought this game for about 50p in a bargin bin in game. I noted it didn't take long to install 
 and thought , oh god , another crap pc game. But when i played on it it was quite fun and easy 
 to pick up and play. Althought it will start too become boring after you win the championship once. 
 The game features all the best riders from the 1997 championship including Carl Fogarty , Noriyuki 
 Haga , Aaaron slight and so on , and all the licensed teams , ducati , kawasaki , honda , suzuki 
 and yamaha. The game has 2 main modes , arcade and simultion. In arcade mode you race for the championship 
 on a choice of 5 bikes , and there are fewer races and no practice or qualifying sessions.
  simulation modes lets you ride all 18 bikes and has practice and qualifying , and also has 2 races 
 per round. This is a decent game for new or less experienced gamers , but still the best motorbike 
 game for the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noblepuker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  In 1999 the game had gorgeous graffix (max rez is 800x600 no matter what your video card is) . The 
 replays are great with multiple views from any riders viewpoint. When riding, it even has an onboard 
 view that swings the bike underneath you while keeping your head straight.. a very realistic effect 
 (i feel like i'm there) but hard to race in. The game has simulation (manly) & arcade (kiddy) modes 
 and more options under those. Simulation has settings for tire  
 ratios, F/R sprocket teeth, rake/trail, and telemetry etc. The physics are very good.. you can wheelie 
 & endo etc. I race it in the PRO setting with all the realism settings at max (if you have no heart, turn 
 on the braking/acceleration aids... the bike will ride itself) . I can run midpack or better in round 
 one (i don't know other tracks well enough yet) .
  I read the first review below.. that guy just needs to practice (i fell on corners alot at first) . The 
 sound could be better, and the throttle is like a dimmer switch... i would like the powerband to 
 'hit' somewhere. There's also a couple glitches here and there.. i bet theres a patch (i havn't looked 
 cause they're so minor) . You can ride wheelies if you master the throttle (200ft prob my record) . I've 
 played the motoracer series, GP500 etc and superbike world championship holds it's own. I just raced 
 it tonight. I was midpack but washed out the front. I dropped from 14th (of 40) to last. I personally 
 like this game & LOVE it's replays. Multiplayer was glitchy as i remember, no more than four can 
 join solidly (i think it supports 8) .
  (i'm also a grand prix legends driver... people hated it for it's dificulty as well) 
  The harder 
 the game, the more sense of pride you feel when you win!!!
  I recommend this game. heck, it's probably $10 now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  There are mixed reactions in the world when it comes to racing games. Some get glued to their seats, 
 play nonstop for hours. Some find them kind of boring. Superbike World Championship lets you take 
 control of a Superbike racer and race in different game modes. There is not much to it. Superbike 
 World Championship is a boring and disappointing game for even a die hard racing fan, and there 
 is not a big reason why anyone would want to get this game.
  
  When you first play this game, I mean the first 10 seconds, you feel excitement with you, like 
 with all racing games. But it eventually wears down. There are too many glitches in this game that 
 prevent this game from being enjoyable, fair, or realistic.
  
  First, you'll find that when you take a sharp turn, no matter how hard you try, you will eventually 
 slide onto the grass or dirt, and thus crashing. This is what mainly prevents it from being fun. 
 It is almost like any sharp turn results in a crash.
  
  You'll also realize that catching up to your enemies is no easy task. You always start off last, 
 and when you seem to get an upper hand on someone, you either lose your lead against him, or you 
 crash, thus crashing down the stats (no pun intended) .
  
  There are also many game modes in this game. The Championship is the main mode and is a tournament, 
 with races being one after another on different courses. You'll eventually lose interest in this, 
 as it is not either fun or exciting to play.
  
  Now lets go to the basics.
  
  The graphics are bad. They aren't impressive, and the Speedbikes and riders don't seem well done 
 at all. The motorbikes seem wobbly and slimey at certain times.
  
  The sound is so-so. It can be amusing hearing the sounds of many motorcycles, but not enough work 
 was put in to make it completely impressive.
  
  As far as value goes, keep your money away. This game is not worth your money. There aren't enough 
 fun game modes to keep you hooked, and the game isn't fun either. The game may not cost that much 
 now, but you should keep that extra money for a different game. There is no reason why this game 
 would be of much value to anyone.
  
  I therefore say that because of the difficulty of the game, and the unimpressive game modes, you 
 should not get your hands on this boring game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
