-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SuperPower 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/superpower2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 575 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: GolemLabs
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 11, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All SuperPower 2 has going for it is an anything-can-happen atmosphere. 

  More comic relief than serious geopolitical simulation, the original SuperPower wasn't big on realism. 
 While the ambition of the game design gave it a certain charm, everything was skewed with such 
 a bizarre take on foreign affairs that almost anything was possible. If you were looking for a 
 thoughtful take on the international community of nations, you came away disappointed. If you were 
 looking for a game that finally let you see what would happen if Belgium invaded Sri Lanka, you 
 came away thrilled. Things are a little better in the sequel, but not by much. While SuperPower 
 2 tones down the outrageous stuff somewhat, there are still so many strange incidents that it's 
 impossible to keep from laughing out loud at least once per game. And there still isn't enough 
 to do. Scenarios can be successfully completed by making just a couple of minor adjustments to 
 the default setup and then waiting for time to pass. If running a nation in the real world were 
 this easy, the planet would be a paradise.  

          Germany's up to her old tricks again... but in India?     

  Gameplay at least seems 
 impressive, with a selection of single-player scenarios and a custom mode that can be played alone 
 or with up to 32 opponents via the Internet or a LAN. You can take control of any nation on the 
 picturesque rotating globe (zoom in and you can even make out highways and rivers) and direct its 
 three spheres of influence: political, economic, and military. Politically, you can outlaw religions, 
 ban languages, and declare various forms of dictatorships, while in economics you get to play with 
 commerce. The military sphere is perhaps the most interesting, however, as here you get to purchase 
 and design jet fighters, tanks, and the other hardware required to attack neighbors. You can even 
 direct forces on the battlefield using an abstract map to direct units, although the options are 
 so limited that it makes more sense to let the computer automatically generate battle results. 

  This is actually quite appropriate, too, since much of the game flies on autopilot. In the intermediate 
 military scenario, where the goal was the seemingly daunting task of developing nuclear weapons 
 in Canada, we won simply by cranking up the tax rate to pay for the project and selecting the options 
 necessary to research and deploy nuclear weapons. We just clicked on the buttons to build a missile 
 defense system and strategic forces, and then designed and constructed ballistic missiles. The 
 only hard part was waiting the 15 to 20 minutes needed for all the research to be completed.  

 
  Nothing else was required during that delay, save patience. Despite the momentous nature of what 
 Canada was doing, nobody tried to stop the building of this massive nuclear arsenal. Washington 
 didn't care about the deployment of nukes on its doorstep. Alliances actually strengthened over 
 the four years it took to go nuclear. By the time the missiles were rolling off the assembly line, 
 Canada was beloved from Azerbaijan to Zaire. Opinion was the same inside the country. Without even 
 lifting a finger to appease the heavily taxed electorate, the ruling Liberals surged to 98 percent 
 wins in two straight elections, government corruption dropped to an astounding zero percent, and 
 gross domestic product per capita leaped to over $50,000 per year.  

          It seems like there's a lot going on, especially when you pull up the current events ticker, 
 but there really isn't a lot to do here.     

  All of the other scenarios seem similarly automated. While you can influence nearly every aspect 
 of your nation's foreign and domestic policy, there isn't much need to tinker. Yes, you can declare 
 martial law in the US, set up a theocracy in the new capital of Wichita, and send covert operatives 
 to stage a coup in Zambia, but there's no point to doing any of these outlandish things unless 
 you want to make things hard for yourself.  

  Smaller, less radical steps, like signing economic treaties and forming common markets with other 
 nations, have more of an obvious payoff, essentially making your people richer and happier. But 
 since you can usually get where you're going without such experiments, why bother? Unless you absolutely 
 need to build your economy through a series of treaties, as in the scenario where Turkey must raise 
 its standard of living before being admitted to the European Union, nations advance in prosperity 
 so naturally that you can just about sit back and enjoy the ride.     

  Custom solo games and multiplayer matches offer more entertainment. Here you can adopt a sandbox 
 state of mind and set goals that demand real strategizing, like raising GDP by 50 percent, conquering 
 the planet, or simply trying to accomplish some personal aspirations, such as banning the Republican 
 party and outlawing the French language in Canada. Still, there are some flaws here as well. Unless 
 you're playing an online game with a full complement of human opponents controlling the world powers, 
 chances are very good that the computer is going to do something absolutely ridiculous, usually 
 involving a major nation.  

          If you're willing to endure some negative press at home for a little while, nukes are a 
 good way to end the quagmire in Iraq once and for all.     

  In one custom game, a placid international scene was shattered when Germany attacked India. A cease-fire 
 was soon declared, but within the next year a massive war had broken out, pitting Germany, Taiwan, 
 Nepal, Bangladesh, Tajikistan, and Pakistan against India. Something like this seems to happen 
 in almost every game. One nation gets involved in a conflict, sometimes a sensible one against 
 an authentic enemy, and then becomes the whipping boy for the entire planet, or at least a region. 
 We've seen Syria declare war on Israel at least three times. Syria always loses, and then it turns 
 into a target for civilian espionage and terror attacks -- launched from South America. Israel must 
 have some strong allies in that part of the world, because immediately after a cease-fire is signed 
 between Tel Aviv and Damascus, Peru and Colombia start mounting espionage missions, terror attacks, 
 and coup attempts in Syria.  

  Often, this heightens tension to the point where a second war breaks out, pitting the victimized 
 country against a half-dozen or more enemies from all over the globe. These wars are always ludicrous, 
 as the game's odd system of alliances draws in nations that are thousands of miles away from the 
 initial flash point. So you regularly get such oddities as the above example, where half of central 
 Asia and a European superpower invade the Indian subcontinent for no apparent reason.  

  Conflicts do make sense on occasion. In most games, espionage is common between Israel and its 
 Arab neighbors, and this often erupts into full-scale war. Iraq stages civilian sabotage in the 
 US. Pakistan and India constantly feud. But even then things don't seem quite right. The military 
 model doesn't appear to account for nuclear weapons. When India was conquered in the game described 
 above, it never used nukes against the multinational invaders. It didn't even throw a couple of 
 missiles at Pakistan out of spite. Even Israel was never seen to respond to Arab invasions with 
 a nuclear deterrent. Also, sea battles seem broken. They drag on for months before being resolved 
 and often still rage long after one of the nations involved has been conquered.  

  Even when the bullets aren't flying, strangeness abounds. We witnessed Bulgaria launching espionage 
 missions in Brazil, the terrorist group Hizbullah winning national elections in Mauritius, Iraq 
 sponsoring a coup in Venezuela, and the Democratic party in the US securing 95 percent, plus support 
 of the voting public in one federal election after another. Some games were quiet and uneventful, 
 but most featured wild events straight out of the bizarro world.  

          Manually directing battles is a waste of time, due to simplistic controls that show an 
 abstract view of battlefields.     

  And SuperPower 2's programming seems almost as unstable as the political situations that it depicts. 
 GolemLabs clearly didn't work out all the bugs before the shipping date, as we encountered a number 
 of drops to the desktop and odd pauses where the mouse cursor could be moved, but nothing could 
 actually be clicked. Music often locks into a loop where one sample plays endlessly until the game 
 is rebooted (which is a shame, because the martial theme song is one of the best aspects of the 
 game) . Also, the StarForce copy protection leaves a lot to be desired. We couldn't get the game 
 started without uninstalling the CD-burning software program Nero. Even after that, it tried to 
 access the Internet for some kind of lengthy CD-verification process before starting single-player 
 games.  

  All SuperPower 2 has going for it is an anything-can-happen atmosphere. Even while you know that 
 the game isn't the least bit realistic, you keep playing just to see what sort of craziness will 
 happen next. But the novelty of curiosities like Fiji spying on Denmark fades in just a few hours, 
 and when it does, you'll reach for the uninstall icon.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ricoxs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  When I firstly played this game, I was shocked, it was so bad.. Single-player just FAILS, but when 
 I tried out Multi-player... I was shocked, it was so addictive.. Now I am still playing game always 
 wanting to join some Multi-player game. Sometimes game is hard, for example, if you play with United 
 States of America, strong country that after 8 in-game years starts to go into economical fail, 
 but that's why we have plenty of mods making our game a lot better.
  
  In multi-player you can choose from variety of servers - Role-play servers, Conquer servers, Peace 
 servers etc. Of course, game isn't so popular and there is very low amount of servers being online 
 at same time, but it's really worth waiting for server like President J's RP server, Vasvutins 
 RP server or King's B RP server, those are best RP servers yet I played on. And players may agree 
 on previous statement, as those three servers are very popular.
  
  This was my short review about Superpower 2 game, you really have to try it out. It isn't so expensive, 
 and it's simple to install. But, you'll have to get used that first week of playing it will be 
 hard to understand what to do etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricScionti
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  As many other reviewers have stated, there is a lot to be left desired with SuperPower 2 the inability 
 to control units in combat as well as other "SO RANDUM XD" scenario's tend to make the game a bit 
 mind boggling at times, with random occurrences such as Italy declaring war on Russia for no reason 
 and other random acts of sabotage and terrorism from Country's with no motivation to do so. There 
 is also the fact that a large amount of time you will be sitting around waiting, annoying in single 
 player, but in multi-player you will usually have your hands full talking with other players and 
 monitoring your country.
  
  A few other things that are annoying are the AI, and the flaky alliances and treaties, for instance, 
 as the US I decided to build an Anti-Missile Defense system which quickly led to me being kicked 
 out of NATO and the entire world's relation status plummeting to red. Not something I would expect 
 from a game that's main selling point is realism, but there are ways to work around this.
  
  Another annoying aspect is sometime when declaring war on other countries, entire cluster **** 
 of nations will declare war on you as well, even if they are not allied and even if their political 
 ideology is completely different, not to mention how exactly does Sri Lanka land in New York City 
 when it only has a couple hundred infantry units? They must be good swimmers or something.
  
  Despite all these, and other factors SuperPower 2 can be quite enjoyable, although fans of 
 RTS games such as Company of Heroes and other fast paced RTS style games with visual effects and 
 story telling will probably not be impressed, fans of other games such as Hearts of Iron 2 and 
 even some Total War fans may find themselves at home here.
  
  The online community although sometimes a bit nuclear-trigger happy, (Korean players can sometimes 
 join the game and start launching nukes without so much as saying a word....) can be enjoyable, 
 and this is where the real game play really is, (since the AI is utter **** ) Playing online with 
 player established rules, and even some role playing can be refreshing. Having an arms race with 
 a couple other players and making and breaking alliances can be fun for awhile, although in the 
 end it usually comes down to who can click/steam roll the fastest and or shoot the most nukes.
 
  
  In short, Superpower 2 is a great way to kill some time, but the game is by no means perfect, and 
 it's appeal is only to a select audience of the RTS community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ettar079
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  the gamplay was first of all bad in the 1.0 version but the 1.4 patch really fixes almost all the 
 bugs and adds new features like multiple vehicle production and trading money for territories or 
 tech. and it is very expansive with all the mods that ive encounterd WW1, WW2, The Cold War, vietnam, 
 and korea are just a few great mods ive seen. but i wish it was like super 1 were u had to desigh 
 the missles and u acctualy controlled the units in the battles. and if they came out with superpower 
 3 i think it would be an instant hit. what the heck i hate the 100 word must be done wat the heck 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a aq 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a a a sa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa aa 
 a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  No game is perfect in it's initial release form, and by no exception is this one. The initial release 
 of SuperPower 2 had many issues which needed to be fixed, and made for a messy first release. The 
 game was glitchy in that there would be times when the client just closed, and returned you to 
 your desktop with no warning, and no auto save. Additionally, the sound system which was used in 
 the initial release was equally as disappointing. You would eventually be stuck listening to the 
 same three second audio clip which eventually would get so annoying that even I would have to mute 
 it to keep playing the game without going insane from the audio loop. There is an interesting achievement 
 in this game in which you get to "design" your own custom units, which basically meant that you 
 could choose a shell from existing real world units such as F-14s, Amps, Ticonderoga Class ships, 
 etc. The only problem with this one is the fact that when you go through the trouble of wasting 
 your time picking the designs and colors and whatnot, it only reflects one type in the warfare 
 scene.
  
  The game fixed many issues with its patches, and by version 1.4, seemingly everything is fixed 
 except for the custom units, with the enhancement of the game difficulty which took some adjusting 
 if you were used to the 1.0 version.
  
  To quote another review, the game really did need something like a Google Earth implementation. 
 The globe looks fine from a distance, but when you start to zoom in on the globe, all you get is 
 a mess of lines as major road routes, and dots or squares for major cities. It is a mess. Everything 
 is done from basically a single interface, which can be expanded with three windows, one for each 
 of the major spheres of the game (military, political, and economic) , each of which can be open 
 and reveal smaller windows to control the smaller components of each sphere.
  
  Of course this game is easy to keep going if you pick a nation such as the United States, India, 
 Russia, China, Britain, Iran, or Canada, which are already well established superpowers. The game 
 has next to no fun factor as one of those nations and basically the whole aim of the game is going 
 to be all out warfare with other nations (so long as they do not get tired of you and end up ganging 
 together on you) . The real challenge of the game would be to pick a smaller nation in which you 
 are going to be required to manage each of the spheres in order to succeed. There is no close-up 
 military game play, just general large-scale unit building and deployment, the commanding, orders, 
 and strategies are initiated by the units themselves, and not by the user, so if you are looking 
 for something along the lines of Command & Conquer, JTF, or any other RTS in which you control 
 individual units, this game is not for you.
  
  This is not a game for everyone, this game relies more on economics and political choices vs a 
 military control sphere (while it still comes in handy to have more firepower than other nations) , 
 you could have a strong military, but if your economy is in a bad situation, and the political 
 choices you make are not so great, a Coup can end your game before any units come into your national 
 boundaries.
  
  
  
  Summing It Up:
  
  Graphics: 4.8
  There are not too many "graphical" components of this game, almost everything in the game is done 
 from the same global image which is reasonably customizable with stats such as relations, GDP, 
 military strength, etc. The second that you start getting close to ground level... Things get pretty 
 messy and ugly... Lines are not cool to see with dots here and there representative of large cities...
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.4
  That is my personal rating for it, and in no way is everyone going to think the same thing. This 
 is not a game for everyone, but the click, point, and drag approach to running your own country 
 is fairly efficient. The game can become drag if you are playing as an existing superpower. Even 
 solid guns, tanks, planes, and artillery can get old pretty quick in this game. However the game 
 is really engaging if you play as an "undeveloped" nation.
  
  Multiplayer: 6.9
  This game does have a pretty good multiplayer setup with the exception that the port it uses is 
 blocked by default on practically every firewall application as a trojan entry point. If you are 
 playing with people that you know, it can be entertaining. It is when you leave the game open, 
 and some idiot comes in, selects a superpower with nuclear arms, and just launches nukes and leaves, 
 just to ruin the skew of the game. Other than that, the human interaction is quite engaging.
  
  Overall: 7.8
  Not a game for everyone, but if you appreciate it for what it actually is, 
 and not something like Command & Conquer, it is a really engaging game, and a huge improvement 
 from the original SuperPower. Just make sure to get the patch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I have always been dreaming to take control of a nation fully and absolutely, and Hearts of Iron 
 had realized my will. But I felt that it's too short and narrow, I mean, HoI has a limited game 
 time and only centers around the times of World War II, where most of present-day nations are still 
 being colonized by European powers. That means most nations are still not available.
  I never knew about SuperPower 1, and I'm glad I didn't, because it seems like that game is not 
 too good.
  SuperPower 2 is a very ambitious "geopolitical simuation" game, because it tried to get databases 
 for all nations detailedly and realistically. I even have checked the names of provinces and political 
 parties in Sri Lanka, Indonesia, South Korea, Nauru, and Suriname in the encyclopedia and most 
 of them are correct with those in this game.
  This is where you can play as a supreme leader of any nation in earth, you can do anything and, 
 anything can happen as GameSpot reviews. However, even a supreme leader can get coup'ed either 
 by his own people's effort or by other nation's underhanded intervention. That means while leading 
 the country you must also please the people. Pleasing the people, for big nations, isn't too difficult. 
 It'll be abit challenging for smaller nations. However, sometimes even smaller nations can be turned 
 big in some years of the game time.
  SuperPower 2 has 3 major weaknesses:
  The first, is the bugs it has. It was so terrible. Sometimes the copy I owned even aborted itself, 
 returning a confused me to the desktop. That's very disturbing, because if I got to an important 
 point and I haven't saved the game yet, I'll be badly bothered to start from the beginning.
  The second, is its "illogicalism". As GameSpot stated, sometimes Germany would declare war against 
 India without any apparent reason. And India won't retaliate with even launching a single nuke 
 to them. After that, the winning Syria in the Israeli invasion would be terrorized by Bolivia. 
 That's just won't make any sense, don't you think so.
  The third, is the lame system of military engangement. It is a total nonsense, you are only able 
 to give global stances or strategies and let your soldiers do it. There is apparently no manual 
 control over the battling units. That means often the outcome of a battle relies more on the units, 
 i. e. their veterancy or their traits for vehicles, rather than strategy.
  It might be true that the newest patch would fix most of SuperPower 2 weaknesses, but I think the 
 patch would make the game harder, even with the AI Aggresiveness slider. Well, that's for me.
 
  As for graphics, SuperPower 2 should have improved a bit before its release, because it has a 
 really detailed globe and if I zoom in, I would get a blurred continental graphic with spots as 
 towns.
  The sound is not too good. Sometimes it stuck and keep looping and looping the same loop. The musics 
 is actually not bad, but the errors made the overall scoring worse. The effects of battles are 
 not too bad too.
  This game might be suitable for you who loves grand strategy games. Only don't expect too much. 
 For fans of this game, let's pray for a better SuperPower 3.
  gameplay: 7 graphics: 6 sound: 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DogSlobba
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I dont know about you, but I am tired of RTS's where you spend all your time 'feeding a war machine' 
 - you know, gather resources so you can churn out units and send them to be slaughtered, gather 
 more resources...... and so on and so on...
  
  This game is unique in that you can govern any country in the world you want to and... well it is 
 up to you what you do. There are no set goals (if you choose not to have any) . You can decide whether 
 to increase the education budget, lower taxes, or nuke Canada.
  
  You can make and break treaties or set spies to secretly sabotage your 'allies' (or even launch 
 a terror attack on your own country and frame someone you want to attack to give you the excuse 
 to invade) .
  
  Unfortunately, the game is let down by an awkward interface, poor graphics, poor sound, lots of 
 bugs, poor support, and the fact that multiplayer games have to be hosted by one of the players 
 - and the game demands a ridiculously fast connection, meaning that only teenage Koreans seem to 
 have the necessary massive bandwidth. This would not be a problem but one good game had to stop 
 because wanted to do his homework...
  
  Given the shortage of hosts, some can be a bit awkward, eg making rules that favour them unfairly, 
 or arbitrarily banning people. All this adds up to a very frustrating experience. The only reason 
 I keep returning to this game after giving up in disgust and anger is that there is nothing else 
 like it out there. It is the best/worst game of all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuclear_Scion
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 15, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Superpower 2 is the sequel to the largely unpopular Superpower, which featured a flat based map 
 and the ability to control a large majority of the nations worldwide. The idea was to take a country, 
 and build it to be the best it could possibly be, through world domination or diplomacy.
  
  The original game had its good points, but it was more bad than it was good. It lacked a solid 
 combat system. The economic model was horribly written, and the interface was choppy and at times 
 unstable. Possibly one of the best features was a built in MP3 player, allowing players to jam 
 to their own tunes as they conquered about.
  
  Superpower 2 attempted to capitalize on the suggestions of the fans by implementing a more solid 
 economic model. The ability to interact on a digitally rendered 3D globe, and a slightly more graphical 
 combat system. Unfortunately, just like the previous game, several major flaws held the game back.
 
  
  The genre is very appealing to the type that are interested in geopolitical drama. Nations undermining 
 nations in order to secure a future for themselves in the place of the world. Each nation has its 
 own unique setup, that of the state of the Nation in 2001 (data gathered from the US Census and 
 CIA World Factbook) So, the USA would be a Military and Economic Superpower, while other smaller 
 nations like the Congo suffer from Civil Unrest and a poor economy. This makes the game challenging, 
 and rather interesting when a player manages to take Sri Lanka and turn it into a Superpower, but 
 as a whole, the economy limits the player's productiveness. The horrible glitches that allow over 
 200% taxation make the game unrealistic and unbalanced. With a Population of 1 Billion China can 
 easily overtax them 200% and not have any penalties by simple closing their borders. People are 
 then forced to pay outrageous amounts to the government and China thus walks away with the game.
 
  
  Another part of the game that is lacking is the combat system. Instead of the small blocks that 
 represent units in the first game, there is now a generic picture for each type of unit on a battlefield 
 rendered in the style of the region being fought. Replacing the specialized attack orders of each 
 unit are now orders for entire types of units to engage in certain actions. This is rather boring 
 to watch as smoke appears over each unit after an attack and the numbers slowly dwindle down to 
 nothing, hailing the victor in a news message shortly after. More players find it encouraging to 
 just nuke their enemy to death, with the overabundance of force it quickly trashes the game and 
 makes it unplayable. Nukes are also severely downsized in power. Sure they destroy armies, and 
 they can lower the population of a city, and destroy the economy. But in a whole the death toll 
 is no where near realistic. If a Single Nuke hits Beijing it may only kill 700,000 people, and 
 Beijing is a city of Millions.
  
  This type of unrealism coupled with the flaws of the game including numbers not adding up, the 
 AI nations not doing much more than adjusting their economy and closing their borders every few 
 years doesnt allow for much interesting play time with the PC. Sure its fun to stomp around the 
 world with the USA's High tech army, but when the AI never builds any new units after you release 
 their nation from your control is pretty unrealistic. Other things such as China randomly nuking 
 Zimbabwe also pop up all the time and ruin the stability of the world. The randomness is pretty 
 downright unsettling and doesnt lead for a good game experience at all.
  
  Although the game does have a slightly better Multiplayer feature. If you can get past all of the 
 troubles connecting to a host, avoiding random people that enter the game, select a Nuclear nation 
 and then proceed to nuke people at random, there can be some rather interesting diplomatic situations, 
 but the problems in the Singleplayer games present itself. The AI doesnt build up after wars, and 
 there is nothing other than a hosts discretion that can limit Taxation. That or wasting 3 hours 
 building up a nation and preparing to make your big move just to see the host claim its time for 
 dinner and shut down the server.
  
  So while Superpower 2 has the ability to blow up and become a new type of game that will appeal 
 to both political types and the average shoot em up' blow em' up gamer, it lacks the solid fundamentals 
 that a game needs to succeed in todays market. Even with the patches that were released, many bugs 
 still flood the game and with no more official support from the developer due to a developer/publisher 
 dispute, it isn't likely to see anything big come from the series in a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pongley
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Superpower 2 is the first time I've liked a strategy game, there's few feelings greater than seeing 
 your country prosper while your blowing the hell out of somebody else. Yesterday I led Canda into 
 battle that saw me take control of the entire middle east apart from Iran and I just blew them 
 to hell with a nuke.
  Canada is by far the easiest country to stabalise. hell just decrease propaganda and foreign aid 
 to just over 5% and your economy will be in the black within a year. then you can build up as much 
 stuff as you want.
  However if you want to see how diverse this game really is pick a country like brunei. They have 
 almost no economy and because they're a monarchy they have no rights. Within 4 weeks of playing 
 I had them one of the top 20 economies in the world and more nukes than france. and france has 
 a lot of nukes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  It is a true strategy game which offers you lots of control over a nation like political affairs, 
 internal laws, economic debt, inflation and interest rates and these are a little portion of the 
 game.
  
  Striving to get a nation from a load of debts and lots of trouble in battling corruption is an 
 exciting challenge in the game. Military part of this game is even better. Research various fields 
 like armor, missile ranges, weapon damages etc. and design a new attack helicopter or a combat 
 tank. Who knows Switzerland or Denmark might well be interested in putting a 50pcs order on those? 
 A nice profit awaits you president.
  
  This game is surely not for everyone. It is not a shoot'em up nor a FPS like chasing monsters and 
 burning billions of bullets on air. It requires following Lots of menus, treaty signings, messages 
 to read and inspecting national budgets as game advances. Surely it is rewarding afterwards for 
 only those who have dedicated truly. It definitely deserves an appreciation as it tries to be unique 
 not a mimic of another creation. And with the v1.4 patch it has fixed a majority of its weaknesses 
 and now surely rocks. Only the combat system, could have been much better if it was more tactical 
 oriented and allowed more options to the user.
  
  Goods:
  
  + Exciting 3D view of the world and nations. Excellent modeling of Earth.
  + Thematic maps are 
 very useful and effective way to see lots of things.
  + Excellent diplomacy system, agreements and treaties are very well effective.
  + Economy system 
 is realistically modeled. Sliders are easy to use and manage.
  + Simplified categories for 3 major aspects; Politics, Military &amp; economy. No crowded menus.
 
  + Combats are made in a combat view screen which extends the atmosphere of the game.
  + And the most points for creative idea, an innovative game engine.
  
  Bads:
  
  - Players 
 have little influence on combat &amp; units during battles.
  - Economic system lacks of feedbacks, like factors affecting trade, how private sector is acting, 
 industrial situation, economic growth rate and factors affecting that, commercial portion, industrial 
 portion and such as sectors are not handled individually. Most things happens itself.
  - Why countries declare war on each other... unknown, no feedbacks.
  - Why some countries never 
 improve diplomatic relations with some countries.. unknown, no feedbacks.
  - When a war declared you are not notified seriously. You only see everywhere is full of unit routes 
 and units moving quickly across the globe.
  - Research is way too simple. An average country can develop its technology on a standard funding 
 fast enough to catch major countries.
  - Buying technology from other countries are pain in the bottom mostly because of awkward interface 
 design.
  - when a diplomatic offer is rejected there is no satisfactory reasons stated. Just messages like 
 Relation with other are low 
  - There are no apparent political or ideal Goals for nations. Nobody knows the intentions of other 
 countries.. No casus belli situations or rights among nations. Europa Universalis series perform 
 far better in this feature.
  - Sadly most flaws are here: Designing units are made up of dots as a strategy player i expect 
 much more sophisticated features from such a promising game. Master of orion (9 years old game) 
 offering more in this feature. No limits in designing like, increasing armor points of unit doesn't 
 effect its speed? You can design non realistic units like Gun range 1 and Gun damage 9 and Gun 
 precision 1? also categories of units are entangled like missile/Gun precision is used to increase 
 hit probability of that weapon and what sensors do? ... The same. so why there are two separate 
 categories?
  
  What is good and what is bad compared to its predecessor?
  
  * Global power (Super Power1) was somewhat better in research.
  * GP was more easy on technology 
 trading.
  * SuperPower2 is surely better in economic management as there was some city &amp; airport?? naval 
 yard?? building was an inconvenience in GP. However building secret/ underground bases was a plus 
 for GP.
  * Battles are surely better in SP2 at least visually.
  * GP offered upgrading/ renewing of current units. SP2 offers only the option to sell them when 
 they are obsolete.
  * Best part of GP was missiles and satellites could be separately designed. You were able to design 
 torpedoes for your naval vessels separately and existing units used them afterwards. Or missiles 
 for aircraft and rocket launchers. This made them more effective and extended their service life 
 before being obsolete. Unfortunately In SP2 it is not handled separately and you need to design 
 new units and produce them and add to your arsenal as not knowing what to do with tons of old units 
 which were at hand. * SP2 is far better than offering detailed information on countries.
  * Conquering countries is far better modeled in SP2.
  * SP2 offered somewhat better human development 
 situation reports.
  * Ballistic missile warfare is much better handled in SP2. However GP offered placing missiles 
 on satellites or submarines manually. Eventually both series fail to demonstrate the devastating 
 visual of nuclear power. They are represented much like conventional missiles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keserian
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  SuperPower 2 is one of those games that you pick up because the teaching assistant in your Political 
 Science class can't stop playing it on his laptop. You figure, heck, what is there to loose? And 
 after about fifteen minutes of staring at the screen, muddling through menus, and getting an education 
 in international economics, you throw your hands up in the air and condemn the game.
  
  That is, until a month later, you sit back down at the computer, and decide to give the game another 
 go. Fourty-eight hours, several energy drinks, and enough coffee to double Columbia's trade, you 
 have balanced the US budget, are running a surplus, finally invaded those pesky Canadians, ended 
 the Illegal Immigration issue by Annexing Mexico, and have taken control of the valuable oil deposits 
 in the Middle East. To its credit, SP2 has an amazingly complicated economic and trade system, 
 and has a very flexible international relations structure. Treaties can be made from coalitions 
 against a nation, to trade embargoes, to weapons trade treaties. The economic and political systems 
 are equally complicated.
  
  Unfortunately, the economic system can be a little bit buggy and unpredictable, prone to sudden 
 economic collapse later on in the game. The combat system is also very hands off, allow little 
 control other than the macro-movement of units around the globe. There is a definite, Anything 
 can happen feeling to a game of SP2. You might have a United States that sets off to take over 
 the world, or a massive war in the East as China and Russia duke it out for Siberian oil resources. 
 As for the graphics, they are simplistic, and not award winners. Much of the diplomatic and economic 
 maneuvering is done from Windows like pop up menus, leaving the world map for the movement of military 
 units. The map itself and the unit symbols put the player in the mood of being in a situation room 
 at a secure location somewhere, and the Strategic Weapons control, where you watch your nuclear 
 weapon launches, and your enemy's counter launches, puts you in the mood of being deep inside NORAD 
 as you watch World War 3 play out in front of you. The Music is limited, but good, ranging from 
 sad, mourning pieces to sharp military marches. Unfortunately, after about your first hour into 
 the game, it gets a little repetitive, but after the second hour, you generally stop caring about 
 the music as you mitigate, or create, the next international crisis. SP2 is not a game for the 
 casual player. You have to have a firm grasp of economic policy to get anywhere in the game. Again, 
 it is a niche game, for the wargamer only. If you don't care about, or like, complicated economics, 
 tangled webs of treaties, or Global Thermonuclear War, Superpower 2 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naylor182
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The main thing I will say about this game to start off with is that it is basically Football Manager 
 but with countries instead of football clubs. One could build a minnow up from the depths via micromanagement 
 and shrewd decisions, or merely enjoy the glory of the game by starting off as one of the more 
 powerful forces.
  
  When I read about this game (albeit belatedly) , I immediately thought that this would appeal to 
 me. I enjoy learning about international relations and law, and the basic geography of Earth has 
 always stuck in my mind. Therefore, this game would seem ideal - assume control of a country, manage 
 her political, economic and military facets, and away you go! The tutorials and scenarios are beneficial; 
 definitely worth playing if you want to get a a good basic knowledge of the game. Some knowledge 
 of international politics would help but isn't vital - for example, knowing who your allies will 
 be if you do this, and who will fall out with you if you do that... The most rewarding thing about 
 this game is taking a small country and making it a political, economic and military power. Sure, 
 realism doesn't always come into play - for example, I am currently ruling Botswana. She has an 
 economy that is almost matching most European countries, and a military which is 13th in the world. 
 However, the fact that I micro-managed the economy to make her so powerful is the rewarding thing 
 about it!
  
  People may play differently to me - pure warmongerers would be best off playing as a nation solid 
 in all three areas, such as the US, UK, Germany etc. However, the best way, IMO, to play this game 
 is to get a nation in turmoil and turn things around.
  
  Plus, when you're not magaing the three spheres, you can spend quite some time just looking at 
 the detailed globe - seeing who's at war with whom, whose economy rivals yours, plan your next 
 assault... it's immersive!
  
  This game is not really for the impatient, as the combat system relies greatly on prior management. 
 However, if you have a disciplined commitment to statistic-based games such as Football Manager 
 and wish to extend it onto different fields, then PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game when it first came out, it was buggy from the start. Random rashes to the 
 desktop, laggy interface, and so on. So bad i had to uninstall it. A few moths later I was sorting 
 through my old stuff and saw it again. I gave it a second chance, and since all of the patches 
 had been released it might have a chance. Sure enough, it did. Patched, there were no more crashes 
 to the desktop and very little lag (everyone gets lag sometimes in a game, regardless of your computer)
 
  
  Patched to 1.4, it's a great game. Nuclear warfare is very fun. You can play as all of the countries 
 in the world, (online play is free (as with most RTS's) . Millitary's are almost limitless in numbers 
 if you have the cash, economy is hard but fun to master. The only draw back is that the AI makes 
 moves sometimes with no motive whatsoever. Unpatched version (1.0) 5.5
  
  Patched (1.4) 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweeky
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  GeoPolitical Simulators are rare, and it is not surprising considering how critical the media can 
 be upon them. Simulations that focus more on researched content and realism over fancy graphics 
 or sound tend to be punished for doing so by many players and critics alike. Superpower 2 is one 
 of these simulations, and it is understandable by why some people will get bored of it very quickly, 
 there is only so much replay value in loading up a new game, playing as Russia or the US and launching 
 nukes at each other.
  
  Superpower 2 offers deeper gameplay than that, but unfortunately it is hidden away through a somewhat 
 unintuitive interface. If you have the desire to run a country in a somewhat realistic manner (more 
 realistic than *any* of the Civilization style games out there) or have an interest in global politics, 
 then this game will definitely be up your street.
  
  If you are looking for a game that is focused upon warfare and instant action over anything else, 
 then Commander &amp; Conquer or Civilization may be more your style.
  
  Superpower 2 is not accessible to the masses, but it is a world of entertainment and enjoyment 
 to those that have the will and knowledge to access the material presented.
  
  NOTE: Superpower 2 was hit hard on technical issues and erratic A. I. in reviews across the board, 
 however, in the latest (1.4) patch and the myriad of mods that have been released through GolemLab's 
 SDK, the AI has been tidied up, improved and many of the technical issues have all but evaporated. 
 If the bugs and issues were turning you away from this game, rest assured that they have been addressed 
 and it may be worth having another look! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maluch
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is exciting in the beginning... after an hour it just starts to drag. Overall Superpower 
 2 is not bad, but some improvements could've been. It's alot better than the first Superpwer. They 
 should make a Superpower 3, but with much better graphics and 
 
  superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 -
  superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 -
  superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 
 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 -
  superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - superpower 2 - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nortech
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  Very fantastic and amazing game but it'snt contain our real world.
  
  Some countries want to victorious quickly and this opens unreal world's door.
  
  &amp;#304; t 
 is all ****
  
  On map
  It seems like there's a lot going on, especially when you pull up the current events ticker, but 
 there really isn't a lot to do here. This is true
  
  So hard and this game do not adressing every gamers
  
  Also game playable...
  
  Open your 
 brain powerfull, victorious and an amazing world...
  
  
  For your fantastic country, civilizations and military
  
  Hard to find like this turn based 
 strategy game...
  
  Enjoy this and dont forget real world
  
  Archive game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flip_mod
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  really great game... the only thing that it takes a lil time to learn about the game but then its 
 really a super game =) 
  
  Its kind of fun because they made the whole world like in real world that we living in..
  the 
 wars are just fun and amazing, its give you a rush and a big thinking kick hehe... 
  
  the good thing in the game or let me say the best thing in the game is that the game superpower 
 2 is like the real world in some stuff... when you want to attack a country or a place you cant 
 just send your trupps and tanks and just attack... no you have to get a reason to attack.. you must 
 be powerful or they must be your enemy..
  
  in other games its just go and attack and have fun but this game... its wow hehe... let me say agin 
 amazing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  It's a great idea to have a game which tries to emulate global politics such as Super Power 2. 
 However, with poor AI, the game, which should be fun to play, turns out not to be so. Playing France, 
 I can easily beat China by joining the war against it and move my troops in when the Chinese troops 
 were moved out to fight elsewhere and left its territory undefended. With planned moves, I can 
 even take the whole country of China without firing a shot. This doesn't make any sense in the 
 real world !!! Furthermore, my country will go bankrupt if I annex China because of the gap between 
 the economic conditions of the two countries. Worse, where the heck is the strategic weapons? I 
 can't even build a single missle. All the bad things said. Nonethesless, this game do have a replay 
 value as you can play with many countries. However, playing Third World Countries such as, my country, 
 Thailand, is kind of difficult. I went bankrupt last time trying to build up the armed forces. 
 Anyway, I am looking forward to playing Super Power III and hope that all the points mentioned 
 above will be addressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  In all honestly this game really let me down from the Original Superpower (which i own and still 
 play to death.) i thought it would be alot better but this one has changed alot and changed too 
 much. the control scheme is way to complicated. so much so that you find yourself forgetting if 
 you've deployed army units to areas where you need them. and the real time system is just too much. 
 you constantly find yourself in debt with no money. and you dont even know how you got there. the 
 warfare screen is lame to no end. and you find it annoying to the point where you just send your 
 troops to war and dont bother watching. nuclear warfare remains as fun as it always does. so no 
 complaints there. but unit design really hurt. due to i think the lack of the ability to create 
 individualistic units (ex. Marines, Infantry, and Special Forces) which now you are forced to have 
 "personnel" and you have to train them to be considered elite. all in all this is a game i think 
 that you should not buy. i did and i regret it because i play the original more then i do number 
 2. so avoid like the plauge if you can. if not then i hope you find it a better game then i did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer-hawk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I have tried many strategy and world domination games but this one is by far the most complicated 
 and addictive.
  
  In this version of superpower there isn't lots of glitches like the first.
  
  The graphics 
 are OK which make the game even more enjoyable.
  
  The one thing that makes this game challenging though is the fact that while you are balancing 
 resources in your country there could be a war happening in another. That's like the first but 
 in this game, It's constant gameplay. No turns as in the first. I like it.
  
  I am recommending this game to all big time strategy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  I really like the idea of this game but the game is very bad and just quite sad actually. I think 
 one of the problems is the battles which are very boring ugly and just sad. They should hire a 
 company just to do the battles and this game might have potential. But if you are thinking of buying 
 this broken product.. DON'T! Wait for Super Power 3. Hopefully they have learned from their mistakes 
 by then.
  
  In this game they has also get many of the facts wrong. also hope that they will adjust this for 
 the sequel. What a letdown this was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I knew SuperPower 2 would be a problem when I clicked on Cuba, and it's ideology was listed as 
 right-wing, and when I clicked on Saudi Arabia and its ideology was listed as left-wing.
  
  Ok, that's not even the worst of it. But a game which seems, for the most part, to take itself 
 entirely too seriously when it comes to being based in reality, this simple screwup was telling.
 
  
  In a game like this, the system should at least somewhat conform to reality, otherwise you're simply 
 spending your time trying to figure out what the game is thinking. So I can raise taxes to 75% 
 in the US, and my approval rating still goes up, eventually to over 80%. What the heck? And I could 
 invade Saudi Arabia and take no hit in popularity (domestically or internationally) .
  
  The game is all over the place. The Gamespot review talked about occasional jumps into lunacy, 
 but in my opinion that's all this game really offers. When Israel jumped in to aid Iran in a war 
 I instigated as Pakistan, for instance. It happens all the time. Not to mention occasional very 
 un-balanced military calculations, which had my two carrier battle group destroyed by an ASW patrol.
 
  
  The economics is no better. Playing as the US I was dismayed to see that somehow the US consumes 
 more grain than it produces. Which is completely contrary to reality. And odd, considering other 
 parts of the game look well researched. But the inconsistency makes the game completely distracting.
 
  
  The game is playable, however, and after awhile (once you jetison any connections between what 
 you see and what you would expect in the real world) you might find something interesting here. 
 That is, when the game isn't crashing halfway through your game.
  
  The game is not difficult to pick up, but sometimes counterintuitive. Sometimes the game demands 
 micromanagement, but doens't give you easy to use tools to perform necessary tasks. Information 
 is actually pretty scarce, and unlike other games of this type, doesn't allow you much control 
 over presentation.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty garish. More information could be displayed graphically, but isn't. 
 If you zoom into a battle to make decisions, the graphics are horrid. The models of the units are 
 very bad (and sometimes don't even look remotely what like the unit resembles in real life) . The 
 map could have been beautiful and useful. Instead it is ugly and barely useful.
  
  The sound often gets stuck and stutters, and you'll find yourself booted out to the desktop quite 
 a bti (and I'm playing with the latest update, mind you) . The game has been out over a year, and 
 I thought the bugs would have been patched, but I was wrong.
  
  Forget it, leave it on the shelf (or bargain bin) . It doesn't deserve to be on your hard drive. 
 I'll keep waiting for a decent geo-political sim game, because this one is crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwissCamel
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Superpower 1, when looking at the box and visiting Golem Labs website, should have been my ideal 
 game. The game that I dreamed about someone making since I first played Command and Conquer more 
 than 10 years ago. Wouldn't it be awesome to run your own country, and decide what to do? Well 
 as it turned out Superpower 1 (Global Power as it was called here in the UK) was really not very 
 good, suffered from numerous, horrific glitches and was just generally not very playable. 
  
  I was slightly wary therefore of Superpower 2, the first being such a disappointment, but my 
 desire for this game to be great overcame my doubts and I bought it. By the time I had my copy 
 the 1.4 patch was out, and so I missed some of the earlier glitches, and I have to say the 1.4 
 version does run fairly smoothly. You do come across the occasional hiccup such as being unable 
 to build infantry every now and then but things which I would class as glitches are few and far 
 between. There are however plenty of outright mistakes.
  
  The promise of diplomacy seems entirely added on. A country allying with you depends on one simple 
 factor, is their diplomatic relations score above 60. You can force it above 60 in any number of 
 unrealistic ways. The promise of influencing other countries and making them puppets simply doesn't 
 happen, it's military force and annexation or nothing.
  
  The economy is a joke. Initially I was careful not to tinker too much, worried of ruining the 'perfect 
 balance'. However with all but the poorest countries you can simply whack taxes to 100%, put all 
 the spending sliders to full, reduce interest to 0.0% and before you know it you're rolling in 
 money. If you really don't care about relations with other countries make contraception an abortion 
 illegal, and polygamy and child labour legal, this upsets western countries but is a serious boost 
 to your economy. This works with just about any country other than the really poor ones who can't 
 stomach the couple of years heavy losses you experience.
  
  The military losses you experience are seemingly irrelevent to your opponent, sometimes with your 
 entire airforce being wiped out by a group of infantry. This isn't a frequent problem, but when 
 it does happen it can be a real pain. Also sometimes the enemy adopt stupid tactics, most notably 
 if you are fighting two nations at once.
  
  The saving grace of all of these things could have been the mod support. Red Alert 2 had it's life 
 extended five times over for me by the mods, and a game like this would surely attract a dedicated 
 modding scene who would put these things right? Well maybe, excpet the Golem Labs forums are down 
 and have been for months, their support is non-existant and I don't know where the Superpower 2 
 modders are but Google was no help!
  
  Overall the game has little 'feel'. You may hugely improve your country, dragging Gambia to the 
 greatest economic and military power in the world, yet apart from bigger numbers, you might aswell 
 have paused the game for three hours for all the diference you can see. Military conflict is the 
 same, apart from dragging tank icons ontop of each other and watching the numbers go down, there 
 is basicaly not a lot you can do to change the situation. (The little drop down bar doesn't seem 
 to do much)
  
  However despite this, I would have said I enjoyed Superpower 2, all it's flaws seemed to be small 
 fry compared to the enjoyment of gradually expanding your borders, and making your country great. 
 However it was still difficult to ignore that the basic reason for this 'gradual increase' was 
 not the real life world situations you were confronting, or any other form of opposition. It was 
 the in game timer. Waiting to build your army, waiting to annex captured territory, waiting for 
 your economic improvements to take effect, the whole game was basically waiting. Well for anyone 
 reading this, I am going to totally blow Superpower 2 out of the water for you:
  
  "Set_speed x"
  
  Where x is any number (though keep it under 500 ideally!) .
  
  Alt+Tab 
 out of a single player custom game and type this into the 'Joshua Console' and it will increase 
 the game speed, so that six months is 2 seconds. Once you do this, the game is basically over. 
 It could have been great, a long drawn out geopolitical slugger, but instead every game ends up 
 farcical (unless you try desperately to 'keep it real') with any action provided by the same people 
 early on (Syria, India, Iraq) . Once you get to 2050, the only 'action' comes in the form of 'reactions' 
 to things you do. I have never seen two countries anywhere 'have a dispute'. Basically, whilst 
 I still admit I do kind of like this game for what it tries to be, unless you are willing to overlook 
 some serious flaws and are wowed by a very accurate world map, you'll hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Superpower2 is not the best I've ever played but I still play it hours on end. This game lets you 
 literally control any nation in the world and do whatever you want, but beware, your budget can 
 send you into economic failure, and if you are too poor at running your country your population 
 could turn on you! And if that wasn't bad enough, all the countrys in the world will declare war 
 on you for attacking India! Gueeze, this gets pretty intense cause while time goes on in the game 
 you must make descicions that will save, or destroy your country. Buy this game if you love having 
 power, nukes, and an arsenal at your disposal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 353535355353535
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Seriously, this game has almost as many bugs as it's predeccessor, also, you'll need an extremly 
 good computer like a dell XGS 400 or an Alienware to ply this game properly, but if you have a 
 very high-performance computer, and you would like to take command of a country in 2001, this game 
 is for you, but, there are an incredibly high number of bugs in the system, so, if you aren't very 
 patient, dont get this game.
  
  But the good side is, it is a big improvement over it's predeccessor
  However, the battle system 
 is an abomination! You have almost no control over your armies on a tactical level.
  Now, you may not have too many problems if you have a very good computer, all those problems may 
 have been my computer.
  But, still, dont get this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: billtran5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  Superpower2 is a easy game if you know how to play it. It very simple if your political is high 
 in the green color. What that mean is if you attack a country or more , other country will not 
 declare a war on you like USA. Try to build as many millitary as you can and be alliance with other 
 countries so they can help you stay out of troubles. 
  
  There are no cheats or codes in this game so becareful. Sign more treaties is another good thing 
 in this game. Like Aid and Alliance. 
  
  
  Also worried about your economic strenght and change all the bar into green. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66550
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  SuperPower 2 has a lot of good ideas, but its budget obviously didn't cut it a decent chance in 
 the growing gaming industry. People need to spend a lot of time and have patience to truly enjoy 
 this game. The biggest problem (beside the bugs) is the unwillingness of allies to form allies, 
 but otherwise the game is completely realistic. The game isn't fast and shooter-up with constant 
 nuclear wars, but instead discourage you from even any type of violence. Those who believe they 
 can just blow up China or even a small country like The Dominican Republic, will lose allies and 
 possibly start a world war, with every country in the world bombing you. But if you just slow down 
 and build up allies and make a joint effort against a problem country, you can efficiently conquer 
 the world. In my opinion, the most realistic part of the game is the economics. While the principles 
 are pretty basic (such as supply and demand and inflation) , it creates engaging game play, like 
 tying to turn a country like Nigeria or something into a economic and/or military superpower.
 
  Overall, I like the game, but bugs that cause the music to skip (which is why I gave it a 6 for 
 sound) and sometimes crashes the game does make it obvious that it needs more work. Try it, its 
 only $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teenageI2iot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Superpower 2 is an under-rated game. Most people think it's just crap because they can't understand, 
 but the truth of the matter is, if you work at it really hard and read up on it, it gets to be 
 a fun game. Now I wont say this game is for everyone, it's an acquired taste to say the least. 
 I strongly recommend this game to people who are mature, intelligent, and have a vast understanding 
 of politics and economy. If you're looking for pure military basis this is NOT a game for you. 
 Although you can declare complete nuclear war on the entire world, you do not see much violence, 
 it's a simulation as I said. This game was not designed to be the most incredible eye candy and 
 a fix for gore addicts. So this is how it goes, you like RTS? Sims? Reality? Government? Economy? 
 Military? If you said yes to most of those pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game on an impulse, before even looking at any reviews or ratings online. I installed 
 it, played it for a little while, and loved it. After running the latest patch, to fix the extreme 
 buggy-ness of the original release, I was treated to a fluid and very enjoyable geopolitical strategy 
 game.
  
  In this game you take control of any nation recognized by the UN, and you lead every aspect of 
 that countries existence. These are broken down into three spheres; Political, Military, and Econonic. 
 While each of these takes a little getting used to, once you get the hang of it you can turn even 
 the weakest of countries into a world power if you have the time and energy for it.
  
  There are some distinct gameplay problems, even after the patch. It seems that if you attack anyone 
 then you become public enemy number one for the entire world, which can be very dangerous at the 
 beginning of the game. It also seems that at times your nation is 'randomly' chosen to be the target 
 of every covert operation on the planet. This is not only annoying, but terribly unrealistic.
 
  
  My brief experience with multiplayer was a good one. Several friends of mine threw up a server, 
 selected a few nations, allied together, and then went to town. This is a game I would suggest 
 a dedicated server for, since it is a game that tends more towards the long-term play, not an hour 
 or two of multiplayer.
  
  All in all I think this game is very underrated. While it does suffer from a few minor flaws, it 
 is a solid and very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinger503
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 18, 2005 3:17 am PT
Review:  I got this game on hope that I'd get a good World takeover game. Unfortunately this is not the 
 case. It can be very confusing because it has too much depth (aka crap) . Useless things like researching 
 gun range and missle loads are needed to design vehicle (which isn't good either since colours 
 don't really change) , but have no virtual impact on your playing, since the battles are only icons 
 with numbers and boxes on the bottom. DON'T be fooled by the false advertising on the box. There 
 are no cut scenes in the game with the exception of the intro! There is no campaign for re-election. 
 Currently I am on the 4th scenario after struggling through the 1st 3, the tutorials do not help, 
 the 1st one only gives tip about the globe which you could figure out in minutes. Things like treaties, 
 wars, and other info are not explained. There are "bugs" which can cause nuclear weapons not to 
 deploy and other annoying problems. Overall not a fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSN17
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 23, 2004 5:12 am PT
Review:  I love this type of game.
  
  I loved the first superpower despite it's horrible controls. This game corrected all the things 
 wrong with the first. It made troop movements and economic controls easy. Covert ops actually matter 
 now, and the whole game acts realistic enough for my tastes (or for what can be realistically expected 
 from a civilian geopolitical simulator) .
  
  BUT
  
  This game is unplayable out of the box:
  
  1. Starforce is installed spyware style without 
 any notification. It lurks as a driver installation and messes up a lot of people's ability to 
 burn cd's, as well as many other problems.
  
  2. This game is even more bug filled than the original. And that's saying a lot. With 4 or 5 more 
 patches the game might work, and than my score would be near perfect, but there must be a stand 
 made. STOP RELEASING BETAS AS FINAL VERSIONS!
  
  I should rate this game a 0... but the truth is i'll really enjoy the working version of this game. 
 Whenever they decide to release it. 
  
  2.... out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paydirt76
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2004 5:44 am PT
Review:  Reviewer's Bias: I didn't play the original Superpower game, but I played Hearts of Iron (this 
 will be important in a moment) . I'm an economics geek and like to play games in order to figure 
 them out.
  
  My main motivation for playing the game was to play as a small country and to raise them up from 
 their bootstraps and bring them out of their problems. I played the game as Nigeria and then later 
 Turkey. It was interesting to see how the economics worked and ultimately, I didn't think that 
 the economics were modeled the best as inflation seemed to be based upon whether the government's 
 budget was in surplus or deficit and not on whether the GDP was soaring. In one instance, once 
 I figured out how to get GDP to grow like mad, the GDP in Turkey went up by 20% in a year and the 
 inflation rate was around 2% because I was running a strong surplus.
  
  The game is a disappointment because it is billed as having three major components: economics, 
 military, and politics, but after playing the game for 15+ hours, I got the feeling that the military 
 aspect would provide the most entertainment. Economically and politically, there weren't a ton 
 of true options and the game devolves into managing your sliders to optimize things on the homefront. 
 Though I wasn't into this myself, the most fun of the game will come from invading other companies. 
 Also, there were some features in the game manual that didn't make the final game. Two of those 
 missing features were setting the minumum wage and peace treaties.
  
  Diplomatically, the game was a disappointment as you could initiate a treaty with one country and 
 use conditions to determine who else was in the treaty, but you couldn't try to get two or three 
 other specific countries to join the treaty. Also, I couldn't figure out how to join existing global 
 treaties that were out there (unless my countries were so bad that they didn't meet any of the 
 qualifications) .
  
  Militarily and internationally, I don't think enough information is given in the game in order 
 to make good decisions. I didn't know what consequences would be if I undertook certain actions 
 (got caught spying or invaded a neighbor) . There are global events and there is a ticker, but it 
 didn't grab my attention like a newscast or radio program would.
  
  Other criticisms of the game are more or less valid. If you know economics, you can figure out 
 how to grow your economy and once you discover this, the game becomes boring unless you want to 
 take over the world through military conquest. The value for the game was good as it cost $30 and 
 I played it for over 15 hours, but it really didn't WOW me. I did enjoy trying to figure things 
 out and that was fun. Overall, the game is a slider game like Hearts of Iron and ultimately not 
 interesting enough to hold my attention to try out the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiNap65
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 25, 2004 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Though the game might look prettier and offer more ways to control and conquer the world, SP2 is 
 still the same old game as its predecessor. SP2 is a very confusing game in which one feels like 
 you must have a degree in foreign policy to actually enjoy playing it. The game may offer more 
 of everything but this actually makes it more confusing to play. 
  
  For starter, the demo does not provide a tutorial. This means you're on your own right from the 
 start which makes you feel like you're floating in a bathtub in the middle of the Pacific Ocean 
 if you know what I mean. 
  
  So, right from the start, I was controlling Iraq (of all countries, but hey it's what the demo 
 gave me) with no idea what to do. I finally, after about 30 minutes of trying everything, the only 
 thing I could figured out was how to control my military. So with nothing else to do, I started 
 invading everyone around me. Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!!!! What could I lose? Well as 
 it turned out, nothing. Not only did I not lose anything, I gained the whole Middle East!!! And 
 no one lifted a finger to stop me! Not the U. S., England, Russia or the U. N. My armies rolled over 
 every opponent I faced and all I got was warning messages from the World governments. Not bad for 
 a 2 hours span. Thank God I wasn't working for Saddam in 1991.
  
  All in all, I was disappointed in SP2. I love the concept and bought SP1 when it first came out 
 2 years ago. Even with the steep learning curve, SP1 had a lot of potential. So when Dreamcatcher 
 announced SP2 with all the hype of an improved A. I. and graphic interface, I waited impatiently 
 for its release. Thank goodness for demos because I would have blown $30 on a game that may look 
 like a brand new model, its was still the same junk box with a new paint job.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer10705
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2004 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Superpower 2 is one of the few games that lets you play leader of your own country. As a matter 
 of fact, you can pick up to 192 countries to play as in the modern era. The game is ambitious. 
 While the game is not plagued with the same problems as the the original Superpower, it falls short 
 of meeting some of the large expectations that were put on the makers of the original.
  
  The game shipped with many bugs and crashes straight out of the box. Recently, a patch came out 
 which fixed many of the major bugs and crashes in the game. The bugs, and the copy protection scheme 
 being used, are a major complaint for people who have purchased the game. A second patch is currently 
 in the works, aswell as a bonus pack with extra features, which will be a free download.
  
  Balance issues are also a problem, but are apparently being worked on actively by the developers 
 of the game. This game appears to be a work in progress, even after its release, so if you are 
 going to make a purchase you may want to be aware of that. Many people have brought up the point 
 that the original game suffered from similar problems but many of those flaws were fixed after 
 a multitude of patches in the original.
  
  The game is graphically interesting with roads and realistic geographical features built onto a 
 3D world map. From the main screen, you are pretty much the sole ruler of your nation. The game 
 is chalk full of information taken directly from public databases such as the CIA World Factbook.
 
  
  The game is not perfect and has some flaws, but it is a step up from the original Superpower game. 
 This is an ambitious title that probably does not have the same amount of funding as a game like 
 "The Sims" or "Grand Theft Auto".
  
  If you have been looking for a realistic geopolitical simulator, this is the best one on the market 
 today, even with the flaws. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
