-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Superbike 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/superbike2001/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 214 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: Milestone
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     Oct 9, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The speed, danger, and daring of world-class motorcycle racing have been captured superbly in Superbike 
 2001 

 Roaring down the road at 190mph takes bravery, but doing it on two wheels powered by a 170-horsepower 
 engine takes a special kind of courage. You have to lean your motorcycle so hard into turns that 
 you're barely hovering off the pavement. You pray that you don't accelerate too hard out of a turn, 
 causing your bike to slip, suddenly regain grip, and then smack you headfirst into the pavement. 
 For world-class superbike riders, these thrills are commonplace. And the speed, danger, and daring 
 of world-class motorcycle racing have been captured superbly in Superbike 2001, the latest entry 
 in EA Sports' series of motorcycle sims.   

  Created by Italian developer Milestone Studios, Superbike 2001 is a fully featured, licensed simulation. 
 All 13 circuits from the 2000 SBK Superbike World Championship season are represented in the game, 
 as are all the factory riders and bikes from seven manufacturers: Ducati, Aprilia, Honda, Suzuki, 
 Kawasaki, Yamaha, and now Bimota. The 2001 edition also adds the Oschersleben, Imola, and Valencia 
 circuits. Milestone has taken pains to faithfully re-create the superbike scene, from the unique 
 scenery along each track, to the umbrella girls shading the riders on the starting grid, to the 
 smallest logos of actual sponsors on the riders' leathers. However, this is only the beginning 
 of the game's attention to realism and authenticity.   

  The motorcycles featured in the game are incredibly fast and powerful, and the sophisticated physics 
 model faithfully re-creates the way riders need to subtly and accurately balance forces to keep 
 from flying off their bikes. Lean a little too hard, and your bike will skid out from under you, 
 flipping across the track. Forget to sit up as you're slowing for a turn, and you'll likely overshoot 
 and barrel headlong into a gravel trap. Subtlety and accuracy are a must for a successful race. 
 However, there are a few physics flaws in the game, such as when the bikes sometimes seem to slightly 
 overlap before a collision is registered. Fortunately, this is a small fault that doesn't adversely 
 affect gameplay once you get used to it. The game's damage modeling is also very forgiving, but 
 then again it's more fun to race than sit out with a crashed bike.   

  On the "real" difficulty level, expect to pop wheelies when you don't want to, oversteer with pavement-pounding 
 results, and generally make a fool of yourself the first few times out. At its most advanced levels, 
 Superbike 2001 is the Grand Prix Legends of motorcycle racing games: It's unforgiving in its realism 
 and richly rewarding in the long term. But unlike in Grand Prix Legends, the difficulty level in 
 Superbike 2001 is much more fully scalable, so even complete rookies can enjoy the game by using 
 simplified settings. For instance, you can turn on automatic transmission, extra brake power, and 
 acceleration assistance, along with visual indicators that warn you of upcoming turns and the need 
 to brake. On top of that, you can choose to display the optimal racing line as a broken yellow 
 stripe on the track. There's also an optional ideal-speed indicator, which has a moving bar showing 
 whether you're riding too slowly, too fast, or just right for the area of the track you're on. 
 In a welcome addition to the series, there's now a full training mode that lets you practice solo 
 for as long as you like on each track, while tweaking your bike setup. You can pause to listen 
 to an audio primer on how to take each turn as the camera pans through it.   

  Most aspects of Superbike 2001 are highly configurable. The visually appealing menu system is highly 
 navigable, and it lets you easily make quick changes in graphics detail levels, sound, and controller 
 setup. Rider, bike, and track selections are also simple, and you can view detailed stats on all 
 of these. Had EA Sports waited a little longer to release the game, the designers probably would 
 have been able to include stats for the entire season instead of just part of it. Fortunately, 
 this exclusion doesn't hurt gameplay, though it might annoy hard-core racing fans. For such fans, 
 the game offers detailed configuration options for bike steering geometry, suspension, gear settings, 
 and tire types. These all have a noticeable effect on handling, so it can be a lot of fun to tweak 
 your bike for each course and for different weather conditions. You can even view telemetry readouts 
 during replays to help with your setups, although there's no explanation in the skimpy manual of 
 how to use the data.   

  When you're ready to race, you can choose from three basic race options and get under way. Quick 
 start gets you right into the action without any fuss. Single race can be configured as a full 
 race weekend and includes practice laps, qualifying laps, superpole, and two races. Championship 
 mode lets you play out a full season that covers 13 race weekends over all the tracks. For each 
 race, you can configure the number of laps, number of computer-controlled riders, weather conditions 
 (including impressive rain effects) , and computer riders' skill level.    

 When you first get on the track, chances are you'll be so impressed with the stunning graphics that 
 you'll probably forget to accelerate when the lights go green. Milestone has actually improved 
 on the superlative graphics of Superbike 2000. The highly detailed bike and rider models, coupled 
 with nearly photo-realistic skies and tracks, are amazingly convincing. Little details like smoking 
 tires and clouds of dust when riders leave the track make the game look even better. The fluid, 
 motion-captured animations of the riders add to the realism, as you can see riders shifting their 
 bodies into turns and flailing wildly in bad crashes. When viewing the action in one of the third-person 
 camera modes, or using the fully featured VCR-style replay control panel after a race, you'll often 
 feel like you're watching a televised race. In fact, the game offers optional screen overlays akin 
 to the times and standings you'd see on a typical TV race broadcast.   

  Switch to one of the four first-person camera modes, and the sense of speed and danger becomes 
 even more intense. Trees, grandstands, and skid marks all move by in a blur as you rocket down 
 the track. Since your virtual racer's head is down low, your view of the upcoming track sections 
 is limited, and that adds to the excitement and challenge. Hard turns are almost a leap of faith 
 as your head hovers only a few feet off the ground while your bike leans perilously low. It's in 
 these turns that you'll usually witness the spectacular, bone-jarring crashes in the game: You'll 
 find yourself cringing and be reminded just how dangerous - and exciting - superbike racing is. 
 Unfortunately, there's a downside to the beautiful graphics. They require a rather powerful system 
 to run at high resolutions with the highest detail settings and a full complement of 25 riders. 
 However, these elements are all scalable, and the lower settings still look great.   

  Unlike the graphics, the sound and music didn't receive the same lavish treatment, although they're 
 still good. Each bike has its own distinctive whine, yet the engines are muted compared to their 
 real-world counterparts. On the other hand, skidding, sliding into gravel traps, and crashing into 
 other bikes all sound appropriate. However, the techno-style music in the menu screens and intro 
 movie doesn't add much to the mood, and the optional TV announcer commentary during races is also 
 disappointing. You can't fault the announcer's enthusiasm, but his comments are mostly limited 
 to calling out that a particular brand of bike has crashed.   

  Fortunately, the computer-controlled riders are a lot more impressive than the commentary about 
 them. They will literally leave you in the dust until you've practiced quite a bit. They race strong 
 lines and make very few mistakes, but with practice and aggression, you can out-brake and pass 
 them. Along with the customizable realism and difficulty settings, this solid artificial intelligence 
 provides a great deal of replay value. Still, you can race against other humans for even more challenges. 
 There's a split-screen mode that lets two players race each other on the same computer, but unfortunately, 
 this isn't very manageable on most computer monitors, which are often quite small compared to your 
 average TV used for split-screen console games. You can play on a network and over the Internet 
 as well, but you don't get a server browser - only a box to enter the IP address of your opponent's 
 machine. This setup is serviceable but hardly ideal.   

  Despite its relatively minor problems, Superbike 2001 succeeds - often brilliantly - on many levels. 
 On the easiest difficulty settings, it's very accessible without becoming a totally watered-down 
 arcade game. On the realistic settings, with all the different options in effect, it provides a 
 deep simulation for the hard-core simulation player or superbike fan. Superbike 2001's visuals 
 are also impressive enough that they will keep you coming back for more - it features some of the 
 most realistic graphics you'll find in any PC game to date. Superbike 2001 is often quite difficult 
 on the harder settings and may frustrate those with little patience or those more used to the auto 
 racing games that dominate the genre - but once you give it a real chance, you'll see how great 
 this serious treatment of motorcycle racing really is.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lol19
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the most fun, realistic, even pretty good looking now, almost 7 years after 
 its release, motorcycle racing game you can get on a PC. The difficulty ranges from novice, amateur, 
 pro, to real. The reason i gave this a Hard difficulty is because Real is pretty much impossible, 
 at least with a keyboard, a joystick might be easier. The graphics, like i said before, are still 
 shiny looking. The bikes are all detailed, the tracks are nice, curvy, full of spectators and realistic 
 (at the time) vegetation, there are different weather conditions, theres sparks, and dirt that 
 flies up too. The physics are second to none. Very realistic, ranging from your bike wobbling, 
 to turning too hard, breaking too hard, power-sliding, bumping around in the gravel, bumping other 
 bikes (although there is minor clipping but not very noticeable most times) , even getting up on 
 the bike, there is a running phase when you have to quickly jump on the bike itself after speeding 
 up. Then theres all the minor realistic options such as bike suspension tuning, pits, manual shifting 
 and all the other goodies. There are 7 real bikes, ranging from honda to ducati, about a dozen 
 real world drivers, and 13 tracks from around the world. The sound is very well done, with different 
 sounds for the bikes, and everything else pretty much, including spectators cheering, to the commentator. 
 Very addictive gameplay that you can learn to love, with a nice 1-2h learning curve. There are 
 different useful ingame views, and there is even a feature filled replay option, with the ability 
 to save replays. Multiplayer is split-screen or TCP/IP and what not. Overall this is pretty much 
 an awesome game, even a person who isn't a big fan of motor sims (I'm not really) , should give 
 this a try, you can a tleast download the demo and check it out. Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I cant believe no one here at Gamespot has written a review (except for moderators) for this game.
 
  
  It has to be the best PC based Motorcycle game ever. Period. What i really liked was the Onboard 
 views you had. Totally awesome something the boys back at THQ can not get right with their MotoGP 
 series. Even by todays standards this game's graphics still looks good. Playability well, it took 
 me about 2hours to start to feel comfortable on the bike and a whole lot longer when using the 
 onboard view aspect. But once you have it under your belt man what a ride. It feels darn close 
 to the real one. The way you have to choose your racing line and the way the bike holds that line. 
 You can off coarse change all that by changing the playability settings and make it even harder.
 
  
  Even if you buy this game in 2006 you will still be ultimately suprised at how enjoyable this game 
 is. It seems Milestone Studios have made another one with better graphics but the same physics 
 engine... Will have to see if it beats this one. Its called Superbike Rider Challenge and i've 
 ordered my copy and waiting to play.
  
  Only when PS2 or Xbox motorcycle games are converted for PC use will this game be challenge or 
 that's if it's younger brother beats it as top dawg. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
