-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SuperPower
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/superpower/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 3.8, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 173 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: GolemLabs
Genre: Wargame
Date:     Mar 28, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SuperPower will please neither hard-core wargamers nor those just looking for an enjoyable way to 
 conquer the world. 

 Global geopolitical simulators have a pretty spotty history as strategy games. Chris Crawford's 
 effort in 1985 with Balance of Power was notable for both its ambition and its sterility as a game. 
 1993's Shadow President from D. C. True was more detailed and a better game, but it still suffered 
 from basic playability issues. While it follows squarely in the tradition of the aforementioned 
 games, DreamCatcher Interactive's SuperPower allows you to actually watch the missile trails and 
 points of impact when there is a thermonuclear war, which is something the preceding two games 
 didn't offer. Unfortunately, that's about the only thing it has going for it.           Nuclear 
 exchanges are played out on the world map.    

  SuperPower bills itself as both a wargame and a geopolitical simulator. The manual makes much of 
 the fact that the data in the game is as accurate as possible. The game doesn't lack for ambition -- it 
 allows you to take control of any one of 140 nations in the year 1997 and make decisions regarding 
 its political, military, and socioeconomic development. To do this, you allocate funds in four 
 areas -- demography, politics, military, and economy -- and make decisions on weapons development and 
 perform espionage and covert operations. On the surface, it seems like there are an overwhelming 
 number of options. Extensive play, however, reveals that the game is not as deep as it seems.  

  SuperPower is played in one-week turns. During each turn, you can allocate your funds, purchase 
 or sell resources (energy, ore, cereal, meat, and wealth) , raise or lower taxes, direct weapons 
 research, and make requests of foreign governments. You can, of course, also invade other countries. 
 You don't represent a specific leader or political party, so there are no elections to worry about 
 if you're a democracy. Your government stability actually refers to the stability of the system 
 itself, so if a democracy falls, the country is thrown into anarchy. If the country in question 
 is the one you're playing, the game ends.   

  There are no difficulty levels in the game, as your chosen objectives determine how hard it will 
 be to win. Objectives can be stay in power, balance resources, eliminate armed rebels, and conquer 
 the world. Only staying in power is mandatory, although you can add any or all of the other three. 
 Obviously, conquering the world will be harder as Albania than as the United States, so you can 
 adjust your level of difficulty that way. Norway has no armed rebels, so eliminating them is fairly 
 easy. And so on.   

  Each action you take in SuperPower has numerous effects. For example, raising industrial taxes 
 increases your available money, but lowers your production capacity, resources, urbanization level, 
 and population support. Buying ore from another nation increases your production, population support, 
 government stability, and urbanization level, and it improves your relations with the country you 
 bought the ore from. It also costs you money.   

  Notable by its absence is any kind of simulation of world financial markets, and some of the game's 
 apparent assumptions about the importance of corporations and their influence feel quite dated. 
 There are also some amusing socialist biases built into the game mechanics, such as the fact that 
 donating to an international monetary fund automatically increases your population support, while 
 lowering a country's contribution lowers it.           Conventional forces move from point to point. 
    

  As a real-world simulator, the game falls completely flat. In one game we played as Finland, we 
 invaded Sweden on the first turn (January 1, 1997) and conquered that country easily. For the rest 
 of the game, Sweden was run as a conquered nation, with hardly a peep from the world at large (except 
 Belgium, which broke off relations) . While public support for the Finnish government dropped, it 
 dropped more when Finnish taxes were raised by 10 percent. A few months later, a global war broke 
 out when Vietnam invaded Mexico.   

  The game comes with several scenarios, one of which gives you (as the United Kingdom) the task 
 of destabilizing the Polish government because of a trade dispute. After invading Warsaw and being 
 repulsed, the UK was invaded by Bulgaria. And Belgium as well, which seems to act as sort of a 
 global policeman. Shortly thereafter, Russia invaded Japan, and France invaded Germany. It seems 
 pretty clear that there are some problems with the way the game handles alliances.    

 While these may have been extreme examples brought on by unusual events, playing in a more conservative 
 fashion yields equally bizarre results. In one game as Iraq, we ramped up Iraqi weapons research, 
 tried to keep a low diplomatic profile, and worked to covertly destabilize neighboring governments, 
 just as in real life. After several months of apparently normal world events, Bangladesh was invaded. 
 By Austria.           The tactical combat system is essentially unplayable.    

  This could all be excused if SuperPower worked well as a traditional global conquest game, with 
 the added veneer of realism provided by being able to sign cultural exchange agreements with Ghana. 
 Unfortunately, it doesn't. Approximately 60 percent of the game involves simply hitting the "Next 
 Turn" button, because once your country is running smoothly and your research decisions are made, 
 there just isn't that much to do. The simpleminded combat ensures that global conquest will either 
 be sterile or tedious, which in turn guarantees that SuperPower isn't compelling as an empire-building 
 game. Much of the game seems geared toward military conflict. The weapon research options are extremely 
 detailed, with no fewer than nine separate areas available for research in a single system like 
 the main battle tank, including separate ratings for armor protection again conventional and NBC 
 (nuclear/biological/chemical) weapons, sensor ratings, weapon damage, range, precision ratings, 
 engine speed, training level, and communications. There is even a generation level for weapon systems, 
 reflecting an overall development of newer and better types. You can also purchase and sell military 
 technology. The manual does a good job of describing the strengths and weaknesses of each type 
 of unit, but less so with the actual effects of the different research components. Still, this 
 could easily be picked up through experience once units are in combat. You would think so, anyway. 
   

  The actual combat system is severely flawed. While the game boasts that it has the most comprehensive 
 weapons database seen in a computer game, consisting of more than 1,400 unique systems, the way 
 these weapons are actually used in combat is laughable. Strategic movement is automatic, without 
 any regard for whether the country in question can even get its units to that particular region. 
 This allows even small Third World nations with no significant navy or air force to conduct massive 
 transoceanic invasions. The operational system has been abstracted heavily so that movement is 
 simply point-to-point, from anywhere in the world to anywhere else. To conquer a nation you only 
 need to control the map point that is its capital (no matter how many cities or bases it has) , 
 making it pointless to do anything but simply send your forces from wherever they are straight 
 to that map point.   

  The tactical engine is equally flawed. While the military manifest conveniently lists your forces 
 by unit type, these categories carry over into tactical combat, so you'll find your units deployed 
 on the battlefield as 70 Challengers, 11,000 infantry, nine Harriers, and so on. No provision is 
 made for actual military formations (such as armored brigades) , let alone command and control of 
 these formations. You can group units together, split them up, and give orders to move and engage, 
 but these mechanisms are so cumbersome (due to the interface) and so nonsensical (due to being 
 divorced from reality) that it's much easier (and probably more "realistic") to let the game auto-resolve 
 all combat instead of using the pauseable real-time system. This, in turn, makes the fact that 
 combat is resolved on a supposedly accurate satellite map of the actual terrain completely irrelevant. 
 Which is no loss, since the terrain seems to have little effect and is arbitrarily chosen due to 
 the abstraction of the point-to-point movement system.           News events appear after each 
 turn, but not all of them are meaningful.    

  There are a number of interface issues that make SuperPower even more problematic -- the lack of 
 hotkeys being a notable one -- but with all the game's other problems, it's not worth going through 
 them in detail. Something as simple as selling multiple commodities to different nations requires 
 far more mouse clicks than necessary, and the combat interface is nearly hopeless. To top it all 
 off, the game has some severe technical issues -- we experienced frequent crashes to the desktop 
 on two different test machines running different operating systems. As a sort of warning about 
 the game's poor QA, two of the five tutorials have replicable terminal bugs that prevent you from 
 completing them, forcing you to return to the game's main menu screen. SuperPower's graphics are 
 functional, but no more, and the game actually encourages you to replace the rudimentary music 
 with your own MP3s by integrating an MP3 player into the interface.   

  SuperPower will please neither hard-core wargamers nor those just looking for an enjoyable way 
 to conquer the world. It's an idea that has been tried before and done better, and for gamers who 
 really want to play a geopolitical simulator, it would be worth the effort to track down a copy 
 of Shadow President and a machine that can run it reliably in MS-DOS and play that instead. The 
 only drawback there is that you won't see the missiles.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: firedude417
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  when i first got this game i didn't like it, i was a gamer who just wanted blood and gore in my 
 games but later as i played it i began to like the strategic outlook the game has (Ex: it takes 
 a year and a half to build a aircraft carrier, which in real life most aircraft carriers take up 
 to 2 years to build, and that having 1,000 of the most elite soldiers won't guarantee victory over 
 100,000 poorly trained soldiers)
  
  if you looking for blood, gore, and graphics don't buy this game but if your looking for a game 
 all about strategy this is your game
  
  also simple note, it's impossible in this game to take over the world in one year.... so don't 
 waste your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypnotoad8128
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Oh dear, something went wrong here. Geopolitical sims are few and far between. Superpower offered 
 hope to players of the classic game Shadow President that something new was on the horizon, sadly 
 though we are still waiting.
  
  Sadly, Superpower is bogged down with the button clicking curse, it's layout is complicated and 
 AI mechanics are shaky at the best of times and the battles are a joke. Even though you're supposed 
 to be in control of a country, you don't feel in control of anything, most everything is automatic. 
 That doesn't make a good game.
  
  Fans of Shadow President, like myself will still need to play that, because this doesn't come close. 
 Thank God for DOSBox! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mm_s0ldier
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I, ve been playing this game for a while and it may not have the best graphic or the best 
 sounds but the concept behind it is great for those strategist types like me. So, i think its worth 
 it. The learning curve for this game is alot longer than most games. It gets into macroeconomy 
 and political and military concepts that are rare in its genre of gaming. Ive spent long nights 
 trying to bring my humble little third-world country to superpower status. And once you get the 
 patches to iron out all the bugs its truely an good old game. 
  -Happy Gaming
  --Yours truely,
  ---MM_S0ldier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 30, 2005 12:36 am PT
Review:  The game is extremely hard to learnd and in the end I didn't play it very long. The game simply 
 didn't grow on me very much like others do.
  
  Games such as this can interest me a lot so I wont just go out and bash it but it certainly wanst 
 the most fun game I have ever played. Boring yes, but can deffinetly be fun for some. In a way 
 its like Risk accept a million times more complicated. Personaly I didnt play it long enough to 
 find it easy - lets just put it that way. 
  
  Your goal is to maintain power of your country and after that it can be completely up to you. Take 
 over countries/world, set up trades, build an economy, build a military and play politics.
  
  Graphic wise it is mainly just a map. Combat is prety plain - you set up the units on the actual 
 map and it playes the battle out for you. There are no visual affects realy.
  
  Personaly I would not recomend buying it and check out some other titles. If you like simulators 
 - try the new X3- Reunion (space) simulator. Great battles, trade, ships and a lot of fun. (comming 
 out October2005) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patente101
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 4, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I played it once, didn't liked it. Played it twice, found it 
 boring. Played it for a third time, fell snoozing on my PC. My friend told me it was good, best 
 strategy game ever, that it's a must-have for anyone who likes Risk.
  Well, Risk is one of my favorite board game, but I hated Superpower.
  The gameplay could have 
 been good, but the tons of menus make it difficult to understand, and that's the main reason I 
 stopped playing. The graphics are mediocre, the sound effects hardly make the job, but since there's 
 no music, I gave it a 3.
  You can replay Superpower in skirmish, but I doubt you will...
  
  Finally, this is a bad game. If you like it, you're an exceptional exception... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qew420
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 18, 2004 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I love the game concept and the in depth gameplay associated with it. Too many bugs makes the game 
 very frustrating to play. The combat just plain sucks, good thing they put in the simulate battle 
 option. On the plus side, the game is revolutionary for geo-politcal strategy games considering 
 the level of detail they put in the game and all the different options for players. And there is 
 nothing like nuking France. Can Rwanda really take over the world? It is a possiblity in this game, 
 it all depends on how much time you put into the game. You definitely have to be patient to play 
 a geapolitcal simulation like this. All in all I really like this game and I can't wait for the 
 sequel. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
