-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/supremecommanderforgedalliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Campaign features epic, gargantuan battles.
 Sharper, more detailed graphics.
 Slew of new multiplayer and skirmish maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Improved graphics require more horsepower to run smoothly.
 Nuclear weapons have been weakened.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,510 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 6, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Supreme Commander gets even bigger and better-looking thanks to this feature-packed expansion.

  It's hard to come up with a real-time strategy game that's as large and ambitious as Supreme Commander, 
 which came out at the beginning of this year. The spiritual successor to 1997's famed Total Annihilation, 
 Supreme Commander is a sci-fi strategy game that occurs on a scale far larger than regular RTS 
 games. With battlefields that are as large as 40-by-40 square kilometers (or even 81-by-81 in skirmish 
 and multiplayer) , the game offers a lot of flexibility and room. When you flash forward to the 
 end of the year, we get Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance. What's impressive is the amount of 
 stuff that developer Gas Powered Games has managed to squeeze into the standalone expansion in 
 relatively little time.  

           The zoomed-out strategic view gives you a nice idea of how big the battles in Forged Alliance 
 can get.      

  Forged Alliance delivers six massive new single-player missions, as well as a slew of welcome improvements 
 and enhancements. These include a new user interface, a graphical upgrade, and a fourth playable 
 faction. The game continues the story of the 1,000-year old Infinite War, where three warring factions 
 of humanity have slugged it out against one another. There are the regular humans in the United 
 Earth Federation, the cybernetic humans in the Cybran Nation, and the alien-influenced humans in 
 the Aeon Illuminate. The end of Supreme Commander showed the "end" of the Infinite War. Depending 
 on which faction you played as, you seized control of the Black Sun superweapon, fired it, and 
 won the war for your side. But if you stayed and watched the end of the credits, Supreme Commander 
 hinted at something else. A rift opened, unleashing an alien horde known as the Seraphim. Forged 
 Alliance picks up a couple of years later, with the surviving human factions trying to fend off 
 extinction. You can play as any of the human factions in the six-mission campaign, and your choice 
 will affect the dialogue that you hear, as well as some of the secondary missions, but the core 
 objectives remain the same in all cases.  

  If the three single-player campaigns in Supreme Commander have a weakness, it's that each one ramps 
 up slowly. The first mission gives you access to the most basic of units and buildings, then each 
 successive mission unlocks new toys with which you can play. But it isn't until the final mission 
 that the game unlocks all of your units and buildings. By that point, there isn't a lot of opportunity 
 to play with the really cool stuff, like mighty experimental units, which are gigantic war machines 
 that can turn the tide of battle. Sure, you can always play a skirmish or multiplayer game and 
 get access to everything, but the single-player story always feels a bit lacking in that regard. 

  That problem is solved with Forged Alliance, which assumes that you've played through Supreme Commander 
 and are ready to remove the training wheels. Each of Forged Alliance's six missions gives you access 
 to almost everything from the get-go, with a handful of new units introduced during the course 
 of the campaign. There's no ramp-up here because each battle is far bigger than anything seen in 
 the original game. The warfare is much more epic and the battles are that much fiercer. You'll 
 finally be able to unleash navies, air forces, and armies on huge maps. Opponents will throw masses 
 of advanced and experimental units at you, which you'll need to respond to in kind. The average 
 mission will take at least an hour and a half or so, although some will take longer. There's a 
 nice variety of missions, including a large, naval battle set amid frigid seas; a desperate last 
 stand against overwhelming odds; and a struggle among three sizeable foes.  

  You can't play as the alien Seraphim in the campaign; they're only available in skirmish or multiplayer. 
 Skirmish mode introduces a nice new adaptive artificial intelligence personality that alternates 
 between offense and defense. There are also a slew of new maps to beef up the overall number considerably. 
 Multiplayer over Gas Powered Games' excellent GPGNet service is excellent because it makes matchmaking 
 a breeze. You can also check statistics, watch replays, and track the geographical location of 
 your opponents.  

  On top of the epic campaign, Gas Powered found time to completely redo the user interface, making 
 it slightly more informative and a lot more attractive. Supreme Commander's interface always seemed 
 bland and dated, but this new UI is sharper and more colorful. The interface improvements are nothing 
 compared to the graphical upgrade. For example, polygon counts on units, textures, and shaders 
 have been improved; thus, the difference between Supreme Commander and Forged Alliance is almost 
 startling. However, this comes at a slight price because performance seems to bog down a bit more 
 on midrange machines, but you can tweak the settings down to what they were before. On high-end 
 rigs, the graphics are a very nice improvement.  

           The visual improvement over Supreme Commander is considerable.      

  Forged Alliance 
 does feature some balance tweaks that aren't quite as welcome. One of the most notable is how nuclear 
 weapons have basically been taken out of the picture. Nukes now take a ridiculously long time to 
 construct. In fact, they take so long that they're almost useless because almost any game can be 
 resolved before a nuke is even constructed. For instance, the UEF's mighty and superexpensive Mavor 
 artillery gun, which can launch an unending barrage of shells anywhere on the biggest maps, is 
 a lot faster to build than a single nuke, as well as a lot more valuable. As it is right now, nukes 
 seem like a red herring.  

  Aside from the nuke quibble, there's a lot to like in Forged Alliance because it makes an already 
 gargantuan game bigger and better. Supreme Commander fans will finally get to experience campaign 
 missions that let them unleash the full weight of their arsenals, while the size and scope of the 
 game remains far beyond almost anything else on the market. When we look back at 2007 in terms 
 of strategy gaming, it may very well be remembered as the year of Supreme Commander.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Beyond the new units, all the old units have been looked at. Some have been tweaked, others completely 
 overhauled, and the new version are almost universally better. Despite what GS claims, Nuke launchers 
 didn't receive a nerf, but actually a buff, just one that comes at the cost of being able to assist 
 either the nuke or the defense buildings in any serious way. The experimentals in particular have 
 been heavily tweaked in many cases. For instance the Czar, which was practically useless in my 
 mind, has been given a major buff for the most part making it a very good unit now.
  
  Graphics have also been given an overhaul. The default ui has been swapped out, and the new one 
 is a bit better than the old one. You can now zoom in even closer, and texture details have been 
 improved as well.
  
  And lastly, the AI has been seriously looked at, and is a very much improved. The old AI was quite 
 laughable for any experienced player, but the new one can quite dangerous even on it's lowest setting 
 (although the turtle is still pretty bad) .
  
  Now, all that said, there are issues. First of all is performance. The old one I could run at highest 
 settings on all but the biggest maps. However, the new one is giving me odd sound issues even on 
 fairly small maps. That said, it is likely due to running at top settings, so it expected. The 
 demands placed by multiple AIs is also rather high, and can bring my system to it's knees, but 
 I think that is actually because the AI is actually doing something this time around with usually 
 several hundred units, where before it was quite dormant most the time.
  
  Probably the biggest issue I have with the game is the single player campaign. It's pretty good 
 for 1 time playthrough, but because all the factions use the same campaign for the most part, it 
 seems rather weak. Additionally, all the maps are easily conquered with the same 'dig in and exploit 
 the first objective's lack of time pressure'. The campaign certainly could have used more thought. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ertwyu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all, both Supreme Commander and Forged Alliance are all about the multiplayer. The campaign 
 isn't the major selling point of the game; online 1v1 and team games are much more fun and exciting 
 than playing single player. The game comes with an online matchmaking service called GPGNet, which 
 will also automatically patch your game to the latest version.
  
  Forged Alliance pretty much beats the original Supreme Commander in every way possible. First of 
 all, pretty much every single unit in the game (excluding walls) was rebalanced. The balance of 
 the original Supreme Commander was primarily based around the "Mass Fabricator," which was able 
 to convert energy into mass. You could pretty much only build up a powerful economy in your base 
 for the first 15 minutes of the game, then try to get a quick experimental unit out before your 
 opponent. It pretty much broke down into whoever can build their economy faster. Definitely not 
 too exciting.
  
  Forged Alliance totally flips Supreme Commander's balance on its head. First of all, the T1 mass 
 fabricator is moved to T2 and it uses -150 energy to make 1 mass; it's practically useless. Since 
 you can't get mass by just sitting in your base, the game revolves around fighting over control 
 of the map and being able to build mass extractors on the deposits around the map. The more of 
 the map you hold, the more mass extractors you can build, which means that you'll be able to build 
 more units to defeat your enemy. Commander upgrades are much more useful, air is seen much more 
 often, factional diversity is improved, and the game is much more faster paced and exciting.
  
  Forged Alliance is generally much more polished than the original Supreme Commander; the graphics 
 are better, the UI looks much better, range rings are incorporated, the Fog of War is much smoother, 
 etc.
  
  If you bought Forged Alliance just for the single player, then you're really wasting your time 
 when you could be having so much more fun online. The SupCom community is pretty mature, especially 
 on the official forums.
  
  If you have any questions, you can send me a private message on the official forums  
 I post under the name "Ertwyu." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubberspoon32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I play with a group of friends in my home town and we will never be able to predict the winner 
 because of the way the game can be played. Because of all the different ways to defeat an opponent, 
 gameplay rarely gets repetitive. Games which are free-for-all with 4 players are always interesting 
 because of our playing styles. Whether it is brute force, speed, tech, diversions, or being very 
 sneaky, one of us will win when we out-think the other player. Playing on new maps frequently makes 
 it very difficult to know what any of us will be doing in the game, usually because the map size 
 matters as to how we spend resources. These are just a few reasons why i think this game is so 
 fantastic. Playing the game is one of the best ways to get to know the game, and when Supcom 2 
 comes into play, I believe that it will make Forged Alliance look like Total Annihilation was to 
 Supcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaship
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander: FA was amazing! The expansion provides a totally new faction and old factions 
 have new vehicles! The combat is also surprisingly changed a bit. The power and health of the experimental 
 units have been changed and the nuke missiles are faster. 
  The game is a sort of different RTS than others. In the beginning you only start off with the commander 
 unit which can build entire bases. Then the bases can build units and the units can build even 
 more bases and units. Basically it's a game where everyone starts off with one ACU and in a few 
 minutes they have a huge army ready to attack. 
  To get resources to build stuff, units can build generators to mine and generator power and mass. 
 There are the 3 basic types of units, land, sea, and air. There are 4 techs or levels of a unit 
 that can be built by upgrading facilities. Tech 4 can make powerful destructive experimental units. 
 There are also nukes which can destroy a large area of the map.
  The game runs on powerful stuff and even the most powerful computers can fall and crash to large 
 maps. If you go to far you may accidentally crash your computer. 
  The only little flaws I see is that the weak air units can easily be destroyed by anti-air units. 
 And that it's hard to keep up with the AI's building speed and it's very time consuming to build 
 even with speed adjustments.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_charlie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  A great game and expansion, I can't play the original SP now that I've played this. 
  As everyone else has said, this game will require you to upgrade your rig a bit as it would be 
 an offense to Chris Taylor to let this game be slow or tediously jerky. 
  However I really wouldn't bother with the missions, its not that they're rubbish, is just that 
 they don't allow the full potential of this game to be harnessed. 
  Its game for advanced gamers with missions for beginners. 
  My one small critisim it is a game 
 that ultimately amounts to an arms race for either nukes or experimental units (which I call Gribbleys, 
 funnier) because once you have them its just a question of bombing the nucleur missile defence 
 or running the Gribbley in.
  That said, this game really is a must have.
  Word to wise, get that economy stable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asuka-Langley
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The original Supreme commander was far more immersive then this expansion pack. The original had 
 briefing mission videos for every mission you went on and during the campaigns so you wouldnt have 
 to focus on reading little boxes on the corner of the screen and instead focus on the fighting 
 thats going on but in the expansion pack they dont have audio in the timeline video that expalains 
 what has happend since the original supreme commander or in the missions when you get videos on 
 the top left of the screen from headquarters giving you instructions. I find this to be a huge 
 turnoff that seriously hurts the immersiveness of the game. The Expansion Pack is 5gb, what did 
 they do with all that storage space anyways?? not adding voices to the game thats for sure
  
  One other thing that I found quite annoying was how they merged all of the civilizations into 
 one campaign or "coalition" against a super alien race. I feel they did a better job in the original 
 game by letting the players choose between any of the three races and getting a different outcome 
 when they win the singleplayer campaign with each different race.
  
  Fancy videos like the introduction video have also been removed for the large part which was something 
 i really enjoyed : (
  
  I wouldnt recommend this game if you liked the original you will be sadly dissapointed the way 
 they have skimped on content for the expansion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Undoubtedly, SupCom did many things right, and gave us a new kind of RTS. As we take a closer look 
 at Forged Alliance, I would like to point out that I'm putting the two games against each other.
 
  
  Forged Alliance expands on the success of the original SupCom in the area of audio and graphics. 
 It's technically more of the same, but on a bigger (Personally, I would say EPIC) scale.
  
  The campaign of Forged Alliance will better illustrate just what I mean by saying epic. Of course, 
 there are other RTS'es that require more of your concentration and time. But what Forged Alliance 
 does that nothing else can is the tactical view. With a simple downward scroll of the mouse, you 
 can see everything, and I really mean everything, that's going on in your map. I won't spoil the 
 storyline for you, but you will honestly feel that the campaign might just be a tad imbalanced.
 
  
  In terms of multiplayer and skirmishes, I would say nothing much has changed. Except that you can 
 only use the Seraphim if you have Forged Alliance, that is. While this limitation is understandable, 
 it certainly doesn't make it any more appealing to new players.
  
  So what's lacking in this game? Quite simply, I would say that the larger scale and more detailed 
 textures are a doubled-edged sword. Even with a 2.4Ghz Intel Core2 and a 8800GTS, my framerate 
 stuttered occasionally during the campaign. It was expected that my PC would choke a little when 
 things got too tight, but I shudder to think what would happen on lesser machines. I play SupCom 
 and Forged Alliance with everything set to max.
  
  So there you have it. Forged Alliance isn't bad by any means, but when put beside the original 
 SupCom, it just doesn't look as awesome. Fans of the old SupCom will have mixed feelings about 
 the new expansion - especially the new UI that I'm still trying to get used to. However, I would 
 recommend that prospective gamers looking into the SupCom series should start with the original.
 
  
  In short, Forged Alliance isn't bad, but it's not as good as SupCom
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've played Supreme Commander for months and I really like it. Zooming out and seeing dozens 
 of bullets flying around and things happening all around you, ahhh, that's how an RTS should be. 
 Or for some, their life, if you get what I mean.
  
  There were some things that me think otherwise. The high system specs required, the somewhat pre 
 2000 interface, glitches, lack of effects to intensive battlefields, were some of these things.
 
  
  Now, when I started playing Forged Alliance.. all of these cons just.. vanished. It is a great 
 example of how fast gameplay and game technology advances in time.
  When I place Supreme Commander next to Forged Alliance you can clearly see who's the best around.
 
  Gameplay experience improved, the game barely lags any more (system dependent though, but compared 
 to SCOM) and its a superset, featuring all original units as well as some new ones.
  I like the improvement of effects like explosions, bullets, lasers piew piew. Graphics improved 
 as well.
  
  Units became more balanced and some were actually worth building now (like the Mavor) . I dont like 
 the 'new' nuke though. I have to admit the old one was rather overpowered and cheesy to throw at 
 enemy's experimentals in the field though. The new one is just wayyy too expensive and underpowered! 
 It takes me about 1 hour from silo to ready nuke (with 10 engineers) and when actually launched, 
 it's grabbed out of orbit about 1 in 2 times (not that odd though) and when it hits, it strikes 
 with 2x less punch. I liked the nuke! I like the effect of a massive explosion the battlefield, 
 yeaahh. 
  
  I see Forged Alliance as a kind of final patch to a great game. About every bad thing that I experienced 
 in SCOM got dealt with. I find the fact that all armies feature same kind of units a bad thing 
 as well but that's just how the game is.
  
  I've just been playing this game for 10 hours now but I just felt the need to write a review.
 
  I rated SupCom 8/10, Forged Alliance, 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gondor235
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game has it all. The graphics are phenomenal, the game play is addictive and the Campaign 
 is amazing! Supreme commander was an awesome game, reminded me a lot of starcraft, when Supreme 
 Commander Forged Alliance came out i was thrilled. The game is pristine. Gas powered games though 
 to me is not a huge company out there, amongst Blizzard and Ea, they proved to me that they can 
 create a solid game with few glitches! In the game The Campaign was gripping and addictive, graphics 
 were top notch and game play was smooth. Multiplayer is fun. Also a neat feature which i believe 
 all games should have is that the expansions can be stand-alone games, so that you don't need the 
 original to play. Anyways in short the game was an overall success to me and i highly recommend 
 it to anyone looking for a cool game. Also a reminder the system specs for this game have been 
 optimized for lower end PC's i recommend this game to anyone out there once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  [I purchased Supreme Commander Gold Edition, so this review is for both Supreme Commander and Forged 
 Alliance]
  
  I'd been considering buying Supreme Commander for some time, and finally got around to picking 
 up the Gold Edition last weekend. I expected to spend the next week completely absorbed with fun 
 RTS action, playing with big robots, slick fighter jets, and cool battleships.
  
  Afterall, that's what the reviews, preview pics, and box art shows, right? But, instead, I ended 
 up playing 90 percent of the game zoomed out, moving around little blue and red icons on a 2d battlefield. 
 Why? It's impossible to spend more than a few seconds zoomed in actually looking at your units, 
 as the action in this game is border-line insane. Real time strategy is a misnomer. There's really 
 no strategy to the game at all. Build as many units as you can (don't worry about which type, they 
 all blow up instantly anyway) , and send them to the enemy units... they'll meet up and blow each 
 other up nearly instantly, and then you'll repeat the process over and over until one of you clicks 
 the mouse one less time than the other. 
  
  And this is all done zoomed out, as I said in the beginning, because the entire map is going to 
 be a raging so-called battlefield (it looks more like little triangles and squares shooting at 
 each other zoomed out) spread out for many kilometers... which sounds cool, but, the size of the 
 map is meaningless when it just looks like a big 2d blue and green map of a make-believe island.
 
  
  To be fair, there are many, many different units in the game, so you'll have plenty of different 
 types of little squares and triangles to blow up (remember the zoomed out point? The different 
 unit types are meaningless because you have to be zoomed in to see them... which you never have 
 time to do because they'll blow up shortly after construction) .
  
  So, if you are into clicking your mouse over and over, and like moving red squares to attack blue 
 squares, and if you have no interest in little details like unit experience, morale, or any other 
 vague representation of real-life military formations, tactics, and strategy.... then this is the 
 game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-lord2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  It is the best RTS game ever made for the world!!!! CHRIS TAYLOR has really out done him self this 
 time! All other RTS games look like a "DOGZ" or "CATZ" game, and are a complete waste of money 
 compared to this game. For all that plays this game DO NOT USE CHEATS!! EVER, I MEAN IT! It takes 
 all the fun out of the game, and other word ruins it completely. "SUPREME COMMANDER" is a game 
 that sets the standard for all other RTS games in the world!!! The second one out does the first 
 one by a long shot. It has won "8" awards, now I think that is a record. "THQ" and "GAS POWERED 
 GAMES" has brought us another masterpiece to add to there collection. I just hope there is a 3rd 
 one to add to the collection (even though the other ones don't need help) . Thanks for reading my 
 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  FA was the game that I was obsessing over for about four weeks until I just stopped playing it. 
 This games' worste point is that the gameplay is ridiculously hard and annoying which makes the 
 whole SupCom experience one of smashing your mouse with your fist. The tedious micro-managment 
 of engineers in the early game just makes the opening ten minutes like watching paint dry. The 
 scale of the maps is wonderful at first until it takes your units ten minutes just to rach one 
 area of the map. This is advancing the genre though. The campaign really does throw you in at the 
 deep end with tech 3 bombers coming in from everywhere whilst your just trying to get a shield 
 up and running. The three factions are VERY similar and the whole tech 1 level is completely useless 
 apart from the engineers. Lastly, this game seems a race to who can build the best experimental 
 unit (spiderbot) first. This ruins the experience slightly. They say its hard to go back to playing 
 usuall RTS playing this game but I just longed to have my small map and garrison some buildings 
 as a defensive line and not spread miles of defenses which tech 3 unites destroy like little lice. 
 Great game at first but the overwhelming scale makes the gameplay extremely fustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander was a solid, but often dry experience for RTS fans when it was released early 
 last year. It was especially appealing to fans of Total Annihilation, which admittedly I still 
 have not played. Regardless, Forged Alliance is the stand alone expansion to Supreme Commander, 
 and a pseudo-sequel.
  
  The campaign is set a year or so after the Supreme Commander campaigns. Human space has been invaded 
 by an alien force called the Seraphim, and the three primary human factions from the original game 
 have teamed up to combat the Seraphim and drive them away. Essentially the campaign is fairly dry, 
 like the campaigns of the original game, so I'm not going to go over it in detail.
  
  Gameplay wise FA does the standard RTS expansion thing these days by adding new units, and a new 
 faction. While the expansion boasts about it's "over a hundred new units", most of these new units 
 are little more than reskins of old units for the new Seraphim faction. Which brings me to another 
 problem, the Seraphim unit lineup is the exact same lineup found within the original three factions. 
 You've got the light assault bot, the multiple classes of tanks, etc. You'd think that an alien 
 faction from another dimension would have its own unique brand of units, but no it doesn't. 
  
  Some other new features include the "template system" which I admit is nice. It allows you 
 to save a building template so you can start a new game without having to go through the headache 
 of going through your standard build order for the hundredth time by allowing the computer to do 
 it for you. Also the user interface has been revamped so that it's less intrusive, and more useful.
 
  
  Graphically Forged Alliance has had an overhaul making it more graphically pleasing than the original 
 Supreme Commander, but also ensuring that you need an even Godlier computer than the recommended 
 one for Supreme Commander. Honestly, who's coming up with these stupid ideas over at Gas Powered 
 Games?
  
  Audio wise the game features some new music, and to be honest I didn't like it as much as the original 
 Supreme Commander's musical score. It's not bad, but I don't feel that changing it was necessary. 
 I'm not actually sure if the new score is composed by Jeremy Soule who did the original Supreme 
 Commander musical score, but it's solid despite its inferiority.
  
  Personally, I found Forged Alliance to be a waste of money as it doesn't really offer anything 
 worth while to people who already own Supreme Commander. A dry campaign, and a new faction that 
 doesn't really offer anything actually new. If you don't own SupCom, then I suppose that it can 
 be a worthwhile purchase if you don't mind the fact that you can't play as the UEF, Cybran Nation, 
 and Aeon Illuminate online without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangmar822
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Forged alliance or FA as it has become know is an stand alone expansion for the RTS supreme commander, 
 
  
  personnally i think that this game is amazing offering a unique twist to the RTS genre by no only 
 having the concepts of supreme commander but inproving them in way like a smaller HUD, better graphics, 
 a new facion nd a ton of new units. the only downside to this game is the fact thatwith all these 
 new visual improvements and bigger hud may cause some lag on higher video settings if your cpu 
 is not properly equiped.
  
  the new faction , the seraphim give the game even more stratigic greatness by introducing units 
 like a T4 nuke which can only be stoped by multiply nuclear defence systems.
  
  also the new units givin to each faction give the game a whole new challenge
  
  for newer players 
 the game may b slightly more challenging than its predecesor as the ai has been improved fairly 
 and increses the difficulty of the game and the campaign ( you have ben warned if you had a hard 
 time whith supreme commander campaign this one is much harder) .
  
  in the FA is a great improvement to supreme commander and is a game that will be clearly enjoyed 
 by true lovers of the RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  The first SupCom is still great, Forged Alliance improves on every aspect of the first apart from 
 the Single player missions. The single player missions work on the same basis that every faction 
 campaigns through the same maps and locations with very little alternate story or features.
  
  If your rig was powerful enough to handle the first with grunt to spare, then you've found 
 the game to take care of the rest. Even though SupCom FA has more optimization and thought put 
 into it, it still eats away at your resources, however, every bit is worth it.
  
  FA sees the inclusion of a 4th faction, the Alien faction, Seraphim, that the Aeon Iluminate praised. 
 The difference is, as the name suggests, the Seraphim have seeked revenge on the humans that made 
 them "extinct" as the first SupCom suggests. Opening with a massive tear dropping sequence the 
 game sets pace what destruction awaits the player.
  
  The 3 factions must side together to prevent extinction from the Seraphim. This is where the game 
 takes place. Not much can be said about the single player without spoiling, as the case always 
 is, but I can comment on the rest.
  
  FA works great in Skirmish and multiplayer, Chris Taylor, lives up to his name again. The AI has 
 an eery intelligence that suggests its real when combating an enemy in Skirmish, not always attempting 
 the same strategy twice while trying to combat your every move and tactically taking advantage 
 as you progress make this mode for great when by yourself and you have a few hours to kill.
  
  The real excitement is with MP, playing against friends over LAN in RTS has never been so massive 
 and expansive until now. With maps up to 81x81kms and major weapons of major mass destruction you 
 can get creative with the landscape and units using every resource to your advantage. Take careful 
 note of this, as if you miss a high rise / hill and do not take it, you could end up in trouble 
 with artillary....... 
  
  A complex game that appears simple, this will surprise and win the strongest critics out there. 
 Great game!!!
  
  Nota bena, the Nukes stength and size has been shrunk down, this is not a bad thing.... There are 
 so many more better ways to take out your foe with the NEW experimental units, behemoths that tower 
 the mountains and valleys :)
  
  Absolutely Brilliant Game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJDav
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Unlike other games where it is meant to be real warfare, yeah right, one tank vs another, real 
 warfare, whatever, this however FA is brilliant in every way. I am not talking about rubbish computers 
 running it cos you would be an idiot, but with a good computer graphics, outstanding, easy to use, 
 proper stratigic battles. Anyone who thinks that defending the entire map is its flaw, well thats 
 just stupid, no one would do that. the whole point of having a huge map is so that you can expirence 
 how it is like to be a real commander. This brings me on to my next point about how its Zoom is 
 unique and makes it so easy to play. How on earth do people complain that you cannot see the units, 
 ZOOM IN!!!
  
  This game is just an expanded, fantasic depth and detail like nothing else refined version of the 
 brilliant Supreme Commander, and of course from TA. Nothing compares, nothing comes even close. 
 Whats more realistic 5v5 or 250v250 with air and land and sea and missiles and lazers and absolute 
 fun throughout the game? It can only be...
  
  SUPREME COMMANDER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeromusUltima
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Forged Alliance is the ultimate and only expansion pack to the awesome Supreme Commander. The game 
 offers more features and smoother graphics. If you're fan like me, You'll love this game.
  
  Graphics 10/10: The graphics have really been sharpened since the original, with units looking 
 smoother and the battles looking much better. Supreme Commander FA has some of the best graphics 
 I've seen on the PC.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The gameplay, while hard, is still more fun than the original. With an epic and 
 even harder campaign, awesome maps to choose in skirmish and countless ways to win, FA has some 
 great gameplay in it.
  
  Sound 8/10: While the music is still pretty much the same as the original, FA does have better 
 SFX than the original. The explosions sound even louder and more realistic, the aircraft sounds 
 more like aircraft and, well, everything sounds better!
  
  Replay Value 10/10: Like the original, after you've completed the campaign there will still be 
 heaps of new maps to try that weren't on the original. You could also try out some different strategies. 
 Either way you won't run out of things to do.
  
  Closing Comments: Supreme Commander Forged Alliance does much to improve on the original, with 
 plenty of new maps, units, a new campaign and better graphics. This is the best strategy game on 
 the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmn_fox
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Well it is time where games actually give you a taste of what it would be like to control and manage 
 large scale armies and Forged Alliance does a good job at it. No game to date has been able to 
 give you a feel of a general or a commander who has a whole battlefield in front of him to play 
 around. Forged Alliance does a good job of making your brain think in all different directions 
 throughout the campaign and skirmishes. 
  
  The AI is amazingly very smart and does things you don't expect the AI to do. It will attack you 
 in the most weak spots and defend where it thinks its defences are weak. Strangely enough its denfending 
 abilites are very very good. You can bring a whole army of mixed units and before you know it you 
 are running low on units. This game uses the word strategy in the best way. Unlike most RTS games 
 you can not attack with the most powerful units and expect a clear victory. Attacking without planning 
 could be dangerous and risky. 
  
  The gameplay is simple and easy to learn. Build things that gather resource first and then start 
 building barracks and everything else. And slowly but for surely You will have a big enough army 
 to attack. Controlling units is basically the same as most RTS and there is nothing new. A new 
 faction has been added and all the team are well balanced
  
  Even though you will spend more time upgrading and building stuff but it actually makes your overall 
 base stronger. For example you can upgrade your mass extractors and Energy reactors, this will 
 make sure you can build multiple things without worrying about defficiency in resources. You can 
 upgrade your barracks which provides you with better and more units. There are a lot of different 
 types of units and this helps players to choose the best units for their style of play. 
  
  The graphics are very good and if compared to the recent RTS games it is still a good looking game. 
 there are some things they could have done to make it a bit better like a day night cycle and better 
 overall physics but then that would mean an excellent game that requires over the top hardware. 
 for the scale of the map and armies each player can build i would say graphics are just perfect.
 
  
  The voices are very well done and the music in backgorund is nice.
  
  This game is the complete package for anyone who loves RPGs and its a must play for anyone who 
 thinks controlling large armies would be a piece of cake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  The original Supreme Commander was my favorite game of all time... until I bought this. This is 
 my NEW favorite game of all time. 
  The graphics were great in Supreme Commander, but they're even better in Forged Alliance.
  Now, 
 let's see what Forged Alliance has that the original didn't.
  The Seraphim: A brilliantly designed faction with really cool units (graphics and looks are both 
 amazing) . The Seraphim enable a new campaign, new units (including experimentals) , and a whole 
 new level of fun.
  New Maps: There are 12 new unique maps for you to conquer using various strategies.
  New Units: 
 Every faction gets brand new, awesome units with more variety. Plus new experimentals and new buildings.
 
  New Campaign: Forged Alliance has a new, exciting campaign that's way better than the original 
 campaign.
  More AI: There's a larger variety of AI to chose from.
  Best of all, you don't need the original SupCom to play this game and it only costs about $30 at 
 Gamestop.
  The only bad thing about this game is that due to the graphics, the system requirements go up, 
 but it runs perfectly on my computer, so if you have a good computer that shouldn't be much of 
 a problem.
  To wrap it up, I'm going to recommend this game to everyon that's a fan of RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikecool54321
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a RTS Strategy game on a MASSIVE scale, you control an ACU, you build factories, then 
 you build Land Air and Sea units, the object of the game is to destroy your opponents ACU and fulfill 
 the missions objectives. This game has amazing graphics, many ways to defeat your opponents, Multiplayer, 
 and Scrimmage games. There are 4 playable races, (only 3 aare available in campaign [Aeon, UEF, 
 Cybran] the other race the Seraphim is only available in Multiplayer, and scrimmage.) You play 
 in 6 missions the side you play in the missions is decided by the side you pick during the first 
 mission. Once you play a mission with a certain side anytime you get to that level with ANY side 
 you have an option of which side to use.
  Example, you beat mission 3 with Aeon, start a new game but choose UEF when you get to mission 
 3 you may choose to play as Aeon OR UEF (this is just an example you may do this with any set of 
 races or even all 3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander was a good game but it was a little difficult to handle at first and I found 
 had a lot of flash but no substance. Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance brings this game what is 
 was missing. They introduce new maps, new units and an entire new army and the building system 
 was more or less the same but for some reason you just more into it. The story brings the previous 
 armies to forge an alliance with each other to defeat the new army. It also has a really good multi 
 player, its extremely fun and the more you play the better your skills get. Supreme Commander: 
 Forged Alliance really gets you into the game and is one of the expansions worth buying, mind you 
 it is a stand along expansion so you don't need the original to play it. Its a really different 
 type of RTS in terms of the way to build units and the way you get resources but the basic outline 
 of the game is like most RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I loved Supreme Commander, and Forged Alliance is a good expansion. The graphics are much better, 
 the AI is finally a challenge, and the new units and experimentals are a lot of fun. However, I 
 can't play it much, since the updated graphics do require a lot more horsepower which destroys 
 my PC even more then the original.
  
  The AI is greatly improved. In SC, I usually just sat in my base and minded my own business for 
 an hour or so while I build up, and then I'd send an army and smash the enemy. Now, even on easy, 
 I'm getting swarmed by squadrons of attack bombers within the first fifteen minutes. My priorities 
 have definitely had to shift to keep up, we turtles now have to immediately start on defense, and 
 I mean immediately. Build two mass extractors, a few power generators, and a factory, and then 
 immediately put your commander on anti-air defenses.
  
  The Aeon have a new experimental unit, a building, which actually keeps your mass and energy income 
 positive, no matter how much you're using. It's awesome multiplayer since you can be the Aeon and 
 build these experimentals and give them to allies. Once you have one, you no longer need to worry 
 about power generators and mass extractors/fabricators, however you have to guard it well. If it's 
 destroyed, it has the same blast as a nuclear weapon. (Say goodbye to your entire base!) Oh, and 
 a sad note, the nukes have been toned down ALOT and really don't do much to the enemy.
  
  The game also introduces "engineering stations," essentially a building that functions as an engineer. 
 It will automatically repair any friendly units or buildings and try to reclaim enemy units that 
 are within its radius of effect. You can build these throughout your turret defensive lines and 
 they'll try to keep your turrets at full HP.
  
  I would rate the game a 10, but the system requirements are a bit high, just wish they would optimize 
 it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeofChaoS
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  1. Graphic has big issues, bad coding, frame rate dropping and never coming up again, requires 
 lot of memory while not using it at all.
  2. UI, the UI of this game is a real pain, they tried to fix it with the expansion and god they 
 didnt ( that's right, the title came back in your mind right now, or maybe not? ) , there are no 
 fast-icon to know when your buildinds have been completed, many utilities tools are missing.
  3. Lot of minor bugs/issues make the game annoying, like when you click on a unit and it brings 
 up the action window, it bugs up the image for like 2 seconds ( VERY VERY annoying ) .
  4. Online has big flaws, you have to quit the game everytime to enter online, the online too, GPG, 
 net lags much.
  5. Design fails, coloros, schemes, arts and characters style sucks a bit.
  
  The Zoom tool map could have been improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selfdestruct-10
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  The game is much better than the previous version. Experimentals are balanced now , and of course, 
 you can get them at the very start of the first mission. The AI is more nasty, AI hard overwhelm 
 me in just half an hour before i can get an exp unit although it takes only 13 min to build a monkeylord. 
 Protecting MEXES is crucial now, as i play, i recon that t1 arti gets bigger range than t1 PD, 
 and of course, i have to rush and pump out units to gaurd. That's few of the examples, and the 
 i have to mention that exp units are a lot weaker. Fatboys suck, they've got long range but low 
 damage, monkeylord is now vulnerable to t1 units and gets killed easily, but it balances the game, 
 we can't depend on experimentals. Turtling is extremly hard and if you're not cautious, a rush 
 wave can burn your base to hell. And that causes people to make new strategies , even make the 
 game more addicting and gets higher score. I rate it 10 (perfectly perfect! ) . and if anyone has 
 some spare CD keys, give me one cause i ain't got any so i can't play online . anyone wants to 
 challenge just give me your IP, hopefully, if i have somespare time out of homework, i'll go online 
 and ask you for a match. I'm just a twelve years old boy from vietnam so i haven't got much time, 
 and don't acuse me for copyright law violations because i just got the CD from a game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I would say that Forged Alliance is an excellent purchase, and adds a lot to Supreme Commander, 
 but that the new race adds next to nothing. That may seem rather strange, but I feel is why I have 
 mixed reactions about the game.
  
  First let me say that I feel the new experimental units add a lot to the game, particularly in 
 making each faction easier to use. This is because the new experemental, as well as the new standard, 
 units add more variety to each faction and therefor make it able to support more play styles. 
 
  
  The new structures I also enjoy, and feel that they add some difference to the factions. The tech 
 3 point defense for the UEF, the Peri miter Scanner and submerged torpedo launchers for the Cybran, 
 and the Scanner for the Aeon all add a little more flavor to their respective factions.
  
  However, the big addition, the inclusion of the Seraphin is nice in that it is a great campaign, 
 but somewhat worthless, because I, and everyone else I play with, have hated playing them. Their 
 experimental units are difficult to use, and they seem less fun to play than the other factions. 
 And considering that I spend the majority of the time playing skirmishes with others either in 
 LAN or online, it feels as though the Seraphin race was kind of unnecessary and the expansion could 
 have been better with a cooler race, or other additions.
  
  My comments in regards to the original game still apply, which is what prevents this game from 
 being truly great, but I feel that Forged Alliance is a really strong game, and think that it is 
 worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redgreen747
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Supreme commander forged alliance is by far the best RTS I have ever played. The graphics get a 
 little bogged down on my Nvida gforce 8500 gt during big battles. The game offers two main single 
 player modes: story and skirmish. Is just as it sounds you play threw the story of the game which 
 for some with little or no prier RTS experience can be a little hard even on easy. That's not to 
 say that this is not a great first RTS. In skirmish you can build a battle using all the lan tools. 
 They have all kinds of playing types in there for the bots you will be playing. They have everything 
 from your basic begin up to the most intense rush offense or tech savvy player out there. They 
 also have it so that you can play with the game set as a cheaters game in which you can let the 
 bots cheat as well as you or you can be the only one cheating. In the skirmish you can have anything 
 from a 1-on-1 duel all the way up to 7-on-1 or any combination in between with a max number of 
 4 teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcontarino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is better then the first because each faction now has its own unique units. I love the 
 new units and they made great changes to the old ones. The new experimental units are awesome. 
 My favorite unit is probably the UEF Tech three point defense the Ravager and the UEF Tech 3 Armored 
 assault bot the Percival. The Seraphim are fun to play as but against them it's really hard, but 
 still fun. It would be better if it didn't lag as much but it's still pretty good. I hope their 
 will be another sequel (I saw the ending) and maybe some more tech 1 units too. The Aeon's Paragon 
 is really useful because it makes infinite mass, and their rapid fire artillery is really good 
 for taking out an army of tech 1 units. I also like the Cybran's tech 1 gunship good for cheap 
 air support. In summary, this game rocks! I highly recommend it to anyone who likes RTS games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  When the Supreme commander came out I was on board straight away, Massive Battles, Kick ass Experimentals, 
 Plenty of missions but after i while i started to find the slow build times for the simply units 
 boring, the campaign was going up a steep hill in difficulty and the races way to similar so my 
 intrest greatly declined.
  
  Then very recently I got Warcraft 2 for 50c and i was getting back in to the genre but i found 
 it making me wanting to have massive battles and Newer graphics so i re installed Supreme Commander 
 found it enjoyable enough to get this and it was much simpler getting into then Supreme commander 
 mainly because from the very beginning you had access to every unit from the original which I usually 
 don't want but this time it really help and i found my abilities growing in it (or It might of 
 been the fact that I just built the best unit the Monkeylord) but I wasn't just trying to completely 
 finish they objectives I really notice the improvement in graphics the HUD set up is cleaned up 
 and the they cost of units and build times was much more sensible then the original.
  
  I'm now left with cravings for new content and another expansion which i believe is called Experimentals 
 so thats really something to look forward too, But the games still needs more tweaking but it will 
 eventually be perfect so bravo to Gas Powered games for an Expansion with some useful additions 
 to a games of great size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance is one of the best RTS games ive ever played, and trust me.. 
 Ive played em all. Sup Com has something no other RTS's have (starcraft, dawn of war, age of empires) , 
 it has an INCREDIBLE UNIT CAP (capacity) , and with it, amazing graphics. Although you can beat 
 the individual specualization that dawn of war has, Sup Com has an amazing array of units and structures. 
 The game requires a huge amount of strategy, and if you can master this one, you could probably 
 be a real time war strategist. The strategy required is so immense you have to be micromanaging 
 hundreds of units at the same time. The only thing I think this game lacks are general unit upgrades 
 (ex: increase damage rate of t2 rocket bots) . Besides that, I strongly advise anyone with a nice 
 computer, preferably dual core, to get this game! you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telemedp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I assume you know about the original Supreme Commander game. Though I never installed a single 
 patch for Supreme Commander, Forged alliance seriously changes the UI. The minimap is removed (who 
 needs it) . This certainly speeds the game up. The UI is compact and easy too. They added many more 
 musics and improved the original, so the game is actually not boring in phases of peace. The campaign 
 is well thought out, and you can choose with which side to complete it at start. There are some 
 little differences between them. The experimental units are balanced, and some much needed units 
 are added, like the amphibious siege assault bot. There are a couple of well thought out Tech 4 
 units in the game, like the Paragon unlimited resource generator. The gameplay is generally much 
 better. And one more thing. They overhauled the AI, which means the originals are stronger, and 
 they added the AIx type with 3 new tactics: Adaptive, Turtler and Rusher. They are basically unbeatable 
 in 1 on 1.
  
  By Medve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Love the game. It improves upon supreme commander in unthinkable ways... well not really unthinkable... 
 but the game is damn good never the less... I love it to death but its a wanker to run. I have 
 a dual core amd 2.6 ghz processor and a geforce 8800 gts 320mb video card... plus 3 gigs of ram... 
 and even on medium settings the game lags up in big battles. So yeah... i think in a couple of 
 years when the average rig can run the crap out of this game it'll be a perfect ten... or damn 
 close... at least to me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkcRAISTLIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  What helps make this game so very very good?
  
  tactical and strategic depth
  
  The most important criteria for ANY strategy game. How many ways are there to win? How many different 
 strategies does the game allow for and reward? With the scope of the game and the sheer number 
 of versatile and diverse units, FA offers more depth than any other RTS. Include in this all the 
 different strategic buildings and you have a wealth of play styles, and a wealth of tactical options.
 
  
  For instance:
  
  Let's say you are being harassed by a Tier (T) 1 bomber. What can you use to counter it? 
  
 
  You have: T1/T2/T3 fighters. T1/T2 Anti Air (AA) ground units. T1/T2/T3 static AA defenses. And 
 2-4 naval units that come equipped with AA defenses. that's 10-14 different units to combat that 
 particular unit. No other game allows for such versatility. Sure some are better than others (as 
 you would want and expect) but that's the strategy- what are your goals going into the mission 
 and how do you achieve that goal with the units you have at your disposal? there are simply a million 
 different ways to play with the combination of units. No other RTS has the same freedom, especially 
 since they all use "hard counters" of 1 or 2 units.
  
  simulation
  
  It is rare to find an RTS that is a simulation, indeed the only other big name is total annihilation 
 (I know there is one other but I do not know the name of it) . never EVER underestimate the gains 
 in gameplay dynamics that you receive from playing a simulation. If someone doubts the veracity 
 of the argument that a simulation improves gameplay, they simply do not understand how much of 
 a difference it really makes. If your aircraft flies too close to artillery, there is a (small) 
 chance it could get taken out by a shell intended for somewhere else on the map. I saw an amusing 
 video recently where a player flew his fighters too close to his flying experimental unit, and 
 when the experimental fired, it managed to hit half his supporting fighters- you simply cannot 
 get this type of dynamic in the purely maths-based rules you find in all other games. If units 
 walk in front of other units they will get hit instead of the unit that is now behind.
  
  What does this all mean?
  
  DYNAMIC battles. They are unpredictable. There is no more "oh I 
 have 5 footmen he has 4 grunts, im going to lose". A unit might simply be microed behind a legde 
 so that unit X cannot fire on it. Not because there's an arbitrary rule stating "units in area 
 of X get +50% to armour bonus" -unit X cannot be hit simply because there is something in the way. 
 This allows for real strategy when placing buildings too. Put your static defenses in a "ditch" 
 and artillery will have a harder time hitting it, again, not because of any bullshit rules. Bubble 
 shields are great for protecting those IN the bubble, but ALSO those that are stationed BEHIND 
 the bubble, because enemies firing at them will hit the bubble first. You cant get that kind of 
 dynamic without a simulation.
  
  This also changes balance. Any unit that can hit any other unit will hit that unit, no penalty! 
 There are no silly rules to remember "oh, magic does extra damage to heavy armour". What this means 
 is that you don't get ridiculous things happening, like in empire at war where an ATAT had been 
 coded to be useless against ground troops. I mean, we all saw them tear humans up in empire strikes 
 back didn't we? It means enough of unit X will beat unit Y, no matter how powerful. This adds to 
 tactical variety "oh, he's got that super duper unit, but if I mass enough of my average unit I 
 might just get over the top of him". 
  
  It allows for artillery to be useless against units, as well as being AWESOME againt units AND 
 buildings. How? Simple. Artillery projectiles are relatively slow, meaning a good player can micro 
 his troops out of the way. BUT, if the artillery still manages to hit, then it does its full, regular 
 damage. No need for bonus damage against buildings and reduced damage to units. It just happened 
 NATURALLY and fluidly, and again, makes sense!!!
  
  It means real tactics come into play and you get real rewards- forcing a well-executed pincer on 
 an opponent works because dynamically. Again, there are no "if you execute a pincer you get +50% 
 to attack rolls", it works because you have come into behind (or to the side) of an opponent, and 
 it takes valuable time for the unit's TURRET and/or DIRECTION to shift to face the new threat. 
 It means that if a group of units such as aircraft retreat, they can no longer fire on you because 
 their turret's rotation is limited. 
  
  Again, all of this rewards a player that can use their troops well, and makes it more of a its 
 how you use your units rather than what units you have moreso than any other RTS available.
  
  freedom
  
  This kind of ties in with the other two topics, but what the hell. Because of 
 its rich tactical nature and the fact that it is a simulation, there are no hard and fast rules 
 to victory. In many other RTS's its all about buildings heaps of troops and sending them to your 
 opponents base. Repeat. But in FA you really need to be aware and prepared for anything. Tactical 
 missile strikes, hidden bases behind your lines of defense, troop drops behind enemy lines, stealthed 
 fighter-bombers, mobile bombs, navy bombardment, having your bases captured and used against you, 
 amphibious units sneaking up on you unprotected etc etc etc. I have watched dozens of replays and 
 I rarely see the same tactics twice. Thus intel plays more of a role than any other game that has 
 come before, which is cool because you then have to worry about jamming, stealth, and cloaking! 
 If you lose the information war you'll probably lose the game. Again, this really rewards sound 
 strategy. 
  
  The diversity of all the new units makes play really interesting, and adds more to the tactical 
 depth and the freedom of how you choose to play. If you found map control unimportant in supcom, 
 you will be VERY pleased with how important map control is in forged alliance. It means you are 
 fighting over the entire map for the majority of the game! The action is better than anything ive 
 played or seen. Hundreds and hundreds of versatile, diverse units all shooting the shit out of 
 each other. And because there's no bullshit hard-counter rules, it is MUCH more satisfying. 
  
  build templates
  
  Ok, this might not appeal to some but I think it is fantastic. 
  
 
  Load a sandbox game (testing to just play with yourself) .
  
  Build any combination of structures. Save.
  
  Load a multiplayer game and BINGO! There's your 
 saved group of structures ready to be built in the order you originally built them. no more fucking 
 around in your base building economy or defenses. You simply load a saved template and you're away! 
 I love this because it really allows for some creative, sexy & functional base designs and forward 
 firebases without you having to spend the time designing them!! It saves SO much time! And that's 
 more time you get for moving your troops around.
  
  Nobody says you have to like FA more than other titles in the RTS genre, but I am simply stating 
 that FA is easily the best in the categories I have briefly outlined. Tactical/strategic depth, 
 simulation & freedom are the most important aspects of a strategy title however, and there can 
 be no argument that FA wins hands down in these departments. Make no mistake, FA is the strategy 
 title for adults that want as much freedom from their gameplay as possible. 
  
  And gameplay   all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this brief. In fact, extremely brief.
  
  Forged Alliance is far too convoluted, busy, and difficult. I can accept a learning curve (going 
 from, say, old-school C&C to Company of Heroes, for example) but this is ridiculous. Patrol paths 
 onscreen every time I click on a unit, units which are so small you can't make it what is what, 
 no clear description of how one is better than the other, FAR too much territory to focus on or 
 worry about.... this is a game for people who love to spazz out, not for people who like to think. 
 Period.
  
  Purchased on December 24th, uninstalled from my hard disk on December 26th after perhaps 2 hours 
 of messing around. I'm thoroughly frustrated with the notion that game developers think stacking 
 hundreds of units and buildings into a game leads to "strategy", rather than a complete lack of 
 focus.
  
  Not worth my money, and bitterly disappointed that I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0crates
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  As a 37-year old gamer that has recently begun to wonder whether there will ever be a game that 
 recaptures the magical, totally immersive feeling of the truly great games (e. g., Red Alert, Diablo 
 2, Baldur's Gate 2, Civilization IV) , that question has been answered by Forged Alliance: YES!
 
  
  Back in the day, I was a Total Annihilation addict for ~6 months, and you can tell right away that 
 Supreme Commander & Forged Alliance are from the same mold. That's a GOOD thing. I had forgotten 
 how the Commander unit creates such interesting possibilities for creative game play. You can build 
 anywhere, so you're not locked in to a "main" base. In fact, the very nature of the resource allocation 
 and mission parameters means you need to stay mobile and flexible.
  
  This makes Forged Alliance much more interesting and challenging than Command & Conquer 3, which 
 seems like a silly, one-dimensional cartoon in comparison.
  
  The scale of this game is truly jaw-dropping. When playing single-player missions, the map expands 
 after completing objectives to add new objectives, and expands again, and again...! Of course, 
 you need to have a bleeding-edge system to run this the way it should be run (and fortunately I 
 do) . Forged Alliance is programmed to take advantage of Dual and Quad Core processors, and you 
 will appreciate the difference it makes.
  
  Each single-player mission takes hours to complete (or at least it does for me) , and I can't wait 
 to dive into the multiplayer. Have to develop more tactics first!
  
  I have just a few minor complaints, or suggestions for improvement: the game needs variable weather 
 (it's always clear and sunny) , day and night (it's always day) , mountains/hills that are traversible 
 by at least some land units (right now they basical act like walls) , and deformable terrain. This 
 last one is a biggie, actually, because it's a little absurd that no craters are created, and no 
 hills are levelled, by the obscene amount of firepower that goes off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dasaecor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Guys... this is the ultimate RTS game, it is much better than the previous one Supreme Commander, 
 the graphics, the scale, the masive battles, the massive units, the size of the maps. the story, 
 everything.
  
  Somebody posted that the game is second to Starcraft... no way!! this game is unique, starcraft 
 is beautiful and we all have fun playing it... this game is though is serious stuff... love it.
 
  
  Only problem you will find is that you need a really good PC to run it. I am playing with Intel 
 QX6800, 2xSLI Gforce 8800 GTX and the game runs awesome for most of the time, although theres 
 occasions where the huge ammount of detail and units will noticeably make frame rate drop.
  
  It is an absolute "must have" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_snake1461
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  If someone ask me about the greatest game of this year, then I will tell him the name is "Supreme 
 Commander: Forged Alliance". You may think that I'm only kidding because there is too much great 
 game that have been released this year. But the fact is that this game is so good, it impressed 
 me in the very first moment. It's so huge, the map can stretch for miles and even the smallest 
 unit in game like the tier 1 bot has the size of almost half of your house, let alone the experimental 
 unit which could be the size of a whole district. The second impression is that you'll see the 
 units in game keep dying like flies. I once witnessed a land factory being dropped from full health 
 to zero just because it keeps being hit by the falling aircrafts. You can see the unit of the two 
 player march into battle like ants and may be it remind you of the Epic Star War film when the 
 Trade Federation unpack their droids into battle in Episode 1. Even if you zoom out at the full 
 size to see the entire battlefield you would probably see the sparks of explosion all over the 
 map. And the last impression come from the experimental unit and the ACU. Never before have I seen 
 a single unit that can stands against an entire army and prevails. I have a ridiculous feeling 
 that these unit are just like the battlecruiser in Homeworld 2, it exists and you must have it 
 to prevent being flooded by a single extremely powerful unit of the other player. And before you 
 can take it down, it may be as well as having destroyed a half of your most fortified base or may 
 be your best units along with your ACU or even one of your experimental unit. One good thing in 
 Sup-Com FA is that it is even better than the original in the aspect of the aircraft carrier. Now 
 they aren't server in a single purpose of transporting aircraft, repair and refuel them but also 
 creating them. Now come to the most evolutionary in the gameplay, the ACU. They are the most important 
 unit in game. For most of the game before the appear of Sup-Com, you never have a true hero (except 
 for a few games like WarCraft 3 and War Hammer for examples) or if they do, they are so fragile, 
 almost useless and functions exactly the same as other unit. But things are different here when 
 your ACU play an extremely essential role in your stragetic. It's the most powerful unit in game, 
 may be second to the experimental unit only, but you can customize it into a killing machine to 
 be feared. For an example you can upgrade the Cybran's ACU with the microwave laser that can kill 
 every unit in a split second or upgrade the UEF's ACU with nuclear missile that is quite cheap 
 and extremely devastating against bases that aren't equipped with tactical missile defense. And 
 did I mention the new Seraphim's ACU which once fully upgrade with all the healing pack it has 
 will make it almost invincible to anything except for nuke and experimental fire.
  
  The only thing that I don't like in this game. The first is that it demands such a tremendous powerful 
 PC to run. I got a pretty powerful computer and never have any problem playing C&C 3 Tiberium War 
 at highest configurations , but this game still bring it down to down to it's knees (I borrow this 
 phrase from Gamespot's review on the original game. Hope that no one would charge me for that!) .
 
  
  Supreme Commander Forged Alliance may not beat Star Craft to be the greatest game of all time but 
 because of it's evolutionary gameplay in my list, it places the third, only behind Metal Gear Solid 
 2 Sons of Liberty and StarCraft Brood War. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  forged alliance has a different feel to the original for some reason i can't put my finger on it. 
 when units kill enemies they gain ranks now which is really awesome. experimental lasers and stuff 
 no longer instantly blow stuff up which i reckon is a major balance because 150 tech 1 units can 
 prolly take a sacred assault bot LOL. there are alot of new units that are awesome, they balanced 
 fabricators which stops people from turtling so much, nukes have been nerfed - i srsly don't approve 
 of this, they take a long time to build, more expensive i think, and the nukes aren't so strong, 
 personally i think this was a bit of a mistake, they should maybe add it as an option or something 
 because i have not seen a single person use a nuke yet, even in a 90 minute game? : (
  
  basically it's damn awesome game which i recommend anyone play, it's different to any normal rts 
 so beware :) but you prolly will like it
  
  seraphim faction is pretty good, they aren't overpowered which is a really good thing ^^
  
 
  i really like this game, too bad australians don't play this online or something, i never see 
 any : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencerlink
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Most units are familiar, but at first it is somewhat disconcerting that they don't play the same 
 as in The Original. The "Easy" AI is initially about as hard as the "Supreme" AI if you played 
 the first Supreme Commander. If I had tried this one first, I'm not sure if I would have enjoyed 
 it quite as much, since getting killed repeatedly without ever succeeding is not very rewarding. 
 While this is a stand-alone, I think it is best enjoyed by really experienced gamers, or those 
 who have played the original game, and not a good place to start unless you have lots of experience.
 
  
  There are some new units, and they are useful since some of the originals that you may have come 
 to rely on have been neutered somewhat. Let's just say the balance of powers was re-adjusted and 
 now you have to figure out the adjustments. Examined in a vacuum, it's an awesome game. When compared 
 to the original, it only looks familiar but plays completely differently. This can be good or bad 
 depending on what you expect.
  
  At first, I was irritated that things I had come to expect were not the same. Now, I just have 
 to re-learn and treat it as a different game, although it is generally familiar in appearance. 
 The scope of the game is still epic, and the ambition of the developers is still magnificent.
 
  
  I can't say it breaks as much new ground as the first game, but it's an expansion, right?
  
 
  It has been tweaked and changed so much that it is really not the same game, but it has a big 
 name franchise advantage, and it is a very good game. Since the game is a sequel, and not really 
 examined in a vacuum, that makes it hard to evaluate. Some disappointment is due to not fulfilling 
 expectations, but there can be some delights in finding new challenges. Since Strategy Gaming in 
 particular is all about figuring out the little advantages, even though it was not my initial reaction, 
 I have to lean toward the positive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  
  The nice thing about forged alliance is that it ramps up very quickly - right off the bat you're 
 playing with experimentals. My only real complaint about the gameplay is that once you've got your 
 base established, it's really just a matter of slowly expanding outwards and the challenge diminished 
 quicly. There are a couple big *events* in which you have to scramble (lost my base a couple times 
 here) , so I just reloaded an earlier game and built the forces up a little more.
  
  The experimentals have been scaled back which I think is a good thing - the monkey lord won't kill 
 units off as quickly, but the beam weapon has much greater range which is fun to watch and less 
 frustrating to use than the original - sames goes for the colloses.
  
  The new race is interesting, but problem with the seraphim is the problem with all the other races 
 - they're all the same except for the experimentals. You have L1, L2, L3 tanks, planes and ships 
 - some shoot lasers, others rockets, others projectiles, but they're really all ice cream, just 
 different flavors.
  
  I'd be up for playing another expansion - this one was fun - my hope is that if they include a 
 new race it is something truly original.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The first introduction of Supreme Commander has brought a lot of attention for its ambitious scale 
 and massive length of campaign missions. The first game was great, but there were always the feeling 
 that something is not quite enough. After all, the player is never allowed have full access to 
 the super power units until the very last mission. Not to mention you can't even build any experimental 
 super unit for your own use while your enemies are throwing those things at you.
  
  Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance met my demand just right. From the first mission, you are allowed 
 to build anything you want to build. Also, as soon as you start the game, you are kind of thrown 
 in their to start the instant battle, giving you the feeling that your faction is not winning the 
 war, but losing. The story line is fairly linear, even though there are a bit of twist here and 
 there.
  
  There are 6 missions, which I have finished all of it in about 50 hours in total in normal difficulty 
 as an UEF commander. You are allowed to choose a faction at the beginning of your first mission 
 only, so it's like having 18 missions after all, given that you will play all of it again with 
 other two factions. I haven't played the game as other two factions yet, but given that the original 
 Supreme Commander's missions were fairly similar and tied to other factions, I am expecting this 
 one to be the same or similar.
  
  The best thing about this game is obviously the scale and visual goodies. They also have added 
 one super weapons for each factions, and they are all great additions and can alter the direction 
 of the battle significantly. It is just awesome to take down the strategic defenses with 15 Galactic 
 Colossuses you just built and sending out 10 nukes to your enemy bases. Visual effect of the game 
 has also improved, and the explosion, shield, water, and almost everything in the game has improved 
 compared to its previous game.
  
  If you have played the original Supreme Commander, you would know there is teaser cinematic for 
 each faction hinting for the sequel. Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance also has that short teaser 
 cinematic at the end, hinting for the possible sequel after this one, so I am expecting and hoping 
 for another release from the gas powered game.
  
  The only downside of this game is that it requires very very high end computer systems to run if 
 you want to play the game at high. I played my game at high with my own little tweak, and it slows 
 down every time the mission goes towards the end where the battle field is huge and there are two 
 thousands units flying around. I have Intel Core 2 Duo 3.0GHz, GeForce 8800GTS 640MB version, 2GB 
 800MHz DDR2 Mushkin memories, just in case you wonder. So don't expect to run this game at very 
 high setting and your computer to run smooth like butter.
  
  Other than that, this is a great game that all RTS gamers would definitely enjoy if not all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaloidzz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance is going to be an absolute hoot in multiplayer and will add 
 longevity until we get the next instalment.
  
  However, for the enjoyability of a game I tend to focus on the single player aspect of what is 
 offered. Always a sucker for stories I find I get a great sense of accomplishment in progressing 
 through the campaign and making it through the other side. 
  
  This is one of the funny things about Forged Alliance. While the new units are always welcome and 
 fun and the Seraphim are tough opponents, I was looking more to the motivations of these invaders 
 and was a little disappointed in their 2-D 'Destroy the humans' commentary, (the only Seraphim 
 commentary) , during the battles. True, some of the battles and numbers of units are mind boggling 
 to be worried about such things, but I always like to know the back story! 
  
  Other than that I also really enjoyed the new design and layout of the interface, the units look 
 great and act more intelligently and the fact that I was able to blend bases with the different 
 technologies of the human factions made for an interesting game. 
  
  As such I highly recommend the next instalment of the franchise. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  When SupCom came out it was one of those games I wanted to get and play as soon as possible, but 
 waited a few months and had lots of fun, now FA comes out and enjoyed it as soon a it came out, 
 more so enjoyed the visual and game improvements over original SupCom.
  
  Pros:
  * Lots of units available from the very beginning even T4 units.
  * Can build from different 
 race tech trees even seraphim (capture) .
  * Performance improved, and much better visuals and greater GUI.
  
  Cons:
  * With so many 
 units available most T1 and T2 units become useless.
  * NERFed nukes, not worth building any longer.
  * NERFed anti-nukes, takes forever to build also.
 
  * Could have had a bigger campaign.
  
  Enjoyed the game quite a lot, but really needs more campaign and different stories for each faction 
 just like the 1st game, the nerf nukes now are just useless to build, by the time a nuke silo is 
 assembled I already have top of the line T4 units ready and giving hell.
  
  During the gameplay of FA I started seeing a many key differences that made me like this game a 
 lot and also tilt and chew my lip while playing it, I mean, the visuals are pretty much improved 
 from SupCom, no upgrade of hardware needed, game still slows down a bit when zoomed down on a ground 
 battle of 100 units vs 100 enemy units but its still very playable and enjoyable and any slowdown 
 disappears when I zoom out.
  
  One of my favorite parts of FA is having access to all T4 tech from the start of the campaign... 
 just love building 2 or 3 fatboy mobile factories and move them together making any WWII movie 
 pale before the barrage of artillery being fired or having my largest units walk around the map 
 in bigger numbers.
  
  Another big bonus I liked, though you can't play seraphim in the main campaign you can capture 
 one or 2 of their engineers with ease and build your forces using their tech tree, by the final 
 battle I had my forces combined of all 4 races.
  
  But unfortunately FA took the nukes out pretty much, building a nuke silo takes forever as I said 
 earlier and they pretty much went down the drain.
  
  
  FA is a great sequel, but unfortunately its not the best, yes it will hook you up for a few days 
 and give you a pleasant satisfaction of continuing the battle against the new threat, but expect 
 a bit of frustration when some of the biggest guns you can build are not as strong as they were 
 in SupCom.
  
  The cons above is the only thing that makes me give SupCom FA the score of 8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Well here we are, and not that long ago we had the release of the original Supreme Commander, and 
 now we have it's expansion (possibly the 1st expansion) , and it's a strong entry, but not without 
 it's issues.
  
  So, let's first off cover all that has been improved. Obviously we have lots of new units including 
 an entirely new faction. Lots of the units are very nice additions. In fact I'd say they are all 
 very welcome changes, being both useful and not overpowered. The new race, the Seraphim, can seem 
 like an original SupCom race if you look at their available unit list, which is quite a bit more 
 trim than the current other races, but many are mutli-function units, and they seem to balance 
 quite well.
  
  Beyond the new units, all the old units have been looked at. Some have been tweaked, others completely 
 overhauled, and the new version are almost universally better. Despite what GS claims, Nuke launchers 
 didn't receive a nerf, but actually a buff, just one that comes at the cost of being able to assist 
 either the nuke or the defense buildings in any serious way. The experimentals in particular have 
 been heavily tweaked in many cases. For instance the Czar, which was practically useless in my 
 mind, has been given a major buff for the most part making it a very good unit now.
  
  Graphics have also been given an overhaul. The default ui has been swapped out, and the new one 
 is a bit better than the old one. You can now zoom in even closer, and texture details have been 
 improved as well.
  
  And lastly, the AI has been seriously looked at, and is a very much improved. The old AI was quite 
 laughable for any experienced player, but the new one can quite dangerous even on it's lowest setting 
 (although the turtle is still pretty bad) .
  
  Now, all that said, there are issues. First of all is performance. The old one I could run at highest 
 settings on all but the biggest maps. However, the new one is giving me odd sound issues even on 
 fairly small maps. That said, it is likely due to running at top settings, so it expected. The 
 demands placed by multiple AIs is also rather high, and can bring my system to it's knees, but 
 I think that is actually because the AI is actually doing something this time around with usually 
 several hundred units, where before it was quite dormant most the time.
  
  Probably the biggest issue I have with the game is the single player campaign. It's pretty good 
 for 1 time playthrough, but because all the factions use the same campaign for the most part, it 
 seems rather weak. Additionally, all the maps are easily conquered with the same 'dig in and exploit 
 the first objective's lack of time pressure'. The campaign certainly could have used more thought.
 
  
  My last gripe with the game is the new UI. While overall a better UI, some choices they made seem 
 silly and actually made aspects worse. For instance, you no longer see your entire build possibilities 
 when selecting a builder, instead you have to scroll left and right. Also, if you select builders, 
 you don't get to see any count of the number you have selected, instead you only see their potential 
 build orders. Lastly, for upgradeable buildings, it is difficult to tell if the button you see 
 if the buildings type, or the next upgrade.
  
  In conclusion, for any sup com owner, Forged Alliance is a good purchase. While the campaign is 
 weak, most real players will be having their fun online or in AI skirmishs and here FA shines as 
 a massive improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretg80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  So what's so great about the sequel? Well first off the graphics are so much better than SupCom. 
 Second, the game is ready to run in a footprint greater thatn 2 gig. SupCom required a workaround 
 to get around this limit. So the big maps run great on Vista64.
  
  There are still some problems with the AI and the pathing, but overall, the game is a big improvement 
 over SupCom. The . The special effects and the lighting are signficantly improved and the User 
 Interface is much easier to use.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend Forged Alliance to anyone who loves SupCom. You won't regret it. 
 
  
  The game is a lot more stable and on Vista64 with 4gigs of RAM I haven't had any crashes yet. I 
 have a Quad 4 Intel processor and a GTX8800 and the performance is outstanding. I know, this is 
 a pretty high end rig, but you don't need SLI to make this game perform.
  
  The experimental units are very powerful and I haven't tried to build nukes yet. I hear that nukes 
 take a long time to build, but you can create a lot of chaos with the experimentals, so nukes aren't 
 really needed.
  
  Overall, FA is a great addition to SupCom and I hope they continue with the add-on games. By the 
 way, FA does not support DX-10, but it looks great anyway.
  
  Enjoy!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blowtrees
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  The expansion to Supreme Commander, Forged Alliance, is a very solid improvement over it's counterpart 
 released earlier this year. In spite of being an expansion this is a stand alone game and you do 
 not need supreme commander to play it, I guess thats why THQ felt full price was warranted. Quite 
 a bit of tweaking went into the overall gameplay, in my opinion for the better, yet some players 
 may decide to change (read mod) a handful of items. Firstly the background video in the main menu 
 is reduced to a small screen, while the menus themselves are more animated. Ingame menu color is 
 determined by faction, which includes loading screens. Personally I liked the big video better 
 and would have liked to see a handful of new battles which would play randomly. Happily I announce 
 that the command 'console' and build interface is no longer static. It only pops up when you select 
 a unit and your info such as mass score and objectives can be minimized. What you get is the best 
 view possible for all the mayhem.
  
  The first thing I did besides fix my video settings (Setup to High fidelity, High Detail & textures, 
 no shadows, AA off, Vsync off, bloom on, reso: 10x7) was hop into a skirmish as the seraphim. Now 
 when THQ says they've added over 100 new units, the vast majority of that is the new race itself. 
 The other factions have aquired only 5-6 units and structures each for maybe 10 per faction, however 
 they fill in the ranks nicely. A side effect though, is that the factions are now that much more 
 similar. For instance all factions have gunships t1-t3 now. Personally I don't mind, although the 
 mechanics are the same they look very unique and there are subtle differences such as range, speed 
 and line of sight. I do feel like THQ missed a glaring oppourtunity to round out the gameplay by 
 not including an armory structure of sorts to allow you to upgrade units or abilities (special 
 skills, weapon dmg, armor etc) . Still if units/structures themselves are upgradable you do that 
 with the unit itself like always. Everything looks better and more detailed, not just the new stuff, 
 although Seraphim units and structures are far and away prettier than everybody else. The extra 
 time spent on the original material shows, and with bloom and AA it's just downright glorious. 
 Unfortunately it only takes an hour or so before there's enough going on that my machine starts 
 having fits. In SupCom it would get so bad that a second in game would take 3-4 seconds real time, 
 not so much so here in Forged Alliance, but don't expect to play with 7 very hard AI's at 1000 
 units each with your sets maxed out. I'm not convinced there's a machine that can even do it.
 
  
  I'd imagine there will be more balancing as patches come out, some units are pretty powerful such 
 as that walking box cybrans have. 15 -25 of those waltz right through AI bases in the normal campaign. 
 The defenses themselves feel weaker I think overall, with the exception of Tech 3 air defenses 
 which are all you'll build once your base has been established. Most noticably nerfed is the t3 
 heavy artillery, which now has a range comparable to the t2 artillery, it's offensive capabilites 
 are just gone. I don't even build 'em anymore because of this. Nukes and Nuke defenses especially 
 seem to take longer to reload. Seraphim has a t4 supernuke that takes 2 nuke defenses to counter, 
 which may explain why regular nukes are weaker - it's no longer the most powerful weapon. Still 
 it would be a fatal mistake to not keep yourself well defended with a variety of turrets. A new 
 structure to all factions is the engineering bay (tech 2) which automatically repairs/reclaims 
 units and structures in its AoE which will make setting up and maintaining your lines far less 
 of a task, just make sure you've got enough bays to cover it all and throw a few engineers at it 
 to assist. 
  
  To the AI's credit it is much improved. They learned how to use an air force now and can be pretty 
 relentless even on lower difficulties. The AI will put the pressure on early and amp it up as time/tech 
 passes. This was especially frustrating for me, since in Sup Com I could go up to 12 minuites without 
 ever seeing the AI. Needless to say I was consistantly unprepared for their attacks causing unessecary 
 casualties. Unlike the previous game the AI will scout and probe, then take the path of least resistance, 
 so stacking all your forces directly inbetween yourself and the enemy base won't cut it anymore 
 because they'll come from all angles. Also included are cheating versions of the various AI's availible 
 (Aggressive, Adaptive, Turtle, and Tech) . I have not played a game against the xAI's (what supcom 
 calls the cheating AIs) but I'm anticipating a frustrating time. There's some depth here for replay 
 value which is fresh for the series, like all RTS games, once you dominate the AI, the game gets 
 stale real quick without multiplayer. 
  
  The campaign is short just like last time, but each mission should still take a little over an 
 hour to complete. Objectives don't vary much, destroy enemy, escort this guy or survive the clock 
 of death. As the Seraphim's first act in our space was to decimate Earth, you begin 2 years after 
 said event and all 3 factions are allied in resistance. However the Seraphim have lackys as well 
 who call themselves the Order, but they're just Aeon. The bad guys will throw everything at you 
 UEF, Cybran, Aeon and Seraphim, and they'll do it at the same time. Unfortunately you do not get 
 an unholy alliance type of deal and only get to choose one faction and not build from all 3 (Seraphim 
 have no campaign) . I chose Cybran and played all the way to the last mission. Completing certain 
 bonus objectives later on did earn me an Aeon commander for that particular mission though. I don't 
 know how differently the Aeon and UEF campaigns play yet.
  
  Overall it's just better. If you were on the fence after Sup Com, Forged Alliance will win you 
 over. Still it isn't perfect, but part of what made Sup Com so good was the community behind it, 
 like TA before them these games offer lots of oppourtunity to players who like to customize their 
 experience and modding is made easy. Once the Map Editor and the various mods i use get updated 
 to work with Forged Alliance, it'll bring just that much more to the game. If it wasn't already 
 apparent, this expansion really exposes the weaknesses from SupCom, which is exactly what you want 
 in a sequel, it's not just a sprinkling of new content with a 40$ price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mott555
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I loved Supreme Commander, and Forged Alliance is a good expansion. The graphics are much better, 
 the AI is finally a challenge, and the new units and experimentals are a lot of fun. However, I 
 can't play it much, since it still has the same random crashing problem in Windows Vista that Supreme 
 Commander had. Please fix that, GPG!!!
  
  The updated graphics do require a lot more horsepower, I could run SC maxed out with perfect frame 
 rates. I can run FA maxed out as well, but the frame rate is noticeably less-than-perfect. I currently 
 have a GeForce 8800 GTS 640 MB, running at 1680 x 1050 with all settings at max and anti-aliasing 
 at 16x.
  
  The AI is greatly improved. In SC, I usually just sat in my base and minded my own business for 
 an hour or so while I build up, and then I'd send an army and smash the enemy. Now, even on easy, 
 I'm getting swarmed by squadrons of attack bombers within the first fifteen minutes. My priorities 
 have definitely had to shift to keep up, we turtles now have to immediately start on defense, and 
 I mean immediately. Build two mass extractors, a few power generators, and a factory, and then 
 immediately put your commander on anti-air defenses.
  
  The Aeon have a new experimental unit, a building, which actually keeps your mass and energy income 
 positive, no matter how much you're using. It's awesome multiplayer since you can be the Aeon and 
 build these experimentals and give them to allies. Once you have one, you no longer need to worry 
 about power generators and mass extractors/fabricators, however you have to guard it well. If it's 
 destroyed, it has the same blast as a nuclear weapon.
  
  The game also introduces "engineering stations," essentially a building that functions as an engineer. 
 It will automatically repair any friendly units or buildings and try to reclaim enemy units that 
 are within its radius of effect. You can build these throughout your turret defensive lines and 
 they'll try to keep your turrets at full HP. 
  
  I would rate the game a 10, but it still crashes for me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  POSITIVE:
  1) Epic battles are still there and more...
  2) Really Big maps... Some even bigger from the maps of the original
  3) Graphics look prettier 
 and with less bugs from the original game
  4) More interesting Single player campaign from the original
  5) A 4th Alien faction with some 
 interesting feature
  
  NEGATIVE
  
  1) Very demanding PC requirements.
  2) Nuclear weapons feels really weak
  3) A. I still WEAK... It attacks from the same side all the 
 time and sometimes just stays in the base doing nothing
  4) Experimental weapons have been reduced in power.
  5) Still most units feel so similar in every 
 faction you play
  6) Repeative and very limited tactics to use
  
  Score 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yifanzhou
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  The original was good and weeks were spent playing it. But graphics and control wise, it was lacking 
 a little bit compared to other RTSs like C&amp; C. And yes, the game demands a more modern gaming 
 rig to play. For this reason, I upgrade mine for the original SC. The expansion addresses some 
 of the issues above but at the same time makes my computer work even harder. My C2D E4300, X1950XT, 
 2GB PC-6400 are barely keeping it up with the game but gaming experience has also been enchanced. 
 The maps are bigger, and AI is a little smarter, more weapons are at your command, the range of 
 fire and enemy detection can be seen more easily, the units don't run into each other as much. 
 Three words are left to describe the game: GO PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolus69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  over all. everything is good. i will just get to the pro's and con's rather than describe every 
 detail in excruciating quality. i will only go across the basic points
  
  pro's: epic battles.
  Supreme commander and it's expansion has battles on a scale unseen in any 
 other game to date
  
  Epic strategy
  The tactics of supreme commander are wide and varying. containing everything from a classic blitzkrieg 
 to a large stalled battle reminiscent of world war 1 trench warfare. with neither side gaining 
 or losing ground.
  
  Big maps. the largest maps are so big that eccentric tactics and epic battle rule the battlefield. 
 unit travel time and eta become an actual factor in strategic planning. forward bases and airports 
 are used.
  
  The power difference between units cannot be found in any other game save the original supreme 
 commander. this contributes to the games epic style in a very important way. as attacks can consist 
 of cannon fodder ranging into the hundreds.
  
  Con's:
  A very high end game. most computers will have problems.
  Nuclear weapons have effectivly been 
 removed from the game.
  Experimental weapons have been reduced in power.
  over all everything at the top seems weaker and a little less powerful than it should be for being 
 the best of it's kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minarndyl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  When Supreme Commander launched late-winter earlier this year, I couldn't wait to take it into 
 my hands an play it. I've played along in the GPG-Net Beta's and played the Demo quite a lot. By 
 the time I could play it for real, I felt like the old days when Total Annihilation was one of 
 the greatest RTS in its own time.
  
  The fact that you could play epic or even gargantuan battles on battlefields greater than any seen 
 before on the computer made the game superb. Only downside were it's system requirements. I can 
 imagine that a lot of people dislike the game because of it, but when you downgrade the graphics 
 enough, you can play the game quite well.
  
  The same goes for the expansion. I played the Beta using Sandbox mode with some cheats to play 
 battles against my own. The graphics surely did improve at the cost of your system, but once again, 
 you can take this FPS-Loss for granted. You get so much in return for it. The fourth, new faction, 
 is really a great addition to the other three. At this moment, I haven't played the campaign yet, 
 or tested the new AI, but despite some bugs in the beta, which I think GPG will fix within a short 
 period of time if they haven't already, I think this game is a very good successor indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin_Avenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Now, I have no clue why people on this website (the viewers) always seem to give games below 5 
 points, or abysmal ratings. Though, yes, a review is partially opinion, but the much larger scope 
 is professionalism. You have to rate a game on a professional level; i. e. no this game sucks, blows, 
 etc.. People just don't think and try to dissuade people merely on the fact that their reviews 
 have no substance behind them.
  
  Anyways, Supreme Commander and Forged Alliance are both great games. The epic scale of the maps 
 is almost unmatched, the strategy involved is also on a grand scale; you can flank, scout, sneak; 
 and the graphics are also terrific. The only gripe I seem to have is that I would have liked to 
 see more variety within the 4 races, such as different game-play mechanics.
  
  I guess the reason most people would give this game a bad score is the fact that their PC can't 
 run a game of this caliber. But you have to understand, that's your PC's fault, you should have 
 looked at the requirements before even thinking about installing this behemoth. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
