-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Supreme Ruler 2010
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/supremeruler2010/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Balances complexity of a chaotic geopolitical situation with ease of play.
 System of political advisers is a great touch that adds to the user-friendliness.
 More intimate look at the art of running a country than usual.
 Real-time and turn-based styles of play.
 Loads of scenarios, plus a global campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ministerial system causes the game to run on its own a little too well.
 Making diplomatic deals is overly difficult, unless you bribe neighbors like they were banana republics.
 Rival nations love the status quo, so expect to get dogpiled by all and sundry if you declare war against a neighbor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 225 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: BattleGoat Studios
Genre: Wargame
Date:     May 12, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Complexity and accessibility are rarely so well-balanced in a strategy game. 

  Ambition isn't always a good thing in strategy-game design. When developers push the envelope too 
 far, they often end up with either an interface that plays like a logic puzzle, or so many statistics 
 that it would be less painful to smack yourself in the face with an economics textbook. So it's 
 something of a miracle that Supreme Ruler 2010 is downright user-friendly. Even though the BattleGoat 
 Studios production is as elaborate as anything this side of the rather boat anchorlike SuperPower 
 2, this is one playable and enjoyable geopolitical simulation. Complexity and accessibility are 
 rarely so well-balanced in a strategy game.  

          OK, this doesn't look very inviting, but trust us, the user interface is more friendly 
 that it appears at first glance.     

  First impressions won't leave you with that idea, however. BattleGoat and publisher Strategy First 
 ship the game with a dense 150-page manual and terse tutorials with no interactivity aside from 
 that provided by reading dozens of text boxes. The background story is also complex. Four pages 
 are required to recount the tale of a debt-ridden United States, which is self-destructing economically 
 and taking the rest of the planet with it. OPEC reacts to American troubles by changing the world's 
 oil currency from greenbacks to Euros in mid-2005, and this causes the biggest market crash in 
 history. Economies are so devastated that most nations splinter along regional and ethnic lines. 
 When the game begins in 2010, the US is a collection of independent states, the Canadian provinces 
 have abandoned confederation, Europe has broken into fiefdoms reminiscent of the medieval era, 
 and so on.  

  You're dropped into this mess as the ruler of one of these new independent territories. Play can 
 be turn-based or real time. Both function in similar ways, although playing in turns slows the 
 action down so much that it's a better option to go real time and adjust speeds or pause the game 
 whenever catastrophes pile up. Objectives vary, with you either attempting to emerge as the leading 
 state in a specific region in a couple of dozen scenarios (reunifying Canada, putting China back 
 together by force, taking over the Middle East with a unified Israel-Jordan, and so on) spread 
 across the world or trying to conquer the planet in the global campaign.  

  Difficulty varies depending on your choice here, of course. Taking on, well, everybody as the newly 
 free state of Scotland is a lot more difficult than simply helping Alabama win over its neighbors 
 in what used to be the southeastern US. There are a lot of nations on the globe, too, with virtually 
 every province, state, or territory in North America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia deciding 
 to go it alone. Each one of these mini-states is fully modeled, too, with governments, military 
 forces, economies, natural resources, social services, taxation systems, and so forth.  

  Regardless of what mode of play you choose, cabinet ministers keep games from becoming unwieldy. 
 Instead of handling all of a state's affairs by yourself, you hire ministers from a pool of candidates 
 to look after six portfolios -- defense, military operations, state, treasury, commerce, and interior -- and 
 keep your eyes on the big picture. Policies are set by assigning priorities to each member of the 
 cabinet, like asking the interior minister to improve the nation's technology, or the minister 
 of state to secretly undermine enemies, or the minister of commerce to produce products for export. 
 Every move has its pros and cons, so there are no shortcuts when it comes to making your citizens 
 happy. Order your interior minister to improve the social safety net, for instance, and this sets 
 up a tug-of-war between social assistance programs and the military.  

          Decisions are largely made via ministers, who can be told what to do just like all good 
 government flunkies.     

  And since ministers come with names, detailed biographies, personalities, and political leanings 
 (conservative, moderate, and liberal) that affect their performance, jobs don't always get done 
 as expected. Put the wrong person in the wrong place and you can actually have a minister fighting 
 against your ideas unless you decide to micromanage and lock orders so that they can't change them. 
 We learned from personal experience that it just isn't a good idea to hire a flaming liberal to 
 run the Ontario defense department while planning a covert military buildup with which to crush 
 Quebec.     

  The only issue with the ministerial system is that it causes Supreme Ruler 2010 to run a little 
 too much on autopilot. Get a good balance of ministers who reflect your values and the nation hums 
 along on its own until you have to make big decisions like signing treaties or declaring war. You 
 can of course make all decisions personally, but ministers do such a good job that it's easier 
 and often more effective to sit back and let them do the heavy lifting.  

          Warfare isn't very involved, and success is almost automatic if you're giving ministers 
 of defense and military operations the right orders.     

  Also, at times you feel more like you're managing the staff in a department store than ruling a 
 country. You lose a little of that "I rule the world!" vibe so enjoyable in games of grand strategy. 
 Still, the intimacy of the ministerial system impressively gets across the idea of what it must 
 be like to serve in a real parliamentary democracy. And the artificial intelligence is no slouch, 
 either. Order that previously mentioned covert military buildup from a conservative minister of 
 defense and tanks come flying off the assembly lines. The chief of military operations also does 
 a damn good job conducting a war, sending units to bolster defenses in regions where the enemy 
 is breaking through the lines, and even anticipating enemy moves with the smart garrisoning of 
 cities.  

  A fairly tight focus on diplomacy and commerce negates some of the drama, though, as the military 
 doesn't assume a great deal of importance in many games. Declaring war on a neutral country is 
 a big no-no that always causes other neighbors to launch immediate attacks. In the UK scenario, 
 for example, there isn't any way for southern England to quietly conquer Wales and all of its handy 
 coal deposits without north England doing the "once more into the breach" thing.  

  Too much messing around with tanks and troops can also result in the game's big heavy -- a vaguely 
 defined entity trying to bring order back to the world, by force if necessary, called the World 
 Market (a more aggressive successor to the United Nations that wants to see nations get back together) -- laying 
 down the law, possibly with a nuclear exchange. All in all, patience and subtlety are characteristics 
 that need to be cultivated if your rule is to last much beyond the starting date of 2010.  

  Unfortunately, diplomacy is extremely difficult. Working out deals with other countries, even 
 those who are friendly or neutral, is nearly impossible in many instances. Rivals tend to reject 
 good deals, such as those that swap equivalent technologies, unless they are given huge cash bribes. 
 Some refusals defy common sense. Sure, it's understandable why Florida won't hand over the plans 
 of its Huey helicopters to a suspicious Georgia. But what's the point of Los Angeles saying no 
 to alternative energy technologies offered by Northern California in exchange for a measly embassy... during 
 an electricity shortage in the city of angels, no less? These sorts of denials are all too frequent, 
 and they seem more like a way to artificially make the game harder than a realistic depiction of 
 how such diplomacy would work in the real world.  

  Despite the downplaying of military showdowns, Supreme Ruler 2010 looks and sounds like an old-school 
 war game. Visuals feature nothing more elaborate than crude unit symbols and roughed-in terrain 
 on a 2D map, as well as audio effects that recall the "bloop-bloop, beep-beep" era. There isn't 
 even any in-game music. If not for the game's encyclopedic detail, the feel would be suggestive 
 of Empire Deluxe. The only concession to modern production values is the user interface, which 
 is intuitive if still a little convoluted, due to the tremendous amount of information and number 
 of activities to track. Also, it doesn't scale properly with screen resolution, so you need a magnifying 
 glass to read the text when playing at 1280x1024 and up.  

          Diplomacy is typically more challenging than military action, thanks to stingy (and arguably 
 shortsighted) rival leaders.     

  Multiplayer isn't so much dated as it is underdeveloped. Although all of the individual scenarios 
 and their settings are supported, you can't play the solo campaign against other people. And there 
 is no in-game browser to use when looking for an online match; you'll have to resort to an external 
 matchmaking program or enter IP addresses directly.  

  Even though Supreme Ruler 2010 is a bit of a throwback, it doesn't repeat the mistakes of the past. 
 Unlike previous far-reaching global strategic sims, BattleGoat's reach doesn't exceed its grasp, 
 even if this comes at the cost of a game design that plays itself a little too often.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pggames
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Make no mistake, Supreme Ruler 2010 is not a Command-and-Conquer or Civ clone. It has a real time 
 military units control structure, but it's certainly not an RTS. It let's you deal with diplomacy, 
 politcs, economics, etc, but in a for more sophisticated way than Civ (or the game 'Superpower') .
 
  
  It does take a while to learn the nuances, especially if want to master both the military and political 
 side. You can get AI ministers (advisors) to take over any part that you don't want to do, but 
 if you leave your military planning with the AI then you'll get a very defensive strategic approach.
 
  
  Since scenarios are quite good, and the campaign (where you start as a single small region and 
 move up to take on the rest of the world) is a lot of fun (though don't expect to finish a campaign 
 quickly!)
  
  There have also been a lot of updates with new content released the past few months - some great 
 new missions, and also a new 'United States' scenario where most states are represented as separate 
 regions (so you can truly take on a Battle of the States in a single map) . This US scenario is 
 lots of fun - and sometimes Mexico and Canada even get involved!
  
  It's part wargame and part world-domination strategy game, but it puts it together very well - 
 a lot of fun if you take the time to learn it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 14, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was such a disappointment...
  The idea is that the world order has collapsed, and as such each individual state in the U. S. is 
 totally independent. HOWEVER, its not like you can start a game as a state and battle all of the 
 other states to gain supremacy, no, there are scenarios in which the map only includes maybe two 
 or three states at a time. The state of Georgia cannot invade and conquer Florida, because the 
 "Georgia" scenario only includes Alabama, Georgia, and Tenn. The only way you can play as a "United 
 States" is in the "world" scenario, in which you lead a unified north-american hemisphere against 
 other "uber-regions" like Europe, Arfica, South America, ect.
  
  So that is crap...
  
  Once in the game, there is little you can actually do. 
  
  Pass laws to control the borders..... 
 wow..... You can do it but nothing is affected by it.
  
  Controlling a military campaign is crazy and just as dull. Supplying your troops, nearly impossible.... diplomacy, 
 forget it.....
  
  It also doesn't bode well that the makers of this game removed several key components because they 
 couldn't get them to work right, you will notice this when you read the instruction book and it's 
 talking about buttons and options that are missing on the actual display.
  
  
  All in all, this game was not worth the money I payed for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Supreme Ruler 2010 isn't for everyone. However, for any and all of you who like detailed 
 strategic level wargames, this game is for you. 
  
  The game itself as mentioned in the Gamespot review does appear to be complicated and confusing 
 at first glance. However, if you take about an hour of experimenting you will see that a lot of 
 the detail is quite helpful and intuitive. In general, the gameplay is fun and engaging. 
  
  The graphics aren't the best, but wargames like this aren't about flash but about practicality. 
 
  
  Sound is very mediocred.
  
  A big reason for why I like the game is that the developers are very active in talking with players 
 on their forum bgforums. com Already they have released a patch that fixes the problems in diplomacy 
 that are mentioned in the Gamespot review. Additionally, they constantly solicit player feedback 
 and suggestions and do their best go implement the good ones. 
  
  All in all a great game backed up by a great development team. A winning combination.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I have spent the last two evenings playing this game and I still dont know what im doing! 
 Make no mistake this is an easy game to play but extreamly hard to master!
  
  But thats ok because your staff will do things for you. You have many cabnet members that make 
 up your staff and will help you rule your country. From Internal affairs to relationships with 
 bordering countries.
  In this game you can focus and control every aspect of running a country. You can either focus 
 on military, trade, technology, or politics. 
  I wish the tutorial would have been a little bit better. As like the game the tutorial has alot 
 of information to provide you about the various screens and controls, but its the way they deliever 
 in in text boxes that make it not as educational. It would have been better if they did the tutorial 
 in a movie for a game this complex. 
  
  Anyway the game is very detailed and like the last few we have seen this year, its not full of 
 unrealistic joke situations. (I wont mention any names)
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
