-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Supremacy: Four Paths to Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/supremacyfourpaths/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great diversity in units.
 Slot system makes ground-unit creation interesting.
 Cheap.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 AI is out to lunch.
 Too many minor details to track when resources get low.
 Audio is less than impressive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 13 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Black Hammer
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 9, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Supremacy is a game that's easy to learn and, unfortunately, very easy to master. 

  Supremacy: Four Paths to Power is a space exploration and conquest game that looks so simple and 
 elegant at first glance that you'd almost think it would work as a board game design. The gameplay 
 ultimately is a little deeper than that, but this is still a low-complexity game that's easy to 
 learn and, unfortunately, very easy to master.  

          The space map looks decent, but a fog of war would make the game far more interesting. 
     

  Play begins by selecting a commander, who provides certain bonuses throughout the game, and by 
 selecting from one of the many game types, which vary from pure conquest to competitive rescue 
 missions. Maps in most game modes tend to be symmetrical, with plenty of planets and neutral space 
 stations on either side that can be captured to provide resources and technology improvements. 
 But after an initial buildup phase, players inevitably must leave the confines of their sides of 
 the map to start whittling away at the opponent's territory.  

  Most of the gameplay takes place on a nice-looking 3D space map, where amassed fleets blast one 
 another while science vessels scout around. But that all changes when planets are assaulted by 
 ground troops. Then the game switches to a 3D terrain map based on the type of planet where the 
 battle takes place, and ground troops slug it out. These planetary battles don't look nearly as 
 good as the space maps, and although the entire game has a unified look and a decent interface, 
 the special effects are weak, and the sound effects are generic.  

  Ground combat is turn-based and fairly simplistic, despite the wide variety of troop types available. 
 Within a few seconds of looking at the type of army the opposition is fielding, it's immediately 
 apparent whether or not you'll be able to win. After that, it's just a matter of going through 
 the motions as you move troops, fire, and wait for the inevitable outcome. The scale also seems 
 completely out of whack, as it seems absurd that a handful of troops are all that's necessary to 
 capture an entire planet.  

  The diversity of the ground troops at last keeps things somewhat interesting, as many have special 
 abilities determined by race. There are standard infantry, snipers, tanks, and other units, but 
 the most effective armies incorporate specialized troops that can freeze, poison, heal, or otherwise 
 bring unique abilities to the battlefield.  

  The way units are manufactured involves some of the best mechanisms in the game. The type of units 
 available depends entirely on the planet where you make them. So if you need to round out your 
 army or fleet with a "Pyro" flamethrower unit or a "K-7 Inferno" fighter, you'll need to conquer 
 a fiery Cha'ar world first. If you conquer at least one of each type of world, you can start cranking 
 out massive battle cruisers. And if you further manage to take over every planet of a single type 
 on the map, you can manufacture that race's mothership, which is the most powerful and strategically 
 important unit in the game.  

  Ships are created immediately, as long as you have the proper resources. However, ground troops 
 work a little differently. Each planet starts out with four factories, which in turn create a grid 
 of manufacturing slots. The more factories you have, the more slots are available, although upgrading 
 to five or six factories adds a chance that there will be a planetary meltdown, destroying a very 
 valuable resource.  

  The manufacturing slots are critical because each unit created consumes a fixed number of slots. 
 Generic infantry takes up one slot each, so you can crank out up to 20 of them per turn with just 
 four factories. Tanks, on the other hand, take up a nine-slot square, so there's only room for 
 one of them in the five-by-four four-factory grid. Snipers use two vertical slots, artillery troops 
 require a block of four slots, and specialized troops, like flamethrower units, take up two horizontal 
 slots. So planning what you want to build and the order you need to build it in is somewhat like 
 assembling a puzzle each turn. The largest ground units take up more space than four factories 
 can provide, so you'll need to add additional factories -- and assume the risk involved with doing 
 so -- if you want to play with the big toys.  

  The same slot system is in play when ground units are loaded onto transport ships, greatly reducing 
 the number and types of troops available on any particular strike. This makes it possible to use 
 swarm tactics by packing a transport with numerous generic infantry units or opting for a combined-arms 
 assault that only involves a few large units backed by some specialized troops, with a few infantry 
 units sprinkled in to fill any remaining gaps.  

  Although the mechanisms all seem straightforward, keeping track of everything isn't always easy. 
 A budget window puts a handy overview of all input, output, and upkeep all in one convenient place. 
 But it tells only a portion of the story. Resources are consumed every time a ship moves, a special 
 weapon fires, or any number of other actions are taken. Therefore it's up to the player to coordinate 
 exploration, acquisition, and attacks so enough resources are available to do everything. Few things 
 are worse than maneuvering a fleet into attack position only to discover it doesn't have enough 
 resources to attack or moving a transport all the way to a critical planet to find out that your 
 units are stuck on the ship while you must try to scrounge up enough resources to carry out your 
 attack. Micromanagers will love this, but it adds a lot of tedious number crunching to what could 
 otherwise be a fairly enjoyable lightweight game.  

          Ground combat offers diversity, but it isn't very difficult.     

  The real killer 
 here, however, is an artificial intelligence that simply can't put up a decent fight. There's no 
 fog of war to worry about, so players always know what the computer is up to, and so it's easy 
 to gain a huge production advantage early on to more easily crush the AI. Battle cruisers can carry 
 fully laden troop transports through even the most heavily defended enemy areas, making it fairly 
 easy to take crucial objectives. Neutral pirates sometimes pop up to become nuisances for both 
 sides, but the enemy tends to throw everything it has against these minor threats, leaving its 
 territory wide open for attack. There are many subtleties and unit combinations available for those 
 who want to take a more strategic approach to victory, but using them against the AI is like building 
 a convoluted Rube Goldberg contraption to kill a fly, when all you really need to do is swat it. 
 Two-player hotseat, LAN, and Internet matches are supported, and facing off against a human is 
 the only way to squeeze any long-term enjoyment from this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  I went ahead and picked this game up a few months ago. I knew that I was running a huge risk of 
 wasting my money given the Gamespot review but what the helk, roll the dice and see what happens.
 
  
  I have to say that the gamespot review is pretty accurate but with the patch update the game did 
 improve and despite being horribly easy to master, it has some indearing qualities that make it 
 a semi-fun little diversion.
  
  While it certainly isn't worth $29.00 I paid for it, it is worth $9.99 so look for it in bargin 
 bins and perhaps you might find yourself having some fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
