-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Supreme Commander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/supremecommander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible, exhilarating scale.
 Deep gameplay that provides countless ways to victory.
 Intense multiplayer action unfolds like a fast-action chess match with guns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep hardware requirements; large battles can bring the most powerful systems to their knees.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.7, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 6,431 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Supreme Commander delivers a deep and impressive strategy-gaming experience. 

  When it comes to real-time strategy games, few developers have followed the philosophy that bigger 
 is better. As such, the scale of RTS games has stayed mostly the same over the past decade. The 
 battlefields never feel that large, and the focus is more on economics and tactics than it is on 
 actual strategy. Well, Supreme Commander isn't that kind of game. Instead, the long-awaited strategy 
 game from Gas Powered Games is everything that was promised. This is a game that's less concerned 
 with the aesthetics of combat than it is with capturing a sense of awesome scale, though it does 
 look amazing when armies clash. It's real-time strategy supersized. Instead of raising one battle 
 group and racing across a small battlefield, you can raise multiple air, land, and sea battle groups 
 and toss them at the enemies, or ferry an army via air transport around their defenses and land 
 them in the rear, or send wave after wave of bombers to cripple their strategic defenses and then 
 unleash nuclear hellfire upon them, or do much, much more.  

          Though set in the future, Supreme Commander is very much a game about modern strategy, 
 as you'll command tanks, aircraft, battleships, and much, much more.     

  Supreme Commander is set in the distant future, and humanity has split into three competing factions. 
 The United Earth Federation represents order and empire, the cybernetic Cybran fight for independence, 
 while the alien-enlightened Aeon seek to liberate the universe. The single-player campaign is divided 
 into three smaller campaigns, letting you battle from the perspective of each of the factions. 
 Unlike those in most other RTS games, where all three campaigns would usually be tied together 
 in a linear fashion to tell a bigger story, the campaigns in Supreme Commander all stand alone. 
 Each faction fights for what it believes in, and hence, no side is really "evil." It's a nice touch, 
 because that mentality captures the essence of war.  

  The game's biggest asset is its sheer size, which is measured in virtual kilometers. Though you 
 can battle it out on "small" maps that are a mere 5km-by-5km, the average maps are 20km-by-20km 
 large, and the largest maps weigh in at a whopping 81km-by-81km. And while the units you command 
 are a bit oversized, this still translates into giant battlefields that give you plenty of room 
 to maneuver. You no longer have to worry about a single chokepoint like you do in most RTS games. 
 Instead, you have the freedom to experiment more. This also means that you need to be wary of enemy 
 attempts to slip around your defensive points. But that's the nature of war. The entire sense of 
 scale is exciting because you can finally experiment with tactics. Meanwhile, real-world concepts 
 such as reconnaissance become even more important. Thankfully, Supreme Commander makes such tasks 
 easy with the ability to queue up commands for all sorts of units. Scout planes can be ordered 
 to patrol the periphery of the maps, engineers can be given build commands to keep them busy for 
 a long time, and armies can be sent on a zigzag path deep into enemy territory, all with a few 
 clicks.  

  Often during the campaign, you'll achieve a set of objectives only to watch the map then double 
 in size, and then double again after you've achieved the next set of objectives. Each time the 
 map grows, it unlocks more room to maneuver and more strategy. Size translates into open-ended 
 depth in this game. For instance, assume you're battling a heavily entrenched foe. How you take 
 the opponent down is up to you. You can try raids to cripple the other side's economy by destroying 
 mass or energy facilities. You might find a weak spot in the defenses and send bombers through 
 it, then target antiaircraft positions to open the way for further air assaults. If you're building 
 nuclear missiles, you might build artillery positions to take out any strategic missile defenses, 
 and once those are out, unleash nuclear missiles. You can pretty much open up the entire playbook 
 and experiment with different tactics and different combinations of units. And these tactics apply 
 to all of the factions equally, because aside from visual appearance, factions basically mirror 
 each other. This equates to a general lack of personality to each faction, as well as to the game 
 as a whole, which is disappointing because each of the factions has an interesting backstory.  
 

  You can try and overwhelm your enemy with sheer numbers, build fewer numbers of high-quality units, 
 or do a mix of the two, with cannon fodder to draw fire away from the heavy hitters. There are 
 three "tech levels" that feature different units, buildings, and vehicles, and at the lowest level 
 you'll have basic units such as light and medium tanks, fighter interceptors, submarines, and bombers. 
 At higher levels, you'll gain access to naval destroyers that can sprout legs and walk on land, 
 siege assault bots, ballistic-missile submarines, and much more. Your engineers can also build 
 gigantic artillery pieces that hurl shells across the map to soften up enemy defenses.  

  In most real-time strategy games, the act of building a factory on the battlefield is an act of 
 utter contrivance, though in the fiction of Supreme Commander, it makes sense. As the game is set 
 thousands of years in the future, humanity has figured out how to transform matter and energy in 
 a way that's similar to the replicators on  Star Trek . That means that a single Supreme Commander 
 can take the raw materials of a planet and quickly build factories that churn out war machines. 
 It also simplifies the resource system to the most rudimentary concepts. In Supreme Commander, 
 there is only energy and mass. Both are critical to building a strong economy to churn out hundreds 
 of units. While energy can be obtained through various generators and power plants, mass is restricted 
 to a handful of points on the map where you can build mass extractors that mine the planet's core. 
 The geographic distribution of these mass-extraction points will result in desperate battles to 
 capture and hold large amounts of territory.  

          The strategic view gives you the big picture, and getting to it is as simple as spinning 
 the scroll wheel on your mouse.     

  At the same time, it's also possible for defensive players to "turtle up" by building layers of 
 defenses, ranging from walls to ground- and air defensive turrets to energy shields. In that case, 
 the game can often come down to an artillery duel, as both sides attempt to knock out the other 
 through the application of sheer firepower. However, that's what experimental units are for. Experimental 
 units are hugely expensive and time consuming to build, but they're potential game changers. For 
 example, there's the Cybran Monkeylord, a gigantic walking tank armed with a devastating laser; 
 the UEF Fatboy, a mobile factory armed with battleship turrets and an energy shield; and the Aeon 
 Galactic Colossus, an enormous bipedal war machine. One of the most frightening moments in Supreme 
 Commander is when you've set up a good position and think you have the upper hand on the enemy 
 when all of a sudden an experimental unit appears and you realize that while you were building 
 other things, the enemy was concentrating on one of those. Then it's a desperate fight to survive. 
     

  The single-player campaign will slowly introduce you to the many concepts in the game, which is 
 good since Supreme Commander has a fairly steep learning curve. The basic concepts are easily understood, 
 but there's so much nuance in the game that it might take a while before you realize the importance 
 of such subtle things as building mass-storage structures around mass extractors to gain a bonus 
 or concentrating engineers on one task to speed production of units at factories. While the three 
 campaigns have only five or six missions each, keep in mind that these are huge missions and you'll 
 average anywhere between two and three hours on each one. In fact, missions can go on for so long 
 that the one thing the game sorely needs is some kind of autosave function, because if you manage 
 to get to the end of a two or three hour battle and lose at the last moment due to a stupid decision, 
 you'll have to start over again from scratch if you forgot to manually save the game midway.  

 
          The experimental units are incredibly expensive and time consuming to build, but they 
 can break a deadlock if used properly.     

  One of the really impressive things about Supreme Commander is that everything in the game is simulated. 
 This makes combat interesting, because inadvertent things can happen. Shoot down a bomber, and 
 it may crash in a forest, setting it afire. Or, take out the Aeon CZAR experimental unit, an enormous 
 flying saucer, and you may briefly cheer before you realize that the flaming wreckage is going 
 to take out half of your base. While the pathfinding gets a little confused at times, the performance 
 of the artificial intelligence is solid, particularly as an opponent. At the medium setting, the 
 AI is fairly passive, though at the more challenging horde and supreme settings, the AI is fairly 
 aggressive and knows how to attack. One particularly nasty tactic that it uses is to set up heavily 
 defended outposts in your territory, fortify them, and then set up artillery to pound your positions. 

  However, if you practice against the AI, you won't be much prepared for a human opponent, because 
 the AI isn't as nimble or as aggressive as a fellow human. The single-player campaign and the skirmish 
 modes serve as a lengthy tutorial to the concepts of the game, and you'll really have to apply 
 all the lessons and tactics that you learn to compete in multiplayer, which is fun, brutal, and 
 dynamic. Supreme Commander's gameplay lends itself well to the multiplayer realm because it's so 
 wide open. For every move that you can come up with, the enemy can develop a counter. For instance, 
 create a solid defensive line, and the enemy might bypass or simply fly over it, sending gunships 
 to raid your economic base. Focus too long on building an experimental unit, and the enemy might 
 send nuclear missiles or heavy artillery your way. Gas Powered Games' multiplayer browser is fairly 
 robust and makes finding and setting up a game easy, though it'd be nice if it wasn't a separate 
 application. As it is, you must quit Supreme Commander to launch the browser, and the browser automatically 
 launches the game when you join a match.  

  At the highest detail levels, Supreme Commander is incredible to look at. Seeing dozens, if not 
 hundreds, of air, land, and naval units battling onscreen is amazing, and large battles are littered 
 with smoke trailers, particle effects, and explosions. Meanwhile, watching a nuclear detonation 
 slowly expand, with the shock wave destroying everything in its path and setting off a chain reaction, 
 is bliss. Even more impressive is the ability to pull the camera back far enough to see the entire 
 battlefield. Limited zoom has always been one of the primary frustrations in many RTS games, because 
 you never could feel like you were getting a grasp on the battlefield. But in Supreme Commander, 
 you can pull the zoom back far enough and feel like you're really sitting back in a command bunker 
 somewhere as you watch the military icons that represent your units move and fight onscreen. If 
 you have two monitors, you can keep one zoomed in on the action while the other gives you the strategic 
 view, and it's very cool, though you'll need a fairly advanced video card to support it. The good 
 news is that if you have just one monitor, you can do a split-screen view with one half zoomed 
 on the action and the other giving you the strategic view.  

  The downside is that Supreme Commander can bring the most modern PCs to their knees. Since the 
 game is keeping track and simulating hundreds of units over such a large area, it doesn't take 
 much before the frame rate will start to stutter. On our test machine with a dual core CPU and 
 2GB of RAM, we experienced slight pauses on the humongous 81k-by-81k map. On smaller maps with 
 a larger set of AI opponents, the action slowed to a virtual crawl as the system strained to keep 
 up with the action. It's doubtful that a PC has been built yet that can run Supreme Commander's 
 largest map with a full set of AI opponents at high graphics detail. Thankfully, you can adjust 
 the graphical settings quickly and without having to restart the game, so if the battle starts 
 to chug, you can simply go to the options menu and lower the visual detail to smooth out the frame 
 rate.  

          All of this comes at a steep price in terms of system requirements, as running the game 
 at max detail will require the latest hardware.     

  Supreme Commander's audio seems a bit muted, though that's probably because you're always watching 
 the action from a considerable distance. The units make all the futuristic whirs and machine noises 
 that you'd expect, though the highlight of the game's audio is the martial music that changes tempo 
 whenever something dramatic happens onscreen.  

  Still, despite the hardware headaches, Supreme Commander is one of the most impressive real-time 
 strategy games in recent years. This is a game that dares to be big, and it succeeds because it 
 understands what strategy is about. Strategy is more than overwhelming the other side with sheer 
 numbers. Strategy is about maneuvering, it's about applying the right weapon at the right place 
 at the right time, and it's about rewarding creative thinking, and that's what Supreme Commander 
 does.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (346 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sir-Sharkman
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  I purchased the relatively inexpensive game hoping for a new, refreshing, experience. I got..... 
 something else. It is just a regular, boring RTS. :S 
  
  You build a massive base and wait around for the numbers of resources to get to around a 1,000,000,000 
 and THEN only then can you actually be slightly interested only to be dissapointed by strung out 
 battles against massively overpowered and over defended units. You could take ten minutes to fight 
 off a simple enemy skirmish. BOOOORing.
  
  
  If you want a good, fast paced game, I reccommend World in Conflict!! Not this backspawn of Satan. 
 Horrible, shivers, shannigans.
  
  If you want a good, fast paced game, I reccommend World in Conflict!! Not this backspawn of Satan. 
 Horrible, shivers, shannigans.
  
  Please do not be one of the few who is consumed by this idiotic game. 
  
  367 Current Leaderboard 
 Pos.!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gipperito
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  this game, like the original, is a very addicting game to play due to its ability for endless gameplay 
 or a campaign. i hate games that dont have one or the other. also i like the fact that when you 
 commander dies, he usually takes a fair amount of what killed him along for a ride. n most games 
 when your leader dies its like "o no! the king is dead!" and then you move on. in this game it 
 severely hinders your building capeabilities and i feel less confident when he dies. What i dont 
 like however is the way that nukes are utterly useless against a base because the enemy always 
 has at least 2 defense stations that are always protected by a shield. i think that maybe they 
 should at leats do one of 2 things:1.) make it so that you can nuke important stuff or 2.) make 
 it so that sometimes the defenses miss. thats just my opinion though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Some Of you will remember Cave Dog Aka Total Anialation a RTS with 'Galactic Scale in mind!'
  
  This time its back a new RTS from Chris Taylor Supreme Commander, its all the galactic scale 
 you can get plus more better graphics, sounds, units more startergy and only if youre PC can Handle 
 it!*
  
  Supreme Commander will put to the test everything at your disposal, ranging from your hardware 
 to your personal endurance. The enormous maps, some of which are as large as 6500 square kilometres 
 (they can actually be viewed from space -- a nice touch, both visually and tactically) , combined 
 with the hundreds of exquisitely detailed units and structures that often appear on screen simultaneously 
 will challenge even the most tricked out rigs to keep a steady frame rate. Moreover, even if your 
 box can cut it, you might not. The length of the game's epic three and four hour missions requires 
 extreme patience on behalf of the player, not to mention a knack for long-term strategizing. Missions 
 are all divided into 3 or more sections so as soon as you complete one objective the there is suddenly 
 more to do! Sup Com is all about the Infinite war a war that waged 1000's of year and now there 
 are 3 factions left to wage it Cybrans - a Nation of liberation cyborgs Aeon - a peace loving Nation 
 of advances technology and Finnaly the UEF - the Nation of humans that wants to bring all nations 
 together, The campaign is slip up into 3 you have the change to play as any three in any order 
 but UI recomend that you play then in order otherwise you'll be lost :P
  
  Graphics wise Sup Com is on par, Units leave tracks in the earth and snow, all units have their 
 own distinc shadows. The detail in the units is amazing! with gunship ferring units and shield 
 tanks makeing asort of mobile cover for you units Stratergy is all in a days work here! As in game 
 you are able to zoom in right into the battle to see the tank get crushed by a larger counter part 
 and then zoom out so see the whole battle field! on a earthly sorts! You will be doing this most 
 of teh time as Sup Com requires you to be in more than on place at a time, Managing Base Defences 
 Attacking a enemy outpost defending as a large. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiakouxu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I won't say it's a bad game. Because it isn't. Having one of the makers from the Total Annihilation, 
 I was really tempted to take a look at it.
  
  What I liked about the game is the definitely the ability to make your visual of game play, the 
 actual strategic map. It's not overly pretty like some other RTS's but it gets the point across 
 that it was made relatively well. I don't think the specs call out for what it is though...
  
  I'd also like to add the whole tech tree, which isn't new at all, but it adds a nice flavor 
 to each of the three races, whom are also different from each other; much like how Blizzard does 
 it's RTS's now a days.
  
  What turns me off, and yes it won't be for everyone, is the slow game play. It kind of reminds 
 me of the Sims combined with an RTS. You kind of have to build up from scratch at a relatively 
 slow speed, and I don't really like watching things build for a long time. Resources are pretty 
 straight forward, as is the game play. There is a bit of strategy in each map, but not enough to 
 say there's a lot to get out of it. Rock Paper Scissors type of thing.
  
  The story/campaign isn't anything superb. Three races warring against each other, with the UED 
 (Humans) trying to bring "peace" back. Cybrans (Humans with AI technology stuck in their heads) 
 try to free their other populace from the humans, whom created them. And then we have the Aeon. 
 Destroy the non-believers. The story isn't that great. However, the campaign does gain points for 
 having ever expanding maps. I did enjoy that.
  
  Since the campaign isn't the strong point of this game, I tried out multi-player. I'm not exactly 
 a fan of playing random people, but I tried. I must say that the strategies there get pretty funny, 
 but again... It's kind of the slow feel of the game that really turns me off. Usually from a war 
 point of view, things are kind of more sped up. But I assume that comes from the large map battles 
 and so on.
  
  Overall, I suggest getting it if you like RTS's and a little bit of building up bases, and destroying 
 each other with limitless resources. The game is pretty endless. If you don't like super long battles, 
 or you yourself don't like slow moving games, at least try it out first. It isn't bad, just not 
 in my game taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I haven't seen a strategy game this complex and this finely tuned in quite some time. Gas Powered 
 Games delivers a monster of an RTS, and despite how long it may be before you fully understand 
 its intricacies, it's a surprisingly addictive game. The strategic zoom and base automation are 
 so intuitive and helpful, it makes many other RTS games seem confining and simplistic. For hardcore 
 Total Annihilation fans and strategy gamers is general, this is your opus. If you're a casual strategy 
 fan, you're truly missing out if you pass this one by. Though the single player is flawed, and 
 unit pathing and behavior occasionally runs into problems, Supreme Commander's online is one of 
 the most intense, enjoyable gaming experiences out there.
  
  Gameplay: Though many units are similar across the three factions, they have their differences, 
 and the amazing array of attack and defense options are well balanced.
  
  Graphics: Impressive unit and environment detail and an informative zoomed out map are only hindered 
 by steep hardware requirements.
  
  Sound: An epic score accompanied by a polished sound effects and resounding explosions. The only 
 gripe is the voice acting.
  
  Value: It's really hard to stop playing this online, though playing too long in one sitting can 
 really wear you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  hmm lets see i give it a 6.5 which again isnt bad, though the rating may change in the future for 
 it, for i havent played it much i just got it a few days ago... but from what i can tell its pretty 
 solid, and if you a fan of RTS style games it takes the traditional style of RTS to a whole new 
 scale... though my only real complaint is with the camera angle, its a little too top view for 
 me for such a 3d game (though you might be able to change this i will research it more later) the 
 weapons and units are nice, and the story isnt all that bad either, i am rather enjoying the game, 
 the graphics are pretty nice, but the engine can get hiccups every now and then, but not bad at 
 all. the sound is ok. the gameplay itself isnt really slow, its just long and time consuming.. 
 which again isnt bad. but i can see where one would need to take frequent breaks from the game 
 because of boredom or fustration. but i havent got to play teh forgged allaince expansion pack 
 yet so once i beat this one and the review still stands, then i will jump on supreme commander 
 forged alliance and get into it and write a review of it as well. and i really dont like how you 
 cant control the scroll rate, or scroll speed.. but other than that i recommend for its price, 
 especially to RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arvendragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is an excellent RTS game. It is very innovative and broad, while deep at the 
 same time. The AI can be difficult at times, but the only real difference between the three races 
 is the Experimental Units. Each race has a flashy set of icons and units, but in reality, they 
 aren't much different.
  
  The experimentals, however, are excellent additions. They provide new, interesting strategies, 
 and one or two can make a real difference.
  
  One of the best things about this game is the fact that the super weapon (the nuke, the experimentals, 
 etc.) are REAL super weapons, unlike other games where they look cool, but in reality just destroy 
 a bunch of the cheaper units. In this game, one well-placed nuke can obliterate an enemy.
  
  The graphics are excellent, but can easily take down an older computer. Pretty much any computer 
 in 2007 or 2008 will work fine.
  
  All in all, this is an excellent game. Good Hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveyf03
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. I had just purchased a new machine, and I thought I would pick 
 up a new game that would have put my old computer to shame.
  
  The first things that struck me about the games was the absolute awkwardness of the hud. On a widescreen 
 monitor your building options take up roughly half the screen, leaving you with an extremely narrow 
 field of view.
  
  The maps are big empty and lack detail. The units are unispired in the lower tech ranks. The battles 
 for all their "epicness" move rather slow, and not due to system problems, the game is just slow. 
 Better rts games can be had, that run at about a quarter of the specs this thing calls for.
  
  Hey if you find it for cheap it might be your thing. I was thankful that I fould the gold edition 
 on clearance, I would have been really upset if I would have paid full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yocomy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Supreme commander is a very exciting and amazing game but as soon as you get to multiplayer then 
 the real problem starts. When you get on a server it automticly start lagging like hell and thats 
 when you have to stop. There should be something like a patch for it but apart from that the game 
 is pretty good and very satisfying but could do better. It is a must buy game just download a patch 
 befor going online that is what I say about it. This is my first review so I might get people saying 
 this and that but I really dont care. Also I would like to say that the maps are very good and there 
 is things like bits where theres kind of a race so you have to build like 200 troops and move in 
 but when I played it I always lost which was very annoying and if you mix things together you can 
 get outstanding results. So thats my review and if you really like it I am free to tracking and 
 privit messegen.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is the spiritual successor to the 1997 wonder - Total Annihilation (did I spell 
 that right?) . Anyway, SupCom is one of the better RTS'es released this time around. If anyone remembers 
 TA (I was about 8 years old when I played it) , then SupCom will be warmly familiar.
  
  First, let's start with the technical stuff. Audio is good - the soundtracks are few and quite 
 generic, but the audio and voice acting used in the campaigns are top notch. The composer is the 
 very well-known and highly regarded Jeremy Soule, who has worked on other projects such as Oblivion 
 and the like. In terms of graphics, it's not going to offer many surprises. Everything looks good, 
 and the units and physics (which is essential in this game) are done well. The terrain is a couple 
 of levels below the likes of World In Conflict, but since you'll be leading hundreds of naval, 
 air, land, and artillery units into battle at once, it can look amazing.
  
  Gameplay is another strong point in this game, and really kept me coming back for more. The campaigns 
 can get old, and really tiresome because they're the same for all 3 factions (UEF, Cybran, Aeon) , 
 but the skirmishes will keep you at it for hours. The sheer scale of the entire battle (it gets 
 EPIC on 6 players or more) will probably occupy at least 2 hours of your time. I would say that 
 SupCom has achieved what it set out to do, that is to bring us a new breed of Real-Time Strategy 
 - rather than the oversimplified World In Conflict (which happens to be good, just that it isn't 
 really a hardcore RTS) .
  
  So why isn't it perfect? From what I can tell you, it retails for about half the price of other 
 titles, and offers just as much entertainment. It's definitely a AAA-rated game. But it just falls 
 short of doing the unexpected. The story is linear, but entertaining enough. The campaign videos 
 provide a welcome change of pace. But I feel that when held up against other titles available today 
 - World In Conflict & C&C 3, it just doesn't give you that WOW-factor.
  
  In conclusion, this is by no means a bad game. It does all of the basics right, and will be talked 
 about by hardcore strategists for years to come (along with Starcraft 2) . I do recommend it, with 
 the condition that it's not for everyone. It just falls short of doing more than it promises. Again, 
 it's great - but not outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhammer40k_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a great game that i waited for a long time to come out. When it did i was 
 so excited to go buy it.... came home installed it and waited for the massive 8GB game to finish 
 installing. After installed i blazed through the tutorial and the first campaign... thats the point 
 i decided that i should play some online Supreme Commander.
  
  Logged online and started a 1v1 game and it ran beautifully. but when it comes to 4 people on a 
 large scale map... dont bother playing longer then 15 minutes unless your machine has the full 
 recomended requerments, and all the setttings at about half there max or your going to hit some 
 major lag spikes.
  
  I would definatly recommend this game to anyone. Especially if they like single player campaigns. 
 The Enemy is very smart compaired to most RTS games. He very rarely repeates the same tactics twice 
 to infiltrate the same base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Ok. I pondered for a few months on buying this game even if it's a bit old, based on the constant 
 positives reviews I've read. I was torn between getting an RTS still based on the now seemingly 
 old premises of collecting resources and the apparently massive nature of the battles, told the 
 be something like never seen before, to a point it 'can rend a powerful system to its knees' Who 
 cannot be draw into a game with just that premise?
  
  So I went and got it used on ebay for a ridiculous price and there I was, playing the game for 
 the last 10-15 days
  
  To say the least, at this point I'm disappointed with the game. I've been playing RTS games for 
 a long time, I consider myself an early adopter of the genre. I love this type of games, they are 
 my favorite, but for some reason I stayed away for Supreme Commander for some time, maybe because 
 I considered it the same old stuff, and it seems I wasn't wrong. After playing Supreme Commander 
 first missions on each of the factions, the 'been there done that' feeling took me over. There 
 is a breaking point in the game that, even if the story keeps trying to drawn you in to see how 
 this millennia war ends, the gameplay push you away. Tasks that were challenging at the beginning 
 become increasingly repetitive, and things you loved to do at the beginning you just start to hate 
 them and do them just to finish the damn thing. The game play becomes very simple and straight 
 forward: build a base, build a bunch of engineers, gather resources like crazy, build defenses 
 like crazy, amass a huge army, and I mean a humongous army while holding off attack waves and then 
 attack the enemy to complete annihilation. You do this once, you love it. You do this three times 
 and you start wondering, you do it nine times and flashing warnings lights will start popping in 
 your brain: "stop wasting your time!" Consider you have to do this 18 times to complete the single 
 campaign and well, you just could stop playing, like I did, and read how the games end on the web
 
  
  The fundamental flaw of the game is no effort whatsoever to make each faction different from the 
 other on the way they fight and strategize. Contrary to newer and better RTS games like Company 
 of Heroes, where you can see fundamentals differences among the different armies (you will find 
 very hard or impossible to win a game, lets say, playing the British using a German strategy) , 
 Supreme just focused on shallow differences like the way the components look or fire, mostly visual 
 differences and not real 'cultural' differences. This makes the game immensely repetitive. Playing 
 the UEF is not different from playing the Aeons or the Cybrans, you will just have units that look 
 different on the surface but at the end are the same units. This is not good, considering very 
 old RTS games already took this into consideration. Add to this the game can have unacceptable 
 bugs after being released for so long, like missions that never ends for whatever reasons and you 
 have to OMG!, start again after playing them for hours, and it can be a very frustrating experience
 
  
  The game has good things though. The interface design is pretty good, and visually the game is 
 astonishing. I mean, really astonishing if you have a high-end machine that can survive the frame-rate 
 challenge. Battles are really of 'epic' proportions as some reviewers have said. To the benefit 
 of the developers, it seems they really tried to create a different RTS game, and they put a lot 
 of effort to deliver a very visually polished game. It's a shame they didn't worry that much about 
 making factions truly different in several aspects so you could enjoy a more challenging gameplay, 
 based on constant learning and adapting and not on repeating the same feats over and over (and 
 over)
  
  In conclusion, if you have played several RTS games before, you will get bored with Supreme soon, 
 and there is a high chance that you won't finish it. However, if you have played none or a few 
 RTS games before, you may be attracted by the great visuals and the challenges you will face
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  [I purchased Supreme Commander Gold Edition, so this review is for both Supreme Commander and Forged 
 Alliance]
  
  I'd been considering buying Supreme Commander for some time, and finally got around to picking 
 up the Gold Edition last weekend. I expected to spend the next week completely absorbed with fun 
 RTS action, playing with big robots, slick fighter jets, and cool battleships.
  
  Afterall, that's what the reviews, preview pics, and box art shows, right? But, instead, I ended 
 up playing 90 percent of the game zoomed out, moving around little blue and red icons on a 2d battlefield. 
 Why? It's impossible to spend more than a few seconds zoomed in actually looking at your units, 
 as the action in this game is border-line insane. Real time strategy is a misnomer. There's really 
 no strategy to the game at all. Build as many units as you can (don't worry about which type, they 
 all blow up instantly anyway) , and send them to the enemy units... they'll meet up and blow each 
 other up nearly instantly, and then you'll repeat the process over and over until one of you clicks 
 the mouse one less time than the other. 
  
  And this is all done zoomed out, as I said in the beginning, because the entire map is going to 
 be a raging so-called battlefield (it looks more like little triangles and squares shooting at 
 each other zoomed out) spread out for many kilometers... which sounds cool, but, the size of the 
 map is meaningless when it just looks like a big 2d blue and green map of a make-believe island.
 
  
  To be fair, there are many, many different units in the game, so you'll have plenty of different 
 types of little squares and triangles to blow up (remember the zoomed out point? The different 
 unit types are meaningless because you have to be zoomed in to see them... which you never have 
 time to do because they'll blow up shortly after construction) .
  
  So, if you are into clicking your mouse over and over, and like moving red squares to attack blue 
 squares, and if you have no interest in little details like unit experience, morale, or any other 
 vague representation of real-life military formations, tactics, and strategy.... then this is the 
 game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prakaa
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I have to say, this was a very good game. However, me being an RTS freak, the game just seemed 
 too similar to other RTS. This game, in its fundamentals, revolves around the same ideas as Age 
 of Empires. Build a base, get some guys and attack the enemy. Great, but it gets boring. Supreme 
 Commander facilitates like any RTS, by adding difference in units and specialisation. Tech and 
 the super units were great, but there nothing that grasped my interest. Yes it is innovative-but 
 only in support features (like maps, etc) , not really in gameplay.
  
  To add to this, the high requirements are also a bit of a drag. I have a computer with an Nvidia 
 7600GT with 265mb, and it had problems on medium graphics. The 8gb install size is really bad (I 
 bought the gold pack-I didn't bother installing FA) I really recommend this game to newcomers in 
 RTS, and people who like resource gathering. Perhaps it's just that I focus on the tactical side. 
 Just my opinion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark127
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  When I was 11 years old I came across a game that changed the way I saw games. Before this game 
 I had only spent time with Mario and the like. This game was Total Annihilation. I spent hours 
 pouring over content from the game and I was extremely saddened to learn when cavedog closed it 
 doors. Supreme Commander is not only the spiritual successor of my beloved TA, it has turned what 
 I loved into something better! This is not the RTS game for everyone however, but if you held a 
 deep love of TA like me, or just enjoy strategy, tactics etc., or even if you would just like to 
 see massive robots blowing each other up, give this game a try! The game comes with fairly steep 
 system reqs. but what doesn't these days, the game looks and plays great. A very satisfying "sequel" 
 to Total Annihilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  There are many RTS games out there where the same principles apply, gather resources, build a base 
 and then attack, but we have always been limited to that and nothing else but now we have a strategy 
 game where we can actually build armies thanks to the ability to to create thousands of units and 
 other features that we have been deprived of.
  
  The factions in supreme commander are great because they all rely on the same resouces (unlike 
 games such as dawn of war) which allows you to adapt quickly and they play differently due to units, 
 tactics and powers but the one thing that really makes supreme commander stand out from other RTS 
 games is the experimental units. These collosal giants turn the tide of battle and strike fear 
 into your foes online as you hear them screaming when one shows up the screen and radar.
  
  Overall supreme commander is an ambitious and generally amamzing game but the only critisizm is 
 the system requirments. but overall this is one of the best strategy games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Read review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2137,0. html
  
  With its huge battles, gigantic battlefields, and balanced sides, Chris Taylor's Total Annihilation 
 was the pinnacle of RTS games back in 1997. Ten years later, a spiritual successor by the name 
 of Supreme Commander has been released, taking all of what was big about TA and making it even 
 bigger in a glorious new 3D engine.
  
  Supreme Commander's story is set several thousand years into the future, with humanity being split 
 into three factions. The United Earth Federation represents order and empire, the cybernetic Cybran 
 fight for independence, while the alien-enlightened Aeon seek to liberate the universe. The campaign 
 is made up of three subcampaigns, letting you battle from the perspective of each of the factions. 
 Each faction fights for what it believes in, and hence, no side is really "evil." It's a nice touch, 
 because that mentality captures the essence of war. A slight disappointment is that besides for 
 looks, all three sides are nearly identical. This equates to a general lack of personality to each 
 faction, as well as to the game as a whole, which is disappointing because each of the factions 
 has an interesting backstory.
  
  The second you start playing, you'll notice the sheer size of the maps. They range from a mere 
 5km-by-5km to a gigantic 81km-by-81km. Effectively, this means that its impossible to run into 
 a choke point in Supreme Commander. This encourages using real-world tactics such as reconaissance 
 and feints. Supreme Commander makes such tasks easy with the ability to queue up commands for most 
 of the units and factories.
  
  SupCom features three "tech levels". The first levels allow you to only build basic units such 
 as light and medium tanks, fighter interceptors, submarines, and bombers. At higher levels, you'll 
 gain access to naval destroyers that can sprout legs and walk on land, siege assault bots, ballistic-missile 
 submarines, and much more.
  
  In Supreme Commander, the two resources to collect are energy and mass. Both are critical to building 
 a strong economy to churn out hundreds of units. While energy can be obtained through various generators 
 and power plants, mass is restricted to a handful of points on the map where you can build mass 
 extractors that mine the planet's core. This leads to some tense territorial battles over mass 
 reminiscent of Company of Heroes.
  
  In the case that two sides are deadlocked in combat and can't beat each other, one can call appon 
 However, that's what experimental units are for. Experimental units are hugely expensive and time 
 consuming to build, but they're potential game changers. For example, there's the Cybran Monkeylord, 
 a gigantic walking tank armed with a devastating laser; the UEF Fatboy, a mobile factory armed 
 with battleship turrets and an energy shield; and the Aeon Galactic Colossus, an enormous bipedal 
 war machine. Building one of these can really change the course of a game easily. With all of these 
 gameplay elements, Supreme Commander is both a blast to play offline and online through GPGNET.
 
  
  The Supreme Commander engine is impressive, allowing hundreds of detailed units easily move around 
 the battlefield in high detail and with amazing effects. It is a CPU hog, so be prepared to upgrade 
 if you don't have at least a dual-core processor.
  
  Sound effects are great, with all of the different weapons and sounds. However, the music is a 
 bit underwhelming, often the same tunes are repeated throughout the course of a match.
  
  Supreme Commander may not be the most ground-breaking RTS of the year, but it succeeds in what 
 it set out to do... To be a worthy follow-up to the legendary Total Annihilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangmar822
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  playing supreme commander has been great, the shere immensity of this game is like nothing that 
 has ever comme to the rts genre and which should be a shining becon of inginutity to rts games 
 for years to comme.
  
  the games sports a massive 1000 unit cap which wile offering huge battles and emmense armies it 
 has the downsid of bringing gameplay lag if your cpu isnt powerfull enough
  
  the faction while having some very differnet units probably could have been a little more deverse 
 apart from the design of the units and structures, each faction does have differences but they 
 all have some units that do basicly the same thing
  
  supreme commander or supcom really shines when its experimental units are brought into the game, 
 these thing are freaking massive war machines that when used right will destroy almost anything 
 and everything.
  
  supcoms campaign is interesting with a nice story and misson for each faction but to m it feels 
 as though it could have been lengthend, also campaign missions are challenging yet you do not gain 
 acces to all units until the last mission.
  
  what really makes supreme commander great is its multiplayer, the huge maps and the ability to 
 have up to four teams is thrilling especialy when all the factions are playing
  
  overall supcom is an amazing game with some new and amazing features and has shown just what todays 
 technologie can really do.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Supreme commander is made by gas powered games, thq and Chris Taylor.
  Supreme commander is an rts [real time strategy] but with enough content to last you ages. The story 
 is about 3 sides fighting for the galaxy the sides are the UEF [UNITED EARTH FEDERATION] , CYBRAN, AEON. the 
 uef are the earth nation that are just trying to restore peace the cybran are humans with robot 
 chips in them and the uef dont agree on this and are at war with them the aeon are more like aliens 
 trying the spread the way and we don't really know what the way is
  
  The campaigns for each of them are about 4 missions long however the missions last about 3 hours 
 each maybe more on the hard missions.
  the graphics are really good but not perfect but the real flaw with the graphics is later on in 
 the skirmish when you have about 100 units it will slowdown quite badly even if you own a really 
 high end computer it will eventually slowdown. The sound is really immersive and the best part about 
 it is the soundtrack which you would think was from a movie.
  
  Finally supreme commanders gameplay, the game will be full of huge wars with hundreds of tanks fighters 
 and ships fighting all at the same time and you can zoom out into a huge strategic map to help 
 manage you're units and you'll be overwelmed by the whole thing recommended for all rts lovers
 
  
  GAMEPLAY-9
  GRAPHICS-8
  SOUND-8
  VALUE-10
  STORY-8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I bought Supreme Commander, played it, and hated it. I thought it was ultra-boring. 
  A couple of months later, I tried it again. Still couldn't get into it.
  Then, a week or so ago, 
 armed with an upgraded PC and just a bit more patience, I tried again. This time I loved it.
  This game is set in the future, where three factions battle for supremacy in the "Infinite War". 
 There are Cybrans, human-robot hybrids, the Aeon, humans who have followed the alien religion, 
 "the Way", and the United Earth Federation (UEF) , who are very much the good ole' US military. 
 
  Supreme Commander has an epic scale; the largest map is 50km by 50km, with up to 8 players, who 
 can each have up to 1000 units. The result is a mind-blowing RTS experience, requiring you to employ 
 a variety of different strategies. 
  In Supreme Commander, you use air, sea, and land units to wage your war. There are also structures 
 like shield generators, radars, missile launchers and turrets to support you. Nearly every unit 
 has an effective counter, but there are also collosal experimental units, who can turn the tide 
 of battle.
  But how do you manage your units in such a game? Supreme Commander makes this quick and easy. You 
 can deploy any unit to patrol an area, and use waypoints, formations and rally points, very easily. 
 You can even set a building to create units, then send them straight off to patrol or join the 
 battle from a certain direction. But one of Supreme Commander's most innovative and useful features 
 is the theatre of war. Ypu can zoom all the way out, so you can see the entire map, with every 
 unit and building represented by an icon. This allows for rapid detection and response, of enemy 
 forces, and it lets you keep an eye on your entire force. Or, you can zoom right in for a view 
 of the battle.
  Supreme Commander has great graphics, especially its effects; the lasers and explosions look excellent. 
 However, you will need a good PC to run Supreme Commander, or the units will look like spiky blobs, 
 or you will get lag. Some of the landscapes and environments, however, look a bit bland.
  The sound is excellent; there is a fitting musical score, sometimes slightly reminiscent of the 
 new Star Wars films. The sound effects are very good, too.
  One qualm is that the factions are too similar. Although this does put the focus on individual 
 strategy, and balance the factions, the game might have been a bit more interesting with some more 
 differences.
  The campaign is good, once you progress towards the later missions, but it's not the best I've 
 ever seen. That said, skirmishes will keep you occupied for a long time, if you're in it for the 
 single player. You can even set the AI to focus on a particular strategy.
  The multiplayer scene is very well done. Battles can last for hours, as you unleash your might 
 upon other players. Supreme Commander even lets you set temporary expansion limits, if you want 
 to avoid the rush (dun-dun-duh!) .
  The economy system is just amazing. You collect mass and energy, through power generators, mass 
 fabricators and mass extractors. No "gatherers" are necessary. Resources will be deducted from 
 your stockpile as you build your units, like in C&C. It's an brilliant system. At the start of 
 every battle, you will have an ACU (Armoured Command Unit) to begin construction of your base. 
 Your factories can also construct engineers, who can build more advanced buildings and defences. 
 In the game, there are three tech levels, each unlocking new buildings and units. 
  So give Supreme Commander a try, if you're seeking a deep, satisfying and immersive RTS experience. 
 But give it a proper go - you might not like it first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeromusUltima
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a relization to how people can make great strategy games. SUpreme Commander 
 is the BEST RTS on the PC.
  
  Graphics 10/10: The graphics in Supreme Commander are so good for the PC. The explosions are massive, the 
 units detailed and the environments are well designed. A word of warning: Buy a Graphics card if 
 you have a moderatley old computer. This games large battles will bring low or medium quality computers 
 down.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: If this game wasn't so frustratingly hard, it would get a 10. Anyway though, the AI 
 in this game are incredibly smart. Don't think you won't be challenged on Easy AI. This game has 
 great strategy elements in the fact that you can't just send your commander (or your 'main building 
 tool') to attack your enemy because it gets destroyed: You Lose. The gameplay is easily varied, with 
 many maps to choose from. The Campaign is both fun and challenging.
  
  Sound 7/10: This game may only have 1 or 2 tunes but the sound effects are amazing. When you blow 
 up a robot it makes a fantastic explosion. When you blow up an Experimental ( massively strong 
 unit) BOOM! When you blow up the enemy Commander, a massive Thermonuclear explosion. Awesome sound 
 effects.
  
  Replay 10/10: Replay value is amazing. I never got sick of skirmish after I beat the campaign. There 
 are so many maps and AI Difficulty levels to keep things interesting. You will never run out of 
 things to do.
  
  Closing Comments: Supreme Commander is an epic strategy game that is the ultimate game in it's 
 genre. It is well worth your money for the campaign and skirmish alone. But with an epic multiplayer, youv'e 
 scored a bargain. Buy this game if you're a big fan of strategy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilberWonka
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  If you want to react, not think, this is not a game for you. If you believe that RTS is about memorizing 
 build orders and clicking quickly and accurately, this is not a game for you. It's just a matter 
 of preference, no point fighting over it, and I was brought up on Warcraft and C&C - I understand 
 where you're coming from. I disagree though.
  
  Supreme Commander can be best described as a remake of Total Annihilation, which was awesome, with 
 a new strategic zoom function, which is also awesome: For once you have room to manoeuvre rather 
 than inexplicably having your base 10 meters from your enemy's. For once you build artillery batteries, 
 air bases, missile silos and infrastructure rather than it all being implied or off-map. For once 
 YOU'RE the man, the be all and the end all, and you can do it your way. Oh, and aircraft move like 
 aircraft. It's a great game.
  
  Of course, I don't want to be a TA fan boy here, so I'll point out a few flaws from an objective 
 point of view: this game will rape your computer more or less no matter what you have (patches 
 help a suprising amount though) and, while it may have great strategic depth, everything about 
 it seems somewhat sterile and without personality: it's all substance and no flash. What's more, 
 the AI isn't smart enough for the game, making the campaign quite easy and single player skirmishes 
 even more so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanthox
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Maybe if I had continued playing, I would have liked it. Maybe if I hadn't grown up playing warcraft 
 and CnC I would like it... maybe...
  
  I love Chris Taylor's work and I respect what he made here, but I can't get into it. It feels like 
 I spend the entire game waiting for something to happen. 
  
  Everything takes forever to accomplish without actually having to do it. But this could partially 
 due to the fact that I couldn't keep playing it. It does have nice aspects, like a nice zoom out 
 and such. 
  
  So many people have said it was so good (PC Gamer for one) but I don't see how this slow paced 
 slugfest (animal, not uber punches or bats) can live up to a game with a heart beat. Seriously, 
 get this game a pacemaker!
  
  But it just couldn't catch my attention long enough to hook me at all. In fact the short while 
 I did play it it just annoyed and irritated me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  The last good RTS in my opinion was Red Alert 2 (Command and Conquer universe) which is unfair 
 to say. So therefore, looking at SupCom as the successor to Total Annihilation, you have a winner. 
 
  
  SupCom has distinct detail in the graphics of the units with little to none of the flare seen in 
 CnC 3. Yet... you have the substance that makes an RTS... an RTS. Massive large scale battles on 
 up to 81x81 km maps (EXTREMELY LAGE) , with a unit cap of 1000 including buildings. And lets not 
 forget we actually get walls for all those turtelers like me on occation.
  
  The Single player campaign is nothing spectacular with the same missions played by all 3 factions 
 available, namely, the UEF (Earth) , Cybran (Cyborg) and Aeon (A cult of people following an alien 
 tradition called "The Way") . The Multiplayer excells tremendously with maps varying in size from 
 5x5 km to 81x81 km. Making for an exodus in Armageddon when lanning against 2 to 8 players.
  
  Units are vast and not so varied with 4 Tiers available. The fist 3 being simple upgrades made 
 at the War Factory / Air Factory / Naval Factory and building the relevant tech engineers to carry 
 your building needs and requirements. The 4th Tier is avaiable by upgrading your Commander to Tech 
 3 or using Tech 3 engineers to build the "Experimental" untis ie. Tier 4. They are large units 
 capable of taking out literally anything in their path and even capable in some cases able to survive 
 a nuclear attack.
  
  The currency works similar to Total Annihilation, capture Mass points with Mass extractors for 
 "Mass" and build Power plants for energy. Keep these under constact check when building, a simple 
 slip up here could cost you the game when either your shields go down or your defences suddenly 
 stop working.
  
  The Strategy implementation needed in this game is fantastic, go wild with your imganination when 
 setting up for the slaughter. At first glance, you will definitely overlook the obvious and more 
 intricate details. Delve a little deeper with little effort and you have yourself the Supreme Commander.
 
  
  All in all, this is an RTS that requires some learning and patience for the first hour. Thereafter, 
 strategies are near limitless in the open layout and design of the maps, construction and units. 
 A near perfect game that delivers on most expecatations. For the player that wants that much more 
 which wasnt delivered with the recent CnC 3. A MASTERPIECE in RTS, albeit, not so pretty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruesader
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a game that strikes you with its extremely high production values.
  
  The graphics are state of the art, sharp, crisp and give a great view of what futuristic warfare 
 could be like. 
  
  The three different factions are far too similar, and their differences are very minor, and not 
 evident until you get into the experimental units. The lack of diversity is frustrating, I would 
 much prefer something like the differentiation between the teams like Warcraft/ Starcraft has.
 
  
  The game is excellent, but very imposing and has a steep learning curve, but it is very rewarding 
 and the tactical map is excellent. The HUD is decent, but ugly and does not fit in with the games 
 sense of style at all.
  
  Nonetheless this is a must buy for RTS fans, and should be highly considered by any other PC gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadokahn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  I have played this game all the way through multiple times. It's just as fun multi-player. I have 
 been so disturbed by the recent trend of RTS's being more about clicks per second then true strategy 
 or tactics. I understand the goal is avoid turtling, but that's part of strategy just ask any 
 competent chess players. Anyway, love the game but if you don't like thinking, or long battles, 
 this isn't the game for you.
  
  The ability to plan out battles, complex pathing, etc hasn't been seen since its ancestor (Total 
 Annihilation) . Not that RTS greats such as Star Craft and C&C don't have there place in the world, 
 but this is in a whole different league. Army sizes are massive, and you really feel like you are 
 a General with the ability to plan battles, not micro manage them as is the case in most modern 
 RTS games. But, if you do want to go to that level, zoom in and do so.
  
  My only complaint is the AI could certainly be improved... which of course the expansion does. 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I like Supcom and I normally don't like RTS games, the only ones I have liked are RA, COH and now 
 Supcom. If you want a single player experience then don't bother because it feels very generic 
 and the story is pretty poor so you wont really care about finishing it. Each of the 3 factions 
 aswel all feel rather generic and you wont really find one you like seeing as they all play pretty 
 much the same and all look pretty much the same. There are minor tweaks between each of them like 
 some can float over water and some can't and the fire power and strength balances between them. 
 The only other real changes between them all are the experimetal units where they all have different 
 unit here and you tend to pick you race depending on your fave looking ones lol... I myself like 
 the monkeylord.
  
  Supcom is a dream for multiplayer RTS gaming because you use gpg. net which is a great platform 
 which tracks all your stats and really easy to find games and chat to people in chat + download 
 and upload replys. Also the size of the games are amazing, much larger than anything i've seen 
 before in the genre and it's a real dream for tactitions, you'll be fighting on 3 fronts which 
 are land, water and air and then if you're playing against 7 other people then it's just freaking 
 crazy and makes for great times. My personal fave thing is 4 v 4 though and it just makes for crazy 
 massive epic battles that can last for hours. I can only really think of one fault for balance 
 about this game and that's the fact that nukes really ruin the fun for me, however they can be 
 turned off so that's fine.
  
  The graphics are really great however like I said before the game feels rather generic artistic 
 wise, the game doesn't look bad but it's very hard to care about a faction when they all look the 
 same and hurts even more how theres no real story so makes it even worse to picking a faction. 
 The game is a giant system hog however it does scale down and still looks great due to the epic 
 size. The sounds are all great too and again they are rather generic but do the job, you wont get 
 personal with anything and theres no real personality to anything. The music that plays in the 
 background fits but you wont think "woah amazing" lol.
  
  So yeah Supcom offers a amazing multiplayer experience that IMO no other RTS game rival today but 
 the single player is poor. The game feels rather generic and can get quite boring because of that 
 but in the end the great multiplayer gameplay wins me over. I just hope if GPG make another similar 
 game that they work on the Art so you can really decide a faction you want to play like other RTS 
 games such as Dawn of War or Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Well some great additions to the world RTS in this game with the ability to scroll out and check 
 up on the rest of your force or were the enemy may be placed on the map and should keep me at least 
 entertained until the new command and conquer comes out.
  
  So what does Supreme Commander have to offer well mighty killing power from gigantic armoured commanders 
 and the ability to create an unprecedented amount of units. With engineers and the commander being 
 able to have building projects backed up so you can keep up with the battle and create the vast 
 amounts of units you will need to over throw the power of the other faction to win the battle and 
 eventually the war. I have yet to try multi-player yet so I'm unable to comment on this all though 
 there are many people already on there. So if your looking for a game that will keep you entertained 
 for a couple of hours a day week or whatever this is worth a look and really has moved the RTS 
 genre along a few steps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the flagship game of the genre and i say it because of two reasons. Firstly this is the 
 best RTS game i have ever played. Secondly, the core of this game is very similar to that of any 
 typical RTS game -----build a base and stabilize it, build an army, improve your base, strengthen 
 you army, etc. This game may even feel oddly familiar to a few gamers. So whats the hype about?
 
  
  Although gas powered games haven't added any NEW revolutionary features they have altered and improved 
 almost every aspect of this genre making the game revolutionary in many ways. From the design and 
 variety of the structures, units and terrain to the size of the maps and population limit, they 
 have changed it all. So although the main objectives are similar the way in which you will achieve 
 your goal has been greatly changed.
  
  The Campaign is fun, and interesting, and will give you hours of extra gameplay, the storyline 
 is also great. Its also nice to play as any of the 3 fractions, as they all have a different campaign.
 
  
  The huge maps allow for humongous and long battles. Also owing to the size of the maps now when 
 you attack your enemy you will have to consider you tactics much more than you would have to in 
 any other RTS game. Concerning this they HAVE added a new feature. The coordinated strike feature 
 lets two different armies constituted of different units attack the same base at the same time 
 and so making the offensive more effective.
  
  The AI of this game is very smart too. It continuously comes up with new ways to ruin your day 
 and even I have had up with new tactics to win. The different units and the sheer number that you 
 can build will provide you with many options to destroy you foes. As the only 2 resources in the 
 game, mass and energy, are generated by your own structures you can build as big an army as you 
 like and theres virtually no limit to expanding you base. So the battles are almost always huge 
 and fierce involving hundreds and hundreds of units. During one of these you will realize how impressive 
 the size of the giant units actually are. The smaller units look are dwarfed by the biggest and 
 the large units make full use of their size advantage.
  
  The units of the different races, though they look different, act quite similar. The huge bots 
 destroy every thing they see that does not bear the same color as itself and they are very good 
 at that. While the smaller units weave in and out and keep relentlessly attacking their foes. Naval 
 warfare according to me was quite impressive but, I don't know if it was something with my playing 
 style, the aerial units didn't last long. Nuking your enemies is extremely satisfactory and the 
 Commander makes killing look like a walk in the park.
  
  One GREAT thing about this game is the ability to create a list of commands for a unit so that 
 it'll perform a series of tasks without you having to order it every single time. And it is very 
 easy to use all the different options that this game provides. complicated things can be done very 
 easily. Its so easy that you can develop your base, fortify it, build more units and attack your 
 enemy all at the same time. The scale, variety and system of this game makes it stand head and 
 shoulders above the rest.
  
  However all this doesn't come free and you'll have to pay in the form of PC upgrades if you want 
 to enjoy this game to the max. As the graphics are great and in battles MANY units are gonna be 
 involved your pc will have a hard time displaying. But I found that the framerate can be improved 
 considerably by reducing the graphics. But you will miss quite a bit of the fun in low graphics 
 such as the huge explosions.
  
  This is a dream come true for RTS lovers as many limitations (such as population) are virtually 
 removed and although it plays just like a typical RTS theres a lot of variety. Gamers new to this 
 genre will find this game a very good starting point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I think a good part of any game should be drama. Strategy games in particular tend to depict epic 
 struggles for survival where carnage, death and destruction are followed by glorious victory. Surprisingly 
 in Supreme Commander such drama is totally absent. It is set in a future where people can use jump 
 gates to send a single person (that is you, in a big mech suit) to the far reaches of the galaxy. 
 A single person mind you, and not a whole army. The consequence of this is that the confrontations 
 you have are somewhat bizarre "wars" between what are actually no more than 3-4 sentient beings. 
 Each "commander" creates an army of robots to fight for him. It all feels like big boys with toys 
 playing with planets for sand boxes. All that to kill one guy in a big suit.
  
  It doesn't help that what story there is is distributed over just 6 missions, each of which takes 
 far too long to come to a conclusion. There are three factions to choose from but it seems they're 
 simply retelling the exact same story, if only from a different perspective. Since the units are 
 almost identical in all but appearance there is very little reason to play the campaign of any 
 of the other two factions.
  
  Now it's not all bad; if you look past the story and just get to the fighting it's quite ok. Units 
 are balanced so that they are strong vs. one type and weak vs. other types of units, meaning you 
 will have to use mixed unit strategies to get anywhere. Once the fight gets underway it gets so 
 hectic that you'll stay glued to you seat just to fend off the next attack. The interface in particular 
 is outstanding. You can queue all kinds of commands to units; you can string a bunch of commands 
 together so you don't have to constantly babysit particular units. You can easily move to a different 
 place on the map by zooming all the way out and back in where you point the mouse. 
  
  Perhaps multiplayer is how this game really should be played, but I haven't so I can't say anything 
 about that. As a single player game, I think there are certainly better games you can buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuyuyu6
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited about the game. That was where the first problem came in, the steep hardware 
 needed. But, as that was bypassed, the game was great. The campaign always had some sort of twist 
 in it. From receiving an EMP on your enemies to suddenly facing the most iconic or the most powerful 
 unit in this game. With all this, the game is hard even on easy mode. Fortunately, like almost 
 all games, it works its way up for you to get it. Once you get all that done, you should roll on 
 down to try out multiplayer.
  
  One other thing about this game is that it gives the three factions a relatively simple balancing 
 system. The game manages to bypass this however by making every different unit unique to all but 
 its looks. Some tanks might have flares, planes might have stealth, all those things mould this 
 game.
  
  One of the problems that nobody would care about is that the Aeon tech 1 planes are flat. That 
 means that they are just a line. The lasers of all types, whether construction, or combat are all 
 flat as well. This might seem like a problem when you look here, but you'll only notice that by 
 playing with the camera.
  
  My last point is something many have noted. That is the fact that many would rather prefer the 
 earlier unit ideas. That means like Massive Fatboys, Cybrans using bots instead of tanks, and most 
 importantly, the missile launchers on the Titan.
  
  So then, I leave you with this, Titans as short-ranged MMLs anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Av0011
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  to be honest i didn't like the game at first because i started off by playing against a friend 
 of mine who had played this game for a lot longer so because i didn't know what everything was 
 and what to do with almost everything. so i suggest either playing the tutorials but if you want 
 all the tricks and bits that the tutorial doesn't tell you, you should play the campaign mode. 
 and to be on the safe side so that you know most of the tricks in the game i suggest playing all 
 the campaign modes for all three factions so that you have some knowledge about all the factions.
 
  
  once you have passed the lengthy learning curve then the game becomes much more fun and to be honest 
 once you have played a good game on it then you don't really want to play any other rts, this game 
 is so epic that it blows away every other rts. the main plus point is the number of units you can 
 construct and also the size of the maps, it just makes the battles much more epic.
  
  on a performance side it isn't as demanding with hardware as people say, at this point in technology 
 we already have quad core however because this game was made before this time it will not use all 
 4 cores. however i have a laptop with and Nvidia 8600M GT and a intel core 2 duo 2.0GHz processor 
 and 2GB RAM. this is enough to play the game in complete full graphics, so i can turn all my settings 
 to the highest possible settings and the game will run smooth. the only problem is that the laptop/desktop 
 gets very hot after around 3hrs so a cooling device is suggested.
  
  This game is much more though compared to other rts games in the time sense, to get the game going (in 
 skirmish) you have to put some time in building your resources and then your defences and then 
 you will want to also upgrade your buildings such as factories and shields and defences. then you 
 will want to think about major defences to repel enemy attacks and then you will want to build 
 your own attacks. and basically a well played game lasts around 3 - 3.5 Hrs. a long time, yes, 
 however it gets very addictive and you need to make sure you take breaks. 
  The one thing that i suggest you do not do is: 
  
  DO NOT BUILD NUCLEAR LAUNCHERS AND FIRE 
 THEM AT THE ENEMY, IT WILL JUST MAKE THE GAME BORING!! 
  
  but by all means build strategic missile defence's to counter the AI's nukes.
  
  so overall 
 the game is ridiculously awesome, and is so epic that any other rts will seem boring, smaller, 
 and it will stay as one of the best rts for some time i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is sold as a game that is supposed to take other real time strategy games and make them 
 look like they were small border skirmishes. And it fulfills that goal completely and utterly. 
 The only place that you will find bigger armies is in some turn based strategies, and not many 
 of them at that. 
  
  The campaign starts each mission fairly small, which allows you to get set up, and then expands 
 the map one of two times until you are at a giant map. This means that although there are less 
 missions than in a normal RTS game, it feels like there are more.
  
  I also like the diversity of the units. Each side has units with their own unique flair, but enough 
 similarity that they are all balanced. The three sides seem similar, so similar strategies work 
 with all three of them, but feel different to play. Plus the experimental units are just plain 
 cool.
  
  The biggest, and probably only complaint I have with this game is the inability to effectively 
 control your units. It seems as though you build massive armies and then tell them to go there, 
 and both side line up, and they shoot until one side is demolished. I think that it would be a 
 lot better if instead of changing the formations, (Box, Echelon, Spread Out, ect.) that you could 
 change their tactics. You could say hit and run, where they would probe any enemies nearby and 
 then retreat, or hold ground, where they would simply shoot until destroyed, or guerrilla, where 
 they would use mobility/stealth to try and gain an advantage. Maybe a few more options, but that 
 way it would mean that battles could be a little more customized than whoever has better troops 
 wins. 
  
  Aside from that one gripe, this game is excellent and I would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord0thief
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander, Gas Powered Games has done it again. Created another great RTS, and it's very 
 unique. Supreme Commander knows how to derrive itself from the other, "painfully average" RTS's 
 we have in the gaming industry. 
  
  Not to say that Supreme Commander is THE best Real Time Strategy game that was released in 2007, 
 it is definitely up very high in that list. This game brings all the qualities of a game that many 
 strategy lovers can come to enjoy, and is a great way for people who don't, enjoy strategy so much, 
 to be emmersed into the genre. It will show you three different ways to fight a battle, Land, Air, 
 and Sea. Not to mention it does this on a huge scale, you as a player will be able to zoom out 
 into a theatre of war, being able to view all of the battlefield your army is on. This is what 
 differeniates Supreme Commander from the other RTS's. It has some of the best graphics you could 
 get out of a 2007 game, and has a pretty solid frame rate. Plus, you won't just be fighting in 
 those small maps that were popularized by Starcraft and Age of Empires, you'll be fighting on Large 
 Scale Maps. That's right, Large Scale, meaning you could be literally fighting Planetside. 
  
  In the end, what really makes Supreme Commander is it's exceptional graphics display, it's 
 intense and addicting game play, and how unique it is from other RTS's.
  
  --lord0thief 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander was one game that I was waiting for with more restlessness than usual. It sounded 
 like an amazing game... land, air and water based combat, three opposing factions with units complementing 
 each other and what not. But somehow the game never lived up to the hype...
  
  First off, the graphics were terrible. Oh sure, the game looked good when hundreds of units were 
 on the battlefield, but somehow it looked very kiddish. It was kind of like expecting graphics 
 like CnC3-TiberiumWars and getting Total Annihilation. The actual game screen was mostly covered 
 by the unit management console, you know, where you control unit actions and what to build and 
 stuff.
  
  The combat was mostly about sending in a hundred units at once to overwhelm the enemy, because 
 if you didn't launch a rush attack, the enemy would. Combat was mostly straightforward: counter 
 this unit with that, and that unit with this... basic RTS unit management stuff.
  
  One more point where the game was lacking was the way the single player campaign played out. The 
 three factions gave you instructions and mission briefings the same way, and where one faction 
 asked you to destroy a certain enemy building, the other wanted you to protect it, while the third 
 wanted you to capture it WITHOUT destroying it. This formula doesn't let up all the way to the 
 last mission.
  
  The units themselves are pretty ingenious, I would personally say. One of the best things about 
 the game is how unit size is managed. The tanks look actually like tanks with respect to the rest 
 of the map, and large units appear gigantic with respect to the aforementioned tanks, if not so 
 in the rest of the environment.
  
  
  
  All I'm saying is, if you can get past these flaws, then Supreme Commander will make for one of 
 the best RTS games ever made. Despite the places where the game goes utterly wrong, I will still 
 give it a 9.0 rating, simply because of Supreme Commander's innovative and ambitious style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank138
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a great game. The real time strategy may only have three factions but you 
 can go by water, air or land, to destroy your enemy. Each faction has its own strength and weakness. 
 There are many maps to choose from as well, ranging in size and number of enemies/allies. With 
 an ability to create huge armies the battles are immense and if your computer isn't up to scratch 
 then you'll be looking at some jumpy play. 
  The online play is also excellent; playing against/with your friends you can have a laugh. Mass 
 battles again, with entire armies on all fronts you have to make sure your defences are in place 
 otherwise it'll be a quick end. Everything is enhanced in the multiplayer online game as you know 
 whom you are defeating and you can watch your friends get slowly crushed by your advancing army. 
 
  This game in all is well worth playing and i definitely would suggest it to anyone who enjoys real 
 time strategies or who haven't yet experienced the awesome world of real time strategies. This 
 fantastic game offers everything from building the base and army to crushing your opponents.
  A great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased Supreme Commander, the latest in a string of real time strategy games by THQ. 
 THQ has recently become a leading publisher of RTS games that include the "Warhammer 40,000" franchise 
 (now releasing its 4th expansion pack) as well as the award winning "Company of Heroes" and its 
 recent "Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts" expansion pack. Supreme Commander does not deviate 
 much from its winning formula. What sets Supreme Commander apart from other THQ releases is the 
 sheer size of the battles. While Supreme Commander has a high resource demand and does not quite 
 live up to the variety of CoH it certainly earns points when judged on its own merits.
  
  Supreme Commander is set in the far future where 3 factions are fighting a centuries old interstellar 
 war for dominance. There is the United Earth Federation who represents the original human race, 
 the Cybran Nation who represent a race of evolved human cyborgs, and the Aeon Illuminate who represent 
 humans that have assimilated the culture of an extinct alien species. Like other THQ titles, the 
 game can be divided into 3 parts; a sizable single-player campaign, single player skirmishes with 
 or against up to 7 additional AI players, and multi-player skirmishes through Gas Powered Games' 
 free on-line hosting site, GPGNet.
  
  The gameplay follows a fairly standard formula found in other THQ titles. Units, buildings, and 
 other objects are constructed over time at the cost of energy and mass. Obviously, larger and more 
 powerful the units are more costly and take longer to build. Units then must work together to complete 
 specific goals and unit orders can be queued to perform tasks sequentially. The range of units 
 is quite impressive in this game but 90% of them are essentially identical from faction to faction, 
 differing only in their graphical representations. Players will need to construct land, sea, or 
 air based fighting units as needed in response to the local geography and the objectives of the 
 mission. At the bottom of the tech tree are engineers that can only build, capture, support, or 
 repair other units. At the top of the tech tree are nuclear weapons and giant experimental combat 
 units with the potential to finish games all by themselves. It is only at the top of the tech tree 
 that most of the significant differences between the factions are seen. This was a little disappointing. 
 One of the great features of "Company of Heroes" was the fact that the German and Allied armies 
 had very different tech tree paths to unique units and abilities. However, in Supreme Commander 
 mastering one faction pretty much already makes one an expert at the others. 
  
  An important gameplay feature in SupCom is the ability for units to support each other. A handful 
 of engineers can work together to accelerate the completion of tasks, such as building factories 
 or repairing damaged units. Likewise, factories can be linked together to build large groups of 
 units simultaneously. In combat, air patrols can offer direct support to ground or naval units. 
 This support ability is critical. Success in this game requires mastery of both battlefield tactics 
 as well as how to run an efficient economy with little waste. 
  
  The size of the battles is what really sets this game apart from other THQ titles. Players can 
 have up to 500 units in play at any one time. If the objective of the mission is the destruction 
 of just one or two key enemy units, one can devote huge amounts of mass and energy to producing 
 just one or two super units to end the game in one strike. Alternatively, one can create wave after 
 wave of smaller squads, sacrificing hundreds of pawns for the shot at the one or two units necessary 
 for the win. The choice of strategy is entirely up to the player and the objectives of the mission, 
 but be prepared to spend enormous amounts of mass and energy and valuable game time to create super 
 units. 
  
  On the subject of massive armies, the PC resources required for this game are very large. I played 
 this game on a system equipped with a single-core 4.1 GHz Pentium IV, 1.5 Gb RAM, and an Nvidia 
 7600 GT GPU card. When the total unit count on my side passed 300 my frame rates were greatly reduced. 
 To play the largest battles, one needs at very high end PC with at least a dual core CPU and probably 
 at least an Nvidia 7800-class GPU or equivalent. Moreover, when there are 500 units in play, individual 
 units are just so many dots on a map. This can sometimes make identifying a particular unit like 
 finding a needle in a haystack. Fortunately, one can assign hotkeys to specific groups of units 
 to make them easier to assign orders.
  
  In the single-player campaign and the skirmishes, players have an opportunity to play as each of 
 the three factions. Each mission can run for anywhere from 40 minutes up to several hours depending 
 on the level of difficulty and the scope of the objectives. The difficulty level is customizable 
 from mission to mission so players can start easy and then increase the difficulty level as his 
 or her skills improves; however, the combat and economic skill of the AI at lower levels is remarkably 
 poor. In one skirmish, I watched as the AI wasted valuable time and mass to build level 3 fusion 
 reactors at a time when there was already an enormous surplus of energy available on its side. 
 For true challenges, one must play against human opponents.
  
  The on-line play is a bit clunky to get into at first just downloading the many patches required 
 to get GPGNet to start normally. Also, there is no easy way to watch a game in progress as an observer, 
 so if one wants to watch better players this can only be done through download of replays. On the 
 upside, there is an active community of players, a modest number of custom maps available for download, 
 as well as a host of strategy tips and a forum for asking questions.
  
  Overall, I was impressed with the scope of the game but wished that there was to set this game 
 apart from other THQ titles. One can easily think of Supreme Commander as "Dawn of War: Jumbo size." 
 There is already an expansion pack available called "Forged Alliance" that seeks to resolve many 
 of the shortcomings of the original opus but the main selling point seems to be the addition of 
 another alien faction, much the same way as the Dawn of War expansions are developed. Overall, 
 if players are new to THQ RTS games, I would recommend that one begin with Company of Heroes or 
 Dawn of War to get used to the user interface and style of play before jumping into Supreme Commander 
 but experienced players should find lots to here so long as the PC can handle the load.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkavenger07
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Suppreme commander is one of the few games that will go down in history as one of the great Genre-defining 
 titles. Overall, i think i've spent at least 50 hours playing the game and never getting bored. 
 Although the campaign is a little short, the delightfully challenging AI is a wonderful thing that 
 most RTS games just dont seem to grasp. 
  for the first four days, I only played on a single map and the extreme scale allowed me to use 
 multipul strategies every different game. From Giant spiderbots to nuclear blasts, I never seem 
 to get bored of this amazing game. 
  Can't wait until my next pay check, because Im gonna have enough cash to finally get the expansion! 
 
  YAY!!!
  
  My only real problem with the game is the computer you need to play this beast of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicman07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Supreme commander is set way into the future where three groups which are the united earth federation 
 (uef) , the aeon illuminate, and the cybran nation are all fighting to win a war that has been going 
 on so long it is known as the infinite war.
  
  each of the three groups has a reason to hate each other. the cybran nation hate the uef because 
 the cybrans have a ai chip inside them and with that chip the uef tried to brainwash them and succeded 
 in getting most but failed to get their leader (dr brackmen) and his most loyal friends. The aeon 
 hate the uef because the aeon befriended an alien race known as the seraphim and the aeon was taught 
 "the way" which is a type of religion but the xenophobic uef (xenophobic means scared of foreigners) 
 attaked and killed the seraphim so the aeon retaliated against the uef. it doesnt really explain 
 the cybran-aeon fight but they still fight eachother. the uef's purpose is to reunite the galaxy 
 in peace.
  
  the gameplay is excellent if not a bit stressful for my graphic card and i would reccommend it 
 to anyone who likes any type of rts
  
  Nicman07
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I don't believe it. I thought this was going to be my favorite RTS, and it was. But I never expected 
 it would get the honor of being the best game I ever played. This game tops every game I have played, 
 including the ones I rated a 10. 
  
  Brilliant graphics. Excellent gameplay. Extremely fun.
  
  This game just doesn't get boring. 
 It just gets funner. Play with 1,000 units per player. There are various strategies one can use. 
 Play against the computer or against other players. It has basically everything I would want in 
 an RTS.
  
  This game does not require a super computer. It just requires a good computer.
  
  This game 
 has made the PC my favorite gaming system, and RTS my favorite genre. I am actually completely 
 ignoring all of my other gaming systems right now. My PC has all my attention now. This game is 
 just amazing. No wait. It's better.
  
  My thanks to Chris Taylor and the people that helped to make this RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Before I say anything, I just want to list my computer specs, so that you can understand where 
 I'm coming from:
  
  Q6600 2400mhz - OC'd to 2900mhz
  8800 gts 320mb - OC'd to gtx
  4G DDR2 RAM
  Asus P5K Deluxe
  
  Basically, in a 4v4, 81km x 81km map, max everything graphic-wise, 
 really far into a game, I hit about 40% CPU and 60% RAM, so I dont really have a problem with the 
 computer specs, and I know that was a big issue with most people. I used to play this on a Pentium 
 4 and just loading a 81x81km map on lowest graphics shot my CPU and RAM up to 100%, so I know where 
 some of you are coming from.
  
  I can find myself experimenting in skirmishes for 3 hours and still not be finished the game. Not 
 saying I'm not good enough, but this game is just fun to goof around sometimes, as well as play 
 serious multiplayer games. Awesome game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a fantastic game, a campaign to last a day non-stop but with 3 factions, definite 
 replayability and excellent graphics this game is simply a legend of RTS.
  
  Supreme Commander is what Total Annihilation would've been all those years ago if the software 
 was around.
  
  SupCom gives you three different teams to choose from in both campaign and skirmish, United Earth 
 Federation, Cybran Nation & Aeon Illuminate. 
  All 3 teams have dis-advantages and advantages so its pretty fair.
  
  Each faction has their 
 own experimental units which are the show stealers. These units help differentiate the 3 teams. 
 Experimental units, since they are more powerful require more energy and mass and take longer to 
 build but they are difficult to destroy.
  
  SupCom will push any PC to the limit with is superb graphics, there can be 5 or 6 different battles 
 occuring at once and its amusing enough to just watch them tear each other to pieces. A cool feature 
 of SupCom is being able to zoom right up to a unit or zoom out so you can see the whole map which 
 comes very useful.
  
  SupCom is a challenging game which makes it more interesting so the normal gamer would probably 
 want to play on medium settings. But you can set the AI so they it will always instantly attack 
 or built up their tech or a mixture which is a good feature.
  
  The game has plenty of replayability once campaign is finished, skirmish is probably a bit better 
 being able to customize the battle to your advantage.
  
  To be totally honest I haven't yet got the PC set up for online yet so I'm not sure but from what 
 I have seen and heard SupCom is AMAZING online versing intelligent opponents.
  
  Overall Supreme Commander is a tonne of fun and worth a purchase or just buy its expansion Forged 
 Alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telemedp
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm saying this because it's true. A strong computer can run it somewhat nicely but you have to 
 buy that first. The game is actually well thought and good but it is far away from the original 
 total annihilation. It's slow. With the expansion pack, it gets really interesting. Still not as 
 fast paced as Total Annihilation, but balanced and much more exciting than the original. The high 
 requirements are an outrage, but it's a pretty good game. I'd say you should try it out before 
 buying it. Maybe you don't like it, or maybe you need a stronger computer. The only remaining negative 
 is that the sides are pretty much the same. You can find the same unit roles everywhere. It's good 
 they actually added some spice to them at least. And this also makes it more balanced. Still it 
 has it's issues. Get the Exp Pack! That's it.
  
  By Medve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerosine18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I won't take long - this is a game with both great visuals as well as great gameplay... The only 
 drawback I see is that the game might be a little to complex for some players that are more accustomed 
 to traditional RTS games like Red Alert 2 / Command & Conquer.
  
  This game demands a lot of attention to detail, you have to be wary of your resources and constantly 
 on the move in order to stay one-step ahead of your opposition. That's both a plus & a minus, depending 
 on the style you prefer.
  
  Tutorials could have been done better I guess, more hands-on for the player maybe? Other than that, 
 it's an awesome game & briefing/debriefing sessions are cool.
  
  I rated this game 8 / 10, well-deserved rating I guess :)
  
  Buy: If you love depth, planning 
 & good visuals
  Don't Buy: If you want straight forward / arcade RTS style of gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jango-Man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty easy to see that Supreme Commander has nearly rose to the top of modern RTS games. 
 Now, I have yet to play all of them, but that is because Supreme Commander is so damn good. One 
 of the things that I mentioned in my pre-review is the "strategic zoom." This feature alone has 
 made such a difference in my views of a good RTS. I played "C&C 3: Tiberium Wars" for I think 2 
 hours. Never picked it up again. Supreme Commander makes "C&C" look cheap. Another aspect that 
 makes this game so good is the galactic scale battles. You got 100 Tech 3 Siege Bots backed up 
 with a few Experimental units going to battle with an opponent with the same armada, you're just 
 going to want watch that to see how it turns out. Also, Supreme Commander is the only game to date 
 that has Dual-Monitor capabilities. That's a huge step on the right direction for gaming. The only 
 thing where Supreme Commander falls short in is the tank of a computer that is needed to run it. 
 But this isn't really a downer. "Crysis" is likely the most demanding game for PC, but it still 
 got a 9.5 from Gamspot. Therefore, I'm not going to base any of my review towards the computer 
 needed to run it. So I give Supreme Commander a perfect 10 for outstanding graphics, game play, 
 performance, and pioneerism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander (SC) is a new Real Time Strategy (RTS) game with a large scale maps and gameplay. 
 You are a commander of a colony who should build military factories, power generators, mass extractors, 
 missile launchers, artillery installations and many more building structures to conquer the map. 
 The good part is you have lots of alternatives to attack the enemy and defend its attacks. For 
 the attack you have air, land and naval support. You have both long range and low range troops 
 for special needs. Long range troops and installations can break the enemy defense while short 
 range troops can invade enemy colony while the defenses are gone. You have many different attacking 
 scenarios and as well many defensive scenarios you can apply to conquer. The bad thing is when 
 you play the AI, enemy have a certain attack scenarios and its defense can be broken easily. Another 
 drawback is the arrangement of the units when you move them. They start to re arrange themselves 
 and you become exhausted when slow units try to re arrange and start moving around themselves and 
 hitting another troops it takes a while while it rearranges and when you want to move them you 
 see the process again and if you plan to attack the enemy right away it takes 5 minutes for you 
 troops to rearrange and perform the attack meanwhile you maybe destroyed! Actually the game does 
 not look something special to me because of this drawback. You become mentally tired of full arrangement 
 and slow movements, otherwise it's a good game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  There are so many real time games out there that its easy to miss some of the rare gems out there. 
 Supreme Commander is one of those rare gems. Your can play as three fractions, each with there 
 unique units from the cheap combat units to the expensive lumbering monsters that can quickly turn 
 the battlefield into a scorching valley of death. The combat is furious and face pace and theres 
 no way to describe the feeling of watching the screen fill up with units fighting on land with 
 your fighters and bombers screaming through the air, the explosions filling up your screen. Oh, 
 and don't forget your naval battles as well. Building up your base and economy is easy, though 
 if you don't pay attention you'll find your base being shelled from long range artillery. So shielding 
 is a must. The graphics and sounds are great and this game is truly worth its investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmart2
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I think Chris got a little too high on his rep when he coverted this one from concept to reality. 
 It is easy enough to see what he wanted to acomplish here, he just didnt do it. If a game is not 
 fun to play... it's not a game. I can only compare this flavor of dissapointment to the feeling 
 I got with the Perimeter product. Really sorry because I hope for so much being a Total annihilation 
 fan. I think Gas Powered should recalibrate their mission objective back to games that envolve 
 you in a fun way. Not like it's a chore you have to do to justify the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Don't try playing this game controlling more than 50 units unless you have the power of a mainframe 
 behind you. I am not kidding. I have a Pentium dual core that runs at around 2.8 GHz. It has 3 
 GB RAM and a e-GeForce 7900 something or another. I know what you are thinking, I could do better 
 on the graphics, but the graphics are far from the problem. I could upgrade the MB and CPU as well 
 and go Core 2 Duo, but my processor should be more than enough to handle a game like this, but 
 it's far from it.
  
  I started playing the game and it was fun because of the variety of units and my kick butt commander. 
 I built up a decent defense and started building strategic missle defense. The game was running 
 like a dream, until I built more than 50 units. As soon as I went over 50 (including engineers) 
 with 2 other teams playing as well (all AI teams) , it started taking more than a minute for my 
 units to react to my orders. As I got more units, it took about 2 minutes for them to react to 
 my orders and not all of them would respond. Some of them would just sit there and do nothing. 
 So, I did the only thing a commander could in my situation. I ordered about half my units into 
 battle hoping they would die. They did, but they didn't even start to go into battle for about 
 3 minutes. 
  
  This is sad because the game could really be great! After reading complaints from people who have 
 better machines than I, I am going to recommend that you have a quad core with 4 GB RAM before 
 you play this game or it will just embarrass all of you who have played high quality games on your 
 current systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Graphically very unique looking, fantastic depth of strategy, revolutionized the User 
 interface with a queing system that is perfect, and a camera system you will miss whenever you 
 play another strategy game. the story may be boring but the campaign is actually interesting from 
 a strategic standpoint most of the time, sure some missions have stupid goals but most are fun. 
 and last for a long time.
  
  THE BAD: this behomth even brings my new quad core machine to it's knees, a very hard game to learn. 
 weak story. online browser is cool cause it's a destop application but annoying cause it launches 
 and closes the game every time you join/leave a game.
  
  THE RANT (if you don't like blog type posts with bad spelling and uncohesive thoughts then skip 
 to bottum for the breakdown)
  Wow this game is a heck of a strategy fest. first the four tiers of technology each open not only 
 different scales of warfare but different tactics then mixing units also changes up that, so say 
 you use tech 3 bombers with tech two destroyers and tech one light assualt (for spamming and distraction) 
 then you throw in the super unit. these are just offensive tactics you can win a game by turteling, 
 reaching a nuke or tech three/four artillery, and blowing up everything they have from affar. yeah 
 everything you ever wanted to do strategically is here, there is even a recent user map the is 
 of the earth and it is fantastic for a eight player fest, it also slows down my rig to a slide 
 show. you can't imagine the scale of the game, watch the first trailer and realize that that's 
 one of the average size maps there are maps twice that size. this game is a revolutionary title 
 if you play strategy get it now stop reading. this is one of the big three, in one year this game 
 hit with company of heroes and then last but not least world in conflict. strategy will never be 
 the same. except for maybe starcraft 2, looks really similar to the strategy games of old. homeworld 
 3 pleaze. but enough about other games, you may want me to compare this to something else you've 
 played, the closest game in scale is rise of nations and that isn't the half of this game. about 
 the only consideration you have to make with this title is can your computer handle her. there 
 are three sides that playin nearly identically they have different units on some tech tiers, like 
 UEF has a heavy gunship the Cybran have the battle ship that sprouts legs, the Aeon have something 
 i'm sure. the super units are grossly different, i guess the similarities of the different sides 
 will bother people but it was just one less thing to love about the game. you find a side that 
 looks like you want it to look and play that race.
  THE BREAKDOWN:
  
  GRAPHICS This game has a very solid visual styl no it isn't C&C3, in my opinion it's better, especially 
 considering the scale. 
  9
  GAMEPLAY The best, difficult the learn though, but the interface innovations are fantastic.
  
 10
  SOUND Good music generally good sound
  8
  VALUE Good music good game, single and multiplayer, great strategic model.
  10
  TILT even with 
 all the things i love i want a balanced score there is room for improvement for sure, Expansion.
 
  8
  
  Final Score
  9
  if you like strategy buy if you don't give the demo a try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilliamW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The game play was great and easy to grasp. Despite the massive size of the maps you fight on its 
 relatively easy to manage your units and base with enough time left over to watch the epic battles 
 clashing armies bring. The story was entertaining and I enjoyed each campaign. Every race had something 
 different to bring to the game whether it be the artwork and art of each unique race or their varied 
 abilities, strengths and weaknesses.
  
  The only real downfall besides a few tactical options I would like to have at my disposal is the 
 demand it places on your graphics. They are very adjustable, allowing a few slower computers to 
 run it but you loose a lot of detail and the game still remains somewhat demanding. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Now days when we think of strategy games, we think C&C, CoH, AoE and maybe even WiC. However, SupCom 
 offers something completely different to the table. in games like C&C, you build a piddly little 
 excuse for an army and go kill another pathetic army, in SupCom you can build a fleat of warships 
 that cover a 80kmx80km area, along with an airforce of 75 fighters, 100s of bombers and whatever 
 else you want to use... in short this game is BIG, and its a great challenge to command armys, navys 
 and airforces that are bigger than you can imagine.
  
  Pros: Big maps, big armys, big explosions, bug nuke explosions, good graphics, some patches include 
 free new units, campaigns aren't bad. Fun and competitive MP.
  
  Cons: No space battles, 1000 unit cap (in Forged alliance it is bigger, even tho 1000 is way more 
 than enough) , patching is a pain.
  
  Well this concludes my review, for $30 a game like this will last you forever... whenever you feel 
 like thinking during a game, you can always turn to supcom. The tactical options are endless to 
 the smallest details, for example, placing a defense turret on high elevation will greatly add 
 to its capability, and thats how all games should work. REALISTIC is the key word to strategy games 
 and supcom does it in a sci-fi way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  It has taken two monthes just to get my computare to run the game. Supream comander dose requier 
 a powerful video card and ram. It though is a goot RTS and well entertain you for a long time with 
 all of the levels and campains. The economy dose not run of of gold, food, and wood, insted it 
 uses power amd enrgy that dose not nee to be mined by viligers. The game is more of a all power 
 milatery and also your milatery can be commanded by a satalite veiw that you can use to tell multipule 
 sqouand monuvers. It trhough lacks a fenase or at the least somthing is just missing, but all to 
 gether it is a pretty good game and I recomed it for any RTS loving person out there but bwe prepard 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  SC is a nice game greated by THG and Gas Powered Games. What mostly you will be doing in the game 
 is building a base, attacking or defending. The enemy AI is quite smart on either the single-player 
 or campaign mode. A problem of the AI is there pathfinding as they'll just sometimes get stuck 
 at certain places especially when it is an object blocking a straight forward movement to your 
 base. One thing though great about Supreme Commander is its somewhat nice graphics. The game's 
 graphics are really good especially when set on very high. This though comes at a great cost which 
 means that Supreme Commander requirements are somewhat high. The game's frame rate are also quite 
 stable although unless you really have a strong pc, you might notice a couple of slowdowns especially 
 when you are watching a large scale battle. Supreme Commanders sound are great. The soundtrack 
 of the game is also nice and will completely match the current situation you are in.
  
  Supreme Commander is a great game with great visuals. You should buy it if you either have a fast 
 computer or just wants to play a great and fun strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  I ever highly expected Supreme Commander before but it doesn't fit what I most want. It's just 
 great. Why? Because I think Massively spamming the same structures is meaningless. It just consumes 
 much resource and makes the game lag more. If you don't have a good CPU, decent video card and 2GB 
 RAM, lagging will happen to you.
  
  Supreme Commander has great graphics without doubt. Missions are good. Music and sound effects 
 are good, too. And the multiplayer is extremely excellent because it's very convenient to watch 
 other players' replays. You can easily see detailed stats of other players and their replays. Last, my 
 standard of criticizing a game is getting strict. Not only this game, other games are under the 
 same standard. That's why this game doesn't get a higher score from me. If you are looking for 
 a RTS game now, Supreme Commander is surely a good choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old school gamer who cut his teeth on RTS games like Chris Taylor's classic Total Annihilation. 
 Man, I miss that game. Well, Supreme Commander has given me everything I was missing and more. 
 All I can saw is wow. I haven't enjoyed an RTS so much in a very long time. The graphics and sounds 
 are absolutely beautiful. I will warn you that it can be demanding on your PC. Frame rates will 
 start to go down especially once you've built around 500 units. My system is a little old so I'm 
 sure the newer high end systems will do just fine. The different races are diverse but very well 
 balanced and I've enjoyed playing them all. The size of the different units is also scaled very 
 well. The higher tech units and weapons power is matched by its size. I can't say enough good things 
 about this game. It rocks! Thanks to Chris Taylor and the people at Gas Powered games for an incredible 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  For me I received the game along with my new computer hardware that i had bought recently. Supreme 
 Commader wan't on my radar at all because this type of stratagy game isn't my thing. Nevertheless 
 any game for free is to be played with an indifferent attitude. I was only on the 5th or 6th level 
 or map (whatever you guys call it) and found that i had clocked up almost over 10hrs of gameplay 
 (probably due to my inexperience of whether an army is big enough and strong enough to attack) . 
 But later on i found frustraiting situations where my base was large enough that i couldnt easily 
 defend it with mounted turrets and a single slow moving army. i. e. enemies attacking from north 
 and south. Whats more i found it hard negotiating the amount of resources i needed to sustain my 
 base and army. Lastly when in actual battles when the scale of my army increased my accuracy and 
 effectiveness of attacks decreased. A lot of men where being killed by enemy units that where apparently 
 incompatable in combat, which to me feels stupid cause in the real world who makes bombers without 
 weapons systems capable of destroying aircraft? But what i did take out of the game was the massive 
 scale of units, not unlike the total war games that im fond of. But my conclusion is that Supreme 
 commander was nothing more then a facilitator for testing my new system and that only die hard 
 strategy gamers will enjoy it to its potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipershot527
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander by itself is a good solid real time strategy game. All the elements are there 
 and pretty well executed. The graphics are great, the gameplay and controls are what you would 
 expect, sound effects arn't bad. The thing that just gets me is that its made by a lot of the same 
 people as Total Annihilation but really doesn't explore much new ground. Total Annihilation will 
 forever be one of my favorite games of all time, for it's time it was the embodiment of the perfect 
 real time strategy. But common people, its been years since then and the only thing you really 
 improved upon was graphics and sound effects. I really expected a lot more. I mean Supreme Commander 
 is a solid game, and its really fun to play but they shoulda just called it Total Annihilation 
 remake because thats pretty much all it is. I still will give it an 8 though because despite my 
 particular disappointment it is still totally worth picking up and playing through for any real 
 time strategy fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmanflux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I found this game very hard when I started off but it becomes quite easy to control after a bit. 
 good graphics and things, amazing action and units. There are many maps to choose from and many 
 different types of land. battle by sea or land. To improve the game I found they could of made it 
 less confusing. There are four different factions to choose from and they are=UEF, Aeon and the 
 cybran. You can get up to 1000 until which is very good, I've only got about 150 at the most in 
 one game. There are so many different difficultys to choose from. Over all a very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander really does take Real Time Strategy into a new era. Most Strategy games are basically 
 the same. You buy one and it is almost like all the others. This one however is totally different.
 
  
  As any other RTS games, you have your selection of race. Aeon, UEF and Cybren. All have different 
 advantages and disadvantages. Where one will lack defence, it will make up in attack. The Campaign 
 takes you through 3 different stories. All 3 with the same objective but different reasons for 
 reaching it. The UEF has created a weapon called the Black Sun. It has the ability to destroy planets. 
 Used in the Aeon hands, it can spread the way and the Cybrens can use it to spread a Virus. All 
 3 story lines are different and gives you a perspective from all the sides.
  
  The units are very well designed and fantastically detailed and animated. you can see that a lot 
 of thought has gone into the creation of all the Units for all races.
  
  The Graphics for the game is nothing that you haven't already seen. As a matter of fact I don't 
 think it reaches the potential of what can be done. Comparing it to Battle for Middle earth or 
 Age Of Empires III, it really actually looks dull. But I think this is for a reason.
  
  The reason is, you need to build so many units to be able to win that it would be stupid to create 
 a game that has to many units and to much graphics. So although it is a little more dull, it still 
 manages to impress thanks to well designed units and sheer massive armies. I'd give this game a 
 go! If you like strategy, you must have this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riptide572
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the epitomy of what a real time strategy game should be. While some people will vote 
 Command and Conquer 3 over this one, it is not something that should be overlooked. The strategic 
 depth is great and the visual show is amazing. The units feel balanced and the field of battle 
 is immense. The campaign is has a decent storyline and really draws you in to the scope of the 
 game quickly, as you will be introduced to new strategies and tech levels throughout the course 
 of the game. Skirmish is my personal favorite, as it gives you a chance to unleash the full arsenal 
 of Supreme Commander on your own terms. The online multiplayer of course, is on par if not better 
 than any other RTS out there. The fast paced nature of the combat combined with the overall scope 
 leave you with near limitless options when it comes to your battleplan. While many games say it, 
 few will have you feel that No game is like the last ; gladly Supreme Commander is one of the exceptions 
 that will have you changing your strategy on the fly and will truely make each match a battle to 
 remember. Overall, the feel of this game is something that can't be described... you simply have 
 to play it for yourself to truely know what it means to be a Supreme Commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerelum
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I was recently going through my drawer and doing the typical shuffling of the cds that are stacked 
 fifty deep and came across my Supreme Commander disc I bought a while back and then decided to 
 give it another shot. I then had to rummage through the dreaded under the bed bin to find the instruction 
 book and cd key. After that 15 minute adventure I was ready to play. I decided to go Aeon as I 
 liked the whole spirituality deal and was playing again with a few more strategies from my battles 
 in other games that I adopted to SC.
  
  I like the gameplay and think it's one of the best RTS out there at this time. The one thing I 
 started to learn early about this that's different then all the rest is the fact that if you build 
 a ton of defenses and then just sorta hide and build up your troops behind your wall of missles 
 and guns. This seems to work for almost all the battles except for the ones where the enemy has 
 those damn artillery that just destroy your base pretty quickly and are normally defended by a 
 ton of aa and ground defense guns, so you have to end up doing some tactical missle strikes or 
 something to destroy the defenses then just rain hell down upon their shoulders.
  
  All in all I find the story and the gameplay very fun and very enjoyable, I feel the defensive 
 structures are too overpowered and should be toned down a bit so that just having 3 guns that fire 
 at planes isn't going to wipe out a 25 plane wave in two seconds.
  
  All in all a solid, fun game, but there aren't many tactics you need to develop to beat it or own 
 the computer. People are the total opposite and I've come to realize that I blow at multiplayer, 
 but hey, at least in the scenarios and campain play I feel like I'm doing something good for my 
 team right? Anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  firstly a short intro to the game.
  supreme commander is a RTS on a huge scale. and when i say huge i mean HUGE. this game is about 
 getting the sizes right as a battleship is not the same size a motercycle cough cough C&amp; C. 
 and this makes for a totally different style of play. obviously turtling is still a popular style 
 but now it can be broken by the big guns. experimental units (ill get onto those in a minute) . 
 the size also allows strategy like nothing ive ever played before, actual tactics can be used like 
 flanking and attacking with subs and planes from different heights. yes i said height. torpedo 
 bombers fly low to the ground to skim the surface of the water to drop thier torpedoes and fighters 
 fly at another level and strategic bombers fly high in the sky to waste anything beneath them.
 
  now onto the storyline, so cover your eyes and skip to the next bit if you havent played it yet 
 (and want to play it)
  *spoilers*
  UEF - mankind as you know it, likes to use conventional bullets and bombs and are trying to wipe 
 out both the aeon and cybran nations with a project called black sun which is basically a very 
 large energy weapon capable of blowing up planets using the quantum gateway system (stargates really)
 
  thier experimental units are the fatboy mobile factory which has four battleship deck guns, two 
 heavy machine guns, forcefield and the ability to build tech one and two land units by itself at 
 half the time of a normal factory with double the resources, the atlantis submarine carrier which 
 is a rapid fire sub, aircraft carrier and mobile air factory all in one with the same production 
 rate and resource consumption. and lastly my favourite, the mavor artillery which launches high 
 explosive shells (not nuclear like it says) to any point on any map.
  Aeon - the religous cult following an alien culture called the Way and also want black sun to use 
 as a sort of satellite dish to broadcast the Way to everyone in the galaxy so everyone becomes 
 a big happy family.
  thier experimental units are the Czar which is the saucer from independance day but with the ability 
 to buiild aircraft as well, the submersible battleship which is another atlantis but has a big 
 cannon when surfaced and can build sea units. and lastly the galactic collosus which has not only 
 two gravity hands to suck stuff into it and crush, but a massive laser beam to melt any nearby 
 bases and thier masters.
  Cybran - half man, half machine, almost sounds like the terminator doesnt it? their goal is to 
 free all symbionts (other biomechanical organisms) and to isolate their part of the galaxy by planting 
 a quantum virus in the gate network effectivly making star travel impossible. they also want to 
 use black sun to plant thier quantum virus through all the gates.
  experimental units are the reaper which is big gunship, the scathis which is a rapid fire mavor 
 but with a large range rather than the planetary range of the mavor, and the spiderbot (AKA monkeylord) 
 which has quote a giant frikin' laser beam with rockets and AAA launchers. so basically vehicle 
 of death.
  
  *end of spoilers*
  you can look now, the spoilers have gone
  
  Gameplay - as i said before there are endless amounts of ways in which you can defeat your opponent 
 but 8/10 ways involve a nuke of some sort.
  the resources in the game (mass and energy) were ripped right out of total annihilation which is 
 fine by me, simple economy is good economy. if they had changed that i would have marked them down. 
 and for any one who has played TA you will fine a rock solid copy with much better graphics.
  
  Graphics - i cant state enough how good the graphics are on this game. sure they're no gears 
 of war but remember we're talking about an RTS with lots of the units on screen at once so for 
 the detail (and im running it on medium!) it is mind blowing how they did this but ill conradict 
 myself later.
  
  Story - has a good overall story with lots of plot twists in it but it still involves lots of escorting 
 units and defending structures and of course, the good old cleanse the map of enemies style of 
 play.
  
  Strain on PC - now we get to the contradiction. you see i said that it was mindblowing how they 
 made the graphics so godly, but its easy to explain. they used five supercomputers linked together 
 to create supreme commander so they didnt worry about the limits of the average gamers PC and just 
 made the game. which is where it hits its only snag. the strin it puts on your PC. ive played this 
 on just about every PC ive got my hands on and mine ran it just on low but kept freezing because 
 the CPU kept saying no more, i want to rest a while . and even on an &pound;2000 alienware it couldnt 
 go above medium without total system failure. so i have yet to see this game on high setting but 
 when i do, i might just die of pleasure (no inuendos!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kackarot00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I can barely run this game and yet it still amazes me. Fantastic TA style gameplay and strategy. 
 With so many ways to go at taking someone down the limit really is your imagination. The only game 
 where i have actually ever watched a replay. There are faults, most noticeably the AI and system 
 specs but if you can look past some of the things that immediately put of the majority of gamers 
 then you will have a hell of a time playing this game. There is some element of skill to it, inferior 
 numbers can prevail over larger armies if microd and supported correctly etc and if you dont have 
 a gameplan and wander aimlessly you will not do well online. If you like skirmish you can always 
 grab a user AI which are far superior to the vanilla flavour. If you have the pc to run this and 
 are a fan of multiplayer RTS then this is really a no brainer to buy. Forged alliance will in my 
 opinion round this out to a near perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics.
  Top notch (with all the video settings turned on) , the detail that has gone into each individual 
 unit can really be appreciated. The zoom out/in functionality is flawless, in fact after playing 
 SC for a bit, its sort of expected for other RTS, but your left there spinning the mouse wheel 
 fruitlessly :o) . Explosions, artillery effects &amp; especially the experimental unit attacks are 
 all very impressive. However a few effects need to be fixed. (Or at least the ability available 
 to turn them off.) The screen shake on artillery is fine, unless you have the Cybran experimental 
 artillery going off, with the constant rate of fire the screen shakes every second &amp; becomes 
 quite tiresome/irritating. The nuclear/commander explosions are also well done, but the actual 
 missile launch &amp; nuclear interception missiles look quite ordinary.
  
  Sound.
  Suit the game nicely. A bit choppy on a slower machine but with decent specifications not a problem. 
 The player can get some real satisfaction hearing their artillery pound their opponents base. And 
 a typically high quality sound track (as with TA) accompanies this game.
  
  AI.
  Well a few let downs in this part of the game. Sure the campaign AI was ok, being there was a lot 
 of scripted events etc. However playing with the standard AI that come with the game (in skirmish 
 or LAN play) is just a little too easy, even the different AI personality options arent that great. 
 There must be some fundamental complexity when it comes to AI in RTS games, rarely do any games 
 come up with any good AI. (By this I mean an AI that can change its strategy mid game) . It seems 
 the AI will just attack again and again from the same location, so once you have enough defences 
 up its pretty much just sit back, get a few experimental units online and thats about it. Another 
 flaw with the AI (mainly in the endgame) , is that its a little too easy to fly over its base with 
 a squad of tier 3 bombers and simply bomb the commander. (Their air defence is nearly always lacking)
 
  
  However there are some very good AI mod packs out there that have both a cheating AI &amp; an improved 
 AI. These prove to be a good challenge on the medium to small sized maps, but on large maps, once 
 the AI hit the top tech level, it seems the experimental units are the only units created, they 
 just trickle in &amp; are easily picked off. Unit path-finding in general is pretty good, although 
 it can get stuck now and then. When teamed with AI, AI will inform the player when &amp; who they 
 plan to attack. Interface.
  Exceptionally well done, loads of shortcuts, ability to Q orders, even Q commands to build certain 
 units before their factory has been created is a really neat touch. The interface can be switched 
 around, the mini-map on/off (do you really need a mini-map in this game?) . Support for two screens 
 if you hardware specs are up to it. And the ability to zoom out from the battle field cant be 
 mentioned enough.
  
  Game-play.
  Not quite up to the standard of TA. Some of the great end game abilities are missing. For example 
 the ability to create one nuclear launcher and multiple missile launches, then launching the standard 
 missiles ahead of the nuclear launch (so that any enemy defences take out the missiles, and hopefully 
 your nuke gets through) arent available (the missle launchers don't have the range of the nuclear 
 launchers) . The build time on the experimental artillery (for UEF) is just crazy. No metal maps 
 (at least none that the reviewer could find) was disappointing, these map types were a blast in 
 TA. Also where previously in TA there was the two factory types (with two tech levels) , Bots &amp; 
 Tanks, there is now just one factory type, but with three tech levels. Havent decided yet if this 
 is better or not. And there is no tech 3 ground defensive structure, something included here would 
 have been nice.
  
  In general it seems to take a little while to get the economy going (a lot more so than TA) . The 
 shield concept is probably the only really new game concept when compared to TA, but it is a nice 
 change, have enough shields online and a player can easily hold off multiple artillery attacks 
 (non-experimental that is)
  
  Balance &amp; experimental units.
  Balance is pretty good, until the experimental units are reached. The UEF have a nice mobile construction 
 unit but is quite weak to enemy attack, its experimental artillery takes way too long to produce 
 (although can end a game quickly once its complete, it appears to have no range limit) &amp; the 
 navy unit is only applicable for water maps. The Cybran have a very nice quick firing artillery 
 (limited range) , a decent air unit &amp; an okay ground (spider) unit (they have the best range 
 of expimental units available) . The Aeon have the toughest unit in the game, the Colossus (although 
 it has no anti air) , a relatively weak Czar flying fortress (limited firing range, ie: just straight 
 down) which can produce &amp; carry aircraft and a battleship (again only applicable to water maps)
 
  
  Overall.
  Great fun, and looking forward to the expansion due out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander or Supcom for short, puts you in control of one of three factions that are fighting 
 for control of the universe. Each faction has access to devestating firepower and three ulimate, 
 sometimes game-ending units.
  
  Supcom redefines what a real time strategy game is. Many other RTS games like Command and Conquer 
 for instance, each skirmish in that game feels like a battle, well, each skirmish in Supcom feels 
 like it is a war! Now some people might prefer C&amp; C's short 15 minute rounds but I don't think 
 anything beats having all out warfare with your buddy for 4 and a half hours. I was looking at 
 how many kills I had gotten in one of my online games and you know what it was? I had racked up 
 2984 kills in a one on one game. That is craziness! As far as graphics go, Supcom is stunning, 
 some people will tell you, Company of Heroes graphics are way better!! (insert more fanboyish comments 
 here) but who cares if they are better? Supcom's graphics are crisp and insanely detailed. This 
 can be a problem though, since I found myself more than once simply watching the battles rather 
 than giving orders to my units! The one problem with Supcom is that the difference between the 
 factions is mostly cosmetic. Each factions plays similarly although there is enough difference 
 between the factions that you will pick a favourite. The place where the factions differ the most 
 is in experimental units. The aeon have a gigantic robot with a quarter of a million hitpoints, 
 a flying saucer with an Independance day style Beam of Death, and a battleship submarine. The UEF 
 have a mobile factory with four sets of three cannons, 2 anti-air guns, and close range guns, a 
 submersible aircraft carrier, and a strategic artillery installation that can shoot anywhere on 
 any map. The Cybran have a spider bot with a powerful beam weapon, a super powerful gunship, and 
 a mobile rapid fire artillery unit.
  
  Any of you remember a little game called Total Annihilation? If you ever liked that game, then 
 supcom is guaranteed not to dissappoint. If you like RTS games in general, same deal.
  
  Overall I recommend this game to anyone who likes RTS and has an above average computer with Dual 
 Core. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123456_1267
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Playing this game on anything less than mediums would not do it proper justice. the graphics on 
 it may be consuming and its unparalelled size may be ridiculous but they all contribute to a fantastic 
 gaming experience. nothing of this proportion in the rts genre has come before it and whilst you 
 may expect changing between long range to zoomed in to be jittery, the movement is seamless and 
 rendering is perfectly timed. the system is really well worked and theconcept is beautifully realised. 
 the build system can be a little to simple, with only 3 main buildings, but couple that with 3 
 tech levels and over 100 unit types, the depth is awe inspiring, and whilst this may not be a typical 
 rts, it still remains true to the genre givng new life to a all too dull arena where sandbox scrolling 
 games such as dawn of war dominate. that is, of course, not to say DOW is not a good game, just 
 that its nice to have something different.
  
  Downsides.
  
  campaign missions are complicated at times and tendancies towards skipping them are too easy with 
 a skip mission button in the mission failed screen.
  
  silly AI, doesnt utilise mass engineer rush, -but- all other tactics are well thought out and different 
 styles of AI give a decent skirmish mode.
  
  Overall
  
  gameplay: 8/10 - good, fairly true to genre but scale gives new life to it.
  sounds: 7/10 - ok. 
 nothing too much stood out as amazing 
  graphics: 9/10 - best you will find atm
  
  multiplayer: 6/10 - well for a start it took me 2 weeks to get a cd key cos the one that was given 
 in my manual was 2 digits short. wtf is up with that. computer error , GPG. NET is pretty poor atm 
 and i dont really play it online due to most peoples game lagging like fat boys.
  
  overall 8/10 - good game, good graphics, good gameplay, good fun. well worth buying :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celebrin_V
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  A little rough on the hardware requirements, you need a strong gaming PC to run SupCom well. If 
 you do, it's one of the best made RTS games around, variety, scale, full zoom from eye level to 
 full map. The story is far more filled out than it's spiritual predecessor Total Annihilation, 
 but for any TA fan it's a very familiar universe, just expanded for the modern age. SupCom's real 
 strength is in it's technical achievements. It can leverage Dual Core systems, high RAM PC's (for 
 you /3Gb users, and Vista) , and high end graphics cards to run a native Dual Screen mode (2 independent 
 cameras, 1 camera per screen, great for large scale tactics)
  
  And the feature I can't stress enough in Taylor's games. Command Queuing, the ability to setup 
 as many orders as desired one or more units, and have them perform a series of tasks! Including 
 having factories pass sets of orders to newly constructed units and having construction units build 
 multiple structures in order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBear01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is huge, maps are enormous and can take hours to finish a campaign level. 
 The waypoint system is really innovative and is helpful to make specific commands like what forces 
 and where you want to move your troops to before you attack so you can go around a certain group 
 of enemies. The graphics and visual effects are amazing and the big maps can really slow you down 
 if you have a low-end pc. This game might be a little complex and difficult for the casual RTS 
 gamer, so you you should take that in consideration before buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Whoever says this game is good. They're wrong. It's great. Extremely addiciting... If you're a 
 fan of the RTS genre... And battles can go on for hours. The multiplayer is out of this world. 
 With hundreds upon hundreds of people to play with.
  The factions are cool. I just can't wait to see the new faction in the expansion!!
  
  The units 
 are so cool and OMG the graphics are sick. It's a new type of RTS and totally innovative. If someone 
 says dont believe the hype and blah blah blah
  dont listen
  This game is 1st class amazing.
  Nothing less. Maybe more. Buy this game if you haven't already. 
 I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoodirector
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  When is a game just too big? Supreme Commander just went over the limit. I have always enjoyed 
 playing real time strategy games because of the details, especially on the units and the ground. 
 Over the years these details have gone from vague to very sharp. With Supreme Commander the scale 
 is just so large that you loose all of the fun details. I feel sorry for those graphic artists 
 who put in so much time creating all of those great units because when you play you have to zoom 
 out so far to get a grasp of the battlefield that you are just playing with dots! Sure you can 
 still make out yor main unit, but everything else just becomes tiny with no details at all.
  
  The basic idea of the game is still good and the unit selections are well rounded, so that 
 part of the game I would score as OK, but the whole size issue really sets everything back. I honestly 
 wish I had my money back because it is just a very boring game when all you have to do is watch 
 tiny dots move around a very very large map. If this game came from the Total Annihilation series, 
 it missed the fun parts of that old classic. You don't always have to have tons and tons of units 
 to make a game interesting. Quality before quantity.... always! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Supreme commander has a long long campaign i'm not sure if it's worth doing because i haven't done 
 it though i have done alot of multiplayer and i gotta say
  it sometimes gets intense lol
  you have a huge arsenal of weapons/units to choose from to do your bidding, it's easy to implement 
 the tactics you want you can send huge amounts of air/grounds units to any target location really 
 fast with transports
  
  aircraft carriers omg these are awesome lol i don't think any RTS lets you use them conventionally 
 lol. then there's tactical weapons like lol those are awesome but they can easily be stopped. good 
 thing about this game is everything will/should be used even the lowest tech units because they 
 can distract the bigger units and since the little ones cost like nothing when ya have the tech 
 for the big ones it don't matter if you got a few hundred little things taking hits for ya lol 
 basically cannon fodder hahahah.
  
  the only downside i've found for his game is the slow start ( potentially ) and the fact that to 
 play the game to it's full potential you need an awesome com like really awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronFlux2
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the review blurb sounds scathing, but it's true. This game has been one of the biggest hype 
 events of 2006. Many, many fans of TA including me were looking forward to this game eagerly, as 
 it was created by Chris Taylor, the creator of Total Annihilation. As TA was one of the most fun 
 RTSs I have ever played, the promise of a spiritual successor that contained the fun of TA but 
 with an entirely new set of neat features such as strategic zoom was too good to be true. I was 
 looking forward to this game eagerly for months.
  
  Unfortunately, it wans't to be the game that I thought it was going to be. Hype is known to make 
 a game better than it is, so it is expected for a game to fall short of its hype 90% of the time. 
 However, this game falls short of its predicessor, as well as many of the RTSs I have played. As 
 a result, it was a major disappointment to many RTS players, including me.
  
  The truth is simple: It's not a very good game.
  
  To start, the story. The story was also 
 one of the things that I looked forward to, as it was interesting in its usage of the theme that 
 many factions in war are not entirely good or evil. However, the presentation of the story is poor. 
 The CGI scenes are well rendered, but their animation is cheesy at best. The overall story seems 
 two simple, with a lack of intimate details that games like Homeworld capitalize on to immerse 
 the player. This was one of the things they promised to fix that was wrong with the original TA. 
 Unfortunately, they didn't.
  
  Now for the gameplay itself. You start with a unit called the Supreme Commander, a giant robot 
 that can build a base fairly quickly. You build a base, build units and defenses, and - you guessed 
 it - try to take out you opponents Commander. Nothing new here. After a few games, this game mechanic 
 gets really bland.
  
  To add to the blandness, all the factions (UEF, Cybran, and Aeon) are mirrors of eachother. Only 
 artwork sets them apart, and while some differences exist in unit behavior and classification (such 
 as the the UEF T3 gunship) , it doesn't really matter what faction to choose.
  
  Oh, wait, it does. Because with if you play the original game, the Cybran have by far the best 
 units. If you don't choose Cybran, you will loose. If you download the latest patch, the Aeon get 
 a guided missile called the Mercy that his overpowered to an incredible extent. So if you don't 
 choose Aeon, you will lose after the patch. How the devs managed to mirror the sides and still 
 have the game so badly balanced escapes me.
  
  The features are very good, however. While things such as Strategic Zoom weren't invented by this 
 game, the way this game handles it is much better than past RTSs. Unfortunately, the units turn 
 to small symbols when zoomed out, and while I don't mind this, it can be a detractor for some people. 
 Some features, such as Subcommander base rebuilding and formations, are broken and useless. Other 
 features, such as factory assisting and transport beacons, are very useful.
  
  The graphics are simplistic. The UEF looks slightly better than the rest of the factions, and the 
 Aeon look the worst. However, I am not a graphics obsessor normally. The problem is the performance 
 in this game is incredibly bad. A decent computer with 2 gigs of ram and a 7900GS card exhibits 
 slowdown even when there are only a few units on the screen. To make matters worse, the game eats 
 up RAM like crazy. It takes like 300MB just to load the units. If you have 1gb of RAM or less, 
 you are completely screwed for this game, even though 1gb of RAM is the recommended spec.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a complete letdown. There is so much game here, but it is made 
 with such bad quality that it is almost unplayable in single player. It is playable on multiplayer, 
 but the repetitive and boring nature of online games keep it from becoming much. The poor skirmish 
 AI doesn't help either. This game is almost a copy of TA with the same balance, new factions, and 
 slightly different units. Never mind the fact that, while TA takes up 470 mb on the hard drive, 
 this game takes up 8GB.
  
  If you want strategic play with a good interface, download TA: Spring or buy TA. Otherwise, buy 
 WiC or some Blizzard RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  The game is only good for some hours of gameplay and it is surely not the next thing around
  
  First the graphics are not that impressive... everything is very small and units look like ants
 
  
  Single player A. I is a complete disappointment... The AI just sits around doing nothing in many 
 missions
  
  Units are almost the same in each faction...
  
  Music is nothing special plus it is the same for all 3 factions
  
  Single player missions are 
 BORING as hell... Kill that and destroy that all the time... nothing really new except Kill and destroy 
 most of the time
  
  The game did not really impressed me much as a single player experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoothe2nd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  (Note that I am not rating multilayer) This game is like none other RTS before (well, maybe Total 
 Annihilation but I have never played it) . I' will say the bad to get it over with... Some BLOOD 
 &amp; GORE!! hardcore C&amp; S players might think the colors are too bright but screw that. The 
 main thing that will get on your nerves is lag. With hundreds (and sometime thousands) of different 
 units all doing different things (mostly when there attacking or building) the game will lag like 
 there is no tomorrow. But when making custom games, just set it for minimum lag: 1-2 opponents, 
 no more than 750 units each, no bigger than 50X50 maps and so on. The strategy is truly on a strategic 
 scale. Knowing what units the enemy has (when there is fog of war) is crucial. Plus there are so 
 many different strategies: make a fleet of bombers, focus on battleships, race to get experimental 
 units, make a shower of nukes (takes for ever tho to get at this point) , just to name a few. The 
 game is fairly well balanced but there seems to be missing a difficulty between normal and hard 
 (as in Horde and stuff) , this is just a personal opinion tho. For younger players be happy that 
 there is ZERO blood what so ever. There are only explosions and bigger explosions. The campaign 
 is about 10 to 30 hours long depending on experience but is not one of the best although still 
 worth going through. My favorite pass time is to make custom maps and try out new strategies (rain 
 nuke, make a fleet of experimental gunships, etc.) .
  
  TO SUM IT ALL UP: This is a great game with its flaws that you can get over with (if this makes 
 sense) that I have also very much enjoyed and recommend to any RTS fan looking for something new 
 or big. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinesneverun
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I like it, bottomline if you were a fan of TA, then you should definitely pick this up! Multiplayer 
 is by far the best part of this game. If you enjoy LAN parties, then this is the ultimate RTS for 
 them! The graphics and sound are out of this world, but make sure you have at least a 5000 Mhz 
 or comparable processor with at least 2 gigs of memory to ensure this game runs smoothly. Also, 
 make sure you update this game if you get it out of the box. The patches fixed all bugs I had encountered 
 originally since I pre-ordered the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  iv played many many RTSs in my day, and with the exception of starcraft (god of rtss) , this game 
 takes the cake. the battles are immense and start right off the bat at the start of a game. resource 
 management takes some getting used to, because there really is no resource management, its all 
 in how fast you regenerate your mass and energy, but things can still be built when you are at 
 0. this is very different from any other game, and takes some adjustments in your usual RTS strategies. 
 balance is good so far (which is key to all RTSs) . multiplayer can get crazy, and fast. although 
 it does take quite the computer to run it, its certainly worth the effort. zooming in and out of 
 the battlefield is seamless to see whatever you want, whenever you want, wherever you want. dual 
 screen mode is awesome, cause the second screen is mini map, saving some space in your interface 
 (all mini maps, including the small one on your interface is zoomable :D ) . u can amount a HUGE 
 army of lower level units in the matter of minutes, and the better units can take a while, but 
 are very worth it. excellent arrange of units and structures. if u like RTSs, this is THE game 
 to get. definetly a competitor against starcraft II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is the first RTS that I've ever played that allows the player an unlimited number 
 of strategies to battle your enemies. The game's vast maps give you plenty of room to maneuver 
 around enemy bases and you never feel claustrophobic or pressed for space. Every unit and tower 
 has something that can counter it. The battles turn into a test of who has the proper counters. 
 Unit type and number in battle groups is very important. For example, you can use a poorly armored 
 unit that has a lot of firepower and then use the mobile shield units to protect them on the battlefield.
 
  
  Shields become very useful in the missions as you gain the power to use them. They negate the stress 
 involved in constantly having to check the health of your towers and repair them, unless your enemy 
 is able to break through the shield. Attack groups that you make automatically distribute the different 
 units throughout your attack group formation. An attack group with 25 attack bots and 5 mobile 
 shield units will form up so that the shields cover the entire formation (or the greatest area 
 possible) .
  
  The resource system allows you to build up a surplus of either resource (energy and mass) which 
 will only be cut into if you begin to use more of that resource than you are bringing in. Even 
 if you go into the negative for a particular resource, you may have enough time to build more resource 
 gathering buildings to push you back into the positive. The story campaigns are made up of 6 missions 
 for each one of the 3 factions in the game. That may seem like a small number, but you will find 
 that each mission can take up to (and sometimes longer than) 2 hours each. One neat feature of 
 the missions is that almost every time you complete an objective in a mission, the map you are 
 on will expand in size. This makes the missions more interesting, as what was the back of your 
 base (which was protected by the map boundary itself, is now the new front of battle. On normal 
 difficulty, the computer-controlled armies are pretty good at throwing a wide variety of attack 
 units at you throughout the campaigns. Because the missions are so long, make sure you save often, 
 as there is no auto-save feature. Losing a mission an hour into a mission can be very frustrating 
 if you forgot to save.
  
  Im not into multiplayer on RTS games, so keep in mind that this reviews score does NOT take into 
 account the multiplayer aspect of this game. Overall, Supreme Commanders single player campaigns 
 make for an interesting gameplay experience, and because of the extremely large maps, will obviously 
 make for a highly variable multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnenad
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  And i do mean that ! I don't know what's better? The endless epic battles or the joy of making 
 300 units and crashing them into the enemy's base ! O how long have i waited to find a game like 
 this ! Excellent, this is something i recommend to everybody. Superb graphics, astonishing gameplay 
 magnificent sounds i just can't find nothing wrong with this game ! If you like RTS's you're SURELY 
 going to like supreme commander! It brings up everything good in rts games so i have only one thing 
 to say &gt; RUN TO THE STORE AND GET YOURSELF A COPY!
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonicX2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  This strategy game is one worth buying for most strategy lovers. People who are impatient or don't 
 want to think will hate this game. It require a lot of multitasking and skills. Otherwise this 
 is a great game with huge maps, huge armies, big explosions, and lots of cool units and structures. 
 The layout and controls of the game are well designed. The graphics on the units and structures 
 are mediocre though. The storyline is OK but the mission are straight forward and may get boring 
 something for some people ( blasting the enemy with an arsenal of weapons repeatedly is fun enough 
 for me) .
  
  I would value this at game at about $49.99. Consider buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadHairDay66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Supreme commander is the brainchild of famous games developer Chris Taylor (Total Anhialation) , 
 and you can see similarities between the two games quite clearly. However, one should never see 
 SupCom as merely a clone of its predecessor.
  
  Set in the 38th Century, the game takes you into the brutal and bloodthirsty world of the Infinite 
 war, where astro-colonial humankind has fragmented into three distinct, balanced and uniquely designed 
 factions. Each of the three factions shares plausible and effectual political ideologies that you 
 can choose to side with or rally against - the UEF (United Earth Federation) for example, is an 
 imperial power committed to resoring the days of galactic unity where mankind is as one. Although 
 this faction clearly plays a pivotal role in each of the three campaigns (whether you are playing 
 as or against them) , each faction in the game brings very unuqie banter, style, and units to the 
 SupCom table.
  
  The scale of the game was always one of its focus points during its development. Not only can you 
 adopt a real-life generals perspective by adopting a satellite-like view of the entire 20x20km 
 battlefield, where your units and weapons fire are reduced to nothing more than icons on a massive 
 strategic battlefield. Each mission in the single player campaign can also take up to four hours 
 to complete, which more than makes up for the campaigns only having 6 missions each. Combat in 
 this game is both beautiful and breathtaking. As I march my army of 6 Cybran Monkeylord Spiderbots 
 (check the pictures for walking robotic spiders) to the enemy, I can hear their Jurassic-Park style 
 thuds on the ground as they slowly close in on my victim. As they approach they pick off the tiny 
 enemy defenses from afar and then powerup their utterly devastating microwave lasers and obliterate 
 the entire enemy base with swift, terrifying efficency. Or, I could launch a nuke and watch them 
 dissapear under a sudden burst of light.
  
  That is the common result against the token low-difficulty AI level. I would consider myself a 
 strong gamer, but the top-end AI is horrifying. As I build up my vast defenses and powerful economy, 
 I resolve to send a scout plane to see how I square up to my enemy. Halfway there, I spot a fleet 
 of warships 50-strong heading straight for me, supported by bombers, transports and gunships. My 
 spy plane lives just long enough to send data back from the enemy positions of a massive city of 
 power generators, weapons factories and advanced nuclear and artillery positions.
  
  My force of ten medium tanks is crushed. I lose. Again.
  
  This excellent spectrum of difficulty 
 settings is great for whether you just want to feel masculine and win, or, if you want to spar 
 against a wonderously powerful AI opponent. The medium difficulty is challenging enough to adequately 
 fill the gap between the basic and top-grade computer opponents.
  
  There is one huge flaw with this game though.
  It's simple before its time. Due to the massive 
 scale of the battlefields, and the huge strain this puts on memory and processing power - high 
 graphical settings will cripple your computer, with with the worst frame rates reaching 0.5fps. 
 But the low settings still look pretty damn good, with rates of around 24fps on the recommended 
 spec being sufficient.
  
  Overall, a great game suitable for all strategy and sci-fi players.
  
  8.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mythlacar
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I spent rougly six hundred dollars and almost ten hours upgrading my comp, 
 thinking it would be worth it.
  
  I turn it on, start playing campaigns and realize immediatly that the game is better than I had 
 ever dared to dream. AWESOME game, great balance of units, some of the best graphics I've ever 
 seen and the zoom function is the best ever created. The queue system is a godsend, the power/mass 
 function is quite simply described as revolutionary. All through the campaigns I thought My God 
 I can't WAIT to play this on GPGnet... .
  
  I finally rock through all the campaigns (On principle I never play online unless I can and have 
 played the campaigns front to back) and I start up GPGNet.
  
  Nothing, the GPG net function won't boot. After roughly 40-50 hours spent looking online for people 
 with my problem I realize that a large amount of people are having problems with the GPGnet, even 
 those lucky enough to get it to boot up have horrible problems ranging from having to player juggle 
 to get games to work, to their games just plain not registering on the ranking system!
  
  I reinstalled 8 times, patched from download sites, reinstalled countless other programs multiple 
 times (Such as .net framework) and nothing worked. Finally I got it to LAUNCH! The patch check 
 system comes up... and crashes my system. That problem fixed rather easily, after a few run throughs 
 it patches and works fine.
  
  I log on, I notice a small bug that stops me from writing Yes , no biggie and I fix that too. I 
 play my first game, and it was all I expected it to be, then at the end I notice my hard earned 
 win was not even recorded by the ranking system! Urgh! I go to bed and hop on the next day to find 
 that GPGNet is unresponsive. I try everything suggested on the tech support site and fail to fix 
 it. After another 10-13 hours looking for a fix, I say screw it and take the damn game off my system.
 
  
  So while this may quite possibly be the BEST RTS ever made, the multiplayer simply stops it from 
 being anything but a single-player game.
  
  The game itself I'd give a 9.8 (Only reason it isn't a 10 is because its a system hog and lags 
 pretty bad unless you nerf how sexy it looks) .
  
  The multiplayer GPGNet? Warrants a .1 at best. All in all, its quite the dissapointing outcome 
 to a game that looked SO Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsb247
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Back when I was younger, I must have spent hundreds of hours playing Total Annhilation, so when 
 I heard that Supreme Commander was also the brainchild of RTS legend Chris Taylor, I knew that 
 I had to pick it up. I was not disappointed! This game rocks!
  
  The first thing I noticed is the game's sheer scale. The battlefields are literally hundreds of 
 square kilometers. Thich allows for the use of tactics and maneuvering that most RTS games simply 
 don't allow for. You can out flank, surround, and cut off enemy forces since it's difficult to 
 cover every avenue of attack due to the large amount of terrain. It's great!
  
  As someone who appreciated Total Annhilation, it's also nice to see that Supreme Commander borrows 
 many of the building techniques. Bases can grow to massive sizes at a fast pace due to the fact 
 that you can pool builders to finish large building projects quickly. It was a nice feature in 
 Total Annhilation, and it is welcome to see it here as well.
  
  The units in this game are diverse, and there sure are a lot of them. Each unit has a particular 
 function, and they all seem to be fairly evenly matched. You had better make sure you are using 
 the correct unit for the correct job, or you may be in for some trouble. The inclusion of vast 
 land, air, and sea units is also anice touch. There truly is no such thing as a safe place on the 
 battlefield. I can sing the parises of this game all day, but like all games, it does have some 
 flaws. It can tend to slow down quite a bit during large battles. With so many units on the screen 
 at once, the framerates can really dip on machines that may not be able to handle it. Aside from 
 that, I myself have not had any real problems, but that doesn't mean the game is perfect.
  
  All in all, this is a wonderful RTS that should not be missed. There is no excuse to not play 
 this game! It won't disappoint! If it's large scale battles with giant robots, aircraft carriers, 
 tanks, submarines, artillary, and bombers then Supreme Commander has what you are looking for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bu-ku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is the ULTIMATE futuristic strategy game. The good thing about supreme commander 
 is there are SOOO many different units you can build that our so highly detailed, and all of the 
 different commands you can give each. Advanced game controls lets you totally control the game in 
 everyway. Supreme commander is such an intense strategy game that requires advanced battlefield 
 movement and fighting strategies. Another cool thing about supreme commander is there are a ton 
 of different and unique maps in which you fight on, and the detai in them is incredible!. Supreme 
 commander definately gives you that bang out of your buck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halodvd
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander may look really good but that is the only good thing about this game. It doesn't 
 take long to learn how to play but once u have learned how to play there really isn't anything 
 left to do. The campaign missions are just plain boring and the skirmish mode gets repetitive extremely 
 fast. After playing for about an hour i could barely stay awake to finish the missions (it was 
 6:00 p. m. and i had 13 hours of sleep from the night before) . The music doesn't add anything to 
 the game, most of the time you don't even realize that it is playing. I would have to say that 
 Supreme Commander is only worth about $5 so don't waste your money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hootson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  SupCom is amazing!! The scale is so immense, that you really feel like youre dominating the world 
 youre fighting on. The wide variety of units allows for countless strategies and makes every battle 
 feel different than the one before it!! With each of the units having some specialization, as well 
 as the wide variety of units themselves, no one particular unit would ever be deemed obsolete at 
 any stage of a battle. All of the factions look awesome and have devastating units! The maps are 
 detailed and well designed so you have to think on your toes for some fights. The graphics are 
 excellent and the effects add a distinctive look to each of the factions weapons/abilities and 
 even to the game itself! The only thing lacking, as other reviews have said, is the AI. Its not 
 the brightest and doesnt seem to vary too much from one AI type to the other (i. e. Tech to Horde) 
 and leaves a little to be desired for those who want to have a clean, straight-out battle (using 
 lower tech units more often and not doing artillery spamming) . But with what previews have said 
 about the AI in SupCom: Forged Alliance, that issue may have been resolved with promising changes. 
 Overall, SupCom is one of my all time favorite RTS games. Its immense scale, detailed graphics, 
 and plethora of units are superb and I can spend (and have spent!) countless hours waging epic 
 wars!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guun63
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  This is one big game, seriously the battles in this game can be so massive.
  There are 3 factions you can choose between, UEF (United Earth Federation) ,
  Aeon Illuminate 
 and the Cybrans.
  All the factions about who will become the dominating faction.
  The Aeons have a really cool alien looking technology,
  The UEF's har a more modern day look 
 to regarding there tanks.
  The Cybrans has a lot of tanks that can walk an so on.
  The AI in Supreme commander isen't the best, well its rather dumb but i don't think that ruins 
 the game, actually gives you a head-start :P.
  The battles in Supreme Commander are really deep and immersive, you can really do flaking probarbly 
 and make strategic chooses, which affects the outcome of the battle and thats what i think is really 
 cool about this game.
  But all in all this is a really cool and long lasting game that will keep you occupied for week 
 maybe years, if you like strategy games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WEATHERman3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  as the first game i ever played from gas powered games i didnt know what to expect, but the way 
 it kinda grows on you is truly impressive. THe fact that there are all these incredible war machines 
 to build and all sorts of differnt unique units, it makes this game really great, i just recently 
 got it but honestly it all I think about, just supreme commander. The way the economy is set up 
 is very different from any other game that ive played. However, there really is no bad side, THIS 
 GAME IS TOTALLY AWESOME!!!!!!!! bottom line: love the game, classic rts that grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  soo soon I loaded this game/1st level I suspected that it will not deliver what promised, in a 
 few things I was positively surprised, my system is not top of the top yet it plays on near max 
 settings on 1600x1000 resolution just fine even if I have maxed out my unit limit and they all 
 raging war (Intel dual 3.05/2gig ram/agp 6600gt 256mb) , map is actually big but that has its BIG 
 disadvantages in this game, as other already said zooming out makes the game not only ugly but 
 extremely hard to play BUT you need to or you will lose the battle = your doomed or you learn how 
 to adapt to the ugly hard to recognizable format, then there is the troops they not well designed 
 , for example just by playing AA and POINT defense all over the map you can just about will every 
 round in single player mode  you dont need to build anything else, so in short this game advertised 
 new depths and huge battles but in reality at the end of the day it gives you less than other strategy 
 games, as for graphic its ok Im not jumping out my boxers because its by far not better then other 
 games in this genre, and if you zoom out it butt ugly at best, anyone this days can make cool movies 
 between levels thats not what we pay for  we pay for the game it self and that isnt that great 
 even in matters graphic. I was very disappointed after all what been promised  this game is actually 
 made cheap  a little more effort and if could have been the game that was promised 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeyeloi
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I know its a bit late to give review but the expansion is coming, so i hope i can give people who 
 have not play this game that are considering to buy the expansion an ideal of the game. the game 
 is BEAUTIFUL!!! all the unit design is unique and great. I love the MONKEYLORD , one of cybran 
 super unit, its very cool, somethimg a japan mecha collector would love. The game really need strategy, 
 most veteran strategy game players will find it hard to adept, as all the weapon in the game is 
 futuristic, it bring a whole new dept into strategy gameplay. The amazing size of the map makes 
 terrain a very important factors in the game, it really feel like planning a modern warfare when 
 you play. unfortunately when u face competent player u will understand what i mean, all advance 
 maneuver or tactics like feight, recon, raiding, flanking, pincer, ambush, artillery etc will require 
 great coordination, meaning u have to see the whole picture to play expertly, But when you zoom 
 out all the way, you can only see dots representing your units, the only time u will see battle 
 effect is when you are experimenting the use of a unit like how fast it move or how accurate and 
 effective is its weapon. In the end my friends and i are using our dots to fight each other. See 
 that moving yellow dot, its my nuclear if u cant tell, bye bye. Bloody exiting and waste of great 
 graphic. worth seeing and trying, but not worth playing and buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudu123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I had just bought a 24inc monitor and wanted to try a game out on it. luckley for me I got Supreme 
 Commander. Everything thing about this game is great, the graphics, sound, gameplay ex ex. All I herd 
 about was the steap system req, I do not by any means have a new sysytem its 3 yeras old, it was 
 great then but now it is getting old in the touth amd FX55 1gig mem x800xt 256mg video card. I 
 have it set to the highest rez and on med for mosth others settings and I have no problems yet. 
 of course i havent played any big matches yet so i am shore they will slow down a lot. Any get 
 this game you will love it. i have been playing comp games for 30 years and this is one of the 
 best i have every played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  There was something that bothered me about this title when I first heard it announced. My first 
 impressions were that managing multiple fleets and hundreds of vehicles across land, air and sea 
 would be difficult or impossible and would be micromanagement hell.
  
  Fortunately, after playing through 2 of the campaigns (still doing the last one) , I am amazed at 
 how good the UI is, and how easy it is to manage the entire army at once.
  
  I'm assuming that most people have read all about this game by now so I will skip most of it and 
 concentrate on what I like about it.
  
  I like the fact that units can look after themselves while still giving you the feeling that you 
 are controlling things. Patrol paths are great, especially for engineers who will reclaim matter 
 and fix things as they wander around. The ferry system is also fantastic, how you can get one unit 
 to assist another and just set up transport paths and not have to worry about them again (in most 
 cases) .
  
  The graphics are good but not great. There's notable slowdown on my system during big battles. 
 I have a 1900XTX which whilst no longer top of the line is still a very good card. However most 
 of my battle time is spend in strategic view, so this doesn't matter too much.
  
  There are a few annoyances. Like how if you set up a transport path and the the main transport 
 unit gets killed, everyone else just stops and you have to set it up again (assuming you had a 
 few others assisting the main one) . It would also be nice to be able to select patrolling units, 
 as once they are patrolling they are no longer classed as idle.
  
  Overall though, very enjoyable and the scale of what you can achieve in managing an army of that 
 size is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x090
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander follows faithfully in the footsteps of Total Annihilation by its strong collection 
 of units and game play mechanics. Be sure your machine is up to par with the recommended system 
 requirements otherwise you may not find much enjoyment if any!
  Multiplayer is its most solid stand point. You will be able to rival your friends it massive warefare 
 using a variety of navel, air, and ground units.
  The games single player story is a little lacking as is the case with most Gaspowered games. The 
 story lacks depth but what can you expect from three robotic armies?
  The three races have somewhat of a disticnt look to them although some units can be rather difficult 
 to identify right off hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebarnabe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander provides the player an unique experience in strategy, some nice touches like 
 transport units automaticaly catch the other units to move faster, and the new 'Exprimental Units' 
 are only some of the addictions to the original Total Annihilation.
  
  As said above, this game is an unofficial evolution of Total Annihilation, for the older RTS gamers 
 you'll easly recognize some of the units.
  
  This game in single player campaingn is not anything special, the story is short, the cutscenes 
 are little and the strategic elements on it are nothing remarkable when compared to what could 
 be done with all the elements in the game.
  
  Where this game shows all its glory is in multiplayer and skirmish modes, where you can get amazing 
 and unique wars between two, or more, colossal armies.
  
  The tech tree is simple enough for a casual player and complete enough for a more advanced player, 
 there are serveral strategic elements like sensors, extraction, energy that must be taken in consideration 
 during gameplay.
  
  The units are divided in 3 groups, land, water and air, while some units are restricted to land 
 surface or water surface, others can hover over the water ou go under it, allowing reinforcements 
 or surprise attacks to be made when the enemy is in lack of sensors.
  
  About superweapons, or exprimental units, in this game, they do not simbolize game over for the 
 opponent, and that is what makes the game fun to play, all the possibilities in strategy make you 
 always wonder what will the enemy do.
  
  Finnally i must add that the game requires a nice machine to play on it, if you make skirmishes 
 that thousands on units are on screen (yes, you can do it on this game) you better be prepared 
 for some slowdown.
  
  If you love RTS games where the massiveness of armies and complexity on strategies are big this 
 is a great choice for you, but remember campaingn mode has nothing to do to skirmish and multiplayer.
 
  
  Hope this helps anyone, until next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercai
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long wait since the old classic Total Annihilation, and we've all been waiting for its 
 successor. Now that its here, I must say It was worth waiting for.
  If you can manage to get the game working with its ridiculous hardware requirements, you are in 
 for a real treat with this game. On its highest quality visual settings, the detail put into each 
 unit is nothing short of amazing. The textures and designs for each unit fit perfectly with the 
 different factions, most of them will even leave tire tracks/footprints when they move.
  The background music is about average for an RTS game, and the little voice acting is at least 
 passable. however the sound effects for the various weapon effects is phenomenal. effects for weapon 
 impacts sound and feel exactly like they should.
  To be realistic however, there arnt a lot of gamers out there with computers that have the raw 
 power needed to run the game smoothly. Without sinking hundreds of dollars into a beefed up processor 
 and more memory than anyone should rightly need, expect your game to slow to a crawl roughly 30 
 minutes into a match and stay there until the game nears its end.
  
  Once you get past that detail, you will find the campaigns to be challenging but fun, and a skirmish 
 mode with plenty of well designed maps to pass the time with.
  
  Overall a visually pleasing, fun to play game thats more than worth its cost, as long as you can 
 manage to get it working.
  just dont expect to be able to do a lot of multiplayer matches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite good ... its a lot like those old style RTS series such as the C&amp; C series 
 but this offers everything on a large scale ... You can zoom out to such a point where you see 
 little dots on the screen and zoom-in so close that suddenly it looks like an FPS ... Gameplay 
 is old style ... build bases, provide power, build units and all ... story introduces three races 
 all fighting for a super weapon ..... This game is hardware friendly and will run good on most 
 systems ... Quite lengthy single player story line and Very nice multiplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidD34TH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  With the new next-gen wave of games being released, Supreme Commander is up to par with older and 
 new. This game isn't ultra next-gen, but it pushes enough to actually look good.
  
  Surely a worth buy, but it is slightly difficult to get used to at first. Once you get the idea 
 of how the gameplay mechanics work, you'll build up in speed in no time.
  
  The quality in sound is very nice. I enjoy the amount of detail Gas Powered Games put into it. 
 It really makes you feel as if you're in some futuristic war.
  
  What I love most about the gameplay is that it takes about an average of 20 minutes to build up 
 your structures and units just right so you are able to attack and defend yourself promptly. The 
 average game can last anywhere between 30 minutes to 2 hours. In the meantime, it continues to 
 stay strong and fun, not letting you get bored of the action that is soon to happen.
  
  Players will find themselves developing defenses while at the same time fighting offensively to 
 prevent an attack, or vice versa, developing offensive units to protect themselves defensively 
 because of an attack.
  
  Resource building is a bit slow, but once you learn how to use your structures, it builds up faster 
 and faster.
  
  I give it a 9.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander or as some call it Vanilla is decent but plaes in compairsion ot the expasnion 
 Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance, Supreme Commander has a lot of Bugs although they be fixed 
 now. The units are not equally matched and the ACU's health is weak. The help they give you in 
 start isnt very good either you have to do a lot of guess work. The gameplay is decent, the game 
 is good for lower system specs and FA users can play with Supreme Commannder Users but for those 
 who don't have it they probally won't play with you much unless you have both games. All in all 
 this is a good game to have for both fa and supcom.
  
 
  Personally one my favorite PC Games :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  RTS games have come a very long way since the original Dune and C&amp; C. Starcraft was one of the 
 first to introduce a game with an immersive plot and dynamics to really change the way a game was 
 played, as well as create the online RTS madness. But those games were so small, so distant feeling, 
 like you just told units what to do, and blah blah mission over by overwhelming. Starcraft was 
 a classic example, though I still love it. Some games have come along to change up the formula, 
 such as Dawn of War with strategic positions, followed by Company of Heroes in the same manner. 
 Dawn of War gave us seven very different factions to mess with and CoH gave us smart AI with semi-intelligent 
 units. But they were too small scale and frankly got boring because the strategy never changed, 
 only the resource management. Resource management is gone here, replaced by an economy. If that 
 does' t give you a clue how large this game is, then read on. In this game, structures take energy 
 to work, and to work efficiently they need plenty. Some games like Outpost II and Homeworld had 
 this kind of economy system, and its a nice touch that i loved in Outpost, to bad it was flawed 
 in too many other areas. Without mass and energy in surplus, your economy tanks, and so does everything 
 else. So its not just gather gather and fight. It is now build and never stop building, and that 
 is what gives this game another dimension, because you can always be doing better in your economy, 
 though eventually you can hit a ceiling.... but that could take hours to get to. It's a very immersive 
 concept and you have to play it right, or you will never get anywhere.
  
  The gameplay reminds me of the final chapter of Ender's game, where you can see everything, and 
 tell everyone exactly how to do everything. You can tell units how to get to a place down to the 
 virtual meter, or give them a to do list that could take hours. Or you can have them patrol all 
 day, in different shifts, or help and defend another unit, no matter where it goes. Battles are 
 well done, but sometimes coordinating an attack precisely how you want can be tricky, especially 
 if there is a lot of unit groups and they are in formation. But once you figure it out, it becomes 
 a very necessary part of fighting, and makes all the difference. I especially love how there is 
 Air, Land, and Sea, all done in equality.... yes yes. The Graphics are fantastic for a game of this 
 proportion, but don't turn them all the way up unless your computer is built with up to the second 
 top of the line technology. A second monitor should also be put down as required, because its just 
 so cool what you can do with it.
  
  The Audio is decent, there are good enough sounds for everything, but with so much going on all 
 the time, sometimes the audio is just too forgettable. The music is good, but gets ridiculously 
 tired after one or two games.
  
  The Campaign is awesome, and will introduce you fairly well to the various units and structures 
 in the game, of which there are a lot. As for strategy, the game is not so helpful and you will 
 need to get inventive on unit production to win some of the campaign missions. I spent 3 hours 
 each on all the UEF missions on hard, because I could not figure out how to destroy the heavily 
 defended enemy bases. The computers are very smart, and are very good at attacking and holding 
 their base at the same time. In one map I recall them sending a wave of 50 units every 5 minutes, 
 meanwhile repelling my wave of 300+ units without breaking a sweat. Then I found a way to break 
 their defenses and pile through. Its awesome, because you have to find a way to win, there no way 
 to simply just build and build and attack, because if they have full defenses, they can hold against 
 anything (minus experimental weapons) . Multiplayer is not for the faint of heart, because some 
 people are scarily good at this game, and for those that aren't it can become frustrating. But 
 that's life. Overall, its a wonderful game that is challenging in new ways, and offers more units 
 and structures along with an economy system unlike we have ever seen in the RTS world. Its not 
 perfect, but its building a great new foundation for RTS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be sure about this Supreme Commander stuff; I can resume my feelings about this game 
 in a short sentence: I've played better RTS games, lots of better RTS games (I'm just exagerating) ; 
 it's not the worst, maybe, but it isn't the best...
  It's got great graphics, and maybe this is one of the problems, you gotta have a super machine 
 to run this game perfectly . It also has some good ideas, but I simply don't like them.
  I'ts a good game but for those who have powerful systems and like this kind of RTS; specially this 
 one, I found it boring, boring, boring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sham9
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  I know it's a great game and is extremely strategic and in that sense limitless in it's options, 
 but the requirements are a entirely ridiculous. The requirements are reasonable, but then it gets 
 ludicrous when it says it needs Vista. That's absurd! Gamers have to pay around $300 or more to 
 get Vista, and then spend $40 dollars on the game! No game is worth that much, no game. This game 
 can only be played by a select few players, which is an utter disappointment. The 6 hour-long wait 
 for a insignificant demo that cannot run without Vista present is unreasonable at best. Along with 
 that, the cover for the game is rather deceiving, it says ' Games for windows ', say what you mean! 
 Say ' Only for Windows Vista ' in bold text on the top. Our only hint, or rather suspicion is that 
 the windows symbol looks surprisingly Vista-ish! That's not enough to help us in the least bit! 
 I believe I should rate this a 7, because although great and massive in game play, it's needs are 
 too extreme for any significant amount of players to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is a great game the Graphics, sound and Gameplay are amazing.
  
  I reccomend this game to any one its completely flawless.
  
  I do not reccomend for any one 
 to play the demo the graphics and gameplay dont even compare Its like a complete differnt game 
 on the demo its crazy.
  
  Graphics: Completely awesome even bogs my 8800GTX down.
  Sound: Sounds very good I am really impressed.
  Gameplay: very fun its amazing its awesome.
 
  
  Its a very fun and addicting game its just a awesome game if you want to have some fun I reccomend 
 you buy this game its very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alrich68
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I have just started playing this game so I still have a lot to experience. One of the first pieces 
 of this game that I thoroughly enjoyed was the open tutorial. It was more like a sandbox than a 
 tutorial since it gave you 3 ACU's (one from each faction) and allowed you to max out your tech 
 trees. It would have only been better if they had made an enemy base so you could attack something. 
 As it was, you could still get an idea of the attack capabilities of each unit and the cost and 
 development time needed to produce each unit (anything with a nuke takes FOREVER to build... and 
 adding additional ACU's to help with production can really up the resources drain a particular 
 unit or structure takes to build.) I found the first full fledged mission challenging enough to 
 make it interesting. The intelligence of the units in the 2nd mission were enough to make me really 
 hate those guys as they destroyed my first 6 bombers before they even hit the sky. I look forward 
 to playing this game even more than C&amp; C 3. Robots rule! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfWatch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is possibly the biggest RTS. It may also be one of the longest to play. Some buildings 
 or units might take around 45 minutes to build. The producers may have went a little overboard 
 on the detail of everything.
  Here is the rig I play on.
  
  Dell XPS 410
  Processor: Intel (R) Core (TM) 2 CPU 6600 @ 2.40GHz (2 CPUs)
  Memory: 1022MB RAM
  Hard Drive: 
 244 GB
  Video Card: NVIDIA GeForce 7600 GT XXX Edition
  
  I consider myself a middle class gamer. I play with max resolution (1280 by 1024) and lowest graphics 
 settings. At the beginning of a 3vs3 map everything runs smoothly. In the middle, lag hits. If 
 I pause the game, it can take maybe 2 seconds to catch up to where it should be. I have waited 
 a record (and uncommon) 1 min and 13 secs when I paused it to catch up to where it should be. Sometimes 
 it completely freezes and waiting half a minute it has to catch up. They overdo detail of every 
 graphic imho. I think this game is a little to early for middle class gamers. I am going to buy 
 an addition 2 gigs of ram, and I believe that it should speed things up. This game is great, addicting. 
 One flaw may be that all the different races are too much alike. Main Point:
  If you are a middle rank gamer who isn't willing to bust some cash to make your comp go faster, 
 then maybe you shouldn't buy this game, yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccc1005
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Great strategy game, I like how each mission develops, and there isn't just one objective for each. 
 Reminds me a lot of Total Annihilation with the massive amount of units and very powerful defensive 
 weapons. Graphics are awesome and the zoom style is very cool. Instead of a mini map you can zoom 
 far out and it becomes a mini map, then zoom back in to an area and it feels like the regular view. 
 That is one of the best parts of this game, I bet more RTS games will start using it as well. Also, 
 if you are a defensive player you will love Supreme Commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  After waiting many months and many more to get it I finally did and began playing the game immediately.
 
  I must say I'm a little bit disappointed by some minor details that appeared on the game while 
 playing it through the first 2 campaign missions, I assumed game being from THQ the gameplay would 
 be similar to Dawn of War and Dark Crusade but the differences are further apart.
  
  SupCom certainly gives players a very good solid RTS to enjoy huge battles between armies by sea, 
 land and air, during the few hours playing it I msut say I enjoy the game so far, th battles have 
 been intense playing as much offense as possible trying to reduce my loses to a mininum (hard to 
 do really) ,
  
  The management system is hard for me so far, trying to assemble combined groups of forces with 
 mixed attack (ground/air) combo is somewhat tedious as a battle rages on, have to build quickly 
 and send backup as quickly as possible rather than try to manage them efficiently.
  
  The scrolling on the screen is the bone I'm gnawing right now, it moves too fast using the mouse 
 and haven't been able to slow it down when scrolling close, fatest way for me was to zoom out and 
 zoom in again on the area I'm interested.
  
  The music is pleasant and changes properly and accordingly to battle, but zooming out seems to 
 take away the music too.
  
  I liked the game so far and will continue playing it and try to pull everything it has for me, 
 so far looks promising.
  
  Regarding the hardware, so far my computer handles the game with all settings maxed out (except 
 AA, I have it off) at 1490x990 and haven't noticed any slowdowns at all, hope it remains like that 
 as the game progresses.
  
  I hope either an expansion or mod maps come out, to enhance this game further more, has the potential 
 to be a classic as TA was... and still is.
  
  PS: I really really reaaaally miss the D-Gun. :D
  
  LT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retwakm
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  This rts is wonderful. Its songs are very good. i also like the fact that there are no unit acknowledgments. 
 These used to drive me crazy in other rts games. lets say you build 10 rifleman squads in command 
 conquer 3, when you select them youl here : kill them, kill them, kill them, kill them , kill them 
 10 times. the grafhics are also amazing if you have one of those new thousand dollar computers. 
 I upgraded mine with a new five hundred dollar nvidia geforce grafhics card just because of this 
 game. the hud is very complicated and you can even give your units waypoints and patrol routes. 
 Even the smallest map in this game is like a very large map in regular rts standards. the maps 
 get to be 81 by 81 kilometers large. it also features a lengthy single player campaighn for each 
 of the three factions. they only have six missions each but once you get down to it each of the 
 missions will often take you a couple of hours to complete here is a chart for average hours on 
 each difficulty. UEF-easy-12 hours UEF-normal-15 hours UEF-hard-17 hours Cybran-easy-10 hours Cybran-normal-14 
 hours Cybran-hard- 16hours Aeon-easy-13 hours Aeon- normal -17 hours Aeon- hard - 20 hours the 
 online is amazing. they have somethiong new called gpgnet witch offers a matchmaking service personal 
 stats and leaderboards. It will take you about 80 Hours to complete all three campaighns and play 
 on all skirmish maps but after that there is tons fo replay value. Overall out of all the video 
 game categories. this is one of my favorite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lithiumxsl
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Rotating the map with ease. Zooming in and out on the side view like the Demo movies showed. The 
 Flying Engineers And the Boat Engineers ... ya know I miss em. But the biggest complaint is that 
 The Commander Is to Damm small for a Titan of his greatness in this game. As long as Im griping 
 I miss the Spray it used, the gassy , aura stuff looks dumb.. The maps are a miss to. NEED MORE 
 MAPS. If ya got a rig that can handle the big ones ... Cool ... I DONT. More maps 10X10 - 20X20.. Some 
 of the Maps 
  
  Other than the misses... GO BUY THIS GAME. cool.
  
  Keep em Dumb so ya dont have to worry about 
 them working next to ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Finally a sequel (technically a sequel anyway) to the classic total annihilation has arrived and 
 it is everything you'd expect from the master, chris taylor. Supreme Commander no longer has the 
 Core and the Arm, instead you can choose from a different faction of the human race basically. 
 either the Aeon, the Cybran or the UEF. All of them are virtually the same in terms of the units 
 avaible to you however they all look very different from one another.
  
  This is an rts that dares to be big and my god it is BIG, forget warcraft 3 where you would have 
 a battle of maybe 20 units if your lucky in supreme commander you can have over 200 units at a 
 time and the amount of units available to you is quite substantial. As is the options that you 
 have, unlike most games where you might bomb a base then invade with an infantry force or only 
 do one of these things supreme commander allowes you to throw tanks, hovercrafts, battlecruisers, 
 bombers, fighterjets, robots, artillery canons, nuclear missiles and more, all at the same time 
 and the result is some of the most intense, large scale and strategic battles that have probably 
 ever been seen in an rts. You just have to play it to understand the full grasp of it and when 
 you do it really is some of the most fun you could have on a pc game. It may seem like alot to 
 grasp but Supreme Commander is very well designed and any rts veteran or noobie will be able to 
 pick it up and play almost instantaneously.
  
  The resource gathering system is also alot more innovative than most rts' where you basically just 
 gather a certain amount of resources using harvesters or workers. In Supreme Commander all you 
 need is energy and metal and to get these you only need to build a few certain buildings and it 
 does it all for you, what makes it difficuilt though is getting the balance between energy and 
 metal right and once you master this the focus point of the game becomes the battles which as mentioned 
 before, are awesome.
  
  This gameplay is probably the most fun against human opponents and the multiplayer is an absolute 
 blast, however the single player mode is also alot of fun. The campaign for each faction is only 
 about 6 missions but each missions has a ton of sub missions within them and more of the map constantly 
 opens up to you as you complete these missions which have a fair bit of variety however it usually 
 ends up with you having to destroy the opposing commander at the end to gain victory. This is easier 
 said than done and some missions could take in excess of 5 or even 10 hours, especially on harder 
 difficuilty settings.
  
  All of this is topped off with arguably the best graphics that any rts has had, ever. The terrain 
 looks great, the units and building do and so do all the effects. The problem with this is however 
 when combined with the massive scale of the game, you are going to need a powerful system to run 
 it and even then this game will easily push its limits.
  
  Other than that, Supreme Commander is practically flawless (ironic that its flaw is that its graphics 
 are too good) , this is the finest real time strategy game since warcraft 3 and possibly ever. Basically 
 if you like real time strategy's in the slightest, get Supreme Commander, you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymaster7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is great, but one weakness, IT TAKES FOREVER TO FINISH A MISSION.
  
  The building time in this game, is in Real Time, so you have to wait 86min to finish building a 
 building in and out the game but you can make lots of builders to hurry up the building, you can 
 zoom in to the ground and zoom out to see the whole map, plus the storyline is great and you can 
 upgrade your commander, but you cant keep the upgrade, the upgrade disappears when you finish the 
 mission.
  
  The graphics is great
  The gameplay is Great too
  The Storyline is good
  
  In The End its a Must Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Werner73
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailer followed by a game-play movie and then playing the demo I had rather 
 high hopes for the strategy game. Favoring RTS games above all other it is no surprise that as 
 soon as SC was available I simply had to go out and get it. And got it I did. I won't say I was 
 disappointed (apart from the fact that my first DVD ROM didn't want to play it and I had to upgrade 
 THAT first) , but I wasn't all to surprised and thrilled after playing it a while.
  
  The depth and variety of units was lacking, the similarity of each factions units unexciting and 
 the campaigns far too short. A problem that, IMO at least, many RTS games have is that throughout 
 the game the game play becomes monotonous and eventually boring. Simply naming the units differently, 
 changing the collection resource and playing in a different universe dont truly make the game 
 unique and give it that extra credit to shine out above the rest. A nice thing though was the land, 
 air and sea battle aspect  again not unique but it at least a third environment is better than 
 just two.
  
  As good as many previous RTS games were (Ground Control, Dark Reign, C&amp; C) this one hinted at 
 being a different and better RTS experience, but totally failed in that regard, ending up as just 
 another one amongst many others.
  
  The game certainly has a lot of potential and promise and I'm sure that either expansions or a 
 sequel will deliver a game more in the lines of C&amp; C TW3. C'mon Gas, you can do it! Cut his 
 head off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is an intense full on strategy game and the battles are exhilarating yet playing 
 this I felt that theyre something missing to the game. I like the action and the game play but 
 after playing C'nC3, it just doesnt compare to the game play of C'n'C3. As soon as I started playing 
 C'nC3 I stoped playing SC, to be honest I dont know what is it about SC but there is something 
 missing and Im sure whatever that thing is, it would make SC so much better. I liked the game 
 but also it was just hard to get your head around... they're is so much happening and so much you 
 can do that they're is too much to do. It takes a while to get used to the game and how you play 
 it and I can see what the creators were going for but I think they might have overdone it a bit. 
 SC is a great game but to complex and it takes to long to learn everything. But with that said 
 I still think its a good game worth buying... but I guaranty that you will like C'nC3 more so Id 
 go for that first then if you still want to go ahead and but SC because it is worth buying in the 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lifeshifter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game and the amount of things you can do thats hidden within each unit is amazing, 
 im still finding out what each unit does each time I play a new game. However the online multiplayer 
 system is horrible, it should've been incorporated in-game instead of a external system and should 
 be a lot easier to use but when you do get to play online the games are great, the game itself 
 is great just needs improvements in that area :) Some examples of awesome abilites in the units 
 is stuff like the Commander for instance, he can upgrade himself around 5 times or so and other 
 random tech 1 land units can help repair things and the queue system is just amazing, you can have 
 everything doing something right from the start and they dont stop the whole game, also assisting 
 is great, stack them up on a nuke station and build your nukes faster or plants and things like 
 that, you wouldnt believe all the things you can do in this game, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanut-butter
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When I got Supreme Commander (as a gift) , my first impression was Looks like another RTS . When 
 I started playing it my thought then was, it is like another RTS. I honestly didn't see what was 
 great about it, except for the map witch shows the entire field, for easy control of units, and 
 the fact that you can play with land, air, and water units at the same time. Otherwise, from there 
 it was a normal RTS which takes up God knows how much space on my computer. I guess I also didn't 
 really enjoy this one was because I had to play the graphics on a medium level, which really dumbed 
 down the look. Another thing was how it takes forever to build so many units, and half of them 
 blow up right away since only about 10 out of 50 of them shoot at a time. I also didn't understand 
 why they made the camera and zoom feature so inconvienient, instead of using the mouse wheel. All 
 in all, I obviously didn't really enjoy the game, but if you think it might be worth your time, 
 than go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgers4life87
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Um this is pretty much a great game if you are willing to sit down and play until you need to shave 
 the next day. Well it can be, if you let it be. But all i have to say is this is a great game if 
 your looking to just skirmish because there are many different computer levels and some that have 
 different tactics. You will need a super computer to play this game on a maxed army battle because 
 even the recommended specs arent enough im hoping that they come out with a processing unit that 
 will overpower this game rather than get overpowered by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will98499
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  *This is mostly a multiplayer review*
  
  I thought this game was going to be extremely good when I first bought it. I heard of its maker, 
 and so I had already thoughts in mind on how grand the game might be. Total Annihilation is known 
 for the immeasurable amount of units in the game, as so it felt, as far as variety went. There 
 were a lot of different units, so the game could go a lot of different ways depending on how the 
 enemy strategized.
  
  When I was playing the campaign, this mostly held true, except it was quite hard to do every now 
 and then. Obviously some strategies worked better than others, so you had to find the optimal strategy.
 
  
  However, once I beat one of the 3 campaigns, I felt inclined to play multiplayer.
  
  I quickly learned that not everything is equal in the game. Almost every player in the game who 
 actually doesn't lose every game seems to follow the basic same strategy, with a few variations: 
 you build up a few resource things, and start pumping out early level troops, usually the cheapest 
 ground unit or a tank combination of some sort. You mass up a big amount of tanks, and attack the 
 enemies while you're doing it, trying to monopolize on resources, and eventually going after the 
 main enemy.
  
  If the opponent doesn't mirror that strategy, and tries to build defenses on his/her outskirts, 
 then he'll find himself quickly outnumbered, sieged, and a resource outproduction will generally 
 occur. In addition, if you let the enemy take control of the map, you'll be outproduced for the 
 rest of the game, a situation which hardly even ends up well. If somehow you turtle up well enough 
 to survive, then bad things continue to occur and usually it ends up at a loss.
  
  If you try to go air, the anti-air components are so great that it almost ALWAYS fails from what 
 I've seen. Air just seems to be countered too easily, and seems to not be worth it. Navy also seems 
 to be a waste, seeming to be more of a distraction than anything else, and it's quite boring to 
 use navy troops in my opinion.
  
  This is just how I felt about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grueol123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best rtses ever!
  The many features of this game make the gameplay focus less on micromanagement and more on having 
 fun. For example: strategic zoom, shift to see standing orders, autotransport, etc...
  You can zoom out to see the whole map, and then zoom in to see an individual unit. This feature 
 makes controlling huge armies much easier. If you select some units and some transports and tell 
 them to move somewhere, the transports automatically pick up the units and move them to the destination. 
 These features combined together make for a much funner game. The gameplay is the same as nearly 
 every other rts= build factories, build units, attack. The sound is fine, intense music during 
 battles, heroic music not during battles- not annoying and yet memorable. The sheer mass of the 
 armies during some battle scenes is amazing. In the recent demonstration of Starcraft II, they 
 showed a large battle. A battle like that is just a minor skirmish in SupCom. The graphics for 
 individual units arent that great, but when you have 100s of those units together, it looks amazing. 
 Unfortunately, the game has a tendency to eat memory and CPU power like mad, causing even powerhouse 
 PCs to start lagging in the biggest battles. The explosions are big and firey, sheilds are shiny 
 and cool, and artillery shell explosions explode satisfiyingly. The nuclear explosions cause the 
 virtual land to shake, and they are visible even when you dont have LOS to it. All in all, SupCom 
 takes average gameplay and multiplies it by 10, 100, and in some parts, 1000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgarnagle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  My review is not so much of a review, but a rebuttal against the chronically shortsighted reviews 
 i've been reading. If you're a fan of other RTS games, that does not really mean that you'll like 
 SC right away. In fact, it will take you a bit of time to adjust to new ways of doing things. First, 
 resources are better thought of being managed in terms of supply and demand, rather than have and 
 have not. You do not have to have stockpiled say 1000 of resource X to initiate the building of 
 a structure requiring 1000 X. In fact, you do not have to have any X at all. What is important 
 is the flow of X over time. The more X you have incoming per second, the better your ability to 
 construct the building will be. In SC, there are only two resources X and Y, Mass and Energy. Mass 
 is what you need to build things, and energy is needed to operate things (including things that 
 build using mass) . For example, A shield generator can be built for say, 500 mass. However, to 
 able to spend that mass, you'll need a constant flow of energy so that your construction units 
 (engineers) can operate efficiently. Once complete, the shield generator may consume a constant 
 amount of energy to continue to operate, say 300 energy per second. As long as your shield is up, 
 you'll have to to accommodate the fact that you're earning 300 less energy per second. This is 
 in stark contrast to the typical RTS, where you get say 500 wood and 300 gold and you build your 
 barracks. The resources must be fully stockpiled prior to the commencement of the building, and 
 debited immediately upon placing the building. It is then just a matter of time until the building 
 is built by constructing units. Second, several others giving SC somewhat negative reviews often 
 comment that the units are all the same between the factions. At first glance, it may appear this 
 way. However, thought i would argue that there are plenty of differences between factions, it is 
 HOW the units with the same name and purpose differ between factions that really distinguishes 
 the factions. For example, a basic mobile anti-aircraft unit is available for all three factions. 
 However, it is how each faction's unit goes about doing it's job that make a significant difference. 
 Faction 1's (F1) mobile anti-air fires about one projectile a second for a set amount of damage 
 (4) . F2's version fires projectiles that do half the damage of F1's, but fire twice as often. Finally, 
 F3 anti-air units fire missiles that track their targets. The differences are then that F1 can 
 occasionally do more burst damage, sometimes resulting in shooting down an enemy aircraft faster 
 than the others can. However, if the single projectile fails to hit the target, then F1 is well 
 behind in terms of the damage the others have likely inflicted by then. Also, F1 will often overkill 
 a unit, (by say inflicting 4 damage on a unit with only 1 health) , making it take longer for F1 
 to clear the skies. F3's missiles almost always hit and will usually be guaranteed to clear the 
 skies, but since the missiles take longer to get to the target, chances are a bomber has already 
 dropped a salvo of bombs by the time it is destroyed. F2's solution is about the middle of the 
 road. It is a shortsighted generalization to say that there is little difference between factions, 
 as they are actually substantially different. However, the difference lies in HOW the units do 
 their job, rather than WHAT they do to get the job done. This again, is in contrast to how RTS's 
 typically differ between factions. Finally, while SC allows the typical tank rush mentality as 
 a game ender, in many cases, an unsupported tank rush (siege bots in SC terms) can realistically 
 be completely rebuffed by base defences. Moreover, SC offers many ways to win a game, even if you're 
 completely on your heels defending against overwhelming odds. SC stresses combined arms tactics 
 and economic management. While if you master these two key tenets you will probably find yourself 
 winning most often, it by no means guarantees a victory. In my considered opinion, SC offers a 
 truly exceptional RTS experience that cannot be described as a typical RTS offering. You would 
 be doing yourself a disservice if you are an RTS aficionado were you to dismiss SC after just a 
 couple hours of play. It takes time to adapt to SC's non-traditional RTS flavour. While you can 
 play the game after probably an hour or so (less if you've ever played an RTS before) , you will 
 likely not have a real appreciation for the game until you've logged significantly more time. Lets 
 face it, RTS's are about multiplayer play. Campaigns are nice and all, but really, the real value 
 is in multiplayer replayability. SC is one of the finest examples in years of a game that has the 
 mettle to shine for years to come, offering its players a truly different and challenging RTS experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jepeteo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of Total Annihilation so I have been waiting for SC a lot of time...
  I bought and I recommend all you people that play RTS games, go buy it...
  I didn't expect it 
 to be so good... I don't know where to begin from.
  Three different races with each race having it's own units and special units... And with each unit 
 having it's own strategy. That's fantastic! In addition to the outstanding A. I. that I believe 
 is one of the best I have ever encountered...
  I would like to add that the multi player is also great.
  And for the end i leave the best... 
 graphics!!! I believe the made a great job in the graphics section. Explosions, movements, trails, 
 enemy and friendly fire, environment, shadows, debris, etc are all perfect... There has been done 
 an excellent job to make this job... I really loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 30, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought Supreme Commander because I was a fan of Total Annihilation, and because the godfather 
 behind TA was also the godfather behind this game, I knew the battles would be huge, and thank 
 god its a great RTS game.
  
  (also, I'm running a good rig myself to, one that can play Crysis and Starcraft, and even I had 
 some serious lag issues at some time, so you'll need a monster PC to run it good and let it be 
 enjoyable) .
  
  In Supreme Commander, you'll be this gigantic robot called the Supreme Commander (you can consider 
 it a Evangelion robot) and you'll be able to create a huge army in matter of minutes, with the 
 use of recourses and energy you'll be using air, water and incredibly large structures to kill 
 out you're opponents.
  
  Gameplay:
  Compare the gamemap to Google Earth, and then set up almost a thousand units on the map, you get 
 total lag and chaos.
  
  The gameplay will have you controlling the Supreme Commander robot, making a army that you want 
 using recourses (that'll be lost during some games, you'll have to harvest them again at times) 
 and energy (that'll constantly refill because of powerplants) , the action ingame is just chaotic, 
 you see everything going on the same time, its nice to see aircraft shooting out hundreds of missles 
 to one of my spiderbots, its really good to see so much chaos can be set into one game, but yet 
 again: skirmish mode and lag.
  
  Theres also this yib-yabbing about tactic, the best tactic I found was make a defensive stand for 
 my Supreme Commander and make alot of attacking units, it mostly works, but some difficulter strategies 
 win mostly from me online.
  
  Graphics:
  Great, water looks good, land looks good, units look god, you'll still need a monster PC to run 
 it all tho, you'll get the idea of the graphics when you see screenshots.
  
  AI:
  Enemy AI is just.. even as you, the game isn't you're cup of tea, its constantly about build, build 
 and again: build, if you stop building for a few minutes, you're lost, so if you're looking for 
 a nice strategic RTS, this isn't the game you're looking for.
  
  Is it a good RTS:
  Yeah, but the fact you'll need a NASA computer for it to play it, is a downfall, higher end computers 
 should be able to play it with sometimes a heavy burst of lag tho, I'd say if you are a fan of 
 Warcraft etc, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banebogd
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Good stuff:
  -Really impressive way of building structures, gaining resources, commanding units and applying 
 humongous number of strategies.
  -Awesome graphics, nice details and explosions
  -Ability to play on HUUUGE maps (well, if you have enough RAM)
  -Its just, GREAT.
  
  Bad 
 Stuff:
  -System requirements (ULTRA HIGH...)
  -Level above stomps the level below. What I want to say is, when you reach level 2, your level 
 1 units become useless, same goes for level 3. (the only reason i didnt give it 9.5 or 10 points 
 is this)
  -Factions are almost IDENTICAL (around 5 different stuff, concerning units and structures, thats 
 all)
  
  Tips for new players:
  -turn off shadows, you'll get ALOT more FPS...
  -Watch tutorials 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dziunglius
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  There's a war in the galaxy, which has been waged for a thousand years. 3 factions are waging it: 
 The UEF, The Cybran and The Aeon. NO diplomatic solution can be made. YOU take the place of a commander 
 of each faction and try to take the war in your hands and end it. During Your game play You'll 
 get a few assignments and will be landed on a planet full of enemies where You will use future 
 weapons to end this thousand year war.
  
  Welcome to your planet commander Laughing Start gathering resources asap and build defenses. Enemies 
 may be near. Send your scouts to explore this huge map, and hopefully find the enemy before it 
 finds you. Expand, expand, expand, You have a huge map available for you (or should I say: I've 
 never seen a bigger map) , so don't be ashamed to take a lot of place. Build artillery installations, 
 point defense systems, anti-air sam missile launchers, torpedo launchers, build lots of tanks, 
 artillery, anti air troops, choppers, bombers, cruisers, nukes or even experimental units. All 
 is available to You. Just keep in mind that massing one unit doesn't work here. Build too much 
 anti ground defenses or troops and your opponent will beat you with air troops or artillery, build 
 too much air defenses, he'll kill you with ground troops. Built a large air force, but the enemy 
 has got a lot of air defenses? Don't worry, shot down planes will hit the ground and hopefully 
 hit a building or a unit! Choose a wise tactic. Strategy means everything here. You can't kill 
 him with this unit combo? No worries, try a different one.
  
  Strategy, strategy, strategy. I think this is the first RTS game, where you can't win by massing 
 one unit! This is what makes the game so great. Sometimes even the angle of attack means a lot. 
 It seems that even the computer gets that, so it tries different tactics. He loves artillery installations. 
 Beware of those. A few hits are enough to take out a building. Try attacking those installations 
 with a squad of ground units and they are most likely to die without doing any harm, as one hit 
 can be enough to wipe a squad. This is the game, where a hard pc gives you quite a beating.
  
  Supreme commander is extremely easy to learn. Just the old good controls of a strategy game, 
 with all those typical buildings to build. The money and the power systems are quite confusing 
 at the start, but you get used to them in no time. There is a little addition to units, you can 
 queue a few commands to them which makes it a lot easier to control. Even with all the usual things 
 of a strategy game supreme commander takes time to master. While playing with a PERSON, it's even 
 harder as he can try to combine a few tactics or make a stealth attack when and where you think 
 its not gonna happen.
  
  The only minus of this game is its steep requirements. With 512mb of ram and a 128mb graphics card 
 I'm having issues even on the lowest quality, when playing a big map and a huge battle is fought, 
 tho this doesn't ruin the game, it just pauses sometimes. An intelligent system makes up for it.
 
  
  SC is truly a supreme game, definitely the best RTS game available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollydave
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 24, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing SupCom for 2 days now, and at first I was extremely impressed. Even though I 
 had to turn down the display setting a little so my computer wouldn't chug too slowly, it was still 
 a very pretty game in first pass. The variety of units is impressive, though all 3 faction are 
 basically the same when it comes to the conventional units. In fact they are too much alike for 
 my taste. Whereas a game like C&amp; C or Star/Warcraft has pretty significant disparities between 
 the races/factions, once you get to know one side, you know them all. However, one of the better 
 aspects of the game is the experiemntal units - gargantuan behemoths that take forever to build, 
 eat up tons of resources, and can slaughter half your opponent's army without batting an eyelash. 
 Then I started playing the campaign, as in most RTS, you start out without access to the full repertoire 
 of your side's units. This means that superior tactics are the way to go since you can't count 
 on bludgeoning the opposition with higher technology. The overall strategy view in the game is 
 great for doing this, and the combination of down in the mud visuals with high level tactical views 
 is a union which was a long time coming. That would be all well and good if your units actually 
 did what you told them to do. The enemy AI is pretty good, and challenging at higher levels. However, 
 your own units behave like braindead lemmings. The pathfinding in this game is absolutely terrible. 
 Case in point: Onr of the selling points is that you can have massive battles with 50+ units slugging 
 it out. Great. However when you tell them to move, they queue up behind one another like they're 
 in a conga line. One unit can't seem to figure out that you can actually go around another. And 
 don't even start on going around corners. They will actually go around a corner one at a time (!!) 
 even when in formation. When you order a large group to attack, the units at the back just sit 
 there, so that effectively, your 50 tank horde is really only the front 10 attacking and the 30 
 at the back reading the Sunday comics. I spent the last hour yelling all the profanity I could 
 at my computer when I saw this happen again and again. So, overall, great looking game, with a 
 nice concept of combining overview strategy with small scale tactics. However, it is marred by 
 a real lack of diversity between the factions and an order execution system that can only be described 
 as idiotic and frustratin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcostin
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Wow I am impressed. The reason is I have never really got into RTS style games. I have fooled around 
 with them in the past but never really got interested. I read a lot of hype about this game in 
 PC gamer and here a gamespot so I thought I would just download the demo and see if I could get 
 into to it. Let me just say I loaded the demo at about 9:00PM and I did not go to bed until 2:00AM 
 and the only reason I did that was because I had to be up for work at 6:00AM. So yea you can say 
 I was hooked pretty bad. I marked it down though in some areas as I had some issues with lockups 
 at first and the learning curve was a little rough at first. You need to realize though this was 
 a demo and not the full version. Also I am in no way used to RTS games. But after learning how 
 it functions basically right now and did a couple of missions I was sold. Today at lunch first 
 I di was go to the local retailer and purchase this game. First impressions are crucial for me 
 when I play a demo so if the demo sucks I probably would not have bought this game. So it is a 
 great game and I am looking forward to the full version as I am installing the latest patches before 
 I start campaigns. Happy RTS ing .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok... there's been a lot of talk abou this game.
  how are you going to be able to keep control of so many units?
  how can you finish games on such 
 giant maps?
  what kinda computer do you need to play this game?
  well.... the answers are easy, first off, you can zoom out all the way so you can see all your 
 units and you can use hotkeys to select and group them. also you can set patrol and movement paths 
 that can me changed by dragging them around with reselecting everything and starting the whole 
 thing over again... PLUS it has an ETA timer so you know when your group is gonna get there.
  second off, if your opponent is turtling, you ca nuse teh map size to manuever around and attack 
 him on all sides... any base will go down if you have hundreds of units attacking on all sides 
 and from the air... also the nukes are freakin HUGE!!! and experimental units escimate literally 
 everything in their path, but they all have a weakness so defend them where they need it.
  third off, well... your gonna need a pretty good comp to get this one going... i usually get close 
 to 500 units in my attack group befoer i attack, so once the action gets up this gae starts lagging... 
 but not too bad, plus i can always zoom out to reduce poly count and then use the mini map (YES!!! 
 even the mini map can zoom in and out all the way) to watch the fighting.
  a lot of people try dissing this game, but thars because they are rather bad at it or havent played 
 against someone that challenges them. In good fights, the battles arent only in the center or at 
 eachothers bases like in many other RTSs, in AOE, the fighting was primarily in the middle area 
 between the bases and in the bases... same with BFME2 and EE... here in Sup Com, the fighting is 
 for strategic points, like an island you could use as an airstrip or put an artilary on it, or 
 for mass deposites, or an area the gives clear room for building a second or third, or if your 
 like me, fourth base.
  battles cant be won by spamming your best unit... you need to use them all.... if you use only 
 T3 siege bots... they'll kill you with gunships or battleships... if you only use airplanes, they'll 
 throw all sorts of AA at you and then use units like the GC to walk over to yuor base and destroy 
 it... balancing air, land and sea is important... also keeping defences and artilary is important.
 
  i could go on forever about how diferent stragities can bring down even the best players if they 
 neglect to defend against a certain force... This game is truely something else
  Ever since Total Annihilation, I've always wanted to play an RTS that had that many units... just 
 thousands of units on the map blasting eachother and leaving battlefields littered with wreckage 
 and craters... this is that game!! SUPREME COMMANDER IS THE BEST RTS... BEST GAME EVER MADE!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Margustafson
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I meant under the innovations the ability to queue up things, broad usage of assisting, coordinated 
 attack, freedom in camera angles and zooming (also the mini-map) , screen spitting and tracing units, 
 missiles and large artillery shells, click and drag art of building (especially for walls and power 
 generators) , freedom in reorganizing your building queue and building locations! Even the individual 
 patrolling points for patrolling units.
  The ability to pause constructions and upgrades. Very user friendly interface, broad choice of 
 keyboard shortcuts, the game helps you to pinpoint the building locations for metal extractors 
 even when zoomed out. You have always an overview of idle construction workers. Units auto fire 
 all the objects seen by radar which are also visible as gray symbols in you main map.
  Huh, there is more. Economy and intelligence mode, how you see your screen... and...
  I don&acute; t 
 know what else. C. Taylor is a genius. He knows, what you need, when you want to play an RTS game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmurty
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 22, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best looking RTS games Ive seen for a while, but I cant help but be affected 
 by the massive learning curve needed to play to its full potential. Its definitely not for new 
 comers, and even for veterans of the Age of Empires series it will be a bit of a brain overload. 
 In my opinion, there is just a bit too much management of the units and structures. As a fan of 
 the Age of Empires and Command and Conquer games, I feel it just doesn't have the 'pick up and 
 play' brilliance that other RTS games have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glordit
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Some Of you will remember Cave Dog Aka Total Anialation a RTS with 'Galactic Scale in mind!'
  
  This time its back a new RTS from Chris Taylor Supreme Commander, its all the galactic scale 
 you can get plus more better graphics, sounds, units more startergy and only if youre PC can Handle 
 it!*
  
  Supreme Commander will put to the test everything at your disposal, ranging from your hardware 
 to your personal endurance. The enormous maps, some of which are as large as 6500 square kilometres 
 (they can actually be viewed from space -- a nice touch, both visually and tactically) , combined 
 with the hundreds of exquisitely detailed units and structures that often appear on screen simultaneously 
 will challenge even the most tricked out rigs to keep a steady frame rate. Moreover, even if your 
 box can cut it, you might not. The length of the game's epic three and four hour missions requires 
 extreme patience on behalf of the player, not to mention a knack for long-term strategizing. Missions 
 are all divided into 3 or more sections so as soon as you complete one objective the there is suddenly 
 more to do! Sup Com is all about the Infinite war a war that waged 1000's of year and now there 
 are 3 factions left to wage it Cybrans - a Nation of liberation cyborgs Aeon - a peace loving Nation 
 of advances technology and Finnaly the UEF - the Nation of humans that wants to bring all nations 
 together, The campaign is slip up into 3 you have the change to play as any three in any order 
 but UI recomend that you play then in order otherwise you'll be lost :P
  
  Graphics wise Sup Com is on par, Units leave tracks in the earth and snow, all units have their 
 own distinc shadows. The detail in the units is amazing! with gunship ferring units and shield 
 tanks makeing asort of mobile cover for you units Stratergy is all in a days work here! As in game 
 you are able to zoom in right into the battle to see the tank get crushed by a larger counter part 
 and then zoom out so see the whole battle field! on a earthly sorts! You will be doing this most 
 of teh time as Sup Com requires you to be in more than on place at a time, Managing Base Defences 
 Attacking a enemy outpost defending as a large.
  
  A generous tech tree is giving to you from Lan to sea to air, you have the option of Tech 1, 2, 
 3 and finnaly experimentals tech 4 the largest meanest mothers that can crush all the smaler units 
 but they have their weakneses and nothing a good old nuke can fix!
  
  AI is on par but that's all besides for pumping out tons of units [a good statergy I might say!] 
 the attack defend rebuild seek more resuorces and teh such, but Skirmish is where it come alive 
 choose one on the optins ther e rush, and the AI will continuously rush you with smaller tech units 
 and teh such, T4 AI will strive to constuct a Experimetal units to Crush you!
  
  other than a realy good story and some great AI Suprme Commander does just what it said it would 
 do, Battle on a galactic scale, if you love hard hitting large Scale battles get this you will 
 not be dissapointed! *NOTE: A patch is to be released soon that wil help with Single core CPU's 
 and better game balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximiliator
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 20, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  Supreme commander is a real-time strategy game, with a lot of nice specials !
  It is not easy to understand, because the controls are very sophisticated. It&acute; s difficult 
 at first, to coordinate your units, but even more fun later ! If you played supreme commander, 
 you will miss the zoom out function in other strategy games. Because in supreme commander, you 
 can zoom out and see the map like a chess-board ! This is useful, if you caommand really big armies. 
 And this is very likely in supreme commander. The limit is at 1000 units. So, now imagine 2 armies 
 of 1000 units clash on each other ! This is, what supreme commander is ! You are the supreme commander 
 !
  
  I played trough the campaign, and I couldn&acute; t stop ! I know i&acute; m a heretic if i say this, 
 but I think Supreme Commander is better then C&amp; C3. The graphic in C&amp; C3 might be better, 
 but Supreme Commander got 10 times as much different units, and a better story.
  
  I can only say, that it&acute; s worth buying ! But maybe not everybody likes it. For that reason, 
 i recommend it only to strategy lovers.
  
  Max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSamus
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Even if you were the best Warcraft or Dawn of War player in the world, you'd still have 
 to learn the ropes of this game as it is different from any other RTS game (maybe not Total Annihilation) . 
 The basics are pretty simple: build Mass Extractors on Mass Deposits, Power Generators next to 
 your Factories for an adjacency bonus, and build an army. If you play a skirmish right when you 
 buy it, you will be tempted to stay at your base and try to build the Experimental Units. They 
 will seem unstoppable against Normal AI, but the campaign teaches you not to do this and build 
 a large army at low tech levels by not allowing you to Tech Up until later missions (which is a 
 good thing, because you won't win many multiplayer games saving up for Experimentals) .
  
  Graphics: On a high-end computer, even this will have to be turned down in the large scale. If 
 you have a Quad-Core processor, then this won't be as much of a problem. It looks great if you 
 can handle it, but it still looks good at low levels.
  
  Sound: Jeremy Soule composes the most amazing soundtrack I've ever heard (He did Oblivion, Morrowind, 
 Guild Wars, Warhammer: Mark of Chaos, Company of Heroes, and Prey, in case you haven't heard of 
 him) . The unit sounds are all unique, so you will usually be able to identify who's shooting at 
 who just by listening.
  
  Value: With 3 campaigns with 6 Operations (each one being at least an hour, not including the first 
 one) , there is plenty to do. Also, having 3 different factions for skirmish and multiplayer lets 
 you learn how to use each one. The differences are subtle in most cases, but you will notice them.
 
  
  Tilt: A great game, probably one of the best RTSs I've played, but I don't want it's score to be 
 up there with Oblivion and Twilight Princess.
  
  Overall: 9.6. If you are looking for something new, buy it. If you want a good RTS, buy it. If 
 you want a great game, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocalypo
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander gets very addictive after you play it for some time but if you don't have the 
 hardware to back it up don't even bother. It took me a month before i could play it and it was worth 
 it. One of the problems that i faced was a lack of ram for both video (graphic) card and standard 
 computer ram. The only way to beat this problem is to upgrade or get another game that will run 
 on your computer. Another problem is the in game time delay of up to 20 seconds if you play with 
 more than 8 players, Except for that Supreme Commander is a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rakuho
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Can you say new processor and video card? Well I can, because that's what you'll need to play this 
 game. That, however, is not necessarily a bad thing... well, ok that is kind of messed up. But 
 aside from the change you got have to drop on new specs, this game is great. It's not perfect and 
 its large scale can get a bit tedious and game matches may take a while. But thanks to the various 
 victory conditions you will not have to go through the whole mess if you're not up to it. Well, 
 lets start the rating shall we?
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  On max everything, the graphics look amazing but chances are you will not be able to run it on 
 max, especially if you're a casual PC game player or RTS player. You might have to lower the resolution, 
 fidelity or textures to run it well, but if you're playing against more than 2 opponents, forget 
 about it. Once they amass their bases it's slow down city. (Turning off shadows helps, but they're 
 done so damn well that it's a shame to do so)
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound in this game is great. Everything you that you should expect to hear in a futuristic 
 RTS you will; ranging from explosion effects to construction clicks. I'm not sure there are any 
 ambient sounds, but then again, they're completely useless. The only downer is that the music gets 
 a bit old, even though it fits the game.
  
  Game play: 10/10
  
  This game, though may look large and complex, is easily accessible to any RTS fan. Casual fan, 
 well that's another story, but on the plus side of the RTS genre you either like it or you don't, 
 so I assume the reader is some what of a fan. Anyway, the game plays like many RTS; you build your 
 base, get some defenses, construct an army and take out your enemy. The concept doesn't get easier 
 than that, but the great thing is you get 3 factions with a multitude of building options. You 
 can create naval, air and ground units fro all kinds of purposes and charge you enemies in fast-pace 
 combat. You have 3 tiers of units. To get higher tier units (i. e. 2) requires an upgrade from a 
 factory, nothing new. The coolest thing is that u can have as many engineers as you want assist 
 in your construction and unit creation (at the expenditure of more resources, naturally) . The waypoint 
 and patrol system is one of the best out there. You can impute a whole plan to a commander (main 
 construction unit) or an engineer of what it should create by simply holding the shift key and 
 clicking on the building or order you want them to execute. A new feature that has not been used 
 by an RTS is the zoom-out option, which allows you to zoom out on a strategic level an see the 
 whole battle field, or do a split screen. All in all the game play is fun largely because of its 
 massive size and cool control options. Other attributes: 9/10
  
  This offers a lot of replay ability and a sophisticated online community. You'll have fun playing 
 by your self and honing your skills in skirmish so that you can go online and get your ass beat 
 by some nerd, no Im playing' :) Unlike what most people say, it's very user friendly and is accessible 
 to gamers of levels. This game really isn't that hard, you just have to know your stuff, and the 
 learning curve isn't even that long. If you love RTS games and have a b**chin' PC, this game is 
 for you, but I can't really tell who will like it and who wont, because as all games, it can get 
 boring, so get it at your own risk! Also, if you have an old or significantly outdated PC, don't 
 even think about it. *Note: if you want to know the allowable specs for this game either check 
 out GPGNet or the article on SupCom in Gamespot, they have a page on that. I have a Nvidia 7950 
 512mb videocard and P4 2.8 GHz and I can run it on max 1V1 without slowdown, and experience significant 
 but not awful slowdown on practically max when its 2V2 or higher.
  
  Hope that helps build your interest for this game. Or maybe my review was a major turn-off, well 
 tough nuts then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  YAYS
  Incredible sense of scale; three interesting campaigns; many ways to finish a map; profound sense 
 of accomplishment.
  
  NAYS
  Takes a while to get used to; can become mentally exhausting.
  
  I'm not usually a big fan 
 of RTS games because of many reasons, most importantly them requiring you to mundanely use brute 
 force to accomplish a mission and their focus on survival - where the only strategy comes from 
 managing your very limited resources rather than actually bringing down the enemy.
  
  Supreme Commander is a RTS player's dream come true. A game that really is an evolution to RTS 
 games, not only because it redefines basic mechanics, but introduces new ones that should, one 
 day, become the norm.
  
  In SC you choose to play one of three different factions, all of which refuse to co-exist and wage 
 war against the other. The good part is, however, that no faction is the good faction as each is 
 fighting for their own cause, which is the point of a war if you put any effort into looking at 
 all perspectives. That said, it doesn't matter really which faction you start with since there 
 isn't one that would be offensive or racial in any way - basically you'd be choosing your faction 
 on how cool looking the robot is.
  
  In typical RTS fair, you progress through the game by completing maps. In SC though, the concept 
 is redefined as you are not put into one map and you slowly clear the fog of war as you scavenge 
 where the enemy base is. Rather, you are dropped onto a small field and you have a set of objectives 
 to complete on that field. There is no fog of war, technically, since you can see the terrain, 
 but you need to move your units around so that you gain visual of enemy units in the area. You 
 start typically by building your base, building some engineers and then expanding your base functionality 
 and army quickly. This is made easy and quick since you don't need a base to build other buildings. 
 Your Supreme Commander, the giant robot, is actually the multi-functional engineer. You can instantly 
 build your war machines factory, have it build a few other secondary engineers while your commander 
 is building power plants, then have the engineers build other structures while your factory builds 
 the army. All this takes around 2-3 minutes, which is phenomenal.
  
  Upon completing this task you are required to finish the objective of the map - whether it be protecting 
 some buildings or wiping out a fleet of enemies, or just building a specific, time consuming structure. 
 Once the objectives are done, instead of moving on to the next level, the map increases in size. 
 This adds a whole new dimension to RTS and makes you think in multiple layers, since, when the 
 map doubles in size, you don't know what you would be up against. So if, for example, the first 
 objective was to finish off a fleet of enemies, and you have a few surviving units, and the map 
 expands with the objective to defend your base for 10 minutes of attacks, you will be royally screwed 
 if you don't act fast. Adding tot he fun, though, is that with the larger map you also have more 
 room to unleash your tactics. So for instance if you thought your only choice is to go head to 
 head with the enemy base, the map expands and, to your delight, you find you can go attack from 
 the rear. The map keeps expanding with every objective finished, until the whole level is completed. 
 There are a 5-6 maps for each faction, but rest assured that each map takes around 1-3 hours to 
 finish.
  
  It wouldn't be an RTS of course if there isn't unit variety. With three factions, units are a lot 
 different and each compensates the weakness of the other. So even down to the basic level, even 
 if your units have a firepower disadvantage against your opponent, your units would probably be 
 faster, more versatile or have a higher attack rate. This allows you to have different combos of 
 units for you to base your strategy upon.
  
  Thankfully, you can have different strategies to finish an object. For example, you can have a 
 full frontal attack or send some long-range tanks to the mountains behind the enemy base and bring 
 down their defenses. Or, if you're completely sadistic, you can build 150 heavy gunships and send 
 all of them to the enemy base and let them all attack the enemy commander, which would then explode 
 in a nuclear graphical delight to wipe out the enemy base and your gunships.
  
  There are also experimental units, which are of a level so high that they cost a huge amount of 
 resources (more on that later) and time. However, once completed, the experimental unit by itself 
 can finish off half the enemy base. Have a couple or more and watch your enemy frantically trying 
 to protect the base.
  
  Speaking of resources, there are two: Mass and Energy. Building anything, from structures to units, 
 require some mass and some energy. Without mass, your building speed is slowed to a cripple. Without 
 energy, you may be able to build but your shield generators and sonars would not work. Energy is 
 generated by power plants you build, mass, however, are available only in specific spots (but infinite 
 quantity) and you need to harvest the mass from those spots - which are often places in strategic 
 places for you and the enemy to try and control. Eventually however you would not be worrying about 
 neither resource and would focus on your battle strategy.
  
  All that said, the game is presented in cutting edge graphics. The models all look great and the 
 landscape is phenomenally large - so large in fact that all other RTS should be ashamed of their 
 scale. THIS game has true war maps, stretching kilometers/miles in all directions. You can zoom 
 in up to the unit level, and zoom out all the way to view the whole map and iconic representations 
 of units and structures. This gives a much easier control and an overview on what the heck is going 
 on, and, most likely, you'd be spending most of the time zoomed out (not all the way) rather than 
 zoomed in. Acoustically the music is usually background and muted, and jumps up only when a great 
 battle ensues. There are plenty of sound effects though, although to keep it in a realistic manner, 
 the more you zoom out the more the audio is hummed down. Which can be a bummer because on maximum 
 zoom in, it is an entirely different world of carnage.
  
  All in all you cannot go wrong with Supreme Commander. It offers a good challenge with an intelligent 
 AI, deep gameplay and lots of options for you to fiddle with. Best of all, you can switch graphics 
 options on the fly without needing to restart the game - which is good if the map and craziness 
 get too hogging on your graphics card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DKW_Firstborn
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Game is somewhat Revolutionary. I would say that once per 2 years arrives g-r-o-u-n-d-b-r-e-a-k-i-n-g 
 game engine/gameplay that creates it's own fangroup. Sadly us/we the fangroup will be allways refering 
 but the first one I won't be of any difrence, As i will be prefering to Total Annihilation Link: 
 http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/totalannihilation/index. html? q=Total%20Annhiliation&amp; tag=result; title;7 
 during this player based preview.
  
  -Minuses-
  
  sound world is total letdown, the sound of lasers, airplanes dropping bombs that sound something 
 very ellated, i ended up playing on Earth's side for i hate the voices of future laser guns. The 
 orginal beats the hell out of this game in terms of sounds.
  
  Units: The similarities and lack of variation between the units is great downfall. The changing 
 factions offer very little change. +Plusplus+
  
  Realistic war.. it sounds (despite i hate the soundworld) like war, it feels like war. infact if 
 it would smell it would be something like metall and oil.
  
  Feeling of the game is totaly unique, you feel desperation, you will be sweting, cursing, praying 
 and swearing as you advance onward for Total domination. In multiplayer the enemy turret defence 
 and the ever stalking enemy patrols turn your army into piles of shatered metall if not discovered 
 in time. The presure of time is simply stressing. Bluffing and creating presure has finally gained 
 a meaning. Victory has -NEVER- Felt this good before. Tactical variation: even if you have 400 
 tec level 2 tanks your scewed if enemy posses bombers, turrets, mortar tanks, missile bombers, 
 gunships. Tactial skills over quantity small squad of 40 units or less can take down your whole 
 defence if used with skill and care.
  
  In short: This is likely best RTS game after year 2k, This game bring exelent variation to evergrowing 
 poorly scripted games with even worse gameplay, yet with exelent graphics it is sadly typical nowadays 
 to publish games with very high potential, that falls to the fact that it is still in middle of 
 development...
  
  It's sadly often thought among publishers and game developers policy once we update it will be 
 better A fact: poorly made game is allways poorly made game and won't be nearly ever changed by 
 any update...
  
  Thanks for reading.. ps. Sorry for the numerious of typing errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShamusX
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 17, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  OK. I bought it, I am not a really big Strategy fan and I had heard this one was a little on the 
 tough to learn side . But it bellowed high end eye candy and new and amazing quantities of stuff 
 to blow up. What's a guy to do with 50 bucks in his pocket? That's legal. That doesn't happen in 
 over 18 clubs.
  
  So I bought it. I also bought the book that was roughly the same size as my neuro-Biology book. 
 I went home and did the routine. Even stopped for smokes and cokes on the way home planning for 
 a focused night.,
  
  I got the game installed. And then....... what in gods green earth is this transformer thing??? 
 and hwy is he like my king in chess yet he is a crafter? Why can I pan so far into outerspace I 
 can look BACK into my OWn living room? Wh......
  
  The learning curve on this game os Mount Everest for ANYONE who has a high IQ but is not experienced 
 with RTS, PERIOD. Anyone else who says differently is lying or selling.
  
  I hope you l337 d00ds got this one covered... I will happily go back to swinging my damn sword to 
 get my aggressions out.
  
  RTV, SUV, GHB, LSD, QRF, JKI.... game has more Acronyms then the Navy......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristialex317
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Be Warned that you can get addicted to this game so badly that you wont even sleep thats wat happend 
 to me a saturday i played the game all day and all night and you just feel so natural to the game 
 setting and the factions. The Armies are well Balanced they pretty the same but the Big wapons 
 are much much different then some of them.. For the Gameplay you will always be in ur toes you.... 
 if you dont like a fast pace RTS then dont buy this game but if you love a fast RTS then THIs is 
 a must buy game.. the Graphics are Gorgeous when you drop the nuclear bomb on the other teams base 
 and u see it that it did major damage your glad That you can zoom out all ur map out and see wats 
 happending this is a Classic on My Board if you like this game also try Company of heroes and Command 
 and Conquer III 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  To be honest, when I decided to buy this game, it was because of the graphics I saw in the trailer. 
 However, as soon as I started playing, I realized that it was actually a sequel to Total Annihilation -- something 
 I was quietly hoping for for the last ten years. Supreme Commander features amazing balance of 
 its predecessor, the ability to create and command huge armies, and a very straightforward resource 
 system that makes economic management very easy. There are quite a few changes from the original 
 such as an improved interface (best RTS interface I have ever seen) . Bot and Machine factory have 
 been combined into a Land factory. All factories now produce generic engineering units, and are 
 able to self-upgrade. Commander units can now be upgraded to better fit support role, or to become 
 a juggernaut of destruction. Static defences arsenal was expanded, and tactical missiles were introduced. 
 Super weapons add flavor, but on their own are not powerful enough to guarantee a decisive victory. 
 If RTS is your genre, this game is a must-buy. If you have never played an RTS before, this game 
 is great place to start. The only complaint is the easiness of the single-player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mespil
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 13, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Some of the ideas are really great, great for future games or an indication of things to come, 
 but ultimately there is no real strategy because the units are limited it's basically just a x 
 unit countered with y unit boring game. The units are so limited and the experimental units were 
 dissapointing, only one??? No upgrades for units or mad weapons just bog standard monkey nuts. 
 There were some great things about the game, such as great graphics and the zoom out function, 
 but ultimately this does not make the game. Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Gustaf
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander was designed to be the spiritual successor to Total Annihilation, the Father 
 of a lot of modern RTS's. Designed by the genis Chris Taylor, I was expecting a lot from it. And 
 i got it. The Intro video lays out the storyline, Humanity ventured into space, prospered, AI was 
 born, Aliens were found. Then things got a bit more nasty. The AI were being used as slaves, and 
 wanted their freedom. The creater of the AI, fled with his most trusted AI's. Xenophobic soldiers 
 destroyed the Aliens they found, and a group of humans who had been taught 'The Way', by the aliens, 
 set out to cleanse the galaxy. Under the weight of this threat, the United Earth Federation formed, 
 and went out to unite humans. Pretty compelling stuff. Looked at a few bits of the tutorial, and 
 skipped the rest. (I shouldn't have, I learnt some valuable stuff from my friend who watched the 
 whole thing) And went into the campaign. Simple enough. However, campaigns tend to take a long 
 time, as you are restricted to building level 1 weedy stuff. I left the campaign, and decided to 
 do skirmish.
  
  This is where Supreme Commander really shines. Without the performance problems of multiplayer, 
 and a higher FPS (for me) Skirmish makes the game. A choice of 3 different sides; Humans (UEF) , 
 AI (Cybran) and the followers of 'The Way' (Aeon) . Often, you are playing for 1-2 hours at a time, 
 building up, attacking, and building up again. Once at tech 3, you can build experimental units, 
 which can really turn the tide of a battle. One unit (The UEF's Mavor Artillery) Can shoot across 
 the whole map with pinpoint accuracy. However, with one engineer, it takes 379 minutes to build 
 (real time) Upgrade your commander, and that time is reduced, to 50.
  
  Multiplayer is good, but marred by worse performance than Skirmish. Me and my friend often get 
 little freezes, and i stop responding, while i can only guess what's happening. In other people's 
 reviews, I see them saying; Too long, takes ages and OMG Rubbish performance And i agree! However, 
 it doesn't take away from the game. It's style is to have huge, long matches, and in what new game 
 does performance not go down. I even got lag on C&amp; C Red Alert 2 when people Rocketeer spammed 
 me, so if you're system aint up for the job, don't buy the game. Overall, Great game, Great Skirmish, 
 Good multiplayer, Killer Graphics, and a game well worth buying.
  If you have a computer powerful enough to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giuliovara
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  it's a good game, even because the flowpath is simple : build bases, create units , stone-paper-scissor 
 aganist the enemy.
  
  BUILD BASES
  it's not too hard to understand what it means, c'mon.
  you can build a plenty of bases, including 
 marine bases, airports and so on.
  you could be used to this kind of game , and you may know that bases need resources. in this game 
 you'll be gathering ore and energy. since i have been playing at it, i can tell you that , even 
 if you often get worried 'bout gathering things in many other titles, in supreme commander i built 
 a terrifying army at the second scenario...
  the building operation starts with a single robot, which will be helped in building by engineers 
 , produced by almost any kind of factory
  
  CREATE UNITS
  if the number of buildings available isn't that much , there are surely a lot of units, classifiable 
 in 3 classes : airborne , marine and terrain veichles.
  any of this classes has a sub-partition, which consist in a specialization on the target: certain 
 veichles are made to destroy planes but can't hit a submarine even if they bump into it, for example.
 
  
  ENGINEERS
  they are the key of a strong strategy. pardon , this is a personal consideration , but i wanted 
 to let ou know that with these little bots you can conquere th world. you can build fleet, swarm 
 of them , and sand againist small bases. theycan't attack, but they can convert enemy structure 
 into yours . these structure are supposed to be till , or dead at least, but if you sacrifice a 
 small number of them, you're going to use an unstoppable NERD-ARMADA .
  it deserve the bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  As mentioned previously, I am not an avis RTS gamer. What seems eons ago I was addicted to the 
 Warcraft series and Starcraft. Older yet is the days of Lords of the Realm. To the point, Supreme 
 Commander is a very nice game and on my system runs, well-it's breath-taking. Consoles have a long 
 way to go when stacked up to a game like this on a desktop more than capable of handeling a beast 
 of a game like this on such an enormous scale! Well worth a purchase, RTS fan or not!
  
  Two-Thousad and Seven is going to be a tremendous year for any RTS fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 18, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  I was waiting anxiously for this game. Reading the reviews made me to want to buy this. But boy 
 was it disapoointing . How can you have fun playing a game that all you can see are little dots 
 on your screen, while your PC really tries hard to run this game , but it really can't. Give me 
 a break. THQ should have taken it's time with this game and not release something that should not 
 have been realesed. The only thing I enjoeyed about this game were the sea maps and the explosions 
 from the rockets.
  The formula was there but the execution was lacking. Game-play. I played lot's of strategy games 
 this was the most boring. I spent a long time zooming in and out of the maps. All i could see were 
 little dots on the screen. Graphics. Did this game have any? Sound , The sound was good at least. 
 Value. Would you spent 50 euro for a game that that you will only play for an hour. Over all this 
 game was dissapointing. It doesn't really add up to the hype. So think about it . Is it really 
 worth it.? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Supreme Commander since Chris Taylor first stated that he'll be making a 
 new RTS =&gt; spiritual successor to Total Annihilation. The truth is, like many RTS gamers, I've 
 been a great fan of the original Total Annihilation, which is probably the best RTS game before 
 2002 (Warcraft 3) .
  
  Gameplay: Though the game has 3 factions, the stories behind them seems rather bland and perhaps 
 even inconsequential. Perhaps the biggest drawback to Chris's Total Annihilation as well. However 
 the immense scale and grandoise of the game just simply makes you go: WOW. The strategies behind 
 the game is simply top notch and it really gives RTS players a much different approach. Though 
 we are still plagued by tier based upgrades, I've found that proper use of troops, micromanagement, 
 and control of terrain, rather than only resource collection and economy is key to winning the 
 game. It is refreshing and definitely well worth the time on investing on making better strategies 
 and knowing the weaknesses of each unit type ==&gt; No more tank rushes, you will need to use combinations 
 of units to win.
  
  Graphics: I think the graphics does a great job of showing the scale between the small tier 1 and 
 the immensity of the prototype units and that is definitely a great introduction to RTS. However 
 when compared to say Company of Heroes, I think Supreme Commander falls just a tad short.
  
  Sound:
  Pretty good job on sound and excellent job on music.
  
  - Well worth playing 
 online, but games can take quite a long time, so definitely not for the casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastor
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  The zoom is simply amazing. You can manage your armies on the whole map an plan some coordinated 
 attacks quite easily.
  My only trouble is the econy, it's very difficult to maintain both energy and mass.
  Units are 
 extremely good : some have beams and must fire in a straight line, some are resistant and slow. 
 Each faction has strengths and weaknesses. Maybe the naval units are too similar but it will probably 
 be change in a future patch or expansion.
  Graphics are awesome with a 8800gtx (only the sky in low res is crappy) .
  Excellent game you will 
 appreciate if you're not afraid to learn the subtilities of the gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycon
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 7, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I like many other people went out and bought this game and promoted judging by the reviews and 
 hype. Me and 2 of my other friends all bought it, expecting to have some fun late into the night 
 duking it out on Supreme Commander, the best RTS on the market right now. Well, I made it home 
 first, installed it, it was quite fast, the intro movie was way cool, then I started the Tutorial.
 
  
  1st Flaw - The Tutorial is for people that have never played an RTS before in there life, as for 
 showing you how to really play, that is just up to you to find out and experiment.
  
  Well that is ok, it isn't to tough to figure out most RTS's, I figured I had it handled. Wrong.
 
  
  After about an hour of trying to figure out how to play, it came down to the 2nd Flaw - Resources 
 work on this weird stupid power system that seams to really limit you from ever achieving anything 
 great. I kept wanting to build up my main commander but it takes an ungodly amount of resources 
 to do. And I could only really efficiently support one factory (out of three types: Air, Land, 
 and Sea) .
  
  Since I haven't played it for very long, I can't say any of the deeper flaws that may entail, but 
 I will tell you this, the 3rd Flaw - Is definetly the force fields, they make a game last foreverrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr.
 
  
  Some other flaws:
  -Map is way to big when only playing with 1 or 2 other players
  -Strong Units tend to move super slow across this massive map (it's just boring)
  -This game 
 is very demanding, even if you have a decent computer
  
  In conclusion, if you don't mind a game that takes several hours to complete, have a decent gaming 
 rig, and are a fan of managing your resources more then managing your units and the battle at hand, 
 then pick this one up, otherwise, just set it back down and wait for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  S UPREME C OMMANDER S TAR C RAFT
  
  WHEN I READ THAT I SAYED YEAH MY LIFE IS GOING TO CHANGE BUT LATER I STARTED WITH DIFFERENCES MY 
 SYSTEM
  3.0GHZ PENTIUM 4, ATI RADEON X1550 512 , 2G RAM &amp; 200 GBYTES IS NOT PERFECT BUT IS GOOD AND 
 THEN THE GAME ALMOST EATED MY PC BUT IT RUN WELL LETS START
  1 GRAPHICS ARE NOT THE BEST I`VE SEEN BUT THE ARE GOOD
  2 SOUND ITS GOOD WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT 
 THE WHEN THEY ARE FIGHTING BUT WHEN YOU PRESS ANY THING NO BODY TALKS TO YOU THEY ONLY SOUND LIKE 
 CYBERNETIC AND STUFF 3 THE GAMEPLAY IS SUPERB REAL TIME STRATEGY YOU REALLY LIVE IT IN THIS GAME 
 A LOT OF OPTIONS I MEAN FULL OF OPTIONS
  NOW THE BAD
  1 NO BLOOD
  2 NO REALLY DIFFICULT ENEMIES 3 THIS GAME EAT YOUR PC EVEN THE BEST GAME GETS DEAD WELL THATS MY 
 REVIEW AND THE FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  play it , if youre searching a big total destruction you will find it and buy a good pc or die 
 trying
  xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzakj
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Total Annihilation, and you have the proper equipment, get this game! It's hours 
 of strategic gameplay where you have to know what's going on at every second. You can spend hours 
 on a single game and you can't put it down! The best way to describe this game is the evolution 
 of Total Annihilation, if there's a sequel to this, I'm getting it! The gameplay is solid, the 
 graphics are revolutionary, the sound is great, it's a great game overall. If you're an RTS fan, 
 and you don't have this game, go out and buy it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaths_Vanguard
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Strategy is brilliant, variety of units is excellent too. Upgrading and the variety of ways to 
 expand is vast. However firstly the story is not as good, the voice acting and the ability to keep 
 you interested is very good.
  
  Overall if you like RTS games then this is a must buy, as it is currently the byword of that name. 
 Highly recommend to any person who likes RTS or even wants to experience what a RTS is really all 
 about.
  
  The down side of it though is the sound even though it is good just not that great and also just 
 to warn you this game requires not just a good PC to run but some powerful monster to run it at 
 high specs. My can handle high specs but the Frame rate does gone down quite alot during play but 
 I can live with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_complete
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  As someone who frequently plays strategy games, I was quite impressed with SC, though there are 
 some things that could be improved. Of course, transcending other games of the 'genre' (though 
 this pushes the meaning to an entire new level) gives it a bit more leeway in a rating; if it was 
 not the first of it's series it would not be getting such a high rating from me.
  
  First, I'd like to compile a list: The good, the (mildly) bad, and the disgusting.
  
  The good:
 
  
  Pushes the RTS platform to an entire new level
  
  Not a rip off of any other game
  
  Great graphics
  
  Size of maps is huge, or can be smaller for less drawn out matches
 
  
  Plenty of innovative units
  
  Factions are interesting
  
  Characters are somewhat lifelike
  
  Campaigns draw you in
  
  Beginning sequences are quite 
 neat
  
  Battles are amazing, tons of strategy involved here
  
  Commander feature is unique
  
  Tech system works quite well
  
  Good orchestral music, sound 
 effects are quite good (especially the artillery :D)
  
  The (mildly) bad: Expansion can be difficult, there is a tendency to choke on resources.
  
 
  Lags down even the best computers on huge maps; reasonably well done but could be optimized better. 
 Some of the unit names are quite stupid (banger, snoop, etc.) It's the year 3800 story is a bit 
 ridiculous.
  
  Should have more cinematics in between missions, and I would have liked a longer campaign.
  
 
  Game often lacks the 'war' feel: there's a childish feeling that one gets from the characters 
 and the whole battlefield, a bit of graphic violence and aggression would really help this and 
 enhance the game. Who cares about the stupid E10+ rating? It's a friggin' warmgame, for christ's 
 sake.
  
  AI is often too easy and sometimes uses very stupid tactics.
  
  The disgusting:
  
  None.
  
  Anyhow, I do believe that this is a good step in the right 
 direction for the field of strategy gaming, and hopefully it's successors will push the platform 
 to an entire new level. Though indubitably somewhat flawed, this game pushes the meaning of a strategy 
 game so far that it's deserving of a stellar rating, and hopefully will be remembered as one of 
 the main games that led to a new kind of RTS. What will we see in the upcoming years? Well, most 
 likely a historical version of this on a massive scale, more sci fi games/modern combat games similar 
 to this, or even a world war 2 rts. I can't entirely be sure, but hopefully they'll not only head 
 in this direction but improve on it.
  
  Lastly, I know that this game probably is not for everyone. Those who will enjoy it the most are 
 those who desire strategy on a big scale, and those who don't have the patience or just like constant 
 explosions will probably get bored, though there are plenty of those : )
  
  9.0/10
  
  -chaos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 4, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  It seems like a big deal. The theater of war zoom out and in options are excellent. State-of-the-art. 
 Not ahead of its time though. It is, however, practically stone age when it comes to strategic 
 gameplay. The AI is easy at Supreme. There's nearly no diversity between the three factions, so 
 there's no dynamic spectrum to allow for replayability. If you want to see robots fight, there 
 are plenty of movies and anime that are much more spectacular than this. The scale characters in 
 respect to the environment is better than most games, but a pretty woman made of styrofoam still 
 can't love you, no matter how pretty. Try Star Wars, Empire at War series. Stronger in most respects, 
 and infinitely more dynamic. If it just has to be robots for you, and you want to be involved and 
 have a multiplayer option than I suggest Rock 'em Sock 'em Robots. Also more dynamic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empror1
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Very good RTS game witch gives a new vibe to the whole RTS scene, You can play with 3 factions 
 Aeon Illuminate, Cybran Nation and United Earth Federation (Humans, cyborgs and humans) . The basics 
 of all the factions are about the same, then only difference lies in the experimental units you 
 can build. This game gave me new interest in RTS games, i used to love RTS but was let down by 
 the latest games. This game gave me new interest in RTS Games. I would recommend this one over 
 c&amp; c tiberian wars.
  
  Only downfall is that you need a NASA comp to play it, on normal computers it gets very laggy sometimes 
 and annoying to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I have been playing supcom since its release, I just got around to writing this now. This game 
 is fantastic, minus a few multiplayer pains. The graphics are stunning and the scope is massive. 
 Truly this is the first ever RTS I have played that actually requires strategy. With many RTS is 
 just who can spam the most of one paticular unit. Well that wont work in this game the vast majority 
 of the time. You have to think on your feet in Supreme Commander. Messing up in so much as one 
 little area of your gameplan can cost you the game. The Zoom View is the most amazing thing I have 
 ever experienced in an RTS, expect to see it in most upcomming RTS games. The only downsides to 
 supcom are that it requires a pretty beefy system to play and even then it can bog down your rig. 
 Also the netcode seems like it could be improved a little bit, but it by no means painful. Its 
 a game that is somewhat easy to learn but very difficult to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Just a great game. Just choose each one of the factions that adjusts to your play style. Then play. 
 It takes some time to get used to it, as this is a huge-scale RTS, but in the end, watching you 
 nukes blow up the entire enemy base is worth it.
  
  The new emphasis on BIG really brings the entire game to a new level. Being able to train entire 
 armies, and have them clash just never gets old. And when you are rushing to win the game, the 
 adrenaline just flows even faster.
  
  The multiplayer is good or bad, more or less. I haven't played online for much, as I've heard that 
 there's not a lot of people, and those that are are usually foreigners who love to kick English-speaking 
 players.
  
  The value might be too steep at $50, but if you love to see stuff blow up, then this is the game 
 for you! Just make sure your comp can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander didn't surprise me at all. It had a considerable amount of hype surrounding it 
 long before its release and it really lived up to it.
  
  Sup Com provides one thing that no RTS has ever done before, and amazingly, with astonishing detail. 
 Scale. The sheer scale of this game is amazing, nearly 100 kilometers of playing area. A player 
 can zoom all the way out and then all the way in... and i mean ALL the way in, so that you can see 
 grains of sand on a beach and the scratches on your units armor. So for me, graphics appear to 
 be a 10, great lighting and AA make this game eye candy in and out of battle.
  
  I gave sound an 8 because there was a huge variety of sounds that sounded great, but at the same 
 time, quite a bit of recycled sounds.
  
  Gameplay, is a 9, this game requires quite a bit of micro management, though not near as much as 
 COH, so it keeps you busy and challenged. At the same time, you can sit back, relax, and view your 
 beautiful base and the enormous scale of the terrain, or just watch the insanely awesome looking 
 mushroom cloud that just rose up from the smoldering ruins of your opponent's recently nuked base.
 
  
  The different number of ways that you can win is what really got me. I loved how, depending on 
 how I felt at the moment, i could dispose of my enemy in that manner. If i felt like a lazy stream 
 of attacks without having to monitor them, i could just set up some artillery. If i wanted action, 
 then i could use land, sea or air attack forces, etc., etc. The possibilities were limitless... BUT... 
 the A. I. didn't let your strategies come off very easy. No, no, no.. this AI is SMART. Think a nuke 
 is the answer? maybe not, they might have nuke defense. Land attack? Nope, they have turrets. Air 
 attack? More turrets.... Artillery? maybe, but shields present a problem, and as soon as you attack 
 them, they will attack you. Or maybe they will attack you first? You never know.
  
  Though i am not much for RTS multi player, it was still just as fun as skirmish, just more challenging... or 
 maybe i just suck. In any case, it was no worse, nor any different than off line.
  
  All in all, if you are an RTS fan, there is absolutely not a sane reason in this world to not at 
 least play the FREE demo for this game, let alone buy it. Seriously, what kind of an RTS or even 
 PC game fan wouldn't play this game. It honestly is something new and different and is worth every 
 second and penny spent to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm going to break this down into the different categories.
  
  Gameplay - Supcom is an extremely fun and rewarding game to play. The skirmish mode offers the 
 best expierience because you can get straight into the fight with Tech 3 units and MASSIVE battles. 
 Speaking of massive, Supcom is huge. The small maps are 5x5 kilometers with the largest ones at 
 81x81 kilometers with the possibily of mods to make that number even larger. These maps finally 
 give the player the room to actually manuever and bring the strategy back into RTS games. In previous 
 RTS games, it was always who had the most units to pile against each other. Now, it's whomever 
 can utilize the specialties of those units in order to win. Now Supcom has a fairly large learning 
 curve (I'm still learning) because there are so many options and gameplay tweaks that one has to 
 get familiar with. However, Supcom does feature a very intuitive UI that allows the player to quikly 
 access all that they need to know (I could go in depth here, but that would take too much time.) 
 Graphics - Supcom has a fairly impressive engine where the player can zoom all the way out to the 
 Theater of War and all the way in right in front of the units. The textures on the units aren't 
 really all that impressive, which is understandable considering how many units on screen. Now on 
 to that, the amount of units that the game has WILL bring any PC to it's knees. There isn't a PC 
 that has been built yet that can run this game Max'd out with smooth frame rates.
  
  Sound - The game has extremely well designed gun fires and explosions. Speaking of which the experimental 
 artilery for the UEF has the best well designed artillery sound I have ever heard. It's something 
 you have to hear to experience. The soundtrack is extremely well scored and orchestrated.
  
  Value - The game will run fine on a PC that is a year old, but it will take quite a bit of 
 money a year or two from now to build a PC that will run this game on max settings with smooth 
 frame rates.
  
  Tilt - Supcom is a revolutionary game that redefines RTS games with its easy to use controls, massive 
 battles, and extremely fun strategy gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vecni
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  I have played the earth, war inc. (way better then this) and a few other games that this game reminds 
 me of and it dose not live up to then not one bit, it has it good sides like nice gfx and more 
 realistic units and some interesting methods of playing the game but it is no way worth the $$$ 
 it is sold at.
  It is a bad attempt at making something new gratz for trying but it needs a lot more work.
  it 
 hase nice gfx and all good engine but bad story line and even worse missions.
  Not worth the time it takes to install it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodigalhun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I have played it's previous versions and couple of it's mods and liked it very much and they are 
 very original in game playing and in conceptually. personally i very liked the mod kingdoms even 
 though many people say that the mods were not good. i am still playing the KINGDOMS mod now. and 
 ever since the total annihilation 2 is coming i am waiting for it like half crazed man. looking 
 at the every pc game related magazines and read the every review about the game. and finally i 
 have little relaxed when i downloaded the playable demo. and i am recommending the game to everyone. 
 but the game eats lots of juice so BE PREPARED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankyang
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun at first, then after hours of fun it gets boring, very borrrrrring.
  it dosen't have a lot of features in it and there is not a lot of choices to choose from. But the 
 graphics are pretty good when you zoom up closely. v it's too easy to beat an enemy on normal or 
 medium. it runs super slow if you have the minumim requirements even if you have the recommened 
 reqiurement it is still kind of slow when you get into battles and stuff like that. in order to 
 run smoothly you need a good graphic card ,ram , and a good PC. it's hard when you try to battle 
 people across the world. if you are lucky you'll find a newb to fight and if you don't have any 
 luck you'll find a super strong dude to fight with. I would recommend this game only if you have 
 lots of money and you like RTS games, if you don't then buy some other game that you're intersted 
 in. Thanks for viewing my review this is only my thoughts about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spdfghr
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Remind what year this is!
  Very disappointing
  Can't believe it with a game of this caliber.
  Play the demo, you'll see.
  
 
  Build a structure one at a time, do everything one at a time?? why why why? it's stupid!!!
  
  Although the kiddies might like it, give them something to do.
  I personally would prefer 
 a more serious approach, realistic, strategic.
  
  It's all a bit cute gamesy style. kids might marvel at the little units, and they can click at 
 everything mesmerised like.
  
  Have we not made any progress at all in programming? or are games just becoming dumbed down to 
 the lowest common denominator?
  
  No thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Total Annihilation. Many newer PC gamers (like me) hear their elders taking about it. Many newer 
 ones here about what is (presumably) a great game, and then wishing they where around to see it. 
 In a world where RTS games are flooded with games a little too similar to Age of Empires and Generals, 
 it is easy to get away from the pack. Supreme Commander does this.
  
  Supreme Commander's depth must be applauded. Most RTS games force you to fight over just one or 
 two choke points or resource hotspots, and the bases. Supreme Commander's largest map is 927 square 
 kilometers (read, as big as Rhode Island) and the smallest is 25 square kilometers-as small as 
 other RTS's biggest maps. On top of this, there are hundreds of units, ranging from ground-attack 
 bombers, light attack bots and tactical nukes. This makes it a bit like a modern war game, some 
 of the units aren't really that futuristic. An interesting idea in Supreme Commander is expremental 
 units. In most RTS games, the endgame can just become a grindfest-hundreds of tanks going at each 
 other, gain a meter of ground before your foe takes it back, and so it goes until one of you flukes 
 it. Experementals units change this-one of these bastards can break a stranglehold-easily. The 
 game's graphics are one of it's greatnesses-and one of it's shortcomings. They look superb, and 
 the amount of detail is outstanding, but the system requirements are too big. It has been poorly 
 optimized, which holds the game back a little too much. It must be noted, though that the environment 
 is very interactive-planes can start fires in a forest after their napalm run, and you rush strategy 
 can be killed when the interceptor you just shot down crashes into your transport, bringing them 
 both to the ground. The sound is mixed. There is little music, which is bad, as it takes from the 
 atmosphere, but every other sound-the sound of explosions, gunfire, tanks and the like remain intact, 
 like other RTS's.
  
  This game, though is a little different from your average RTS, as it is a lot more deep, so you 
 should try the demo first.
  
  In conclusion, Supreme Commander is one of the best RTS games in years, not outdoing some RTS's 
 (Company of Heroes...) but being up there with some of the best RTS's I have ever played.
  
  91%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnTooDeaMan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is yet another RTS, one of which we have seen so many times. The genre rarely 
 makes any progress, almost every time a new RTS game comes out, it feel as if you've played it 
 already. While this can probably be said about Supreme Commander as well, they have done it well 
 enough to give the RTS genre yet another look.
  
  Supreme Commander feature three different races which can all be played, their structures and units 
 are mostly similar, with a few differences. Each race has it's own specialties which makes them 
 unique even though a lot is the same.
  
  You can choose between the Humans from Earth, the Cyborg - half human half machine made by man 
 (yes, that old clich&eacute;) and the Alien wannabies. All the races have different goals and objectives, 
 all of which can be broken down to Kill everything which doesn't agree with us. There is no nice 
 race they all have their own agendas and seek to whipe out the two other races completely in order 
 to restore peace to the galaxy .
  
  The game will have you fighting on several different worlds, with terrains like snow, desert, and 
 plains/forest, here is a lot of maps to choose from, except for the obvious lack of the giant maps, 
 which only has two different options.
  
  The units you can choose from in this game is the standard land units such as different tanks, 
 light soldiers, Anti Air vehicles and so on. For the earial units you have bombers, fighters, scouts 
 and more, all pretty standard. The naval units are no special either.
  
  The buildings in the game have some pretty nice graphics, they are easy to use and can be upgraded 
 as you progress through the tech levels.
  
  The engineer is a major aspect of this game. This unit can be used to many things, such has constructing 
 buildings, repairing other units and building, gather resources and support other buildings by 
 lending a helping hand if it's needed. They can move through both land and water and come in three 
 different tech levels.
  
  A thing in this RTS which I have not seen in any other is the option to add several actions for 
 a unit to do, you can for example set your engineer to build several buildings, then repair a unit, 
 then gather some resources and when it's done with that it can go support the local Land factory 
 with tank production. This makes it very easy to have several projects going on at once, you can 
 set one group of engineers to build a wall, another to build defences, a third to collect resources, 
 a forth to build structures all while you coordinate an attack on the enemy and use your scout 
 to look around the map. This system is probably what makes this game stand out the most, as you 
 can get so much done at once that you can even do whatever needs to be done in your base while 
 you still do your best to wipe out the enemy.
  
  The resources or gold used in this game is mass and energy. Energy can be provided by making power 
 plants. Each tech level has different plants you can use. Mass is primarily gained from Mass Extractors 
 which is a building you place on a spot rich with mass, it will produce unlimited mass and will 
 only stop if you order it to, or if it's destroyed.
  Other ways of providing mass is by having an engineer turning trees and destroyed units and buildings 
 into it. You can also build structures which turn energy into mass, that is very expensive though.
 
  
  The unlimited flow of resources makes it possible to build an extreme amount of buildings in this 
 game, and you can virtually go on forever if you wanted to. The commander also produce a small 
 amount of mass and energy, so as long as he survives you will be able to rebuild your base.
  
  As for the commander, this is one of the big differences this game has from other RTS. The 
 commander is a huge robot which can fight with severe precision and is able to defeat most enemies, 
 it can also build buildings and functions like a king, if the commander dies, the mission is usually 
 over. And if a commander dies you are going to want to stay away. It's not a good tactic to use 
 your own commander to take out an enemy commander, even if the enemy has low health or your commander 
 is superior. The reasons for this is simple, if a commander dies he/she turns into a nuclear bomb 
 and destroys almost anything within reach, the explosion is so huge it usually take out the entire 
 base the commander was defending, along with any units you sent out to destroy it. Any attempt 
 to take out a commander is a suicide attempt even if you succeed.
  
  The commander can also be upgraded, you can choose between a set of different arms and torsos which 
 provide anything from higher firepower, shields, cloaking deviced to faster production, teleportation 
 and higher tech levels. Each race has different upgrades available, but I still think the options 
 you have with this is very limited and it could've been done a lot better with more customization 
 options to hands, head, legs and so on.
  
  As for the gameplay, controlling the game, moving the camera and issuing order it all feels well 
 designed and good thought out, there is a few minor things which could have been done better, but 
 this is still by far the best made RTS I have played, everything feels solid and it's easy to do 
 complicated things.
  
  The graphics in the game is pretty good, for a RTS it's excellent. The camera can be tilted down 
 so you can see the game in full 3D, which is pretty useless, but still a nice feature. Units and 
 buildings are well made and the explosions, and other weaponry provide a very satisfying experience.
 
  
  When it comes to performance, you are going to need a pretty good computer if you want to run the 
 game in full detail, I've had no problem running it on my computer, but older machines might experience 
 some problems and I recommend you only buy this game if you meet the recommended system requirements 
 set.
  
  If you are a big RTS fan or someone who is new to the genre and want to try it out, this is a very 
 good choice of game, it is very well designed and is good for both beginners and experts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is arguably the best Real Time Strategy that you will find on shelf. It brings 
 all the memory's back from Total Annihilation with it's similar control scheme. THQ and Gas Powered 
 Games have also increased the TA experience by adding fancy camera controls, which enable you to 
 zoom out instantly by rolling your mouse wheel backwards.
  
  Also, there is actually multiplayer now. It takes time to learn what kind of strategy you use best, 
 but the time is worth it. Anybody who knows what to look for inside of a Futuristic Real Time Strategy 
 should consider buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukerd333
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a little after it came out to test out my new computer and see what it could 
 handle. I'm a huge RTS fan and this game brings the same addictive gameplay as many other hits. 
 If you are into strategy then it takes about 25-30 mins to get used to the controls. the graphics (turned 
 up) are very nice to look at and are very smooth. Playing just for 40 mins or so you might still 
 be building and that in itself draws you in. Once the fighting begins the animations and graphics 
 really take place and are great with all the blasts and movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I remember good ol' Total Annihilation. And I thought that game was great for it's time! But this 
 is just the same thing, some different units, but nothing really out standing... AI isn't anything 
 to brag about. The Graphics are beautiful, and the sound is nice. Explosions especially in this, 
 like a nuke. :-D But it's just another RTS to me, nothing different or really interesting. I recrommend 
 company of Heroes! That thing set the bar for me, and compared to that game, this game doesn't 
 live up. So if you're ok with the same RTS gameplay, get this, if you're looking for something 
 different in RTS, this isn't it. So, it's a good RTS, just nothing new... and that's what sequels 
 are all about right? More material! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallmankids
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I believe this is the greatest RTS to date and i have some reasoning. Great Graphics, Great Gameplay, 
 Great Value and a whole new tilt to the world of RTS games! I know TA also brought about a large 
 scope to RTS games but I am someone who never did play TA back in it's prime. The game is next 
 to none when it comes to multiplayer. With its Monsterous maps Gigantic ground, air, and aquatic 
 fleets nothing can rival this game. I believe CnC: Tiberium Wars is a good game but not to the extent 
 of Supreme Commander. I believe Tiberium Wars is a game that i would only play for it's campaign 
 and then when finished be done with it. Supreme Commanders gameplay queuing system, and zoom function 
 bring a whole new look and feel to the RTS universe and i believe every RTS from thus forth will 
 fallow what Supreme Commander has done. The only thing that could be improved is the campaigns 
 they seemed tedious and not worth playing once one had discovered online play. Although the campaign 
 is a good introduction to various units throughout the game i still have not found myself able 
 to press on through an entire campaign. Thanks for reading have a good one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ape3442
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This is the best RTS I have played in years. The game starts a little slow but quickly outshines 
 CnC3 I played SUPCOM first and enjoyed it more than CnC3 especially after all the perfect game 
 reviews for it don't believe the hype I am still playing SUPCOM and won't the other hell i'm still 
 playing CoH if you liked Total Annihilation you will enjoy this I have always played a defensive 
 strategy I love to watch some ones super weapon and army crash against the rocks of my defences 
 then wash them under my horde this was that type of game just upgrade sit back and pounce instead 
 of slog slog slog its really satisfying to watch the mushroom cloud that was your adversary take 
 out his own buildings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatoutsidedick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is soo much fun and has soo much you can do it is unbelievable. first of all you have 
 three races so to say you can pick from. and each race has its own special characters and special 
 abilities, the campaign in this game is so highley detailed and you the fact that the game is kinda 
 set up like command and conquor generals, and i haven't found one person who didn't like this game 
 or the way it was set up, so happy playing to all the fans of this games setup and hope for some 
 more games like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that you need a really good computer to appreciate this game. If everyone 
 had amazing computers (in a perfect world we all would but yes I know that we don't) this game 
 would have recieved a much higher rating. However, in all honesty, due to the performance issues, 
 the whole general feeling of this game is reduced. Let me explain:
  Somebody with a 2 year old computer, even though they spent thousands of dollars on it and it kicked 
 asss at the time, doesnt run this game on highest graphic settings with good performance. Rawrrr!!! 
 I'm mad, although this game is really cool it makes my computer look bad!!! 8.2
  That's sorta how it goes down, except not so exaggurated. When somebody with such a great computer 
 has the game and doesnt received good performance their entire perspective of the game is bogged 
 down, they feel groggy at the fact that their computer, due to this game, is growing old. That 
 is why this game is not as high rated as it should be. Look at StarCraft. 9.4... or something like 
 that.
  Starcraft was the god of RTS for many years ( IMO ) . This game is the next starcraft, but because 
 of the way computers work, as opposed to starcraft, this game requires a great computer.
  
  People have to look at the game itself, the concepts of the game and the value of its features, 
 not at its modern standing.
  
  This game has more units than any RTS i've seen. That gives you literally countless strategies 
 to use when employing armies. This game has all of the cool stuff you want like lasers and forcefield 
 and all of that; its so well fit that people expect it to be the perfect game, and because it isnt 
 perfect (as nothing is, (except perhaps The Ocarina of Time) ) its score was reduced dramatically.
 
  
  I'm much too lazy to write a nice long review outlining the goods and bads of the game, but i do 
 have to say this:
  
  If your computer can run this game, you will buy Supreme Commander instead of Tiberium Wars. It 
 is a much better RTS. A much better RTS.
  Not as good at being a flashy braggy milked video game, but it is definitely better at being an 
 RTS.
  
  The reason my rating is only 9.0 is the same reason I explained above:
  Gameplay:
  Limitless strategies and stuff to do; for an RTS, gameplay is a 10.
  Graphics: would 
 get a 10 but because my computer cant handle the game on highest settings i get angry and recude 
 to a 9.
  Sound is only 7 becuase opposed to something like starcraft, when u click on a unit there is no 
 voice to it, theres merely a sound effect like you're always protoss.
  Value: value is 10 because this game will be RTS god for many years. Campaign editor, amazing multiplayer, 
 limitless strategies... etc.
  My tilt: 9 because im angry that i cant run it very well.
  
  
  Up until Supreme Commander, I've never found an RTS difficult 
 to understand, but this is the most complex (thats a good thing) RTS I've ever played, which is 
 why the Difficulty rating I gave a Hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merkava123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  At first, at a glance supreme commander looks like an ordinary RTS as usual, build your base, gather 
 resource, and invade your opponent base...
  
  But it isn't that shallow, beyond its representative visual (the graphic is good but not awesome..) , 
 lies great gameplay, great scale (a full-scale war often occurs, and it is very-very-very pleasing) , 
 and also great mechs n' robots...
  
  The gameplay is innovative, providing with many ways to win the battle, the waypoint system, and 
 also the tech-level system which add more depth on the gameplay (and many more features of course) ... 
 The graphic is representative enough , but when it comes to the full-scale contact and wars which 
 involve more than 100 units of mech, the fidelity (the visual effects) will show you the true power 
 of the graphic...
  The sound, nothing special just adequate sound effect and average music score...
  
  But, on 
 top of the plus n' minus, Supreme Commander brings you the next-gen RTS, the scale, the battlefield, 
 the war, are all Awesome... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ZyoX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a real-time strategy game played in the future featuring you in a robot; being 
 sent to battles by the leader of your faction through transgates called 'Quantum gates'.
  This game delivers a unique gameplay as I've never seen before. Buildings are built by the ACU 
 (Armoured Command Unit, this is the robot you're in) or engineers which are constructed by factories: 
 they start to build the structures as soon as you tell them and when they're in range. This concerns 
 the assembling of units as well, units are built from factories, such as: Air factory, Land factory 
 and Naval factory. So there's no box on your 'buildings menu' that circles around until it's finished, 
 then you're able to place it where you want. Without this old-fashioned assembling, and with technologies 
 and buildings upgradeable, makes this game realistic and unique.
  
  You can play as the UEF (United Earth Federation) , Cybran Nation or the Aeon Illuminate. They're 
 all pretty much the same, but it depends on your preferences. However, I recommend that you play 
 through all the factions in the campaign mode, as it'll result more knowledge of each faction, 
 and also, a longer gameplay.
  Your objective is to get yourself a well-defenced base and massive armies for then to raid the 
 enemies. You can also choose to upgrade everything to get the best technologies before you attack, 
 or you could just continually assault the enemy until they've got nothing left. Usually in the 
 campaign mode, battles end whenever the ACU gets annihilated. You'll easily know though as the 
 time an ACU gets destroyed, it explodes in a massive explosion filling up the whole area like a 
 nuclear bomb just set off; and for a reminder, units and structures nearby the ACU wipes out instantly 
 when it collapses.
  
  I personally think that this is an awesome RTS game, with all of its innovations, this is a very 
 unique strategy game. Only Homeworld 2 is as special as this.
  
  The gameplay is great, although the campaign mode only has six missions of each faction, you'll 
 learn that each mission are immense. And if you think you're good enough, get your fingers moving 
 and your brain stimulating in the multiplayer/online games; where you can meet other supreme commanders.
 
  
  The visuals is as far as I've seen the best graphics of all RTS games yet. Probably Command &amp; 
 Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars can overtake it. But regardless of C&amp; C 3: TW, Supreme Commander has 
 superb effects and awesome details.
  
  The audio is perfectly produced. As this is an RTS game, music should not stand out so you just 
 hear the music. Like all RTS games, there shouldn't be any background music at all, but if it has 
 it should be low volumed. And this is exactly how Supreme Commander is. All the other sound-effects 
 are excellent.
  
  I propose that all strategy gamers should get this game; but make sure you have a quite new graphic 
 card, a fast CPU and decent RAM as this game needs lots of power. Check out the game requirements 
 if you're not sure what you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is probably the best RTS I have played, I enjoy games like Warcraft for its great 
 techtrees and LOTR Battle for middle Earth for its huge armies. Well Supreme Commander has both. 
 The gameplay is very good as you cannot always find your favorite unit and pound the enemy with 
 it. The enemy seems to react to you moves so that you must have every part of the battlefield covered 
 (land-sea-air) .
  
  The Graphics are the best from any RTS I have played and the fact that you can zoom in and out 
 as far as possible adds to this. It really looks cool with a massive army of land, sea, and air 
 units plus some shield generators for effect (and protection) .
  
  The sound is good, nothing special, but I don't base much on sound when it comes to RTS. Its not 
 as important as it is in FPS games.
  
  The game isn't perfect, but darn close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  the only other place you might have sean gameplay like this is on homeworld, witch is a distant 
 cousin.
  
  suprime comanders scale makes it a driveing force for modern rts, somthing ambitious to be respected 
 regardless of if the game works or not, it does work though, in a big way, the ambition is all 
 over this game, and it works in many areas, the resource collection is diferent the scale is epic, 
 the units are many, and fairly well balanced, the detail is awsome, but in the complexity things 
 like tec upgrades become a little too dificult, maybe the brain was never ment to be this suprime 
 a commander, but its sometimes hard to keep track of mission critical units in big battles for 
 example, things get muddled an u loose a silly pigging little unit amongst thousands, its a bit 
 anoying
  
  but this is a mirror immage of tiberium wars, about the only things they have in common is that 
 they are rts, everything is handled diferently, done the other way, fiddled with in one way or 
 the other. oh youl like both, but your bound to like one more than the other, if your a purist, 
 than chances are it will be this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  The Good: battlefields are huge, superb command controls and zoom feature, unique but not original 
 story. a rts battle simulator unlike anything so far, no basic unit upgrades (except commanders) .
 
  
  The Bad: not much difference unit wise between the 3 factions (w/ a few exceptions) , pace can be 
 slow until you get things rolling, campaign feels like the same story but told from different points 
 of view..... oh and each faction has their own twist to their ending. not every one can enjoy this 
 game. ive never played TA, so i dont know the differences between this game and that one, but sup 
 com greatly improves a few core things while also having its flaws. battlefields: even the smallest 
 5km x 5km map is bigger than or equal to (in scale) the largest map in most other rts games. many 
 rts games have maps that are designed to restrict you into taking a certain route ie choke pt's, 
 they restrict you options and freedom to go about it any way you please. sup com does includes 
 choke pts and sometimes natural obstacles, but they hardly force you into going with one strategy, 
 due to the fact sup com has air transports, and navy, which alot of rts fail to include a navy 
 of any kind. so if you dont like marching your troops through a narrow stripe of land with water 
 on both sides, send a fleet ahead for support, or use air transports and simply fly your army across 
 the ocean. you have alot of options.
  
  command and controls: most rts' give you a simple list of commands. sup com gives you a simple 
 yet efficient command sys. in other rts games you can have an engineer build a building but you 
 know after its done you'll need to remember to give it another task, babysitting in essence. in 
 sup com you can order a building to be built and then hold left shift and give any order you wish 
 like movment, build orders, repair, etc and the engineer will do those tasks in the order in which 
 you told it to do it in. and you can do this to any unit, like ordering your army to attack this 
 unit and then this unit and then whatever... and so on in that order so long as you issue these 
 orders while holding left shift. formations are easy to do now (even though other games do it this 
 way too) , just have a group of units and hold right click where you want them to go, and a image 
 partially translucent will appear at the movement place show you how they will form up. There is 
 a few formation options each one offering a different advantage and disadvantages. one problem: 
 up to this point the naval formations have been buggy and no matter what you do 90% of the time 
 they will go into the long narrow formation. but Im sure in time a patch will fix this, besides 
 its not that bad. camera zooming: ohhhh man once you play this game and get used to the ability 
 to zoom out all the way, you'll never want to go back to the traditional camera. it helps soooo 
 much to zoom out all the way in order to select and move armies across the huge battlefield and 
 jump around quickly in order to do everything you need to do. i play CNC3 and COH and i keep trying 
 to zoom out all the way, and then i realize i cant.
  
  Story: the campaign is worth playing but the last mission for all 3 factions in the same map with 
 the same objective: black sun. dont worry i wont spoil it, but each faction is focused on it and 
 will use it slightly differently. but it feels too similar in the end, even though it all makes 
 sense why they did it that way.
  
  simulation: if a tank gets destroyed its corpse stays on the battlefield, but its not like in COH 
 where they provide any use after being destroyed like cover etc., they merely provide resources 
 if salvaged (reclaimed) by engineers, but barely anything. if flying units get destroyed they crash 
 and cause damage where they hit. artillery really fires long range, and the weapon ranges for most 
 units is pretty good. tanks etc. can shoot at a realistic range (which is pretty far) . defenses 
 are tough to beat but with a mixed army its not as bad as others say it is. tech tree: yes theres 
 a big tech tree, but most of the building in lets say tech 2 are merely better versions of their 
 tech 1 counterparts. so not alot of variety, just improvements of the core idea. there is 3 tech 
 levels and an experimental level. and all three factions may look different but their units are 
 mostly the same. take for instance the tech 3 assault bot, all the factions has a variation of 
 this but the differences are so small its hard to tell who has the better version. but there are 
 a few differences between the factions, the aeon (by opinion) has the best navy, but its really 
 the experimental units that define the factions and set them apart. and other than unit upgrades 
 for your support commander and actual commander there are unit upgrades. the unit you build will 
 be at its prime from the get go. although once you get past tech level 1 those tech 1 units for 
 the most part become useless, as the tech 2 tank will be tens times better than the tech 1 tank. 
 so yes its an upgrade.... but not really. Not like a rail gun upgrade for a mammoth tank in CNC3.
 
  
  Economy: is weird...... it flows..... seriously........... what? im not kidding. you have a max 
 amount you can earn in mass and energy. but you can be earning up to thousands of mass and energy 
 per minute but your limit is controlled by the number of storage buildings you have attached to 
 the resource buildings. and it can flow in a negative value, so unlike other game where you either 
 earn money or you dont in sup com you can be losing resources and eventually run empty, but that 
 wont stop you from building stuff it just slows everything down. boy those facts are fun and boring. 
 this is a great game for the rts genre, its different and offers a great experience. you really 
 feel in command of the battlefield when you have multiple armies (usually 50+ units per army) moving 
 around attacking and defending on multiple fronts. and when you zoom out its like watching from 
 a command bunker seeing the battle unfold.
  
  my sys specs: Pentium 4 processor at 3.0ghz spd
  nvidia 6800 PCI express 256mb video card (2 full 
 generation behind the current)
  1 gig RAM
  
  ^^^^this is also the recommended specs on the back of the box to play with good performance.
 
  i handled all of the campaign without much slow down on low settings, i could go medium but once 
 things get big it starts to lag. the only setting i left on medium is fidelity, because otherwise 
 it looks like crap. but other than that this game still looks great graphically. in skirmish i 
 can do 1v1 w/ a pop cap of 500 per player on a 20km x20km map (which can fit 8 players total) . i 
 can do 2v2 but things slow a little, but never that bad to where i cant play. and besides the pace 
 of the game is slow enough that lag doesn't hurt your chances of winning that much. and 3v3 and 
 so one will result in more slowing down. but im fine if i can have up to 3 or 4 players in a match, 
 and 20km x 20km map is huge. even though the largest size is 81 km x 81km. theres more i could 
 say but im done. this is a great game that should be enjoyed by those who nearly have or surpass 
 my sys specs. Thanks for listening, I hope this helps those who dont know what to expect from 
 this game. and trust me sometimes you'll spend hours on a single match, or at least you will in 
 campaign. so be prepared to lose sleep. alot of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this is a great game. Before spending your hard-earned money on it, be sure your PC 
 meets or exceeds the recommended requirements. If that's not a problem for you, and you like hardcore 
 RTS, I don't see why anyone would ignore this game.
  
  Well, that isn't completely true, as I do understand how it might be TOO big for some folks, but 
 I personally find the expansive maps to be just what games of this type have needed for years.
 
  
  There are three campaigns, one for each faction. The United Earth Federation (UEF) fights for law 
 and order; the Cybran Nation fights for independence; and the Aeon Illuminate fights for spiritual 
 enlightenment. The three scenarios (and their associated factions) aren't that different from one 
 another in practice, so it's really just a matter of preference. I like the Cybrans' desire for 
 self-rule, but the Aeon units look the best. The UEF represents big government, so screw them.
 
  
  The gameplay of SC doesn't add a lot to the genre, but it does take what exists and portrays it 
 on a scale never before seen. Essentially, you start out with your Armored Command Unit (ACU, which 
 is you) , and this giant walking vehicle is capable of constructing everything you need to get your 
 base up and running. You'll start out by building mass extractors (for mass) and power generators 
 (for energy) , and these are the only two resources you'll collect, as far-future technology allows 
 anything to be created from just two basic components. Later you will construct engineers, land 
 factories, air factories, naval bases, artillery and gun emplacements, not to mention the plethora 
 of units that can be produced at some of those buildings. The middle and endgame will frequently 
 entail swarming armies (up to 50,000 units, I believe) , mammoth experimental units that are unique 
 to each faction, as well as devastating nuclear detonations.
  
  And it's all loads of fun.
  
  AI opponents will keep you busy, but humans in multiplayer can 
 make for some utterly ferocious combat moments. With the giant maps, it's not like a typical RTS 
 battle, where you plug a couple of choke points and see who can crank out the biggest horde. Yeah, 
 numbers still matter in SC, but you will regularly find yourself having to mount a 360-degree defense 
 ... or die trying. Air patrols and transports, amphibious assaults, lumbering tanks and walking 
 assault and siege bots -- the scope is sheerly staggering.
  
  Lag can be a problem in huge battles, even on systems that greatly exceed the recommended specs, 
 so it might be a year or two before affordable processing capabilities catch up with the game.
 
  
  Graphically, Supreme Commander looks really nice on mid-high settings. I have a GeForce 7600 GT 
 with an Athlon 64 X2 4200+, and this rig performs admirably for the most part. On the highest possible 
 settings, the game probably looks amazing, but the visuals ain't worth the resultant lag.
  
  Sound = awesome, though the developers could have added some voices to the battle experience. 
 The campaigns feature frequent communication from your superiors and other commanders, but I've 
 never heard the actual units on the battlefield chatter in the least. They're robots, I know, but 
 if they're smart enough to fight a war, surely they can respond vocally to commands. But that's 
 a small gripe, as the sound effects are great.
  
  Conclusion: buy Supreme Commander. The only reason not to is if you like smaller-scale battles, 
 because one thing SC is not, is small. This game should be one of the leading RTS titles for a 
 long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campo0000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The remake to Total Annihilation lives up to what gamers who loved to play Total Annihilation expectations. 
 An absolutely beautiful game that uses some of the coolest technology ideas to create a masterpiece 
 of art out of a battlefield. One of the best RTS's out there. Units range from those that can be 
 pumped out in 10 seconds early into the game to those that take 4 minutes and cause massive destruction 
 to enemies. Two things you have to have to be able to play this game to its max potential are a 
 computer that doesn't suck and about 2 hours of free time to play a good game. This game is mostly 
 for multiplayer, but what RTS isn't. You are given the ability to view the battlefield from 10 
 feet away or from the theatre of war which gives you a view of the entire map, and its as easy 
 as rolling your scroll button on ur mouse. I'm running it on a 3.0GHz intel dual core with 2Gb 
 of RAM and it runs near seamlessly due to graphics. The only lag is the occasion spike in multiplayer 
 when there are over 3,000 units in play, and even those are only 1 sec spikes maybe once every 
 5 minutes (and thats on a bad day) . There are units in the game that can match anyones style of 
 play. There are land, air, and naval units for those who love massive armies. There are 3 tech 
 levels of each of those types for those who love armies of strong units. There are also experimental 
 units that are the definition of destruction for those who love MASSIVE units that destroy EVERYTHING 
 in its path. For those who don't like to make armies, there are artillery guns that can range most 
 of the smaller maps, nuclear missiles that destroy in mass, and defense towers that could hold 
 off the persian army better than the 300 (if thats possible) . There are also stealth field generators 
 for people who love to sneak attack, and shield generators for those that like to fortify, tech, 
 and counter attack. Any strategy you can think of, this game makes it possible for you to implement 
 it. I loved playing Total Annihilation and this game is as fun and much much much more. Check It 
 Out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since Dune 2, a 1992 game, debatedly kicked off this gaming genre we call 
 Real Time Strategy. Chances are this won't be the first you've ever played. You've seen the crappy 
 clones and the ones that manage to hold your interest. So it is that you've come across Supreme 
 Commander and eye Gamespot's 8.7 rating with suspicion: Which type of clone is this one? Well, 
 fun being subjective, all I can do is describe the game and you'll come to your own decision.
 
  
  If you've played the Total Annihilation series, this review just became really simple. Supreme 
 Commander is basically Total Annihilation brought to 2007 standards. You've got mass, energy, 3 
 construction tiers, cued building orders, and a balance that lets you really raise some chaos. 
 If you liked that game get this one because it introduces higher unit caps, commander upgrades, 
 a nifty new fully 3d engine, and experimental units without having to shell out for an expansion.
 
  
  The rest of this review assumes you haven't played Total Annihilation before. (Chances are you 
 were distracted with Starcraft at the time. Philistine.)
  
  Supreme Commander sets itself apart from the average real time strategy game in sheer muscle. There's 
 only two resources to track, energy and mass, and some very straightforward ways to get a lot of 
 it quickly. Your builder units, whether they be buildings or construction workers, can be given 
 several things to build ahead of time. You can order builders to assist eachother, quickly converting 
 that energy and mass into more units. Once you get the hang of the game, you can amass and throw 
 massive amounts of units into battle. If they're destroyed, you can quickly rebuild them. That's 
 not to suggest the game is without depth. You'll need to carefully assess the layout of your opponent's 
 base to overpower its defences. A good mix of units will have far better success than a zerg rush 
 of the same unit.
  
  There's three different ways to play this game, each satisfying in their own right. 1. There's 
 a three campaigns with you siding with the earthlings, cyborgs, or religious fanatics. Each campaign 
 comes complete with fully rendered briefing and other cutscenes between missions, and scripted 
 events during missions. During the individual missions the map will expand 2 or 3 times, which 
 is a cool gimmick.
  
  2. Beat the campaigns? There's unlimited Supreme Commander fun to be had in the skirmish mode. 
 This lets you fully configure up to 8 opponents of however many teams you want, on whatever skirmish 
 map you want, with whatever release mods there are out there. The AI comes in two easy modes and 
 four hard modes (one of them being auto-select best hard mode for this terrain ) . A hard mode AI 
 is a challenging opponent that doesn't cheat, but eventually you can master it. Still, several 
 hard mode AIs teamed up against you may be unbeatable.
  
  3. Looking for a real challenge? Take on another player. Supreme Commander has robust Internet 
 and LAN support. Multiplayer support pretty much is identical to Skirmish. I noticed with some 
 satisfaction that the developers were kind enough to allow me to play this game with my brother 
 over the LAN without needing a second CD-Key. We had some initial sync issues, but determined that's 
 a bug with transports, syncing works fine if you don't use transports. Hopefully that'll be patched 
 soon.
  
  There are more innovative Real Time Strategy games if you're tired (but not completely) of the 
 genre and looking for something new. Try Perimeter, for example. However, if you're looking for 
 a hardcore real time strategy game with so much muscle that it can be configured to have so many 
 units running around that your computer four years will chug, then you need look no further than 
 Supreme Commander. In the end, the only real fault with this game is that you'll sit down in the 
 morning to play Supreme Commander and suddenly it's 4 hours after bed time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, with awsome grapichs dpending on what computer you got at the software you 
 got on it. This game also has a great story mode, if you played starcraft then you can get the 
 hang of this in a couple of minutes or so. I fyou're a beginner then you will have to have alot 
 of time to even learn the basics and if you took the tutorial you'll probably have a better chance. 
 The way the game zooms in so much and still shows with great graphics is crazy, and playing with 
 your friends in a computer game has never been so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somazx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Supcomm is no light-weight RTS. A typical game will last an hour to four hours between decently 
 matched opponents. At the end of which, you'll be exhausted and exhilarated - like hiking Kilimanjaro 
 every game. Of course this can be a good and a bad thing. It means the game won't be a huge commercial 
 success in a world where lousy Saturday Night spinoff movies will outsell a brilliant film by 10:1 
 easily. That said, the game comes with a double resource rate mod which can significantly increase 
 the pace of the game and lessen the challenge of balancing economy against production for those 
 who are new or looking for a faster pace to things.
  
  Supcomm's graphics are gorgeous. You won't always appreciate this fact zoomed out to essentially 
 a satellite view of the action unfolding below. But its always impressive to hold down the space 
 bar and rotate the camera from the top down view to the perspective of someone standing there. 
 The magnitude of the battles which play out then fully hits home and its a glorious thing especially 
 when you begin tossing in the experimental units. Mechanical spiders, rolling factories with bubble 
 shields, flying beetle-like gunships, giant saucer ships to name a few ... all massive in scale 
 and presence.
  
  Sound does its job in this game. The music is excellent and picks up pace as the game does. Occasionally 
 it'll misstep here and continue to be all bombastic after the action has died down and you may 
 have the urge to dial down its volume. Units firing of weapons and their impact sounds all sound 
 excellent. Listening to a group of UEF artillery firing is especially satisfying for example.
 
  
  The game comes with about two dozen maps which is awesome. They range from right 5km maps to 30km 
 and two to eight players. There is excellent variety in the maps - and the community is adding 
 more to the mix daily. This is a game which was designed to be highly moddable by the community. 
 Over time this is only going to add value to the game as more maps are made, more units, more total 
 conversion. Anyone who's familiar with the lineage of this game (Total Annihilation) knows the 
 potential lifespan and value here.
  
  On a final note - C&amp; C 3 has been released in the past few weeks and their massive budget has 
 paid the way for extensive advertising and coverage in the gaming community. It is an excellent 
 RTS built on a proven formula with top quality production values, etc. But if you've played C&amp; C 
 Generals you've pretty much played C&amp; C 3. Unless you really want to play the same game every 
 couple of years just with enhanced graphics - I suggest you challenge yourself to try something 
 different, something unfamiliar - something which may not be quite as instantly sensational - but 
 far more rewarding in the long run. Try Supreme Commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty shallow. nothing really new or reinvented, just the standard RTS with flashy presentation 
 and hype. Its pretty basic and all the factions are almost literally the same they just look different. 
 The massive battles are kinda cool and the stategy is pretty influencial of chess whitch is good. 
 5
  
  Graphics: About the best thing about this game. If you'r playing on a 8800GTX at max settings this 
 game is bomb looking! 10
  
  Sound: generic booms and pershews but nothing special. 6
  
  Value: Might as well just play Age of Empires or Warcraft cause this game is pretty bad. 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MykoStation
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  lot of great things are found from Supreme Commander such as Huge maps. It makes feel like one 
 map would be all campaign maps put together from some other rts game. Still you dont have to click 
 the icons, you can easily zoom very close to the units. Other great thing is number of different 
 choices to destroy your enemy. You can nuke your enemy, attack by land, sea, air or send experimentals. 
 Experimentals is the most impressive thing ill say. Its nice to see tiny tanks been crushed by 
 a gigant spider. Also unlike other rts games, even smallest Supreme Commanders ships are bigger 
 than land units, which makes sense. A hard part in this game is building an economy. Other bad 
 side is the system requirements, but when you have a enough powerful machine, Supreme Commander 
 is a extremely good game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgore1987
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  when i heard there was a sequel to Total Annihilation, i said to myself what can the possibly come 
 out with next to top it? . the game that utterly destroyed Red Alert back in 1997 (at least i think 
 it was '97) was actually making a comeback. no doubt it would have all the bells and whistles that 
 made TA stand out so much from the RTS crowd. after i installed it, i realized how much like TA 
 this game really is. it has the same pace as TA, the player still has to economically manage his 
 side's finances (mass and energy) while still bolstering his war-machine. this gets very difficult 
 in parts, but it does make the player want to figure out his/her play style best. this game literally 
 lets you do anything you want in terms of strategy. you can rush, you can chug along and build 
 up your economy for a large battle in the latter half the game, you can nuke, the possibilities 
 are endless. which is why the sheer depth of this game is so very daunting, once one realizes his 
 strategic possibilities, he is totally overwhelmed (as is my case) . enough rambling, if your the 
 kind of person who wants a strategy that's easy to get into yet impossible to master, this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencerlink
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and performance qualities of this game are going to scale to your computer. If you 
 have a recent state-of-the-art rig, it will look and play awesome now. If you are due for an upgrade, 
 wait to appreciate the visual experience and game performance until you get the computing muscle. 
 If you aren't seeing good graphics, when you get a next-gen graphics card, you will.
  
  I characterized the difficulty as 'Hard' because there are many levels of gameplay to be had, and 
 mastery will take some time. The nice thing is that you can jump right in and progress at your 
 own speed. This game deserves some special recognition, because while it involves fighting, it 
 has no dark and sinister tone or feeling to it. Since it involves machines and not humans or animals, 
 there is no surrogate feeling of lives being wasted as the conflict progresses. A lack of blood 
 and guts is a rare attribute in a good computer game these days.
  
  The basic concepts are easily understood, but there's so much nuance in the game that it might 
 take a while to realize the importance of subtle things. These are gigantic missions and you'll 
 average a few hours on each one. Remember to save the game occasionally or you will have the pleasure 
 of repeating the entire 3-hour ordeal. Of course, you might do it better because of something you 
 learned in the process.
  
  And, really, isn't that what Strategy games are all about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laureanSL
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  + Improvement upon Total Annihilation concepts Updated graphics though not what I expected
  Scale, zoom in zoom out
  Some idea of logistics in regard to troop movements.
  Weapons of mass 
 destruction - nukes launchable from silos and subs, anti nukes, T3 bombers, ranged artillery, strategic 
 artillery and also adequate shielding to prevent it
  
  -
  Flat maps, repeatable landscape, terrain (and trees) shouldve been designed entirely different, 
 bigger, more detailed with a vertical axis in mind, influencing accuracy and range, accessibility 
 ( I don't care if one faction uses lasers that cannot arc over obstacles by def, change the specs) , 
 this is what defines strategy and not a few choke points here and there.
  
  Not much of a difference between factions, faction stories cleverly designed to hide this fatal 
 flaw though boredom sets in pretty fast. They should've made different races with different units 
 and abilities.
  
  Huge armies of FLEAS that require monster rigs to set in motion and for what? You can't even put 
 a dent in fortified bases.
  The right approach would've been to design a wider array of bigger, more detailed units, with more 
 hit points that could've been really used strategically.
  
  Rigid GAMEPLAY, conventional warfare with strong emphasis on numbers and brute force while abilities 
 (if any) don't really matter. Despite the appearances and all the talk about strategy, economy 
 is the one that wins a match, odds are that if you're losing a battle on grounds of weaker economy 
 there's no way to turn the situation around. ( At least Starcraft had the decency of implementing 
 unic features per race designed to repel overwhelming attacks thus shifting the emphasis on well 
 planned surgical strikes. E. g. Protoss Psionic Storm, Zerg Plague, or Terran Nuke.)
  
  In respect to this Sup com feels like a bunch of shepherds hitting each other with clubs.
  
 
  But I've saved the worst last... Mediocre, (or worst, depending on your expectancies) boring, 
 tasteless, SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN. I won't go into details because I dont' feel like throwing up. 
 Any attempt to compare Starcraft and Sup Com is a blasphemy.
  
  Obviously the so called enhancing the genre was done with a cost effective solution in mind to 
 ensure product selling and just that. Why would you put more effort and time in designing more 
 enhancements (to terrain, or different races) for the genre when what you have done already would 
 guarantee the same number of copies being sold.
  
  NOT A STRATEGICAL GAME.
  
  Next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galinoth
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a core RTS game. Good graphics, high population cap (can be set to 1000 for 
 multiplayer, isnt even displayed during the campaign) , and solid gameplay. The center of your 
 army your commander unit, it can build structures and be upgraded to better aid your play style. 
 The only resource to be mined is matter, and the other resource power is gotten through building 
 power stations.
  
  The game is rather simple: collect resources, build defenses, upgrade buildings, and build an insane 
 amount of futuristic robots. There are three races, but they are fairly similar. They have a few 
 units that are different, but it doesnt take a big shift to go between races. However, each race 
 has three unique experimental units that are large and in charge. There are three buildings that 
 make units: land factory, air factory, and sea factory. You can build the normal array of land 
 and air defenses, but Supreme Commander goes a step further. For a high power cost, you can build 
 shield generators that protect everything inside from attack.
  
  The campaign is short in terms of missions, but each mission can take around 2 hours to complete. 
 The map starts off small with the objective generally to set up a base. After that, the map gets 
 bigger and another objective is given. This happens several times and the map becomes very large. 
 It is still easy to keep track of everything by zooming out. Zoom out far enough and the units 
 get replaced by colorful symbols that allow you to follow the motion of your troops through a cool 
 tactical map. When you want to get back the action, zoom in and the symbols get replaced seamlessly 
 by the units.
  
  The game is very fun to play, and good graphics help that along. The gameplay is simple and easy 
 to use. The game has a few nice elements, for example, the worker units can help factories construct 
 units or buildings upgrade more quickly. The game is a little shallow, with advanced units basically 
 being more powerful versions of lower level ones. Supreme Commander can also hammer less powerful 
 systems and will sometimes pause during large fights. I say Supreme Commander would be a good start, 
 but I would really look forward to SC 2 if it can provide a greater depth of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is great to look at... when I actually get to see the details in the models. That is not 
 often because of the requirement to pull the view out so far that every unit is little more than 
 a colored flag on my playing field.
  
  I use a 22 high refresh lcd and literally only zoom in to enjoy the details when I'm setting my 
 commander or builder to tasks. The rest of the time I'm zoomed out to set the pathing for my untis. 
 That brings me to another serious issue... game pathing. These units are DUMB. I've seen some of 
 my units wander in a circle two and three times before actually setting off in the direction I 
 ordered them to go. On the positive side, the game certainly feels more like Total Annihilation 
 than the official sequel ever did. Perhaps on a really big monitor I will enjoy more of the graphic 
 details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocafrost
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I've read the magazine and website reviews for supreme commander and they were written without 
 dedicating enough time to the game. This game is easy to play but difficult to master. If you're 
 looking for the pick up and play RTS, this may not be for you. If you have a little patience, you 
 will enjoy this game more every time you play it. Supreme Commander has layers. It can be played 
 like the average RTS but there are so many deep features that players won't discover and/or use 
 for some time. The depth of the game will ensure that it is played for years to come. Gas Powered 
 Games continues to release patches and new features for both the game and their on-line multi-player 
 service. Players concerns and wishes are being addressed, and their team seems very dedicated to 
 continued support. Many of the issues brought up in some reviews have already been resolved. The 
 on screen interface has already been given a makeover to prevent it from taking up a lot of screen 
 space. Optimizations have been performed in every patch to make the game run better on our machines. 
 The game is a CPU hog but it runs fine on my laptop... especially after the last mini-patch. I 
 don't include the requirements as a negative aspect of the game. It's a little ahead of current 
 computers but includes so much content that we'll appreciate when we get that next computer in 
 a couple of years. If anyone has an issue with the graphics, it could be because of their computer. 
 My laptop offered me different display options than my desktop. The desktop offered the high options 
 and the game looks even better than I knew it could (maxed out on the lap top) . So don't be discouraged 
 if SupCom doesn't look great to you at first. It can look very impressive. The only issue I have 
 with the graphics is that the level one and two units are a little too small. I would have appreciated 
 a size boost to go along with the zoom function. The zoom function is great by the way. If you 
 prefer a mini map, you can use that too. You can also split the screen in half on your monitor. 
 Whether you split it on your monitor, use the mini map, or split your views across dual monitors, 
 every screen has full zoom, unit tracking, and movement functionality. That's just one of features 
 that you don't hear the full deal about. SupCom is full of all of the common sense features you 
 wish were in all RTS games. From queing and adjusting way points to easily setting up ferry routes 
 for air transports, everything that was missing or too difficult before is now made easy. I have 
 much more to share but I'm way past my intended length here. To sum it up, I don't like the lower 
 level unit size or some of the unit selection sounds. The music is great and responsive to game 
 events. Game play is excellent but you need to give it a chance to find that out. No two games 
 are anywhere near the same with so many ways to win or lose. This game will have a long life with 
 deep game play, great on-line play, and excellent support (not to mention mods and new units being 
 made by the community every day) . If you form an opinion from one quick game or a review by someone 
 who did the same... you're missing out. Play the demo a few times or watch some replays. This is 
 one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkRoTy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  With the basis of the game being about building and army construction Sup Com instantly is an easy 
 game for many people to play. Those of us that have played Total Annihilation By Cave Dog Games 
 will remember the style of game and general management skills used in this new and improved clone 
 (although it was not intended to be) . The near unlimited size for your army makes for a very overwhelming 
 battle system, spreading you and your forces all over the map creating a very difficult yet refreshingly 
 familiar game. Given the correct view this game is enjoyable and playable by any RTS fan, but with 
 that in mind makes you wonder why it was made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysticism1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I tried demo, it looked awesome but it was kind of slow pase. It takes awhile to finish one game 
 and also the graphics are TOO good. They even said the best computer cant handle high graphics 
 in this game. I think this game can make computer slow. T. T dont u think? Even when i was looking 
 at the tournament in gamespot. In the middle, they said there were too much units and it was making 
 slow-mo. It should have at least some limit so the game doesnt become slow and annoying. I want 
 to try this game with best computer, it would be awesome but hopes it doesnt lag though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  I'm not an RTS expert. In fact I uninstalled this game after about an hour of playing.
  
  its just too big and complex for me. Which isn't a bad thing for RTS junkies.
  
  I'm an action 
 junkie and I just didn't get it.
  
  However, this game is massive in every way. RTS fans will love it! It may be the most in depth 
 game from a strategy standpoint I've seen.
  
  I'll rate it high for the Big RTS fan but not for the casual fan like me.
  
  Also, the graphics, 
 to me at least, don't look as good as C&amp; C 3 which is more of an Action RTS and runs much better 
 on my rig.
  
  All in all its a very very good game that will probably be loved by many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark_Fatalis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is indeed a great piece of work. The game is flexible enough so you can play 
 it any way you wish and can range from long drawn out engagements to intense skirmishes. The races 
 are extremely balanced, but retained enough unique designs to have some advantages over each other. 
 The mass/energy system is exactly what the RTS genre needed. Not only does this system simplify 
 resource gathering, but every last bit of collected or spent mass or energy is accounted for and 
 displayed for extremely quick and easy reference. Finally the three tiered tech tree for units 
 and buildings gives you a lot of choice and flexibility in your base and pill box formations. It 
 is worthy to note the new type of camera, which allows you to go from a birds eye view of the whole 
 map to a extremely zoomed in close-up of all the gritty details. I would recommend this to any 
 one who enjoys RTS and strategy games. Though it is necessary to comment on the 2-5 minutes of 
 required building before the first real fighting unit can be built. Sorry the sheer size and slow 
 start up time of this game does not support rushing (sorry starcraft zerg fans) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a solid game with a nice interface. The big problem is this is the same basic 
 game that those of us that have been around for awhile played as Total Annihilation. Don't get 
 me wrong, TA is a great game. But years and years later I was hoping for more innovation then just 
 better zoom out/in controls, a larger map and prettier graphics.
  
  Has the game design community run out of ideas on how to create new experiences for the gamer? 
 Go play play Supreme Commander then go play TA and you will be surprised at how alike these games 
 are. Then you should be concerned that game designers no longer have the vision or the will to 
 truly provide innovative game experiences to their customers.
  
  SC is a good game that will provide hours of play to many RTS fans. Units are varied and interesting, 
 strategies and tactics can be varied based on the opponent, the sounds and graphics are very good 
 but the whole experience left me feeling disappointed. There is nothing unique to this game. It's 
 been done before.
  
  If you are looking for a new RTS experience go play Rise of Nations, Age of Empires, Civilization 
 2, Warcraft, Starcraft, Total Annihilation, Dune or one of the original C&amp; C games. If you have 
 already played all these games then pick up SC, but understand it's everything you've already done. 
 If you haven't played the games listed above you owe it to yourself to go check them out. Then 
 come back to SC and decide if it's still the best RTS ever or simply a good effort that comes up 
 short. And while you're at it spend a few minutes wondering if you'll be thinking the same thing 
 about RTS games a few years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReactiveDrunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  SupCom is a great RTS that has just the right amount of what I'm looking for in any game. Depth. 
 I can do any number of things with my forces in any number of ways. The amount of strategy available 
 to a commander is amazing. Replay. With the depth comes value and there's hardly ever that feeling 
 that you've done something before when playing one game to another. Anything can, and does, happen 
 because your opponets have that same flexibility.
  
  The game isn't the be-all, end-all of PC RTS gaming though. I think the genre might still be waiting 
 for that, either in another title or in a SupCom update coming down the road.
  
  I really hope the latter is the case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabutrader
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Single player, this game is pretty good. Easy, but still fun to play after the first couple hours 
 then it just becomes routine after you mastered the basics. The AI seems to not recognize a moderately 
 thought out defense by a player, which in its favor isnt different from all the others out there. 
 Also, most of the time the AI sends out its commander to main battlefield outside his defenses.. 
 why?
  
  The positives have been mentioned here already, but I really like the idea that it actually detects 
 and utilizes the dual-core processor. Wish others would follow suit. The bad point being is that 
 is really is too intensive once you have a war going for a couple hours.
  
  The zoom feature is innovative for a RTS game, and to be quite honest - why haven't the others 
 done this! Multiplayer, same old RTS stuff there.
  
  Overall, this game is kinda fun. Then again, it only held my attention for about a day or so. I 
 truly believe this game is overyhyped, if you get it you will be wishing for more shortly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newage79
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  The genre of RTS games are vastly changing all the time bring new aspects to tactics and ways of 
 playing the genre. Supreme Commander is able to vastly a new type of RTS gameplay with innovative 
 features such as the notorious scroll out and in look on the map.
  
  Supreme commander brings a creative campaign which is very intresting and leaves you wanting to 
 know the conclusion of it. Each race has its own campaign that can range from 5 - 10 hours play 
 depending on how long it takes you to get the hang of the game.
  
  There is alot of gametime in this game, but for some reason after a while playing the game a certain 
 feeling of repition is felt as certain things keep happening again and again especially in skirmish 
 modes with the computer.
  
  The game brings an exciting multiplayer aspect which is able to support all three modes of the 
 gameplay including the famous 'assasination' mode.
  
  Although this game has the innovative 'scroll' feature which is exciting an fun at first. The game 
 gets to repeating itself often at times.
  
  The graphics are nice in this game if you have a high end computer and can run it on high. Although 
 this game is new and creative i cant see people constantly playing it as it can get boring real 
 fast at times. Saying this it is an alrite game with many hours of gameplay and is not a bad way 
 to spend 50 bux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destroyer166
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game, the visuals are amazing and the size of play is unopposed. But there is something 
 missing. Unlike most other RTS games, when you click on a unit it gives no response other than 
 some kind of mechanical squeal. In most others you get some kind of voice over response. I feel 
 this makes the game less personal to each player. I guess they did this to support a rating of 
 E10+. Other than the lack of voice over unit responses its an awesome game. I wish they would release 
 a version that was rated T or M with some nice voice overs for the older gamers and keep the un-voiced 
 over version for the young gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhondra
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Basically just call this Total Annihilation 1.8. It isn't revolutionary enough to make it 2.0, 
 and it is a little less fun, actually. Most everything is preserved as originally expected and 
 is a great experience, just not as good as the original. Wish there was a little better unit AI 
 and selection of units. I really hate that my planes run out of fuel , but I suppose that is realistic. 
 Terrain elevation isn't as pronounced as I remember TA, and I still haven't played much naval action. 
 Hope I begin to like this more as I play it a little longer and gain some insight into something 
 I hope I'm missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  As I've mentioned in a few of my other reviews, I'm not much of an RTS fan. At least, I hadn't 
 been until this last year or so. This game delivers on every level possible. There's really nothing 
 I can say against it, except that at some points it gets to be too much for my feeble brain to 
 handle. The gameplay is simple, elegant, and very intuitive... for the most part. There are a few 
 moments where I have found myself wondering what to do (As I had a transport ship I filled with 
 tanks hovering over the target, I right clicked to get them in... getting them out was less obvious) . 
 But, some random clicking usually solves that, and it's been such a rare thing that I can hardly 
 fault the game. I think they just assume certain conventions are used so frequently, I should already 
 know them. Maybe that's a mistake, but one I'm willing to over look. An obvious draw for the game 
 is the graphics. I hate companies that are concerned only with graphics. There are companies that 
 seem to think that their game will only be good if I can fry an egg on my graphics card while it's 
 running. And, admittedly, I probably COULD fry an egg on my graphics card while playing this game, 
 the fact is, the gameplay is there to go with it. Now, don't get me wrong. I've read my share of 
 reviews on this game, and they all talk of the fact that you there's little balance between quality 
 and playability, but I found that I can play it fine and dandy on my system, and I've got nothing 
 more than an average rig at this point. (AMD Athlon 64 3800+ / 3GB RAM / nVidia GeForce 7900GS 
 256MB) , and I can play it with more than enough graphical zing.
  
  It's pretty, but more importantly, it's a lot of fun. There's nothing like building your force 
 and swooping down on the enemy and watching the carnage ensue. All of the units solid enough AI 
 to try and use their strengths and hide their weakness. The campaign mode as a decent enough story, 
 and it's played out by reasonable good voice actors. The videos are pretty, and it seems they at 
 least tried to give you something to think about while you're clicking around between cut scenes. 
 Really, my only complaint is that some of the missions can be long, lasting for hours and hours, 
 as the map is continually opened up, and, especially if you missed the dialogue, you can easily 
 not understand WHAT you're supposed to do for a specific objective. (A good example is the second 
 mission of the UEF, an objective opens up where you need to get to a base to help them evacuate, 
 the dialogue says what not to forget to bring, but, the object just lists them as: 0/12 0/20 0/8... 
 0 of 12 WHAT is not made clear if you missed it...)
  
  The skirmish modes have tons of options so that you can customize the game to your tastes, and, 
 with various mods, you can extend the replay value indefinitely... which is good since there isn't 
 a system built yet with the power to run this with settings maxed, you'll likely play for quite 
 a while, and then, when you get that new 9950GTXST2SLI4 card, you'll be reinstalling just to see 
 how many particles you can get. And I'd be willing to bet that you'll get hooked again. Back on 
 track though, the skirmish mode has more than enough to keep the game re-playable, even if you 
 don't have that 1337 cable connection, especially with the ability to alter the games AI so much 
 and taylor the game to the playing style you most like... or are challenged most by, it doesn't 
 get boring easily.
  
  The multiplayer is really where it's at, even if I suck to the point of hilarity compared to most 
 people out there. As I said, I'm pretty green with the modern RTS. However, the fact that you can 
 have 3 hour sieges, or quick 45 minute romps is great. They have a built in matchmaking system, 
 clan, ladder, and ranking systems as well, and all of it is free through their service. Of course, 
 that means you'll need to get it out of your system now, before it's down to that select 100 players 
 and they either cancel the service, you find you'll never beat any of them. (Sorry... I just know 
 how proprietary game servers tend to be, once the game's no longer the flavor of the week, the 
 multiplayer goes all to hell...)
  
  Overall, this game is just fun as hell, and I can't get enough of it, and by the looks of things, 
 a lot of people feel the same way. It's one of the few games I consider well worth investing in 
 new (at full price, I mean) , and like I said, I don't even like RTS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Supreme commander has nice soft graphics, cool new ways of resource gathering and using. Very fun 
 for those that like to build an army to defeat your foe! It has nice cinematics and interesting 
 plot. Each race has it's victory and defeats so... you decide who wins! Also finaly a gun turret 
 kills more then 3 before it can be taken down! I had some problems with the incoming transmitions 
 during the campaign, making the game a bit slow. Other then that, the game is addicting and time 
 goes by. Try it out!
  
  But it's hard to tell witch will be better.... Supreme commander or Command &amp; Conquer 3. Kane 
 is still bold : O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  I wont bother boring you with what you can see in the screenshots but suffice it to say: Supreme 
 commander is beautiful and sounds good, but it is nothing new for anyone who's played most RTS 
 games under the sun. It's the same standard RTS wrapped in new graphics.
  
  Some might find my review offensive because they can't see through the beautiful graphics and entertaining 
 story that takes place in the cutscenes and intermissions, in terms of entertainment value supreme 
 commander is fun, but at the fundamental game mechanical level, it's the same as previous RTS games, 
 except with updated graphics. Not a bad thing by a long shot, but I do not see, supreme commander 
 becoming the next Starcraft of the RTS world.
  
  The added strategic features like elevation in this game fall a bit flat in their poor implementation, 
 having the high ground doesn't net you much if anything at all in supreme commander. Also the way 
 the games terrain is rendered is very awkward, it always looks very 2D when zoomed out and makes 
 it hard to distinguish between elevation levels on certain maps. Which you may find messes with 
 your strategies because the way the terrain is rendered. You see when you are zoomed out at a distance 
 the terrain does not give you a very clear picture as to it's height. You can find out its elevation 
 by zooming in as close as possible to ground view but you shouldn't have to since most of the game 
 you'll be so busy simply pumping out units and managing your entire army from the theater of war 
 perspective (i. e. zoomed ou so you can look at the whole map, with 2D icons representing your units) .
 
  
  Most of the single player campaign is simply a mud flinging fest, it's basically an excuse for 
 multiplayer. The single player campaign is easy for RTS pro's because of rather stupid nature of 
 the AI. It will be great for first time players but for experienced RTS freaks like myself, it 
 is ho-hum.
  
  The single player game basically copy's starcraft's model of story telling (which is a good thing) , 
 and while the 3D rendered movies are good and the story pretty cool... the in game parts of Supreme 
 commander for the most part simply feels like a bunch of randomly thrown together RTS levels with 
 all the same things that have been rehashed and done to the nth degree over the last 10 years or 
 so, in every other real time strategy game. The game feels at once somewhat refreshing and stale.
 
  
  Some cool new features are units you can't control precisely and actually obey some kind of laws 
 of physics: Planes actually have to arc in the air similar to real aircraft to turn around and 
 you cannot change this, this means you can't micro units as easily.
  
  Another problem is that many units dominate, you will find yourself most of the time producing 
 air units and long range ground units. SC suffers from all the same flaws most RTS's do, except 
 worse: Many units (like the super units) in SC take way too damn long to complete, the games pace 
 is very slow due to the long unit production times, even with engineers. The game itself is not 
 bad as a single player game, its fun and enjoyable and I'd like to see a sequel, but I have played 
 so many RTS's it's hard to find joy in the genre that has for the most part turned completely stale 
 with incremental upgrades and who's only main attraction no is graphical updates to old gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Scar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  There was a Great old game named Total Annihilation , that game was one of my best strategy games, 
 simply because of al the technology and mostely the Missiles and Nukes .
  
  Well Supreme Commander simply takes that old game and upgraded everything, the drawings , sounds, 
 strategys, fun factor.
  
  To result in this game, mostely i bought it because it looked like Total Annihilation and when 
 i saw the Nuclear Explosions i had to get it.
  
  i tried it and it is very nice simply the drawings the effects the sounds and the nukes.
  
 
  If you are a fan of good strategy games and a fan of High Tech, and nukes.
  
  Then buy this game it is simply Great.
  
  Be ready thou the only annoying thing in the game 
 is, the time factor. it takes about 2 -3 hrs for each stage. the Nuke building alone takes 80Min 
 to build.
  
  So if you think this is a Warcraft 3 or Command &amp; Conquer type of strategy games time wise, 
 then the answer is No .
  
  This game needs your full time.
  
  Enjoy
  
  Loyal regards.
  Black Scar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  I've never been into RTS games too much, due to their tendency to be based on your ability to be 
 good at twitch clicking all over the map and just building more units than the other guy. They 
 always seemed to be too fast paced and never allowed for individuality or unique base design before 
 the enemy came along in a constant stream and destroyed your plans. Some RTSs do appeal to me, 
 especially if they allow a player time to devise a strategy, have time to implement the strategy 
 and have alot of map space in which to carry out your strategy. Well this game is one of those 
 special RTSs that allow these things to happen. I will rate the game on 3 different areas, Gameplay, 
 Graphics and Sound.
  
  Gameplay - The game seems to start off slow as you are confronted by the large maps and new unit 
 system. I would recommend playing a bunch of AI skirmishes before getting into the campaign or 
 multiplayer. At first like I was saying you are a little timid and want to turtle in your base 
 and test how the AI reacts to you. Well the AI comes in a couple of difficulty grades, easy, medium 
 and hard. The hard AI is broken up into several different types, horde (constant attacker) , balanced 
 and tech (techs up before attacking) . This allows for a good variety of skirmish battles that you 
 must devise different strategies to overcome. The gameplay pretty much is similar to other RTSs 
 but at a slower pace. You start the game with one unit, your Armored Command Unit, or a small group 
 according to what you specify. You build your base and set up resource collection. Due to the slower 
 pace you have alot of time to set up awesome looking defensive lines and good base structure that 
 you can be proud of. The battles can be non-existant to constant later in the game, so theres a 
 huge variety of things that can happen from low tech massive battles to suprising massive nuclear 
 strikes that can end the game in a flash. Graphics and sound - These are pretty good too, nothing 
 awesome though. The best graphics in the game arent the maps but the battle and unit graphics. 
 Shields, weapons fire, water and unit models all look awesome. The maps are a little bland, but 
 this never seems to take too much from the game. Sound is great too. There are no unit responses 
 like in most RTS, which is a relief for me. I get really tired of hearing yes sir 10000 times when 
 trying to get a bunch of units together. Battle sounds and structure sounds are all solid and convincing, 
 and allow you to hear and know whats going on around your position.
  
  Overall the games a great new RTS, from what I've seen on Command and Conquer 3, it is solid competition 
 for that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalianor16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game is looking good. To me, its is exactly the same look and feel as Total Annihilation that 
 was released 10 years ago. You harvest Mass instead of metal, produce energy, use nano-technology 
 to build buildings and vehicules. Of course, with the years, the style has improved, The ability 
 to see and control your unit just like on a strategic military board and to zoom in and out at 
 will is great!
  
  The maps are huge! And there are so many different buildings and units to choose from its incredible!
 
  
  If you are a fan of Tactics and strategy, and of TA, then this game is for you!
  
  Personally, I was not overwelmed by the game like I was when playing the demo of C&amp; C 3 coming 
 out soon. But it is a good game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  before i start with the actual review i think this is a great game
  Supream commander is based in the future. There are three campains in this game, each fighting 
 for different reasons, United Earth Federation represents order and empire, the cybernetic Cybran 
 fight for independence, while the alien-enlightened Aeon seek to liberate the universe. Normaly 
 games like these (god war games) you can only see the top view and when you zoom into the characters 
 they look blur and you can not zoom very far out and far in but in supream commander you can zoom 
 way out that the field looks like you seeing it from a satalite and you can zoom in right on top/ 
 side/ and all around the object or battleship etc In this can you get massive fields not like in 
 age of empires... THESE ARE MASSIVE FIELD they range from small (which is big) mediam (which is 
 big) and large which is Massssssive!!! Is this game with energy you can litarally do anything. 
 in this game you can make land, sea and air war. The boss or leader of your team is the Supream 
 Commander he is a very powerful unit. So if you are a lover of cool war games get this game NOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the2ndman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  RTS are probably my favourite type of game (because im better then most of my friends at them =P) 
 but to be honest.. i was getting tired of the bland RTS's with very little new additions.. this 
 literally blew my mind.. i cant get over the zoom feature.. i tried playing Warcraft 3 shortly 
 after.. i kept attempting to use my scroll ball... it messed me up lol... the graphics are amazing.. 
 i have it running in lowest quality and i STILL had to go buy more RAM.. This is definately revolutionary 
 to RTS genre. The only things in this that bothered me was lack of detail on some units.. ive grown 
 too used to seeing attack speed and damage.. i want to know what makes each team different rather 
 then just the experimental units. I also wish this had similar music set up to Total annihilation 
 (which was one of my favourite games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexadecimal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I will first begin with the scale of this game: phenominal, the main problem I found with RTS's 
 in the past is that you never feel like you are fighting a battle, more a small standoff of which 
 maybe 10 tanks can end it. This however can produce battles of a monumental scale (we're talking 
 maps up to 81x81km here) of which each unit does a different thing and even though there are the 
 titanic experemental units, they wont necessarily finish the game, its all about using the right 
 things at the right time - strategy and that's what this game encourages. I would say that you 
 must be prepared to put some time in to learn all about the mechanics and what each unit does (this 
 of course is helped by the fantastic UI, of which you can do whatever you want and the zoom is 
 very helpful as well) because the immense battles only really start against a hard level AI or 
 a human player (if you've got a friend with this game you will soon find out how intense, fun and 
 long-lasting this game can be) .
  I would also like to say something to all those people who give this game a bad score because of 
 the hefty system requirements in that my PC is good but not insanely good and while I do have to 
 turn the detail down, I still find it a fantastic experience. You yourself will know if youve got 
 a 'gaming' PC and if you havent that that is your computers fault and not the game.
  All in all a fantastic game, definatley worth an upgrade if you're thinking of one or just a opportunity 
 to lose yourself in the epic metal carnage that this game provides 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krackapatchkid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  At first, the game seems boring. it quite disheartening to start a new empire each and every game, 
 or is it. I have found that new build strategies and what else only add to the longevity to the 
 game. There is a lot of customization under the seemingly shallow surface game. The battle are 
 awesome. I have a bad PC, and i can run this game, albeit at low settings. But when did graphics 
 determine a games worth. It doesnt bother me one bit. This game is very addictive... the moment 
 u build ur first special unit u will go... WOOO!! NICE!!! THis is a slower paced kind of game, if 
 ur lookin for a fast (right off the bat that is) RTS, look elsewhere. Where this lacks in speed, 
 in makes it all up in its awesome cinematic battle, that will take months to master. Go and get 
 this game. RTSers who love the epic, grueling battles across large maps, even with a bad pc, go 
 try it. Get the demo first, see if u like it. Great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zebus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Hype can be a terrible thing. It can build and build, making any game seem almost godly then the 
 moment the game is released everyone gasps as it receives a score under 9 on Gamespot. I had not 
 purchased the game for awhile after it came out, and I was shocked to see it get a 8.7 on Gamespot. 
 Being even more curious I went out to buy the game (I had always planned on getting it) and half 
 expecting to completely disagree with Gamespot's score, I shockingly believe it should of been 
 lower. Don't get me wrong, it is a great game, but it certainly wasn't the great game I had been 
 anticipating for a couple of years. Things that bring this game down is how power intensive the 
 game is, the generally uninteresting campaigns, and some flaws in the multiplayer system.
  
  Out of the box, Supreme Commander has quite a bit to offer. Three campaigns, each taking a 
 lot of hours to beat, Skirmish mode with in depth bot support and a plethora of maps, and who can 
 forget multiplayer? It should keep even the casual RTS fan interested for quite awhile. So far 
 I have clocked in almost 50 hours playing Supreme Commander, and although I feel I have only scratched 
 the surface of what it has to offer some of it's defects are keeping me away from playing it anymore.
 
  
  The gameplay is fresh and new as far as RTSs go. Not only is the resource gathering system used 
 in Supreme Commander one of the better ones in an RTS out there, but the scrolling from a map view 
 straight to the battlefield is all RTSs ever needed. In Supreme Commander you are not stuck harvesting 
 resources but rather you simply build buildings to produce resources and put it in your grid. There 
 are two resources, mass and electricity. Electricity can be obtained by building power generators 
 and mass can be obtained by building mass extractors over mass deposits. If going out looking for 
 mass deposits isn't your thing, you can produce mass fabricators that turn a large amount of electricity 
 into mass. This way, you can make your base entirely self sufficient.
  
  Supreme Commander has three campaigns, each one with over 5 missions (although each mission can 
 take a few hours to beat) . When one thinks of a campaign mode in a video game they think of gameplay 
 with a storyline. After all, that is what a campaign is, is it not? The campaigns in Supreme Commander 
 seem extremely dull, boring, and dry and don't get interesting at all until the later missions 
 where there is a bit more story and you have access to all of the units. Of course, in classic 
 RTS style, the more powerful units are not revealed and available until later in the campaign, 
 this however works as a great disadvantage. Throughout the earlier levels you are constantly wishing 
 you had stronger units because swarming your enemy with the lower end units you have access to 
 takes forever to complete objectives. Most of the time you will get lucky and you are able to destroy 
 the enemies commander while it is kind of wondering on the outskirts of it's fortified base, but 
 if it isn't, your in for a monotonous chore to whittle down the defenses of an enemy base to get 
 a crack at its commander.
  
  The skirmish mode is probably one of the more appealing aspects of the game. It is well designed 
 with a lot of different AI types to choose from, you have the easy and medium AIs, then you have 
 Horde (sends massive amounts of troops at you as fast as possible) , Tech AI (techs up and then 
 sends in the heavy guns, although not quite as often) and balanced (a mixture between horde and 
 tech.) These can make each skirmish round quite different from any previous you have played and 
 overall just keep things interesting. I found it most enjoyable to play on teams with AI against 
 other AI. However, this runs into the biggest fault with the game. What is that you might ask? 
 This game, is a system hog... to the extreme.
  
  To put things in perspective, my computer is pretty decent. Not the best computer in the world 
 but I was able to run Oblivion on Ultra High with all settings on maximum (no AA though) and it 
 was at a pretty steady 35 to 40 FPS. Now, playing Supreme Commander on Skirmish mode with a few 
 bots, about two hours into the game the computer was brought down to its knees. It just could not 
 take it. I kept on progressively turning down the graphics until I was at the lowest possible graphics 
 and it still was chugging maybe five frames a second. A few minutes later it got to the point where 
 I could not even navigate through the menu to close the game and I had to kill it in task manager. 
 I tried it with fewer bots and it would always get to that point in the game where there were so 
 many units, so many armies, it just could not handle it. I felt almost forced to keep the games 
 short to avoid this. Sure, the one vs one and two vs two rounds played fine, but that is not what 
 Supreme Commander is about.
  
  Finally, at the end of this reviewing journey we are brought to multiplayer, and the the only thing 
 in Supreme Commander that is still making me come back. If anyone has played Battle. net or most 
 other online matchmaking services they will be familiar with Supreme Commander's GPGnet. It is 
 quite easy to begin playing, choose your race, map preferences, and hit search. Here is where things 
 get a little wonky. Sometimes GPGnet will find a player, launch the game (GPGnet is a separate 
 program, it is not inside the game) and you will wait at a Connecting... dialog box and it will 
 hang there. This means you can not connect to the other person, and it will stay here until you 
 hit the cancel button. This gets frustrating after awhile because all you want to do is play a 
 game and it seems you are constantly launching the game and having to exit out of it all because 
 you could not connect to the player. Once online, the games usually run smoothly. Because ranked 
 matches are only one on one, slow downs in gameplay due to stress on your computer are quite rare. 
 If you want to play with more people, play a custom game; it will just not be counted towards your 
 overall score.
  
  One thing that really got on my nerves however, is how GPGnet handles its accounts. Most of us 
 have played Battle. net, and I can even use Battlefield for this example and got disappointed with 
 our accounts/characters stats. So, for a fresh start, we create a new account or character with 
 a clean record. If anyone cares about this, be careful on GPGnet because the first account you 
 make, is your only account. So if your racking up those losses and you finally get better you can 
 not create a new account for a fresh start, your stuck with the one your with. This may not bother 
 most people, but for people who care about their stats, this may pose as quite a frustration.
 
  
  In all, Supreme Commander, although a decent game, simply did not live up to its hype. It has enjoyable 
 gameplay, but the fact that it is a system hog will make a lot of more enjoyable battles practically 
 unplayable. It however, makes up for its addicting and fun multiplayer.
  
  Highs:
  Gameplay is fantastic; great new and fresh RTS ideas; multiplayer can be addicting and enjoyable.
 
  
  Lows:
  Mediocre campaign; will bring the average and decent computers down to a few frames per second.
 
  
  All-in-all:
  A fantastic game if a mediocre campaign dosn't turn you off, and if you have the hardware to run 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gahmah
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of this game are very nice, and you don't need an 8800 to play it. My current system 
 is using the EVGA 7600 GT, something I bought at $180, and it runs very smoothly, up until you 
 have a few hundred units moving around, but even then, it's really not much of a problem to the 
 RTS crowd that playing to win and crush opponets, who most of the time will probably be either 
 zoomed out, or crushing so fast that there's never a great deal of units alive at anyone time. 
 The only real problem with graphics, is that while each unit looks individualized, the explosions, 
 projectiles, at least within the same faction, usually look very similar, excluding things like 
 nukes, but the tech 2 artillery explosion, the rocket explosion, and tech 2 tactical missile blast, 
 all look alike, and deal about the same damage and have the same footprint, which is somewhat dissappointing. 
 The sounds of the game, when you hear them, are usually quite pleasing, bombs dropping from bombers, 
 and artillery turret firing, the explosion of a building, but you're usually zooming around the 
 map so much that you won't really enjoy much besides the commander explosion, the mildly annoying 
 laser fire. So crisp pleasuring sounds, but you don't really get to hear them. In terms of gameplay, 
 The tech jumps work somewhat like the way that you change ages in rise of nations when you changed 
 in major ages like medival to gunpowder, and could eat anyone alive with gunpowder units when they 
 had none. So while the jump in power makes sense, that fact that in the way units build up makes 
 it so that the tech 2 tank, made in 20 secs normally, could chew through a few 10's of tech 1 bots, 
 is somewhat dissappointing, because it becomes a race of who can get the biggest gun. The game 
 is well balanced between land, sea, and air, air units can eat up the ground unless they have AA 
 guns, and sea units are by far the most powerful excluding experimental units, which is something 
 I like about this game when usually naval units in RTS either arn't there, or a single tank can 
 go and fight them, they are balanced out by taking the longest to build. The experimental units 
 are somewhat ridiculous, the only way to combat one sadly is to build you're own, because even 
 at tech 3 with multiple land factories producing tech 3 bots, in the same amount of time it take 
 for them to make one exp unit like the monkey lord, it can usually tear a huge hole in all you're 
 defenses. Which brings us to defenses. The shield generators are pretty much useless, even at the 
 maximum level, one tech 2 artillery can usually pound it to nothing somewhat quickly. Radar is 
 essential if you plan on lasting through a long game so you can prepare for any attacks, and thankfully 
 it's quite easy to use. managing the resources of the game is different that other games, there 
 are mass spots which make the efficient mass extractors needed to gather mass, and you build your 
 own power plants, with their respective upgrades on each tech level, along with mass fabricators, 
 which use large amounts of power to produce mass, but till tech 3 it's mostly unneccesary. The 
 resource management while building is interesting and makes you have to balance it so you don't 
 go over you're limits and not build at all, but toss enough engineers or support commanders on 
 it, and you can build anything going way over you're limits very quickly. Overall, it's a pretty 
 decent game, and multiplayer is fun if you're playing against someone on your level. But it does 
 have it's faults, definantly something you'll want to pick up as time goes one with people making 
 maps and mods for this game, it's sure to stay a while, till they make another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  It has been 1 day shy of a month and no hope in sight. I am not writing this as a review, instead 
 take this as a warning. I have a PC that exceeds the recommended requirements I cannot play the 
 game without preformance issues. I love Total Annihilation and had high hopes for SC. So it pains 
 me to play this game as I REALLY want to enjoy it. Even so I cannot pretend that Supreme Commander 
 works or that technical help is on the horizon.
  
  Is Supreme Commander pretty? Yes, but not as good looking as Company of Heroes or other RTS games 
 released in the past 6 months. The preformance issues lessen when playing with limited numbers 
 of units or if you decrease the map size. But, I paid fifty bucks to play ALL of the game not half 
 or a quarter of it. Be warned, to try and play the game without a monster system is a very under 
 whelming experience. I was able to play the first two missions of one of the factions. During the 
 third it was a nightmare. When the maps or unit counts became any larger or higher I experienced 
 major stuttering and severely choppy game play. My frame rates would go from 29fps to about 3fps 
 and would never go higher than 6 after passing that point. So that you know I am not running a 
 substandard PC here is my machine specifications:
  
  Athalon 4600+ Dual Core (AM2) Asus M2N-E Motherboard 4 Gb 6400 Ram (Corsair XMS2) GeForce 7950 
 GT X2 (512 Mb) 50 Gb free HD Space (10000 RPM Hard Drive)
  X-fi Xtremegamer (I have disabled it, lowered it, and removed it from the system with no significant 
 improvement) Vista Ultimate 64 bit (I formatted my PC and installed my old XP professional edition 
 with no change)
  
  All my drivers are up to date as of March 18th. Nothing is in my startup nor is anything else running 
 or running in the background.
  
  I do not have a monster system but I do not have issues playing games, until now. Even when playing 
 multiplayer on a LAN and over the internet or even playing a skirmish the framerate was horrible. 
 Unless of course you play on the smallest map, against only one opponent, with all of the video 
 options turned to the minimums. I will get a whopping 25 or so frame per second but never higher. 
 That does not sound like the game that it was billed as Ground breaking in its size and scope to 
 me.
  
  As I said before this is not a review per se. It is more of a frustrated consumer who cannot get 
 technical help. I have called and left messages for a call back and I have sent several emails. 
 Only the sales and customer service people have returned my emails or calls at this time. Sadly 
 I am going to try and return the game and all I truly want is to play the game. So as for my scoring 
 it is based on the falsehood of the box requirements and lack of support. That and the deception 
 that all of the game is fully playable on anything less than a machine that is ABOVE the recommended 
 requirements.
  
  I hope you do not mind if I share what I have learned from the various forums and help forums. 
 Here is a suggested To play the game like the creators INTENDED Requirements, solely based on those 
 who do not have any issues with the games preformance. I hope you enjoy yourself if you can play 
 the game, I will enjoy it next year sometime when I upgrade my computer again. Until then Buyer 
 Beware. To play Supreme Commander you need:
  
  CPU
  
  AMD Athlon FX 57 or higher Single Core AMD Athlon 5000+ X2 Dual Core or Higher
  Intel Pentium 
 4 Extreme Edition 3.4Ghz Single Core
  Intel Core2 Duo 6300 or Higher Dual Core
  
  RAM
  
  2 Gb 800mhz DDR2
  
  VIDEO
  
  ATI Radeon 1800XT 512mb or GeForce 7800 GTX 512mb (Older 
 cards than this I would not recommend nor would I recommend any that do not have the initials XT, 
 PE, Pro, GTX, or GT. The last one is only if it is a 8800 GT)
  
  Again thank you for the time you took to read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Well I gave in to the reviews and tried this one out for myself, well here it goes.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well the thing that I don't like about this one is the pace of the game, well 
 for me it seems quite slow and i find it hard to speed up building. Unless of course if you want 
 to charge at the enemy with only 5 tanks or so... Some of the maps i've tried are truly astronomical 
 in size, for multiplayer I think it would be quite troublesome, as if you ever reach the base of 
 your intended target, it's not impossible that your enemy has already build up a massive force, 
 or vice versa.
  
  One thing about Supreme Commander, FORGET RUNNING THROUGH LAND. Here's where air transports would 
 truly count as units typically would need to run through around 10-15 km of land. (It's long believe 
 me)
  
  Campaign:
  My problem with the campaign is that they are soooo looonnggg. In a typical campaign, it takes 
 approximately 2-3 hrs to finish each of the 6 levels per race. I wish they could have just split 
 the missions into small 30-minuteish. This could have prevented it from becoming quite draggy.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Superb, not ground breaking but very detailed.
  
  Sound:
  
  Good, but nothing extraordinary.
  
  Value:
  
  One of the better games that you'd keep on 
 playing for a while. Though Rome: Total War and Warhammer rank higher for me.
  
  
  
  A very good and new RTS for 2007. Only complaints are the looooonnnngggg walks that units have 
 to go through (and the campaign) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong just because of low rating, I'm not saying this game is bad. They gave you a 
 good strategy.. uh.. options, like if you're gonna upgrade your factory or not, building super units 
 or not etc. But have you ever, ever realise that if you play this game you virtually don't have 
 any time to do anything else?
  
  I mean it's a time waster, I know RTS stands for Real-Time Strategy, but you can't make it a Real 
 Real-time. Don't you think whatever you build takes almost forever to complete? and I watched a 
 few tournament... How many of them EVER get to use those superunits? I mean we want fast games, 
 build fast, defend alot, rush alot, win or lose alot. We seek Intense and excitement, that's why 
 FPS games are doing so good, because we love to compete speed, accuracy, etc. I played this and 
 almost fell a sleep when waiting some factory to upgrade. Everything build so slow that you can 
 hardly ever get your huge army like trailers do. Either you get owned by small amount of enemies' 
 sneak attack or you own them. If you really want to see big guys fighting you'll spend probably 
 way more than a hour or 2 to see it. We got WoW if you have too many time to spend... and it's not 
 boring.
  
  Strategy part is made throughly, upgrade or not makes a huge difference. But I also suspected this 
 game to be a whoever get more first wins . I tried to turtle and upgrade my force as fast as I 
 can, then attack with massive amount of T3 units then I win, I wasn't even looking at the battle 
 when I won. the whole part of upgrading is great, but overdone, and perhaps, we as a human don't 
 have a super calculator in our mind that can calculate wether upgrading or not s mroe efficient 
 and more powerful than the other. Talk about strategy, if you ever played Warcraft 3 you know you 
 need a really good strategy. Which one gets hurt needs to pull back then attack again when enemy 
 targets another unit. using Heroes' ability to turn the tide or special abilities of units to slow 
 enemy down, etc. Well SupCom... strategy is how to build fast, large and strong instead of how to 
 control 3 to fight 10 , there's a huge difference there. I think they wanted to make a Huge War 
 in a Huge Map wtih Huge variety of units along with some Huge Explosions ... but I found out that 
 this idea isn't good for a single human to do, or else a real war wouldn't need that many commanders. 
 too many things to watch out for and too many things to wait for, makes a too long/boring game. 
 I mean 80 km x 80 km map... why?! takes 2 minutes from here to there, then randomly found enemy 
 and open fire or die because of artillery? If they could balance the game speed/build time and 
 the size of the war that this game should be, this will be a super  
 game. Then i'll give all 10 instantly, regardless of my computer is smoking.
  
  Think about it, even if you have 20 frost wyrms you can still lose really fast and beaten by low 
 cost units in Warcraft 3. which comparing to SupCom.. once you got alot T3 units before they do, 
 attack where they didn't suspect, you win, the end. Super units are just a show-off basically, 
 you almost never get enough mass and power to build it if you don't want to get overwhelmed, and 
 you can hardly finish it before either you lose or you win, even though gameplay couldn't be slower.
 
  
  other thing is graphics, which also slows the game down alot. who are they trying to sell these 
 to? 2 million lottery winner or rich kids on that sweet 16 show? it's ridiculous that you can only 
 play this game smoothly and control easily if zoomed out alot while they're trying to put crap 
 load of textures in one building that you'll never pay attention to if you're really into the battle 
 thing. and even if you're running 1024 x 768 you can still hardly run the game smoothly (at controllable 
 zoom range ) unless you have Geforce 8800 series or so. and the mini map... oh god why? when you 
 zoom out all the ****ing sudden you think you're just playing ICON WAR while the graphic card is 
 DYING! the best way to control your units and make it possible to STRATEGIZE them is to zoom to 
 mini-map, which makes you think THEN WHY DON'T WE JUST PLAY LIKE THIS? WE DON'T NEED TO KNOW HOW 
 THE UNITS LOOK LIKE WE ONLY NEED TO SEE THE A BOX THAT TELL US HOW MUCH DAMAGE THEY CAN CAUSE AND 
 THEIR ICON TO SELECT!!! the logic just doesn't fit each other. and makes you think you spend 40 
 bucks for a ICON RTS GAME .
  
  the only good thing is music, I really like the music. oh and storylines as well.
  
  So, in 
 conclusion, this is absolutely a STRATEGY game, but ICON STRATEGY GAME ...
  
  
  my quote for this game:
  
  turn 
 all your graphic settings to low and zoom out, then control your units like those 5-stars Generals 
 simulating real war on some maps back in world war 2! They'll build units just as slow as the real 
 world would! welcome to REAL-TIME , STRATEGY game!! 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: duhman02
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Since there are countless other reviews concerning the main aspects of the game, I thought I'd 
 give me two cents about the multiplayer.
  
  In short, this is one of the most newbie friendly game I've seen in quite awhile. Unlike Starcraft 
 where the sheer experience of older players can wipe you off the board no matter what you do, this 
 game is set up such that in a large map with enough time to prepare, any newbie has a good chance 
 of decimating a more experienced player.
  
  Don't be mistaken though, on the smaller maps (which is basically 98% of the multiplayer matches 
 as is) , newbies are still going to get beaten into submission regularly as there is no time for 
 them to do their thing.
  
  Take a shot at the multiplayer after getting the basics down and watching a few replays. It's awesome 
 fun (but rather long...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonGE
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Well, i had a great expectations for this game since the release of the firsts images, and i really 
 hoped that the scale of the game were amazing. The problem wih this es that its only a game with 
 a painful user interface and some little changes from what you have come to expect in any strategy 
 game.
  
  Graphically its another disappointment, the scale of the action is minimal and the detail of the 
 units does not see like anything from the videos.
  
  The truth here is that this will be another game from the bunch is no time, nothing here that can 
 put it in the must-have list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattProspect19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  There is no question that this is the coolest RTS game I have ever played. Last night I passed 
 the seven hour mark of consecutive play without a breaking a sweat. I struggled to convince myself 
 it was time to pause the game and go to bed at 8:30am, and I woke up at noon (on Saturday) and 
 went right back to playing. Yes it's that good.
  
  If you've ever played Total Annihilation you'll know what you're getting into, it's basically that 
 game with 10 times the scale, detail, and strategy. For those who haven't, it's a Commander &amp; 
 Conquer-like futuristic strategy game, with all the typical RTS units like tanks, planes, engineers/harvesters, 
 and defensive weapons.
  
  The most impressive thing about it is the sheer size of the levels, this has been said by every 
 reviewer but it really has to be seen to be believed. It can take over 10 minutes to move one ground 
 unit from one end of the map to the other. Fortunately there is an ingenious transport system where 
 you can build all your units behind your protective fortress in the back of the map and use the 
 ferry system of stringing together transport aircraft so all you have to do is tell your ground 
 unit to move to the ferry-point and it will load into the transport and be shuttled to wherever 
 your ferry line ends, at which time the transport ship will return to the start of the route. It's 
 an extremely efficient and simple to control system for getting units to the front line on a gigantic 
 map.
  
  The other thing that really makes the game shine is the UI and the click-control scheme for giving 
 commands. Using a shift click feature you can set a unit to complete multiple orders, so if you 
 want your engineer to build a bunch of power generators, a defensive wall, turret guns, and AA/SAM 
 sites all you have to do is shift click the commands let him go. You can build your entire operation 
 within the first 10 minutes of the game by using one engineer to give all the orders to then have 
 all subsequent engineers assist that first one.
  
  As you can tell I love this game so much I could sit here and type about it all day, but I'll just 
 mention a couple more things that make the game awesome and be on my way. One word, NUKES. These 
 aren't your daddy's nukes either, these bad boys will obliterate an entire medium sized base installation, 
 but they aren't available until Tech 3 (the game has three upgrade stages: tech1, tech2, and tech3) 
 and they cost a fortune in energy and mass. I find it more effective to use long range (non-nuclear) 
 artillery to beat up their defenses then send in a huge wave of air and ground troops to clean 
 up, and when that strategy fails (it often does) I'll either create a nuclear strike submarine 
 on water maps or build a strategic missile launcher and nuke them into oblivion.
  
  The last cool thing I'll mention is the scale. On the larger maps it can take up to three complete 
 turns of the middle mouse wheel to go from no zoom to full zoom, it really feels like you're playing 
 a game inside Google Earth. The best part is that the map control is just as intuitive (if not 
 more) than Google Earth, all you have to do is point the mouse somewhere and start rolling the 
 middle mouse wheel, if there are units nearby the game will auto center your zoom to quickly put 
 your view right where you wanted it.
  
  On top of all that the game has full support for multiple monitors, so you can have the large world 
 map open on the right monitor with a zoomed in base view on the other, and both can be zoomed and 
 adjusted independently, so you can have one monitor watching the ongoing battle while the other 
 is zoomed in on your factories keeping tabs on unit production.
  
  Sorry for the long review, but I'm head over heels in love with this game. I recommend anyone with 
 even a remote interest in RTS games play Supreme Commander. It's not a hardcore-only type of RTS, 
 with a good video tutorial system and tons of AI settings you can be fully versed in under an hour. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  This lame RTS reminds me of the PC reqs. on DOOM 3 if you guys can remember.. that crappy fps who 
 made us all upgrade if i recall corectley . I really don`t understand why these idiot producers 
 release every year a game like this , or maybe i know. Im running a decent gaming rig I might say.. 
 D core , 7900GT very capable 2 gigs ram and still nothing.. I did some tweaking.. disk defrag , 
 didn`t overclock the video card cause a game like this doesn`t worth it. Well I might say this 
 idiotic game is the first who didn`t run accurate full detail and I finished all the games 2006-2007 
 up to this date. The reqs. for this game are outrageous and for what ? the game brings nothing 
 new same old same old but know with enormous reqs. to hell with this. I don`t see why an individual 
 should waste even 2 cents over this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash10122
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The games multiplayer is terrible with the way the game is set up you get rushed within the first 
 ten minutes. I hate the whole every building has a tech level thing. But the maps and graphics 
 are good. The game makes it seem like all of your robots are very weak and get destroyed way too 
 fast.
  I like the whole land, air and sea thing but really all you need is land. You cant really have 
 air planes support you because all you really have time to do is build a land factory and make 
 30 bots before you get rushed by your enemy. The story is good and so is the campaign. But it really 
 lacks in mutiplayer games and is way too fast paced for my taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanger2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  El juego fue bien recibido por mi un fanatico del Total Annihilation, nombro este juego porque 
 uno de sus creadores tengo entendido participo de este glorioso juego, y se ve la influencia que 
 tuvieron del mismo, despleg&oacute; todas las bondades que esperaba como graficos excelentes inmersion 
 en la partida y un sonido acorde. Quien este buscando pasar las misiones en 10 minutos olvidenlo!!!, 
 en Supreme Commander hay que sentarse y pensar bien que se hace si no queremos perecer en pocos 
 instantes, tampoco es cuestion de crear hordas de tanques aviones, barcos y bots y salir a destruir 
 todo... porque eso no nos asegura la victora... en definitiva Supreme Commander es todo lo que 
 se puede pedir de un juego de estratengia pero choca con sus propias limitaciones a saber:
  
  Hud: Es muy frustrante estar limitado a poco mas de media pantalla para visualizar el terreno 
 hubiese sido mas conveniente poder elegir la forma de ver .
  
  Controles: Siento que faltan algunas opciones en cuanto al control de nuestras unidades como por 
 ejemplo un comando para agruparlas en alguna posicion de ataque entre otras cosas.
  
  Estas serian las dos criticas mas destacadas que puedo observar, hay otras cosas como que los ingenieros 
 no tengan una opcion de reparar automaticamente a las unidades o cosas de este tipo que harian 
 mas gratificante nuestra lucha por la galaxia!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reece_Boosh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is the best example (for now at least) of what the latest evolution in PC power 
 is all about. Supreme commander will blow you away with its scale and scope, so long as you spent 
 around &pound;1000 on your PC in the last 18 months. Lets get one thing straight. Supreme Commander 
 is huge. For the &pound;25 youll pay for this gem you will find days of game play for all gamers, 
 from the budding novice to the master. Heading write down to the basics of gameplay, you have a 
 choice of three different factions, the Aeon, Cybran and UEF each with their own reasons for winning 
 the infinite war. In a nice touch, all three factions seemingly have a good cause for war, with 
 no one faction standing out as innately good or bad. Whenever you start off a new battle, you begin 
 with your ACU (armoured command unit) at tech 1. In a nice touch, the ACU is the unit that you 
 (the commander) supposedly are in. By using it you can build structures as well as attacking opponents. 
 At tech 1, you have only a few basic units and structures at you disposal. At this stage there 
 are very few differences in units between factions. However, as you upgrade factories and your 
 ACU, more complex units and structures become available, until you gain the ability to build the 
 behemoths that are the experimental units. Experimental units are unique to each faction, and require 
 vast amounts of mass and energy (the game resources) to be produced. Some of the experimental units 
 can simply walk straight through an enemies base and decimate everything in site, whilst others 
 require a more tactical approach, delivering swarms of units from behind enemy lines. The game 
 does a good job of balancing all units, both by giving them obvious flaws, and or through the amount 
 of time it takes to produce units. . The sheer scale of battles and maps, means no two conflicts 
 will ever feel the same, even if you restrict yourself to playing against the relatively competent 
 AI. Be warned, if you do just play within the admittedly expansive realm of the campaigns and skirmishes, 
 you will miss out on supreme commanders trump card For the experienced gamer, the online, highly 
 competent, ranking system will be one of the greatest ongoing challenges of modern gaming, and 
 will really sort the ACUs from the SACUs. Supreme commander is incredibly diverse in how it lets 
 you play the game. The game has such a massive scale that the strategist will have room to enjoy 
 executing highly complex manoeuvres, yet it still manages to maintain a simply staggering amount 
 of detail and beauty, adding a level of aesthetic beauty to the infinite war. As was mentioned 
 before though, this all comes at a price I spent &pound;700 (around $1300) on my PC a few months 
 ago, and I know I got a reasonable deal. However, I cannot run this game with any degree of seamlessness. 
 Im not really bothered by low frame rates, as the game still looks amazing, however I have found 
 that by the time you reach the 500 unit mark, your units path finding skills falter. Ultimately, 
 this can be very disappointing, as the most glorious of invasions are thwarted by your units inability 
 to move as a cohesive force, instead arriving at the enemies walls individually, rather than rows 
 of tens (or whatever) . Despite these flaws Supreme Commander is undoubtedly the strategy game 
 of the decade, and even if you are worried about running it on your current PC, keep it in mind 
 for when you upgrade in the next few years as this is a truly genre expanding title, and one not 
 to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astafar
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo of this game and played it for few hours. I had originally given this game 
 a very poor review -- something like a 3.9 -- and I was going crazy about Supreme Commander mimicing 
 Total Annihilation which was released in 1997. I had no idea that Supreme Commander was the spiritual 
 sequal to Total Annihilation. They both have the same creator, just they couldn't call it Total 
 Annihilation 2 because the old publisher holds the copyrights. I was really infuriated that the 
 gaming industry would regurgitate the same slop like they have a habit of doing (Age of Empires 
 1-3, Age of Mythology, Empire Earth, Empires) and charging us another $50 to eat the same flavor 
 over and over. But apparently I was wrong and it's the same guy make a sort of sequal, he just 
 has to dodge the copyright to get around it and make his sequal. After going off on my little tangent 
 denouncing this game as a total rip-off, one of my friends bought the full version of Supreme Commander. 
 I figured I'd see what the other factions were like and goof around a little bit more. Upon further 
 review, my opinion has changed slightly but not entirely. Some aspects of this game a really fun 
 while others make you want to shoot yourself in the face. Supreme Commander is extremely similar 
 to Total Annihilation, like I said earlier. You begin with just your commander, a big humanoid 
 robot. You harvest mass and build power plants to supply yourself with resources. Your commander 
 can only build basic structures and buildings, which then upgrade into more advanced buildings. 
 Upgrading your buildings provides you with access to more powerful units and engineers (builders) 
 who can build more advanced buildings. There are three technology levels appropriately titled T1, 
 T2, and T3. Then for each race there are three 'experimental' units. These are mostly ridiculously 
 huge and super cool engines of destruction, like the big crab/spider guys in the trailer or the 
 huge tank thing that drives up on shore and starts pounding away. There are three types of units: 
 land, sea, and air. Some units can go on multiple terrains like amphibious tanks, hovering vehicles, 
 and there's even a boat that when it runs aground six legs pop out and it starts walking up on 
 shore.
  
  There are a few aspects of Supreme Commander that I really love. One of my favorites is Shield 
 Generators which create a shield around your units or buildings just like how the Gungan Army does 
 in Star Wars Episode I. The UEF Battleship is one of my favorite units, it's a huge boat with three 
 triple-barrel turrets, two anti-missile batteries, and two anti-air guns. When it fires it's main 
 guns the entire screen shakes if you're up close enough and it sounds like a real battleship. Heavy 
 Artillery fires very slowly, but when it does the barrel recoils with the blast and you can feel 
 the power behind it. The experiment units are huge juggernauts. They'll wade through battle with 
 dozens of T3 units pounding on them and not even flinch while tearing everything to pieces. There's 
 actually a sense of, Oh crap... when you see one lumbering towards you and you're unprepared because 
 you know you're going to lose a big chunk of your base if you don't stop it before it gets too 
 close. Nukes are fun especially when you zoom out entirely and it actually looks like you're watching 
 from outer space and seeing the nuke detonate on the planet surface. A few things I don't like 
 about the game.. the graphics can get really choppy. There don't even necessarily have to be that 
 many units on the screen at once. It seems like sometimes there is so much to keep track of that 
 the game begins to chug. Some units and structures in the game take a RIDICULOUSLY long time to 
 build. For example, a strategic missile site (nuke) takes like 30+ minutes to build with four T3 
 engineers and the commander working on it. I think there's a reason for this, because a nuke can 
 level a huge section of a base, but that seems like a really long time. The nuke itself takes like 
 10-15 minutes to build, and then if your enemy has an anti-missile system up your nuke gets shot 
 down instantly. In a sense that adds an element of strategy, I guess, because you have to neutralize 
 their anti missile system to get the nuke off. The game does have decent graphics but most of the 
 time you're zoomed out too far to even notice. I read someone else's review that said why not just 
 play the entire game entirely zoomed out and play as if you were some general in a war room looking 
 down at the positions on a big map... well, you could and you wouldn't miss a whole lot except 
 for the action and detail. Most of the time when I'm making a ground assault I just tell my units 
 where to fight UP to and let them go. They'll shoot anything on the way and -- if they live -- stop 
 where I tell them to. It's really hard to have one base in this game, because if an experimental 
 unit makes it's way too close you can lose everything and be too crippled to make a timely comeback. 
 I find that building multiple bases is beneficial because you aren't too screwed if you lose a 
 big section of your main base but it can be confusing the keep track of what buildings are where, 
 where you forces are gathering, what structure you're building in a particular spot and where you 
 need to upgrade while keeping track of the battle. I normally have my heavy defenses and main 'fighting' 
 base close to the action and my industry and specialized structures in the rear. The game does 
 and doesn't lend itself to strategy. You can do carpet bombing runs, conduct naval bombardments 
 before a ground assault, or just do an all out land attack. One of my favorite times was I had 
 a UEF Battleship with a support fleet of anti-air cruisers, anti-sub destroyers, and submarines 
 parked just off shore of the enemy's base. The Battleship pounded his base with shells, planes 
 and ships that came to fight my got slaughtered by the whole fleet. But in most cases though I 
 find myself wanting to do things that seem ineffective... like when I'm bombarding the enemy and 
 I see his T3 Power Generators I think to myself I'll cut off his power and slow him down. I blow 
 up the generators and he keeps right on chugging like it didn't even phase him. Another time I 
 tried to fight up to within artillery range of an enemy base and build artillery guns to bomb him 
 before I charged my troops in. I THOUGHT I had killed anything that could hit me from that far 
 away but something kept shooting me from inside the base and blowing up my workers/troops before 
 I could get anything set up. I never did find out what was shooting at me. Or like another reviewer 
 stated you can just mass up a bunch of T3 units and tell them to walk right into the middle of 
 the enemy base.. they'll fight anything they can target along the way so a lot of the time it can 
 seem like there's nothing to combat other than make and send . This game is sort of fun but only 
 has a few unique and innovative aspects like the zooming out battle overview, massive scale of 
 combat, and the behemoth feel of the experimental units. I'm not sure I'll be running out drop 
 $50 on it myself, though. It has it's pros and cons, but overall I think it's a fun game to spend 
 some time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The amazing armies are the real deal
  HUGE and i mean HUGE armies on fighting while 50 troops storm the ground and 20 Planes storm the 
 skies while an assault in the sea with the massive air carriers and battleship. its Practicaly 
 a masterpiece! and my favorite the BOMB!
  so whats bad about the gameplay? the learning curve is steeper then Mount Everest or even lower 
 to oblivion but when you get this game and learn after serveral hours you wil appreciate it a whole 
 lot
  Graphics
  just Superb! and all the rest that follow. these graphics are so NEXT gen and they rock! the bomb 
 the lasers the canons the DESTRUCTION is so magnificent! sadly you'll need a graphics card so Damn 
 good and if yours sucks... well thats up to you.... BOOM...
  Sound
  Lasers sound awsome! and all the explosions are so well made.
  Even just walking it sounds so 
 good and real if this was our world that is.
  Value
  1 word EXPENSIVE. first your graphics card has to be like last year to this year anything older 
 and your computer will roll up and die. but when you have everything you will be one of the EXTREMELY 
 lucky people in this world
  Overall:
  its Fantastic worth buying if your rich and the future is beautiful.
  Eat laser madcow!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron-nadz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Keeping with the Same Awesome game play and more... this Game really Rocks!!!
  Demo -Review-
  This game definetly is what Total A Should have been back in the 90's!!
  I played 
 it without the tutorial and figured it out in no time!! Very Awesome!!!
  I love the graphics, the feel of the game, and the Complexity at which the AI can Defeat you depending 
 on game play difficulty mode... I tried Hard and was Pounded Down like a fly... as if the Enemy 
 Supreme Commander had a Huge Nuke Powered fly swatter... and Whack!!!! I was Dead in no time!!!
 
  
  I still Love my TA and all the New Fancy Stuff you can do with it. But this took my Universe!!! 
 a Definetly must play and HAVE Game, and with all the new Toyz this game offers, I guarentee you 
 I played for 5 Hours and Could'nt peel my rear off my Computer Chair!!! Im so Addicted even more 
 now, because the graphics and fluidity of the game are just SO Darn Right!!!
  
  I give this Game a Huge Supreme Commander 10++!!!!!!!
  
  Git Er Done!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowAI545
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Wow, what can I say. When I first read about this game I was thinking: hmm ambitious project, but 
 can it work? The idea of a game that actually allows fighting on multiple fronts and strategic 
 maneuvering rather than a mass melee in the center was exciting to me indeed. And I was not disappointed.
 
  
  So let's just get the dull stuff done and over with.
  
  Graphics: Fairly decent for a modern game. The landscapes aren't exiting per se but they are up 
 to par and do their job quite well. Combat is done fairly well with projectiles and lasers and 
 whatnot and the buildings and units are rendered fairly well. Due to the high system requirements 
 and the fact that you'll be zoomed out a lot I don't feel that the graphics play a huge part.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is decent for a game of this caliber. Units explode and make the apropos firing 
 sounds. The voice acting is also fairly decent. The music is fairly generic but nothing memorable. 
 Overall it does its job.
  
  Premise: Among all of my strategy games (me being the strategy nut that I am) I actually consider 
 this one of the games that comes close to describing aspects of modern warfare that most RTS games 
 just ignore. Not insulting classics like Red Alert or Warcraft much but there is nothing in those 
 games that cannot be solved by quick fingers or brute force. Just simply the massive scale of this 
 game brings in a new wrinkle in terms of strategic maneuvering, feints, and base defense that bunkers 
 and photon cannons just can't match.
  
  Gameplay: One of the most memorable moments of this game for me was when my secondary base was 
 attacked by a group of bombers who flew over a bunch of mountains and noticed the weak spot in 
 my base where they wiped out a power plant. The aspect of having exploitable back doors in bases 
 and the ability of the AI to use them to their advantage is something very refreshing rather than 
 the usual rush your horde against the enemy castle or bombard it from afar. On top of that the 
 scale lends itself to things like intelligence and counter-intelligence with the use of radar and 
 radar jamming to hide your movements. As well as using various strategic pieces like the experimental 
 units to turn the tide of a battle makes this game interesting once you get past T1.
  
  Tilt: At first I had to say I was unimpressed. The campaign mission was seemingly boring. The same 
 usual, send in the soldiers and watch them pound the enemy into oblivion. The game truly shines 
 when all of the options are brought to the table. Should I use land units and go with a frontal 
 attack to be met with an equal force, or do I go for the air strike and face hordes of anti-air 
 defense. Should I build that huge kick ass experimental unit or should I build a swarm of tanks. 
 Choices can make or break a battle and the emphasis on unit combinations and intelligence gathering 
 to make those choices (this starts becoming more apparent after the first mission) makes this game 
 exciting and rewarding to play.
  
  Overall this game is an exiting new addition to the RTS genre with some good new twists and an 
 impressive range of options and tides you over quite well for some of the heavy hitters like RA3 
 which will come out soon. Overall I give this an 8.8 out of 10 tactical missiles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdwwewqe
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The graphics look very good; when you zoom in close You rarely zoom in close. The units have nice 
 details with each faction having its own distinct style. However, despite the looks all the factions 
 are interchangeable with the exception of the experimental super units and one or two buildings. 
 This means that tactics with one faction work pretty much the same regardless of who you are fighting. 
 Single player is O. K. nothing more. The AI is seriously lacking, using the antiquated send handfuls 
 of units to die against your defenses until you decide to kill it approach that has been used 
 in RTS since the dawn of time. The AI makes no attempt to adapt to your strategies, one you play 
 against it once or twice you will know which order it is going to build, what it is going to build, 
 and how long it will take for ever single match you will ever play vs. the AI. The AI will happily 
 send hundreds of units to get slaughtered by your defenses, 20 or so at a time until you have built 
 up enough to put it out of its misery. The campaigns have a decent story line, nothing innovative. 
 One good thing about the campaigns is the way the map will start showing a small area of the map, 
 and once you accomplish an objective the map area will expand with a new object, this happens several 
 times on each mission so you are not overwhelmed by the full force of the enemy when you first 
 start. However, even on the hardest setting this offering bite size chunks of the map to you makes 
 the campaigns very easy. Most probably you wont have to load a saved game once. There are 3 campaigns, 
 each offering 6 missions which will take an average of 1.5 hrs per mission. This may sound like 
 a lot, but it isnt. Many of the different campaigns share the same map; you just change sides 
 and objectives.
  
  The game offers up some massive maps for you to play, just dont expect to play them online vs. 
 a human unless you like frustration. Even on the maps &frac14; of the largest size, and with 2 
 or 3 players the game will shudder. You can play some 1 vs. 1 on small maps with little performance 
 issues. The problem then becomes the other player; most people seem intent on rushing with low 
 level units the whole game on such small maps yielding short, unsatisfying battles for both the 
 victor and their opponent. To put it in a sentence, multiplayer will leave you longing to play 
 the AI.
  
  The controls are intuitive and well done. You can queue up a long list of orders for any unit by 
 simply holding the shift key. You can queue up an engineer to build half your base and leave it 
 to its work, assign a few other engineers to help it without having to give them the same orders 
 and they will follow it around and help it build each item. You can order a mass of units to move 
 to an enemy base and destroy all the anti-aircraft guns, then destroy the anti-ground unit guns 
 while coordinate the attack on the anti-ground unit guns with your bombers so they will no arrive 
 until after the AA is down. You can have your units move in formation. You can even provide a list 
 of orders to a factor so that all units it produces will follow those orders, such as having an 
 air factory building interceptors ordered to have them patrol your base, and ever unit it builds 
 will go right to work. There is also the very cool ferry system by which you can order a transport 
 to follow any path from A to B and it will carry units from A to B following that path there and 
 back. You can then order as many unit as you like to the ferry beacon and the transport will 
 continue ferrying them until there are no more left to carry. You can also order other transports 
 to assist the beacon and they will perform the same task without any additional orders. You can 
 even order a factory to send units it builds to the beacon, so a unit will be fighting on the front 
 lines in a matter of seconds after construction.
  
  The resource system is interesting as well, being rate based. That means that you dont gather 
 large amounts of resources in stockpiles, saving them for the big battle. You have a mass rate 
 and an energy rate, with very limited storage. This makes the goal to consume resources at the 
 same rate you gather them, fail to do so and those resources are lost. This also means you cant 
 save up a bunch of resources and spend them on what you need when disaster strikes. You must maintain 
 a balance between building your base and building your army the entire game. This also makes economy 
 building prime targets and the focus of most battles.
  
  With shiny units, a great control scheme and an economy that emphasizes action its a bitter disappointment 
 the AI doesnt use any of the advanced control features, instead relying on a pathetic tactics 
 that have been used in just about every RTS game to date. Equally disappointing, most multiplayer 
 matches fail to utilize any of the advance features as well, since the small size of playable maps 
 prohibit anything more then empty skirmishes with light units. I can not recommend buying this 
 game; I wouldnt even recommend it when the price drops down to 20 bucks. This is not the next-gen 
 RTS game everyone was hoping it would be. It has some nice features, but in practice its nothing 
 that any RTS fan hasnt seen done dozens of times before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiveball
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Not to repeat all the other reviews out there but the scope of this game is huge. I am a RTS player 
 used to games like: Command and Conquer; Zero Hour, Warcraft 3 Frozen Throne, Warzone 2100, Total 
 Annihilation and Age of Kings. So this game really was different in the way you control your units 
 and view them. The zoom feature is by far the most useful tool in managing your forces. To be honest 
 i still have yet to use some of the features boasted about in game descriptions. The hardware req's 
 had me worried. I run SupCom on a 2.8 ghz , 1gb RAM, 258 meg video card computer. I do have to 
 adjust the display properties for performance but can still have fun with it. In all im glad i 
 bought it but want to upgrade my pc for the sole purpose to play this game in its designed glory. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_al123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  As everyone know this is the Spiritual Successor to TA... In many ways it is, but falls short on 
 a few points. But first the positives: The sheer scope, scale and scalability of the game is very 
 impressive. The actual maps are far bigger than any RTS currently on the market you can play on 
 massive 6400 km squared maps where it can take a good 5 minutes for the fastest aircraft from one 
 side to the other. But with attacks on multiple fronts it can all get a bit hectic . This is where 
 the inactive camera system comes, it allows basically allows you to zoom in where you mouse is 
 centred. You can still scroll, but you'll find it only useful for small corrections and cumbersome 
 for big moves compared to this strategic zoom . You can also zoom all the way out and get an overall 
 picture. The icons between different units are a bit similar but its a fantastic feature. However 
 if more traditional tactical battles are you thing choose a smaller map. Units are also scaled, 
 you basic soldiers are tiny compared to you massive experimental, which can single handily take 
 out entire conventional armies but at the same time are not to expensive for a normal game and 
 arent over power. Artillery also have huge ranges so you can choose to dig in and bombard from 
 afar. The actual game play is very fluid, and despite a cumbersome looking UI (which has been fixed 
 in patches with an alternative one) because you can easily automate everything; Production queues 
 in factories, supply lines with flying transports to the front, forward patrols all with a few 
 simple clicks, it can still be improved upon (if you go wrong setting up a long production queues 
 theres no quick way to fix it, you have to go back to your mistake and start again from there) . 
 Skirmishes tend to erupt very quickly and it all adds to the fun. The sides while fairly balanced 
 are very similar till you reach the Experimental units which is disappointing, as they all look 
 distinctive. Also, on certain maps some sides are over powered due to innocuous powers certain 
 units have.
  
  The graphics are generally good. There is great use of Bloom effects and the shadows are better 
 than most. Furthermore, despite being on a massive scale units still leave tracks, churn up dust 
 and knock over and knock over trees which all adds to the immersion. The overall presentation is 
 a bit clinical which may not be to everyones taste but ties in to the simulator theme. The units 
 (except the Experimentals and the ACUs) also lack personality, which fans of the WC and CNC series 
 will find very disappointing. The sound is very ordinary, classic laser and missile effects. Also 
 some people (including myself) just can't get good performance with the sound turned on . The game 
 also claims to have a physics based weapon, to be honest it doesnt' seem to be that bigger deal. 
 SupCom as an amazing community, GPG employees frequently answer questions on the forums and suggestions 
 made on the boards seem to be listened to. The players are also very friendly and willing to help 
 players having trouble winning or with their hardware. The biggest downer is, to get good performance 
 you need a massively powerful system, far better than what it claims on the box. But hey, it will 
 only improve in time with patches and it is a fantastic game. The CPU seems more prevalent in improving 
 FPS than the graphics card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duke121005
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Honestly if you want a game with no depth just play one of the other 10,000 RTS's out there, don't 
 rip on SupCom because it has some and you don't want it. Maps are huge, and despite what a few 
 out there seem to think this is a big deal... a huge deal. How can you have a remotely realistic 
 war situation with the scales of most RTS maps? This entire game is a classic example of combining 
 realism with gameplay. You can do things and use strategies that have never been possible in previous 
 games. Perfect example of two rediculous complaints:
  1. Units just fire into the ground, why can't they fire over a hill? Some do, if they have indirect 
 fire weapons. Why should a direct fire weapon shoot over a hill? It doesn't make sense. 2. Nukes 
 are cheap
  Build defenses, its not that hard.
  3. Basic units aren't kewl 
  Do we need bright flashy colors to distract us here? You can't make a basic tank that cool, it 
 shouldn't have to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0Silverwolf0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  If you ever were one of those lucky souls who played Total Annihilation, then you'll love Supreme 
 Commander. It's everything TA ever was, plus so much more.
  
  Sure, when you zoom right down your not going to be looking at Company of Heroes style graphics, 
 but then when your playing games that have up to 3000+ units in a game, who cares =) .
  
  Unlike most games, Supreme Commander wasn't made to focus on a single battle, but more on an entire 
 war, and the sheer sense of scale this game brings to the RTS genre is a constant reminder that 
 this isn't just about one little fight.
  
  For anyone who wants to say oh winning is all about the bigger and better stuff, same as any RTS 
 then you haven't played this game enough ;) . TA was still somewhat along those lines, but Supreme 
 Commander does away with that entirely. Sure, those experimental guys can really hurt, or if you've 
 been to slow to get up the right defences, a nuke missile is going to cause you a world of pain. 
 But while that player is building his experimental, you can pump out enough smaller guys to match 
 it in the field, and then some. And if you were keeping an eye on that guy with the nuke like you 
 should of been, you would of had the nuke defence systems up in time.
  
  Players who like to turtle and build up big can do so, if they know what they're doing. Players 
 who like to rush with hordes of smaller units can do so on a scale like they've never been able 
 to before (400 little tanks/bombers is always going to cause some pain) . Players who like to be 
 sneaky... here's a little tip... use Cybrans, with mobile radar stealth vehicles and air transports 
 ;) .
  
  Naval combat has never looked so good in an RTS. Dogfights with 200+ fighters... need I say more? 
 And ground battles where your units range from tiny little bots (bigger then trees) to massive 
 walkers and mechs that make those bots look like ants. Oh and combining all 3... sometimes you 
 forget all about your battles plans and just sit back to watch the absolute magnificence of such 
 a battle. Supreme Commander has brought back the term 'instant classic' to the RTS genre, and it's 
 one of the few games I can truly say I'll be playing for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Awesome in scale but the requirements are high. Its like driving a Lamborghinni Gallardo at 60 
 m. p. h. in the freeway. You want to drive it at 150 m. p. h. but you cannot due to the LAW. Well I 
 am constrained by my hardware so I really cannot enjoy this game the way its meant to be played 
 nor can I really write an honest review about it so I will say this. If you have one of those bonafide 
 dual core systems with dual graphics cards and 2 monitors, this game was made for your powerful 
 beastly rig. From the skirmish games I have played, they were fun but limited to a few hundred 
 units on smaller maps and while it was a fun game, it was hard. You better know what you are doing 
 strategically because the computer opponent is no joke. Hit him hard fast and early, otherwise 
 its over. Or turtle and build up the base but be ready to send nuke after nuke to take down the 
 missle defense systems counters and eventually, the base. It can be a LONG waiting game. One such 
 game took me 6 hours and for me, I realize these types of games are not for me because I want to 
 have a life. In short, this game will not dissapoint any RTS game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timonaptra
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I could'nt wait for my Supreme Commander to get released and bought it the first day it became 
 available at my local retailer. The first four or five UEF Missions were challenging but not impossible, 
 although I was surprised to see a Spiderbot thrown in just when I had just about declared victory. 
 The challenge was met and I proceeded to the next Mission. Looking at the clock, I noticed that 
 two and one-half hours had passed and I was being told ... maybe you should review your mission 
 objectives . Well, darn it, I knew the mission objectives, I was just trying my best to save my 
 toast as it took forever to build anything significant and my Techs were getting wiped out before 
 the build was complete. OK, that makes for excitement, but I'm an old guy, just a few months from 
 65, will rigor mortis set in before I finish this mission?? I look in the mirror, my eyes are puffy..... yeph 
 and they ache to. I remembered Space Invaders my very first PC game where my wrist swole up, but 
 I won.
  
  I finally determined that I did'nt like the fact that most of the time my screen looked like PAC 
 MAN ON STEROIDS, i. e. little blue triangles, trapezoids, triangles, rectangles. I hunched in close, 
 squinting thru my eye glasses.
  
  After hours and days of game play, I decided that this game is'nt for me. I would be dead before 
 I finished it (i don't wanna cheat) . I bought the strategy guide, no help, I just don't wanna put 
 so much of my remaining life into this thing. I just sold my Supreme Commander and the Guide for 
 full purchase price. I'm overjoyed to get my life back before it Over-killed me .
  
  Young Guy? Hey it's great , fantastic graphics if you get down with it, appropriately challenging, 
 excellent AI, ect. ect. But you really gotta have time to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commanders single player campaign is a series of missions that are connected with a primary 
 end target for each of the factions. The story is sometimes interesting but can be fairly generic 
 and predictable. Missions are often seen from multiple sides allowing you to already have an understanding 
 of the world layout based on your experience as another faction. Usually a mission starts off with 
 only a small portion of the game world revealed, after a few objectives are completed more of the 
 map is revealed usually with a larger opposing force and possibly a few upgrades unlocked. This 
 map expansion usually happens around three times during a mission. Not only does this mean you 
 need to expand your base but often it means time to rethink your defenses now the enemy is elsewhere. 
 Then you need to transport your existing units elsewhere, thankfully the ability to drag patrol 
 and ferry points makes this easy. Mass and energy need to be managed carefully throughout base 
 and unit construction. If mass is in short supply buildings and units will take much longer to 
 construct putting you at a heavy disadvantage. The assist feature for engineers and other units 
 helps construction and other coordination. You can set up a series of production queues to get 
 your economy going and you can focus on other things requiring more management. This includes having 
 several patrolling engineers repairing any damage taken to structures or units in order to keep 
 your base well maintained. Very few of the single player missions will have your base under constant 
 barrage forcing you to attack, you can usually attack when the time is right.
  
  The battles themselves can take minutes to commence due to the large distances that need to be 
 traversed, transport ships and a ferry system can greatly reduce this time. Once the battles start 
 your units can be wiped out quickly if you opponent has good counter units. After the battle is 
 complete you may again need to churn out another score or more of units and the process repeats. 
 When you decide to move into an enemy base your units might be swatted like flies if the defensive 
 setup is solid and you present them with low tech units. Over time this can become frustrating 
 but progress is inevitable and the opponent slowly reduces to cinders when they have to maintain 
 their base and you set about extending yours. Experimental units are only allowed to be built on 
 the last mission for each faction. These behemoths have insane health amounts and can do some serious 
 damage to a base. Often the mission ends with one of the commanders succumbing to an overwhelming 
 amount of firepower ending the game with a huge explosion. Sometimes the AI commanders are a bit 
 suicidal and will rush your wall of tech 3 units instead of staying in the safer confines of their 
 base. The downside is that if they are not the final commander of that mission all of your units 
 go nearby down with the huge explosion.
  
  There is more to Supreme Commander than just making mass units and the game gradually attracts 
 you until you are hooked. You need to set up anti-missile defenses, load nuclear missiles and watch 
 your radar for incoming units. Shields need to be managed in terms of power and damage sustainability. 
 Formations become incredibly important, heavy balances between units and the direction of attacks 
 are possibly more important than other RTS games especially when shielding and stealth of units 
 come into play. Patrol routes and attack times need to be coordinated or the battle will be lost. 
 The AI is not poorly scripted so you cant set up defenses on one side and get away with it during 
 missions. You need to pay close attention to a huge battlefield and constantly zoom in/out to determine 
 the next course of action. Supreme Commander does suffer slowdowns when unit counts continue to 
 rise, most of these slowdowns occur when in battle and the units are thinking on their own and 
 the trajectory of every missile/laser is calculated. When you have reach max unit count and have 
 numerous units on patrol, dozens of shields active, production commencing and nuclear explosions 
 going off prepare to suffer some serious frame rate drops. Although it needs to be said that I 
 kept wanting to play the game even though I was getting single digit frames per second in several 
 of the missions. Even on low settings the game is rather CPU bound and the graphics will not astound. 
 The most drastic frame rate drops are noted on the last missions involving the Black Sun super 
 weapon where there are a considerable amount of units and structures.
  
  The game is so large that at times youll want to be zoomed out to see a great deal of the battlefield, 
 in this view the units are all different icons and the missiles are all single pixels but the game 
 play itself does not seem to suffer because you are viewing such a huge battlefield. In fact the 
 missiles are often easier to see contrasted against the background and can help you determine what 
 your units are attacking. During the single player game the CGI characters assisting you tend 
 to pop up while you are playing and repeat the various objectives you are trying to achieve. This 
 happens far too often and because the objectives can be viewed easily this just serves to annoy 
 just as you prepare a huge force to attack. Some of the time the reminders are not at all friendly 
 depending on the characters. Couple that with the rather rude takeover of your camera when you 
 destroy a minor objective in order to focus on that objective, ignoring the fact that you were 
 focusing on it anyway.
  
  Missions can easily last hours which is great but the unit traveling times are probably more than 
 many would prefer to sit through. Sometimes you might feel helpless if the enemy has breached your 
 base. The AI is a little funky when it comes to sending units to where you want, especially the 
 naval units when they have to navigate around tight spaces together. Low tech units are somewhat 
 bland and hard to distinguish but the different factions have a fairly unique look. The save system 
 does not include mission number or time of save which means you need to carefully label all of 
 your saves or have a good memory, once unlocked missions and videos can be played at any time. 
 In some ways I felt the game only really started to get going in the campaign once you start building 
 tech level 3 units and above, only then did I feel I had some serious firepower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbiggie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  So I have been playing this game for the past couple of weeks. To me the game felt exactly like 
 Total Annihilation which is not a bad thing. I found that when i was first playing it that i treated 
 it as i would treat a TA match. Once I got the hang of all the controls and understood how to use 
 the units the computer almost seemed a bit easy. At this point I started playing on-line which 
 was OK but I did not like it as much as Warcraft 3 when I played online. I did play it LAN with 
 a few buddies which was fun considering they had no idea what to do i just let then tech up and 
 right before they could attack I cleared all their cities. The graphics and the sound was amazing, 
 but then again I do have a XPS 1710 which means my laptop can handle the top end graphics. Someone 
 with a brand new computer might fell that it stresses the video card and processor, luckily they 
 gave you the option to tune everything down a whole lot. Great game, fun to play with friends, 
 online its still going to need some work, and everything I expected it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogeer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  this game give you a brand new and stunning game play. Just like other RTS game, you got option to 
 choose the faction that you like and you can experience the principle of what they fight for. In 
 this game, resource is a vital aspect to achieve victory. Before you want to win a battle, you must 
 have a strong and large scale army to crash your enemy so you need a plenty of resource to build 
 up your army. Another important aspect is tactics or strategy that you are using. Every decision 
 that you make can affect you army at the battle field either you win the battle with a small lose 
 or a heavy losses of your army. You can set up a strategic base with heavy defense to take the time 
 to build up your army or set up a massive force instantly to interrupt your enemy development. You 
 have three military option to crash your enemy or you can combine those option to make your military 
 operation much more effective. you can use air or naval force to clear up the enemy base defense 
 first then send in the ground force to do the rest of the job. This make the game more realistic 
 and more great. So i highly recommend this game to all RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurpee720
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i was so excited about this game butunfortunately, what is it 4 gigs of ram and some 10,000 
 dollar processor to run the game at lowest fidelity. The Gameplay is fairly unique with water units 
 which can cross directly over and become land units, but that alone isn't that great of a feature. 
 I have 2 gigs of ram and running on medium fidelity is like Overheat Central, im not getting liquid 
 cooling just for one game... So if you have an okay computer either don't buy or get liquid cooling, 
 more ram, and a better CPU, so i've packed my bags for Korea and gonna get me an Alienware!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxXeNoCiDexXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Can you go wrong with this game? It's one of those games that your jaw will drop when playing Supreme 
 Commander. All three races are awesome at destruction. Graphics are the best feature of this game, 
 no doubt about that. I've never seen graphics like this before on a huge game like this. Your computer 
 has to be great to play this game. Huge battles will bring any computer down, I'm sure about that. 
 Quadcore (overclocked) processor and 8800 graphics card, and it still laggs like a mother. I was 
 shocked to see that my computer was lagging, this is the only game that brought my computer down. 
 You can always lower setting DURING game play which will unlagg your computer, which is awesome.
 
  I wish there was no lag throughout the whole game, but there is... and that's the only downfall 
 on this game. I know the everyday computer can't handle this game on max settings, and that's where 
 the game shines... All and all, it's a good game. The better your computer... the better the game.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragnorokreign
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game brings the difference between tactics and full-blown strategy to crystal clarity. 
 Your forces are comprised of literally hundreds of units, maneuvering across battlefields hundreds 
 of square miles in size (one custom map is a true scale map of Rhode Island) . Not only do you command 
 land units, but sea and air; with as much thought put into them as any land unit (not just tacked 
 on for novelty) . Three factions are available, each with their own story and forces, most notably 
 the gigantic experimental units that tower hundreds of meters over the rest. To win, however, you'll 
 need strategy, not just numbers and firepower.
  
  Commands &amp; Controls: A large part of Supreme Commander's innovation is its command and control. 
 The strategic zoom has been lauded to death, but essentially: forget your tiny little window; zoom 
 out and see the entire arena of war, with NATO-based strategic icons replacing the itty-bitty units. 
 Everything else does just as much to rid the RTS genre of the interface problems we're all used 
 to. They say imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and unless there's a patent we'll be 
 seeing plenty of imitators.
  
  Sys Req: The system requirements for this game ARE a bit extreme, but hey, you can't expect developers 
 to wait for you to upgrade your system forever. You put this game together with the right system 
 and its potential is clear.
  
  Support: One of the biggest advantages this game has is support; not only do the Gas Powered Games 
 employees make daily appearances in the forums, but SupCom has also inherited Total Annihilation's 
 modding community, a group of gamers that kept new units coming out a full decade after TA came 
 out. Got a problem with something in the game? Odds are it's already been fixed by someone out 
 there, and if not it soon will be. And with and in-game Mod Manager (turn any mod on/off with a 
 click) , you can easily manage your updates without worrying about corrupting the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay. I'll complain on the bad later. The good thing is, this game handles the epic with a 
 capital 'E'. The no of units and the explosions when they meet the enemy is the stuff many of us 
 gamers can only previously dream about. The interface basically handles everything very well and 
 this is to be commended. However, the 3 races are basically throwing out generic units and is differentiated 
 only when they reach tier 4. Sure, the design of each race is different but I will have liked to 
 see more variety instead of slapping a new coat of paint on the bot and calling it 3 different 
 names. The experimental units are a scream to play and it was fun to send them up against multiple 
 enemies and wipe the floor with them.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: Good graphics, but need some crazy system requirements. Love the artwork 
 for the Cybran mechs though. While the sound is pretty awesome, the score seems like the development 
 team ripped off the score of Star Wars Episode 2 &amp; 3. Hmmmm.
  
  Value: 12 hours of single player and god knows how many multiplayer hours one can log on it :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Do not buy this game for Single Player or skirmish vs AI, because it just sucks and what makes 
 it worse is the AI is Baddddddddddd. Whats the most annoying is all the units just seem to fire 
 into the ground if theres a tiny hill in front, i don't get why they can't aim their cannons slightly 
 higher or move abit forward so they can hit their target.
  
  The only fun i had with this game was 4 vs 4 multiplayer with friends, i couldn't find it so fun 
 with people i didn't know because quite often it turned into NUKE WARS and you can't turn nukes 
 off, which is stupid.... So atleast with friends i could say the rule is don't use them.
  It was quite fun however and the battles are MASSIVE, only problem with that is the drop in performance 
 on your PC and you find you have to turn the settings down to below default when this happens.
 
  
  The game starts off as just building up your base and going to to capture and secure resource points 
 + placing enoughpower for the buildings. However you can't rush to T3 straight away because it'll 
 slow you down and you'll be left open. What i found with this game is every game starts the same 
 and it gets very boring after a few matches. Mainly because it takes sooo long to build and is 
 a massive timesink, also you'll be placing the same buildings over and over again like 40 times 
 lol.
  
  After the 15-30 mins of building and getting yourself setup and defending plus starting attacking 
 you'll upgrade to T2 and T3 and this takes a long time and again just gets annoying.
  
  The massive battles do look really great on the videos but in game the UI clogs everything up and 
 to be able to see your units and control everything you'll be zoomed out soo far you can't see 
 the graphics and the nice battles. When your zoomed in too far you can't really see your units 
 because they move fast and you can't manage the battles. So really yours are too small or too big 
 to manage yo enjoy watching the battle.
  
  Also what really gets me down is the blandness and how generic the graphics look. Every unit IMO 
 looks the same just a different scale and the art direction isn't there it's pretty generic. Then 
 you have the 3 sides which don't look too different from eachother aswel.
  
  The maps also are pretty boring theres no cities or any kool map features like you get in other 
 RTS games. So you just feel like your playing on a plain canvas. The Balance however is perfect 
 and theres nothing too powerful or too weak which is kool but thats really the only good thing 
 i can say.
  
  Also theres sooo many features that i would want in the game but are just not there which really 
 lets it down IMO. I'd also like the ability to turn FOG off and be able to use units to create 
 it instead which would be very kool.
  
  The sounds in the game are pretty mediocre aswel, nothing special and it didn't stand out. I seemed 
 to get weird noises every once in a while for no reason which i dont in anyother game.
  
  So in the end if you want a ok multiplayer with large battles and 4 vs 4 and you have a decent 
 PC. Plus you like a slow paced RTS with lots of building then buy this game. Otherwise dont because 
 the single player is pants and the AI sucks in skermish and theres sooo many flaws in the game 
 it effects the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElvisNixon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a lot like the original TA, in a good way. SC brings back all the cool concepts from TA... 
 the resource management structure, huge maps, tons of units in battle. And don't forget all the 
 fun toys like massive artillery guns, radar jammers, etc. etc. Tons of unit types. This game is 
 HUGE in every way. My dual core amd cpu runs this game fine.
  
  This is a game that can grown with your systems over time. In future years, you could potentially 
 be playing with a thousand units over a huge map, with 2 monitors viewing the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Well, The graphics are nothing special, and yes i have them maxxed out, they hype that the maps 
 are huge yah sure they are but big deal. It seems to me all they did was get rid of the onscreen 
 minimap and make u zoom all the way out trying to give u a sense that its a huge massive battle, 
 while in reality, all it does is give u a minimap type display of the battle. The Mega units are 
 kewl but those are bout the only kewl units. Seriously its certainly not a 9, there are definately 
 better rts's out there thats for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narkkari
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  The best RTS game I've played since C&amp; C Generals. A little disappointed at how the AI that 
 calls it self Supreme can so easily be overcome by tactics that any human would overcome instantly. 
 Also, in my opinion there are some balance issues with the factions. But nothing really game-breaking, 
 they can easily adjust these in patches. One thing that really drops the points are sounds though. 
 The game isn't very compatible in that area. I have to play the game in sounds disabled mode to 
 make it playable. This will hopefully be fixed in a future patch. I'm sure I would've rated the 
 game over 9 if I had a dual-core computer, 2 monitors and the sounds worked better. Then I could 
 play it as it was intended . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnxiousTube
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The time is here. I step through the Quantum Gate in hopes to better our empire, or free my nation, 
 or spread the way throughout the galaxy, Im the Supreme Commander. This is supreme commander it 
 is an awesome game it never gets me board I fight off hundreds of enemy units, prepare for the 
 inevitable attack of the experimental units, and defend my base so that any fool who thinks that 
 hes the man is going to die. This is the premises for supreme commander. You basically get into 
 an onslaught of robotic units, but before you do that you have to build your base. To defend your 
 base you really have to focus on getting your factories up an air factory and a land factory. These 
 will allow you to build engineers to assist your Commander and to build necessities such as; more 
 power generators, Mass Extractors and, factories. Once you get this down pat you can fight and 
 fight and fight, and if you cant fight any more than send in the plan-B as I like to call it or 
 the Nuke. This will destroy or at least cripple your enemies economy. Graphics, they are pretty 
 cool. I have played with them on low, medium, and high. They all have their own ups and downs. 
 If you play with low graphics your game should run pretty smoothly but I have a kick ass computer 
 so you never really know. If you play with medium graphics you should be pretty happy with yourself. 
 You can run an awesome game with pretty decent graphics and it only lags once and a while if you 
 have a medium computer. Since my computer can handle this, I have played with max graphics. It 
 is mind boggling. When you zoom out your units get blurry you can see the steam your air units 
 create and you can see the total devastation of a nuclear bomb. This is nice and if you have a 
 computer that can handle thousands of units all playing under these graphics you should really 
 be proud of your self but you should ask your self, How many loans did I take out.? The sound is 
 awesome. You can hear the planes fly by, or the bombing of some artillery in the distance, you 
 can even go as far as to hear the grass grow. Just listen. Lol just playing you with that one. 
 But really, the sound is great and it really goes far when you hear the carnage of a nuclear bomb 
 come down and create massive carnage of the enemys base. You know the value of this game is pretty 
 awesome. You have some great graphics and you can totally annihilate the enemy. It is really rewarding 
 when you can see thousands of robot enemy caucuses lying around. The Multiplayer is great and it 
 never really ends much like the campaign which is rather short. In the end I would have to say 
 that this is a stunning game and it really has a lot to go for it and anyone who has the computer 
 to take on this game should do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. Deep, deep, strategy. Revolutionary interface. Balanced online gameplay. 
 Great player matching. Online and offline replays. Tactical Sandbox mode for testing strategies 
 and tactics. Beautiful graphics. REAL STRATEGIC GAME PLAY. It's fun in competitive ranked matches 
 and fun with your friends in co-op against AI or in custom friendly matches. The story line may 
 be it's weakest link, but if your an old school Total Annhilation vet it is a fun and engaging 
 re-imagining of the original space war RTS saga.
  
  Most RTS are really RTT (Real Time Tactical) . SupCom has a scale bested only by modern MMO's. This 
 comes at a cost however, the cost being the necessity of a duel core to see the game in it's absolutely 
 beautiful full splender. However, if you have a lesser machine the game will still run and even 
 allow you to compete online... That is impressive.
  
  Like many great games i. e. chess this game seems deceptively simple, however it could take a lifetime 
 to realize all the tactics and strategies being used by the creme de' le creme of the online top 
 players. This game is not for a casual strategic mind however, be warned... if you enter the online 
 arena you will need to think on your feet like in no other online game.
  
  I've seen many reviews here panning the game. Everyone of those reviews were based off of folks 
 that could not run the game at high res, and didn't get to realize the full strategic depth of 
 the game in ranked online matches.
  Many of the bad reviews were from folks that expect everything handed to them pre thought out and 
 simple like. Don't let that fool you Supreme Commander is THE BEST RTS OF ALL TIME. I do not say 
 this lightly and I've been playing RTS's since Herzog Zwei, Dune 2, The original Total Annhilation, 
 Command and Conquere and the original Warcrafts.
  
  In summary Supreme Commander fills the need for real strategic game play and with the right gaming 
 rig it does it in a beautiful awe inspiring way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philstra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  I have played many different types of games, favorites being the strategic games, like Lord of 
 the rings, company of heroes and Command and conquer finding that this seem to me to be the best 
 out of the lot. Even though the Graphics are not the greatest in the world, for the amount of units 
 the massive maps, the big battles, the 7 different computers ratings to pick from, this has got 
 to go down as one the greatest games for the first part of 2007.
  Currently playing the demo for C&amp; C I am finding that I want to go back to SC just due to the 
 larger maps, the length of the games and the more intelligent was of playing this game.
  If you are waiting for C&amp; C, while you wait buy SC and see what you think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The last RTS I played at length was Herzog Zwei on the Sega Genesis. Having taken such a lengthy 
 sabbatical, I figured it might be time to test the waters again and experience a modern RTS (to 
 feed the beast within) . Supreme Commander is a mixed bag - it is both a pleasure and a frustration.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It takes a little time to adjust, but the controls provided in Supreme Commander are fairly intuitive 
 and give fairly robust control over the many units you'll command on the battlefield. When you 
 gain experience, you'll find yourself commanding sundry squadrons with relative ease. Given the 
 sheer number of units you'll construct, that is a notable accomplishment. The balance of the units 
 is very interesting in Supreme Commander. Every unit has a strength, and every unit has a weakness. 
 Even the most powerful units cannot lay siege against all foes, and this forces you to gather intelligence 
 and plan your campaign accordingly. This facet of Supreme Commander is very well executed.
  
  That said, many control aspects are particularly annoying. For one thing, it becomes exceedingly 
 difficult to select the units when they're in a mixed cohort. A management view (a tree or list 
 of some sort) to select, sort, and group units would've been nice. Also, though it is a bit of 
 a pain in the ass, the troups can be commanded to advance and attack in formation, but the speed 
 tax on this feature is inexcusable, and it is ridiculous how long each unit will dance around until 
 each finds its place. Far worse, occassionally a segment of the forces will lay down and go to 
 sleep and not do anything at all. To correct this, select the lazy units, click stop, and issue 
 new orders. It is about as fun as it sounds. There's another missed opportunity in the barren and 
 featureless landscape. A richer environment could've enhanced this strategic element immensely.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The units are nicely designed and interesting to behold. The battles look absolutely terrific when 
 you zoom into the action. The mass of combattants is a visceral thrill.
  
  But... the control panel takes up far more screen space than necessary. The zoom is a great way 
 to get around, but most of your time is spent watching triangles, diamonds, and other fun shapes 
 march into battle. The landscape is cold, plain, and boring.
  
  Sound
  
  The score is appropriate, and swells at appropriate times. Overall, it adds to the experience nicely. 
 The sound fx for the units and in battle are nicely done.
  
  The sound is well done overall.
  
  Value
  
  The single player campaign is quite lengthy 
 and you won't feel like you've been cheated with lack of game time. With multiplayer, you'll get 
 as much Supreme Commander action as you desire.
  
  The downside here is again the environment. The battlefields all feel the same and this negatively 
 affects the value of Supreme Commander.
  
  Tilt
  
  I enjoy Supreme Commander, and will probably wage a two hour war after I finish typing this, but 
 at the same time, I am not overly impressed with it. The battles are long and drawn out, and there's 
 a part of me that really appreciates and enjoys that. Another part of me doesn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domy_g
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  OK people the game is simply great or i may even say awesome in every aspect, and being a big fan 
 of C&amp; C and red alert series it was hard to me to say that if red alert was not ever released 
 or didn't get such charisma sure thing the SC was to be a king. but unfortunately this game actually 
 gonna assassin you rig or computer if you know what I'm saying in other word
  I'm talking about an overclocked machine a real overclocked one in aspects on overclocked RAM, 
 GPU &amp; the processor not to mention that I'm running sli configuration.
  so either the game is really heavy or me and another ten people of my gang have something wrong 
 with their machine... lol
  back to the game it self, this thing is fabulous from the way it looks to the way it's played and 
 get you addicted so the thing to say that this is a sure another $50 treat and you won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Having played Total Anniliation, I jumped right into Supreme Commander and wasn't disappointed. 
 It takes everything that TA did right and adds more, with only some slight quibbles holding it 
 back.
  
  So, what do we have here. This is a RTS taken in the completely opposite direction from Warcraft 
 3. While WC3 went small scale, SC went huge! You know when you can have a 1000 unit cap that things 
 are going to get very messy. Gone are the group limit, command limits, resource limits... you can 
 go to town in one heck of a way in this game, and best of all you can do it as you like. Are you 
 a turtler? Great, this game is right up your alley. You want to rush, we got that covered. You 
 want a balance approach, we got that too. Playing into all this is the zoom function. Some might 
 say it's just a glorified mini-map, and to an extent they are right, but to me it is probably SC 
 most valuable new feature giving you both close up when you want it, and way far out when you need 
 that, and the two are just a quick spin of the mouse wheel apart.
  
  In SC you play as 1 of 3 faction, the religious zealots the Aeon, the militaristic UEF, or the 
 freedom fighting/terrorist Cybran. Now, like a lot of RTS out there, the 3 factions have a lot 
 of similarities, but unlike TA, this time out they do actually play quite different as you progress. 
 Cybran are more stealthy. Aeon are powerhouses in the water. And UEF, they got some nasty airpower. 
 However, they're all well balanced.
  
  Your resources are mass and energy. Neither is in limited supply so it's all about how fast you 
 can gather the stuff. This is key to the whole game as your army will be highly dependent on your 
 economy. No gathers are to be seen here as the buildings do all the work for you. Unlike a lot 
 of RTS, you can even go into the red to build, everything just slows down. I've always despised 
 resource limits so this is very welcome to me.
  
  On the military end you have naval, land and air units at your disposal. Each comes in 3 standard 
 tiers and 1 experimental. Each tier is tougher than the last, but also more expensive so, particularly 
 for a short game, deciding whether you go for higher tough units vs lots of cheaper weaker units 
 is always a factor. You can command an unlimited number of units at a time upto your unit cap, 
 and they will automatically form formations as you desire. Some units have special abilities like 
 mobile shield units and mobile stealth units, but for the most part you'll not be micromanaging 
 special power activation as these are either on or off.
  
  On the building side, like the units, they come in 3 tiers + experimental, although only UEF have 
 a true experimental building so far. You obviously have your unit producing building, but also 
 long range artillery. I can't tell you how much I've missed true long range artillery in other 
 RTSs. Of course, you also have you resource producing building. That's probably all not news, but 
 what is nice the is adjacency bonuses. Many building can gain bonuses from being built attached 
 to other buildings. Build a mass fabricator next to power and the power needs of the fabricator 
 are reduced. Build mass storage next to that fabricator and your mass production is increased. 
 This is a very nice touch that making building layout important but at the same time not overwhelming.
 
  
  As for the actually campaigns. They do a good job of introducing you to the various factions. I 
 have to ding SC a bit here though as once you've played thru the basic missions once, you don't 
 really want to play them again just with a different faction. They really should have had tutorial 
 type missions separated from the main campaigns, but it's a minor issue. The stories are okay, 
 and give you a good feel as to why each faction has it's good and bad moments, and they are suitably 
 challenging for a single player experience.
  
  Beyond the campaigns you'll probably spend a load of time in skirmishes or online. Here they have 
 40 maps to toy with, many which are absolutely huge by any standard. The AI is decent, but you'll 
 probably find it easily overcome most the time once you get the feel of the game.
  
  Other thing you just have to cover here is mods. SC is made with mod'ing in mind. Mods can be activated 
 or deactivated within game. You can add map, and change balances. Given it's TA roots I would also 
 expect that unit additions are only a matter of time.
  
  Now, and TA veteran is probably wondering what is truly different here. First off is upgrades, 
 a very welcome improvement. In TA you built a building and that was it. You wanted to put the new 
 upgraded version in it's place you were stuck destroying the old and building the new. Not so here. 
 If it has the same footprint it generally can be upgraded to the next level. Also, commanders and 
 sub commanders also feature 3 upgrades they can be equipped with, and each slot has multiple choices. 
 An upgraded commander can be a very dangerous military unit, or a incredibly efficient builder, 
 whichever you choose. I've already mentioned the adjacency bonuses, but another nice little touch 
 is the ability to not get trapped as all building as be moved around naturally so regardless of 
 your build pattern you need not worry about a building building himself into the proverbial corner 
 anymore. Also, higher level buildings and engineers can continue to build the lower level units 
 this time out, meaning you don't have to worry about building lower tier stuff anymore just to 
 keep access to low tier units. Probably one the big impacts improvement is shields. These come 
 in mobile and stationary varieties and are wonderful protection mechanisms against artillery and 
 close range assaults. Beyond that there are a few control modifications.
  
  Now, all the glowing praise doesn't quite touch on some of the issues. Beyond the limited campaign 
 and slightly lacking AI, probably the single biggest complaint is performance. This game chews 
 up the new PC's and spits them out. There is no denying it will bring even the best of systems' 
 to it's knees. Still, my system is pushing 4 years old now and I got my way thru the game so it's 
 not a complete block.
  
  The next big complaint is that that zoom feature can often lead to a feeling of disconnection. 
 This is more of a personal thing. Being zoomed out a lot of the time can make you forget the units 
 you're dealing with. I don't see it myself, but it is an issue with some people.
  
  Probably the last complaint is speed, and this is an odd one. You can take things very slowly or 
 very quickly, but it's often difficult for newcomers to get used to this. Myself I like that I 
 can be slow and methodical in my approach, but the fast game is there, it's probably just harder 
 to access than most are used to.
  
  My last peeve with the game is sound. Sure you got it, and it's fair enough, it just doesn't seem 
 to have the power you'd expect. I think a fair bit of the zooming complaint is actually more to 
 do with this then the zoom itself.
  
  Overall, it's an awesome game in my mind, and with mods here and on their way, and a very likely 
 expansion planned, I see myself playing this for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  If you were expecting Supreme Commander to revolutionize RTS games as we know them then you are 
 in for some serious disappointment. On the other hand, if you just wanted an RTS that let you throw 
 a ton of units all over the map then Supreme Commander will be right up your alley.
  
  Supreme Commander has a few things going for it, to be sure. The level of detail in the units is 
 astounding and the scale is unprecedented. If you have a mid-range to high-end gaming rig than 
 Supreme Commander will impress you with the sheer amount of units you can have in a battle. This 
 may just be the first RTS that makes you feel as if you are in control of an actual army rather 
 than just a couple of regiments. When Chris Taylor began this project he stated that he wanted 
 to emphasize the strategic elements of the RTS genre over the tactical nature of most games. To 
 this end, he did a decent job of realizing that vision... on the other hand he just may have proven 
 that concentrating on tactics is probably the way to go.
  
  The attempt to make Supreme Commander more of a strategy game takes away from the visual impact 
 Gas Powered was trying to achieve by making it necessary to zoom out of the action so far that 
 units become mere icons on the strategic sized map. You will need to be zoomed out often to have 
 any hopes of coordinating your forces against an enemy that is sprawled all over the map, and still 
 be able to do things like scout for new resource points or establish forward camps and defensive 
 positions. To further complicate matters, you will need to be zoomed in on your forces to keep 
 an eye on them because of lousy AI and shoddy pathfinding. This makes for a frustrating game experience 
 because the game was obviously designed to be played as a strategy game wherein you decide where 
 and when your forces are to act while the AI handles the nuts and bolts of the combat; but the 
 AI is so bad that you have to micro-manage battles anyway. Considering the steep hardware requirements 
 of Supreme Commander, the visuals are disappointing. Units look great, when you're zoomed in enough 
 to appreciate them - otherwise they look like ants. It's the maps that are the big letdown. Environments 
 are surprisingly devoid of features and detail and contrast very badly with the well-rendered units 
 and buildings. With it's half-assed AI and bland environments Supreme Commander has the feel of 
 an ambitious game that has been rushed to market... just why anyone would rush a game out the door 
 for Lent is anybody's guess. Maybe things will get patched or an expansion pack will work out the 
 kinks, but as it stands right now Supreme Commander doesn't live up to it's own hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander one game which I'm eagerly waiting for . When it hit the local store , I rush 
 to get it at the very first hour . After spending a few sleepless hour . It doesn't really capture 
 my heart . A bit out of my expectation .
  
  Gameplay is quite encouraging and refreshing . Its well blend and each mission have their own challenge 
 and difficulties . Go thru the tutorial first , it does help you get into the basic and control 
 of the game . My advice is when engaging any campaign , plan and deploy your troops wisely . Do 
 not just select all at one goal and charging at the enemy . U bound to suffer heavy casualties 
 . Rather impressive is the sound effect . Especially the bombing from artillery and air units . 
 U can feel the thundering roar ,if you have a decent sound card. As for the graphic expects of 
 the game , its well done with fine and sharp detail . But the minus point is that everything looks 
 so tiny and the terrain looks flat and unimpressive . U can't simply keep zooming in during a battle 
 to see those fine action . Kind of discouraging as you will be only seeing ants like units running 
 around engaging in battle. It would be great , if could have a 3D view ,same as those engine use 
 by Command and conquer . If not , this game would have score a perfect point .
  
  Overall , its a game worth playing . Try out the demo first if you're uncertain before you commit 
 yourself . At the end of the day , the choice is yours . Some may love it , some might consider 
 it rubbish . My advice is not to put too high hope on it , if you can't get use to those fine tiny 
 little detail running about throughout the game . U decide !!! Last but not least , make sure you 
 have a powerful system before you dive yourself into it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMTP_Blade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best RTS games that I have played so far.
  You start with a giant robot called the commander, and with him you can start by building some 
 mass extractors and then a power generator. After this you can go ahead and build a land factory 
 and begin creating some engineers to go and collect some more mass. Now the next step is start 
 building your army either to defend or attact, depends on your strategy. I boutght this game and 
 I been having alot of fun, if you like to play RTS games, this a a game that it worths your money, 
 no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafioso_53
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Way back in the good old age of 1998, i had just started playing games on my old HP Vectra, running 
 windows 95. When we ordered the PC we got a bunch of games with it Sub-Culture, Age of Empires, 
 some crappy Top-Gun fighter game, but the real one i remember was Total Annihilation. It was the 
 first game i got truley addicted to, the idea of building massive armies with diverse units on 
 land and in the air. You had one super-powerful unit that you protected at all costs, your commander.
 
  
  When i first heard about Supreme Commander, I got extremely excited that Chris Taylor was making 
 wha would hopefully be a faithful sequal to TA that many had been waiting for.
  
  On to the actual review
  
  -The Factions
  There are three fairly distinct factions in SC. 
 The United Earth Federation, or UEF, takes on a futuristic but traditional units much like the 
 Arm in TA. They prefer ballistic-type weaponry such as Guass Cannons and Rail Guns that deal a 
 good amount of punishment with a moderate rate of fire. Some of their strongest units are tech 
 1 and tech 3 units. The Cybran Nation is a futuristic cyborg race that harkens back to the Core 
 in TA. prefers laser and emp based weaponry. Their units tend not to do a lot of damage, but make 
 up for it with a high rate of fire and special abilities, such as the Mantis, which can deal out 
 rapid laser fire, while repairing or even assisting in construction. The Aeon are a mysterious 
 group of humans who learned a higher form of thinking called the way which was taught to them by 
 a now extinct alien-race. Aeon units are highly specialized and require quite a bit of skill to 
 use effectivley. Many of their units rely on speed and massive firepower but long recharge times 
 on their weapons, they use many types of weaponry from tractor beams to quantum cannons. -Interface 
 and Control
  The true thing that sets SC apart from most RTS is the amazing amount of control you have over 
 your units. by holding the shift-key, you can turn simple commands like move and attack into complex 
 manuevers. For example, you could, while holding down the shift-key, tell your bombers to move 
 around the enemies AA defense, then attack their power-plants. Say the enemy is moving AA units 
 close to your bombers intended flight path, while holding down shift, the units path will be displayed 
 and you can drag the way-points out of the AA units way. The assist function is also an extremeley 
 handy command. In its most-used state, you will typically use it to have engineers or ACUs help 
 build a structure or factories build units. It goes much deeper than that however. One example 
 is you can tell one factory to assist another build a unit, dividing the number of units being 
 build at that factory among to two, but you factories must produce the same type of units (i. e. 
 land, air, sea) and the factory assisting must be at the same or higher tech level that the one 
 producing is at. TA player will feel right at home with the controls, and find interesting new 
 features aswell, while other might be intimidated. Thanks to handy tutorials this is not a problem.
 
  
  -Tutorials
  Although not a huge part of the game I thought it was worth mentioning. Instead of having a mock-mission 
 where they hold your hand and your controls are locked until you do what they tell you to, it sets 
 up a sandbox game on a small map (Finn's Revenge) with Armored Command Units from all three factions, 
 allowing you to build pretty much anything you want. There is also a list of minute videos in an 
 organized table of contents. You can (are not forced to, being the key here) watch these videos 
 which range from basic movements to setting up an economy. This free-form tutorial system is a 
 much appreciated deviation, and can also help you explore all three factions.
  
  -Single-Player Campaign
  I haven't completed the single player missions, but they are okay. Probably 
 one of the games weak points in my opinion. A lot of the missions seem very similar, each starting 
 mission for each faction being a tutorial mission. They take a good 1-3 hours each depending on 
 difficulty, usually starting out as a small area than exapanding, but the scenario is often the 
 same, gate in, build base, defend from attack, destroy enemy forward base, defend from another 
 attack, destroy enemy ACU + Main base. There are CG cutscenes usually at the start of each campaign, 
 and a small briefing before each mission as well as periodic communication reminding you to check 
 your objectives ingame. Overall the single-player isn't really what this game's strong point, but 
 still provides further training for using different offensive and defensive tactics.
  
  -Multiplayer, AI Skirmish
  Now this is what Supreme Commander is all about, duking it out with 
 massive armies on multiple fronts in huge maps. Firstly the scale is massive. Take your average 
 2v2 Company of Heroes game, maybe a 3x3km map, 75 unit cap (which actually translates into maybe 
 20 units on the field) lasting maybe 2 hours. Your average 2v2 Supreme Commander game? try 30x30km 
 maps, 500 unit cap (and each unit DOES only take up one unit slot) Tanks and mechs and artillery 
 creating chaos on land, while strategic bombers deliever their destructive payloads on an enemies 
 defenses, while battleships guns fire at each other over kilometers away. Average 2v2 games can 
 go on for 5-10 hours, while even 1v1s will probably last at least 3. The one weakness of the multiplayer 
 is finding a game. GPG's online client is extremely frustrating to use. You have to close SC, start 
 up the client, find a game, join it, then start up SC again. At least integrating it into the game 
 would have been nice.
  
  -Tactics
  Another area that makes Supreme Commander shine is its deep tactics and decisions you make. Do 
 you decide to rush his base early going for an easy win, but possibly risking your commander, or 
 a superious counter-attack, or do you build layers of defense and tech up, possibly losing important 
 resource claims. Intelligence is also an important part of the game, a radar should be the first 
 structure you build once you have some tech 1 engineers, but also sending out land and air scouts 
 to know what your adversary is planning and ajusting your strategy to exploit that is key. Tech 
 three artillery, strategic, and expieramental structures and units play a key part of the game. 
 Lets say you have somebody who has build up so much defense that it is nearly impregnable by standard 
 units. You could take the time and resources to either build a tech 3 artillery installation, and 
 pound his base from afar, but he might have enough shield generators that he can have them recharged 
 before the next shell lands. You could build a strategic missile silo, which can deliever nuclear 
 warhead to decimate his base, but if he has tactical missile defense silos of his own, they can 
 render any direct attack useless. The third option is the massivly powerful but massivly expensive 
 expieramental units. These massive units range from the Aeons near indestructable Galactic Colossus, 
 the Cybrans hard-hitting and surprisingly fast mega-gunship, to the UEFs mobile factory land-battleship 
 the Fatboy. These units can usually crack through any defense and decimate entire armies but are 
 usually vunerable to one type of unit. The fatboy can produce an entire ground force very quickly, 
 and outrange almost any other unit with its four battleship cannons, but if they encounter strategic 
 bombers or gunships without any air-cover, it can be reduced to scrap metal in a matter of seconds. 
 -Economy
  This is probably what makes SC's learning curve so large, balancing your economy is key if you 
 have any hope of defeating your opponent, the economic system will be extremely familiar to those 
 TA vets out there. Mass (metal in TA) and Energy are your two sources of income. Energy is produced 
 from powerplants, each tech level 1-3 has its own powerplant, each larger, more expensive, and 
 more powerful than the last, aswell as hydro-carbon powerplants which are a midrange between tech 
 1 and 2 generators, and are built on predefined locations on the map. Mass is obtained 3 ways, 
 mass extractors are the first, each map is dotted with anywhere from around 10-50 spots where mass-extractors 
 can be build, and are evenly distrubted on each players side of the map, with some usually in the 
 middle that are contested over. Mass fabricators, familiar to those TA players, convert energy 
 into mass, so they require a good supply of energy to be used effiecently. They usually are build 
 mainly at tech 3 where they can bolster you production past what your mass extractors can put out. 
 The 3rd method is used early game in which you reclaim local forests, rocks, and foilage for a 
 slight boost in mass and sometimes energy. If your using more mass or energy than you can produce, 
 your stores of both will begin to deplete, this usually isn't a problem if its just taking maybe 
 -10 mass or -1000 energy, but if your bar empties while your still contructing, your economy will 
 stall and anything being build will become painfully slow and you may have to halt production, 
 stop construction, or deactivate structures like shield generators temporarily. -Tech Levels &amp; 
 Units
  Like most RTS, SupCom has mulitple tech levels or tiers which have increasingly powerful units 
 and structures but cost more to build and maintain. At tech one you usually have maybe 20 power 
 generators and you should have a good amount of mass extractors and mass fabricators if you have 
 energy to spare. Tech 1 units are fairly weak but are the units of choice for early game rushers. 
 Most sides share the same types of units throughout the tech levels, the tech 1 units are the most 
 diverse. Engineers will help build structures and assist your ACU and Factories. Light assault 
 bots are the infantry of the game and they are weak but are fast and extremely cheap to build. 
 Each side has a medium tank, save the Cybran which uses the Mantis Heavy Assault Bot in its place. 
 Tech 1 artillery helps increase the range of your early game armies, and tech 1 AA helps to defend 
 against bombers and interceptors. Tech 2 brings new heavier units to the field and a much more 
 diverse range of structures such as stationary artillery and shield generators. your air forces 
 also gain the torpedo bomber which can help defeat naval forces, especially submarines. Tech 3 
 brings out the heavy artillery, literally. Tech 3 artillery installations can hit almost anything 
 and small and medium maps, while mobile heavy artillery can dish out a lot of firepower as well, 
 along with Siege bots (which combine the firepower and armor of a tank with the mobility of a mech) 
 are the mainstay of ground forces in late game assaults. Strategic nuclear weaponry launched from 
 silos and submarines take a long time to build, but can win the game if your opponent is not properly 
 prepared for them. With T3 Engineers and Support Commanders you can start construction on the Expieramental 
 units which can turn the tide of battle, i found that the UEF's expierimentals were not as practical 
 as the others however, the fatboy can dish out damage and produce units, the atlantis however can 
 carry 120 aircraft, and takes a relativly short amount of time to build, but producing that many 
 planes takes a lot of time, the Mavor strategic artillery can lob highly destructive (not nuclear, 
 as the name might imply) at ANY range with pinpoint accuracy, but its build time (multiple hours 
 with one engineer) is practically impossible in a real game.
  
  -Performance
  Another one of the games big issues is its performance. The game looks great for its scale, not 
 as good as CoH (but what does?) for its scale however it does not dissapoint, you'll see a microwave 
 cannon on a spiderbot sweep across and army followed by a trail of explosions, the attention to 
 detail is also quite good. 1GB of Ram and a 3.0gHz single core CPU or 2.0gHz Dual Core CPU is a 
 must have if you want to run the game on atleast medium settings. I can run it on high on most 
 1v1 maps, medium on most 2v2, but 3v3 and 4v4 (which can reach a mind-boggoling 81x81km) is nearly 
 impossible for any current computer. High numbers of units moving will seriously tax your system, 
 although thankfully you can adjust your settings on the fly ingame. More detail on this can be 
 found in other reviews.
  
  -Conclusion
  Supreme Commander is a must have for ANY RTS gamer out there, especially for you Total Annihilation 
 veterans out there. Its level of control, massive scale, and multiple settings of war truly does 
 make you feel like the supreme commander of an army. The main low-points for the game is its single-player 
 campaign, server browser, and performace issues. This still does not keep it from being an instant 
 classic and an awesome gaming expierence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullton_35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you watch the interviw with the guy he does say that when you start fighting with a mass 
 army that the games gets a little laggy, but the magoiry of good grafic games do that anyways. 
 I think that is this a whole new Stratagy game all togeather. i have not seen one game liek this (witch 
 i like) .
  you can be like a realy genaral. you can make battle plans then exacute tem at the same time withc 
 i think is really really cool. I also like the three main types of troops Land, Water and Air witch 
 some games like Warcraft III does not have. You also have 3 races that have some of the same trraits 
 but all have tehre own thing the is unqiue to only them. If your a Stratagy fan then i recomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I was wary of another gather and build real-time strategy (RTS) . But SupCom makes this genre fun 
 again by eliminating or minimizing the micro-management required in other RTS games. The scope 
 of this game is immense in that you can build huge armies and air, sea, and land units plus defensive 
 structures for protecting your base. There is a balance you must have; build too quick and some 
 resource will be depleted too fast, but you can turn off factories and some units to give yourself 
 a boost in building other things.
  
  This game is addicting in the same vein as the Sid Meyer Civilization games are. Just one more 
 battle group of Medium Tanks, then I'll stop. Ok, I'll just send this three groups in and see what 
 happens. Let me upgrade my ACU with a personal shield... and on and on...
  
  I have not finished all of the single player campaigns yet, but after ~15 hours, I can tell that 
 this game will give me hours and hours of entertainment.
  
  Also I wanted a game that can utilize my new system's potential:
  Nvidia 8800GTX with Intel Core2 
 Duo on a 680i mobo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_6t9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Although Supreme Commander is a Hardware eating machine, It is still very possible (And most likely) 
 that any RTS player can sit down and enjoy this game for a long time. The Campaign is only a dozen 
 missions long, or so, per faction, but Supreme Commander's strongest point, is that battles are 
 on an epic scale. I don't need to reiterate the fact that this game relies on porportion. The strongest 
 point of battles in Supreme Commander, are that they are just as focused on size, as they are on 
 tactics. Any player of old RTS's like C&amp; C, SC, or any of the WC's, will soon realise that Supreme 
 Commander brings out the one aspect of battle those games were missing, Epicness. An army of 500 
 storming a base deffinitely is awe inspiring in this game, and it let's your PC know it. Although 
 it is hard to fully enjoy the game on its maximum settings, due to slow downs when larger battles 
 occur, it will become clear that anyone who takes the time to sit down and play Supreme Commander, 
 will enjoy each battle for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiejmonster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Basic Points
  -Scale and zooming makes you feel like your in a war room which is something few if not any rts 
 games can boast
  
  -Zooming makes the game so much different and easier to play, sometimes i dont even think i scroll... 
 you just zoom out to get a quick look at the battlefield and then zoom into another area
  
  -The gameplay is similar to TA but on a grander scale. The game seems meticulously balanced so 
 when new units come out they should hopefully not change too much.
  
  -There are 40 maps and with a good variety... but some are repetitive and with the different size 
 maps there are only about ten or less for each size
  
  -The different size maps provide for different types of play which increases the value of the game
 
  
  -The computer can be challenging and sober the first couple times, especially if you are new to 
 the gameplay. But with a little bit of research, tips, and playing it can be defended against rather 
 easily. It still puts up a fight on defense though
  
  -The sound is great... maybe not as good as in TA but it definetly enhances and fits the game
 
  
  -The graphics are amazing on high but are still nice on low. Most people will be playing on low/ 
 lowmedium for a good halfyear at least
  
  -The factions are creative and have subtle differences that make them alot less alike than it appears 
 at first.
  
  -Plenty of room for expansion on an already great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I played the beta for SupCom, so I have to admit, I knew what i was buying. This game is ambitious, 
 and sets out to accomplish alot. The only thing really holding this game back from greatness is 
 the blandness in play style of the races. I will explain
  
  Graphically, this game is very appealing, because of its size, scope, and style. It feels like 
 real war, visually, and the mapping possibilities are endless. The maps are a little nondescript 
 sometimes, and the models aren't exactly high poly, but the trade off for size of the battlefield 
 is well worth it.
  
  The Orchestral themes are nice, but a little short. It feels like they have about 5 tracks of music 
 for the whole game. The sound effects are just right, but nothing special
  
  Gameplay is what really makes this game a winner. The size, scale, variety of tactics and unit 
 types make this game amazing to play, you just have to experience it for yourself, it's awesome. However, 
 barring aesthetic differences, the races play almost identically. I think more could have been 
 done to make their play styles distinctive. That is really this games one failing. It is still 
 very much worth an RTS fans money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondItAll
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  At first I really didn't care much for this game, it seemed slow and I the singleplayer wasn't 
 to fun, but then I decided the give the game a bit more time as I had heard their was a great deal 
 to the game. I started playing the skrimish mode and online and WOW, their were way more units 
 available to me in online/skirmish mode including the ultra units that were not in most of the 
 single player part of the game (along with many other units) the game is very intense and loads 
 of fun, the better I am becoming the more fun the game is getting as the better you get the speed 
 picks way up, in fact their doesn't seem to be a limit, the games speed is completely dependent 
 on you level of knowledge on the game. So while it may seem slow to you when you first start this 
 will quickly change.
  
  The game runs great on my 3200+ XP 1 Gig Geforce 6600GT and the game will run fine on any PC bought/built 
 within the last 2 years really. [...]
  
  Furthermore the fact of the matter is the factions are actually pretty unique, it doesn't seem 
 that way at first because they have the same type of units in usually all the same spots across 
 the tech trees.
  
  What I mean by that is take a tech 1 land factory for example they all produce a bot/scout/mobile 
 anti-air/tank and artillery. So you would think they were all the same, you would be dead wrong. 
 Every single one of those units happen to vary drastically from faction to faction.
  
  I'll use the tank as an example
  
  The Aeon Tank- is very slow, has a very long range, does 
 heavy damage, but has a long reload time. It also has a very small health bar.
  Special ability: It can hover over water...
  
  The Cybran tank- is very fast, has a short range, 
 does low damage, but fires at a very fast rate. It has a moderate amount of health
  Special ability: is able to repair other units and structures, can also help engineers build.
 
  
  The UEF tank-has moderate speed, moderate range, does high damage and has a moderate reload time. 
 It also has a very high amount of health
  
  So as you can see in that example those 3 units which if you just looked at the tech tree would 
 have you believe are identical are ACTUALLY completely different, they are as different as night 
 and day! And thats using a Tech 1 unit example, in Supreme Commander their are 4 tech levels an 
 the units get more and more unique the higher up the tech tree you go.
  So actually the units from faction to faction in this game are very unique.
  
  But even if 
 they were not this game literally has more depth in one faction then most RTS games with their 
 expansion have across all of their factions. Each faction in Supreme Commander has over 40 units 
 and structures, thats more then Starcraft with broodwar has with all of it's faction combined!
 
  
  Also every single unit has it's purpose, their is no unit or structure in this game that are useless 
 because the game is very well balance, unlike RTS games like Red Alert 2 were all you have to do 
 is build Mammoth tanks once you get to them. In Supreme Commander you have to use mixtures of many 
 different unit types to be successful against any good opponent
  Another great thing about this game is how well it scales, say you want to play a quick 10 minute 
 game, all you have to do is pick one of the very tiny maps in which their are plenty of, theirs 
 also gigantic maps, bigger then you've ever seen for when you want to play a much longer game. 
 The game in total has nearly 50 maps for the Multi-player alone!
  
  One of the best things about Supreme Commander is just how wonderful the UI is, of course theirs 
 the zoom you already know about. The User interface itself can also be moved all over the screen, 
 you can put the User interface on the top, bottom, left or right side of the screen, additionally 
 in the new patch that just came out their is an option to run a mini UI for those people who complained 
 the UI was to big, well now you have the option of a much smaller one.
  
  The que system in the game is fantastic, it really puts every other RTS to shame, in most RTS games 
 you have to wait for a building to finish to give your builders their next order, in Supreme Commander 
 you simply hold shift and you can lay out the build tasks for a builder to infinity, you can also 
 use this same feature when giving order to any of your war machines so you can give them very complex 
 routes.
  
  Another thing that sets Supreme Commander apart is the use of air and sea, in the RTS games out 
 that have air and sea, they really are after thoughts. You will have one or 2 air units at most 
 a factions and you will rarely see any see units, in Supreme Commander they have put just as much 
 focus on the air and sea as they have the land units. Furthermore their are many different formations 
 for land, air and sea units so you can keep your armies very well organized!
  
  Each faction also has 3 very unique gigantic experimental units.
  Ranging from a enormous Independence 
 Day like Flying Saucer with the blue laser of death and all, to a Giant Spider with a freaking 
 laser beam on his back. To a Submarine aircraft carrier that can literally hold over 100 air units!
 
  
  Supreme Commander has it's short comings, the Single player story isn't that great and the levels 
 can look a bit bland on the bigger maps due to technological limitations of the time, you just 
 can't make maps that big right now and pump them full of decorations. The game also has a big learning 
 curve and even can appear slow paced at first when you don't know how to play. Despite these short 
 comings the gameplay Supreme Commander brings is more intense, deeper and all and all more fun 
 then really any RTS game ever made, this really is a revolution of epic proportions and is a MUST 
 buy for anyone who considers themselves a fan of the RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoganSarine
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  
  /////// Author's Note //////// *See the end of this for the actual review.
  
 
  
  Let me start off by pointing out one thing: Try the game first.
  
  Rent it, borrow it, play the demo, it does not matter. Rent the game first. Why? Well, before I 
 start the review I intend to get one aspect clear from this game. It's not for an average Real-Time 
 Strategy player. This game is not the same style as Company of Heroes, Dawn of War, or Command 
 &amp; Conquer- it is a totally DIFFERENT style.
  
  This game, is more like a game of Risk or Axis and Allies- it's slow paced compared to Micromanagement 
 games. This can be easily thwarted by turning up the game speed making it faster, but this then 
 takes away from the long strategic preparation.
  
  People are constantly mistaking the Real-Time Strategy genre this game is put under, and are saying 
 Play Company of Heroes instead . This is an unjust and improper comparison as these games play 
 totally differently. It's like saying Don't eat a carrot, eat corn instead because I think it tastes 
 better ; they both fill you up, but they give you different nutrients and taste.
  
  Bottom Line? Don't get this game believing it to be the next generic Real-Time Strategy you would 
 likely be used too that is innovative and good. You will be mislead, and ultimately be disappointed. 
 Rent the game first.
  
  ====================
  ===== The Review =====
  ====================
  
  Now if you read my previous comment, you would understand that this 
 is a different style. So, now I will start with the review.
  
  Why I chose the ratings that I did.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : The game is pretty solid, and a different 
 and refreshing experience that was thoroughly enjoyed. The downfall to this though, is that they 
 did not take much time into making the 3 factions different; they all play and have the same units. 
 They all have their shields and such. The main difference, is that their Experimental Units (The 
 super units) are totally different. The only other difference is that each race looks different. 
 But, they did not take much time into giving each race it's pros and cons by making their gameplay 
 different. None of them have any super attribute in one area, but weak in another. For example, 
 the Cybran arn't elite air fighters while the UEF are mainly ground fighters. It needed more variety 
 between factions.
  
  The AI is a bit clunky when your trying to transport something or move your engineers to assist 
 something. But the 1 movement at a time other people experienced I have never experienced myself. 
 They all move at different speeds, so your faster units need to be controlled to stay with your 
 slow tanks.
  
  Graphics (10/10) : Simply, if the game had any better graphics most people, unless they bought an 
 extremely high end gaming system (Intel Extreme/GTX video card) in the last month or two, would 
 be unable at all to play this game. My system has been able to play every game at high specifications 
 until now. Luckily, I'm in the middle of upgrading and have 1 more part to upgrade, so I can wait. 
 You can say that the environment is bland, but the main point is. If it was any better, you likely 
 wouldn't be playing it (Since it's on such a massive scale) .
  
  The cinematics are pretty fascinating.
  
  Sound (8/10) : Believable, and they sound like they're 
 supposed too. The only downfall I have is the background music. It always abruptly changes into 
 a more intense sounding ambient song. This constantly confuses me into thinking I'm being attacked, 
 but it's merely the game changing music in what seems the middle of the song.
  
  Value (9/10) : The game has great replay value, and a great take on an amazing genre. It provides 
 a unique experience that I've been craving for quite awhile. The game may be a bit more slow paced 
 then I liked experimental unit wise, but it's a solid foundation.
  
  Tilt (9/10) : I enjoyed the game thoroughly, but the bugs and problems I have stated in the previous 
 4 sections refrained me from giving me the max enjoyability from the game.
  
  
  
  Actually, I will stop there. There is no need for a large paragraph as I pointed out all the points 
 I wanted too, in an significant orderly and easy to read fashion. If I continue, I will probably 
 be redundant by repeating the same thing already stated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eugeneluah
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This has to be, quite possibly, one of the most hyped and highly anticipated RTS release in recent 
 history. Instead of focusing on economic micromanagement, SupCom steamlined resource collection 
 and supersized the battles to epic proportions, resulting in gargantuan clashes between futuristic 
 armies. Sounds exciting? Dare i say, its inexorably boring.
  
  Upon loading the game, SupCom's very first glaring flaw becomes evident - extremely bland and featureless 
 terrain. Terrestrial land is almost a consistent shade of brown or green, with the occasional dents 
 and charred marks. Trees and all other vegetation appears as though they were included as an afterthought, 
 hardly sprucing up the lifeless and strategically pointless terrain and worse, actually seem out 
 of place. The units themselves are the usual over-exaggerated cliche robots, shaped like mechanoids, 
 spiders and whatnot - easily the product of a 12year-old kid, not from the supposed game god that 
 is Chris Taylor. Armies with inane-looking units and even more stupid-sounding names (like the 
 Monkey Lord and Galactic Colossus) , hardly immerse you in the game. Maybe its just me but, i feel 
 like a bloody clown commanding these kiddish units, they look like toys for goodness sake. Do not 
 be mistaken, i love science fiction. Warhammer 40k and Star Wars are cool, not the art direction 
 of Supreme Commander.
  
  The sound effects are underwhelming at best, considering how the huge battles are supposed to immerse 
 the player. Unit responses, explosion and laser effects are lacklustre and simply lack the 'oomph' 
 factor. Its thousands of years in the future and these weapons are supposed to be highly advanced 
 tools of mass destruction, but they sound otherwise. Honestly, the Pershing tank in Company of 
 Heroes sounds as if it can kick the Monkey Lord's ass.
  
  Appearances aside, the game has little strategy to speak of, in spite of what most people (or even 
 critics) say. It doesnt really matter how you organise your army. Simple rule of thumb to victory: 
 mass your troops and ensure they're diverse, charge them all into enemy base, create waypoints 
 from factories right into enemy base, repeat build queue and create a constant stream of units. 
 You dont even need to manage your troops during a battle because it doesnt matter, SupCom does 
 not have cover or garrison mechanics; you need only to ensure a constant supply of extremely dispensable 
 troops, definitely reminiscent of the old brainless RTSes like C&amp; C. Also, there's no damage 
 type of any sort, every single unit, no matter how small, can damage any unit in the game (a tech1 
 tank can damage an experimental unit, unlike in Company of Heroes, where infantry does no damage 
 to tanks at all) . Yes it is that simple, and if you assign several engineers to focus solely on 
 construction of mass fabricators and power generators, you can take resource management out of 
 the strategy equation as well. Oh wait, if you dont need to manage resources and troops... then... whats 
 there left to do? The game quickly deteriorates into a bland exercise of creating waypoints. Also, 
 the initial novelty of battles of epic proportions wear off pretty quickly, because most of the 
 game is played from a zoomed out perspective.
  
  There's very little variety in the game as well despite the inclusion of 3 factions. The units 
 are almost identical all the way till Tech3, save the obvious visual differences. I cant help but 
 feel as if I am playing the same faction every single time, until i reach the experimental tech 
 level but even so, is still pretty boring because there are only 3 distinct experimental units 
 per faction - in effect, there are only 9 truely different unit types that differentiate each faction.
 
  
  The technical achievements of Supcom are pretty laudable (personally, i love the waypoint system) , 
 but ultimately, it is a very traditional and conventional RTS. Peel away the pretty layers of gimmick (namely, 
 the emphasis on scale) and polish, and you're left with an ugly brown box of backdated RTS gameplay. 
 Im sorry but, with the recent advent of RTS innovations, Supreme Commander seems inadequate and 
 amateurish.
  
  PS: Pardon me for the inevitable comparisons with Company of Heroes, but i find CoH much more intense, 
 challenging and FUN, hence, definitely a much better RTS than SupCom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Come on you all know the system requirements for this game, its monstrous. This game forces people 
 to drive the PC market by pushing them to buy new PCs just to play the freaking game. The only 
 selling point here is the graphics, that is if you can buy a high spec gaming computer. My first 
 impression for this game was ruined because of the demo, I met the system requirements and then 
 it says I cannot play because my system will not be able to handle it., and that the experimental 
 uber units are cool but other than that do not bother.
  
  Believe it or not this game is over hyped, I am not saying that it is a crime against humanity 
 to join the hype all I am saying is deep down the game is really over hyped and that maybe the 
 people who protect/defend supreme commander with their lives should just probably take it easy 
 on themselves Breakdown:
  
  Pros:
  
  -experimental units are cool
  -nice graphics
  
  Cons:
  
  -Insanely high system requirements
  -Insanely over hyped
  
  Bottom-line: 
 I am very disappointed THQ, I loved your Dawn of war series, but this is something completely the 
 opposite, by that I mean Poor/abysmal/terrible.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Buy this later, I reccomend Company of Heroes if your looking for a RTS. Either that or Warhammer: 
 Dark Crusade. Both were better than this.
  
  Summary: Desent game, but could have done bwtter with some more depth, also this games multiplayer 
 will suffer for 1-2 years due to its greedy graphic requirements, and Unit utilization. Otherwise 
 a good game. But not genre altering like CoH is at this time.
  
  Gameplay: Easy interface once you realize that only the construction units can be selected to use 
 the build commands including your commander.
  Selecting units is as easy as double clicking on a particular unit or zoomin WAAAAAAAAAY out to 
 select the entire MASSIVE map. I found that in single player i was playing with teh symbols more 
 often than I was playing close to the gound, by symbols I mean unit designation for when your zoomed 
 out at max, since you cant see the units. Something that REALLY bothered me was that you could 
 NOT rotate teh screen to get other views... not a big deal but I tend to do this alot and it was 
 frustrating at times.
  
  Graphics:
  I was running the game MAXXED out on my computer. It ran smootly and without flaw. 3ghz 64bit AMD, 
 1g of corsair ram, nividia 7600GT 256mb. Windows xp 64 bit edition. Some people say ZOMG AMAZING 
 . I say pretty good . Why? The detail on the units was limited due to your ability to zoom IN. 
 Zooming out was cool but it REALLY damaged the unit resolution when close up. I was also very UNDER 
 impressed with the larger units. Videos online showed them as MASSIVE units that could take on 
 entire armies alone... not really the case. They were abour 4x as big as nornal units generally, 
 but yes, about 20x as strong... generally.]
  
  The maps were very good but lacked something, oh ya, detail... I would have liked to have seen cities 
 and villages, people running for their lives. but this wasnt the case. Most maps were all trees 
 and a few rocks with a puddle running across it.
  The explosions were cool, but it was so bright for such a long time that all you see its THAT explosion 
 then a few husks of buildings/units. cool at first.
  
  Sound:
  Very good. what more could I say... its a RTS explosion s= good. unit sounds = good. I was happy 
 with it.
  
  Value:
  Buy Company of heroes and see where the future of RTS gaming is going to be. this game will be 
 worth it when its selling for 30-35$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenflt
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Sorry, i was a huge TA fan and played it for years, but SC is like an RTS game where you play with 
 small dots on your screen. Yea, the area is huge, so you always scroll out, and then you just see 
 lots of dots around the screen. It breaks the immersion imho. It should have had a better design, 
 zooming out to this level of detail just breaks the game mechanics and makes it look like a game 
 made back in 1997.
  
  But with that said, there is some fun ofcourse. You can scroll in and watch your dots run around 
 and get slaughtered.
  
  It should be called DOT WARS...... lmao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higher-law
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This work by Chris Taylor is a true masterpiece. I am a huge RTS fan and this was by far the most 
 intense, strategic, and fun RTS I have played probably ever. The three factions in the game, although 
 seemingly similar, are in reality radically different. Each faction offers a whole new fresh world 
 to play in. Add to that massive 81 x 81 maps and this game will keep a RTS fan busy for months 
 if not years to come. The single player campaign is absolutely wonderful as well. Each are great 
 to assist in familiarzing with a specific factions units and strategies. There are 3 separate campaigns 
 (1 for each faction) , each taking several hours to beat. The cinematics in this game are absolute 
 top notch.
  
  I will keep this review short. IF YOU ARE AN RTS FAN or looking to be adventurous, BUY THIS GAME 
 NOW! I am sorry for the caps but this just has to be emphasized. An RTS fan skipping SupCom would 
 just be a gosh darn shame. If some small bugs were worked out I would of gave it a perfect score, 
 but 9.9 same thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikjuh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  it has been quite a while since there was a innovative game within the RTS genre. most games were 
 just about building as much tanks as possible and rushing the enemy base. in SupCom such a strategy 
 will prove to be of little use. this game truly puts the strategy back into RTS.
  
  for the first time in a lot of years i had to actually think to win a war, instead of just tank 
 rushing. if you want to win a war in SC you really need to dominate sea, air and land and not just 
 one of the 3.
  for instance, if you focus on building a massive land force, you might not notice that the enemy 
 has sneaked a submersible air craft carrier behind your base, and before you know it, you've lost 
 the match.
  
  one of the best things about this game is the size of everything. it really gives you the feeling 
 of a supreme commander when you zoom out 100% and see hundreds or even thousands of units crawling 
 towards the enemy base, just to be stopped on the way by a monkeylord experimental units.
  
  but like i already said, this game isnt perfect. biggest setback is that all 3 factions play 
 exactly the same. they can build almost the exact same structures, tanks, airplanes and land units. 
 the only thing that seperates the factions are the experimental units, which, speaking about them, 
 are extremely overpowered.
  as much fun as it is to watch your monkeylord kill a few hundred tanks, its damn frustrating when 
 your entire line of defence gets shot down by a single unit.
  
  an other thing i really didnt was that practically you play zoomed out 90% of the time. there arent 
 a lot of times when you can just sit down and watch the war. your constantly adjusting your battle 
 tactics and sending new units into the field, that you never have time to actually wacth the fight.
 
  
  it has been quite some time since there was some innovation to be found in the RTS genre. and SC 
 does just that. even though there are quite a few things i dont like about this game, you just 
 stop thinking about all of them when you throw a nuke on the enemy base and watch it being wiped 
 out by a single blow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel8888
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Se all the don&acute; t belive the hype reviews. I&acute; m just writing to try make this game have 
 the just score, not the press and if everyone say it is cool, than it should be players overrated 
 one. This game don&acute; t have good graphics, different creative factions, fast paced gameplay. 
 All zoom out, and double-monitor view are just comesmetic. If you wanna see a good game that is 
 comming soon, check out the C&amp; C 3 Demo. I wonder why this game is so well rated in all game 
 sites, including gamespot who I always agredd with judgment? It&acute; s a suspicious thing. I guess 
 that one case of the personal preferences of the writter influedon it&acute; s (some kind) imparcial 
 evaluation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commannder is the much hyped spiritual sequal to Total Anihilation. The game has been touted 
 as being the next generation of RTS but in realtiy it is a step backwards from the strides made 
 to the genre over the last few years in many ways.
  The games biggest editions are the zoomable map that can zoom way in and way out, much further 
 than any other RTS allows, being able to preload build orders, and a fancy waypoint system but 
 really beyond that this game is a very classic old school RTS, you even get to build single units 
 at a time instead of squads and there is no territory to hold.
  The first thing you are going to notice when you load up the game is how small the units are and 
 how graphically ugly the the game is. Really this game looks like something from the early 90's 
 at best. It has been written that this no PC out there can handle this game graphically but that 
 is false. The real truth is that not comp can handle the the amount of units this game can have 
 on a map. The game allows you to se the unit cap for a player to a max of 1000 units, mutiply that 
 by how many players you have and that mean you can have a ton of units that your PC needs to keep 
 track of. This wears on the CPU more that the graphics card. Trust me this game doesn't tax your 
 GPU much at all because while unitsand bulding have some detail the map it self is almost completely 
 flat and void of terrain features. by far the plainest I have seen in awhile. There are no hills, 
 some trees but they are so tiny that they are insignifcant. There are mountains but those are only 
 there to act as walls for which land units must go around instead of over.
  Now as I said earlier the game is very much a classic RTS. which isn; t a bad thing but if you were 
 expecting something innovative you will be mostly disappointed. There are 3 factions in the game, 
 the UEF, Cybran Nation, and the Aeon Illuminate and they all have a lot of units, more than most 
 RTS's out there by a long shot. The problem is that for the most part they are mostly diffect in 
 how they look more than anything making the armies pretty much generic. there are some subtle differences 
 but nothing huge. The Game is is actaully split into 4 tech levels with 3 and 4's units having 
 the biggest differences, however there isn; t all that many units in those levels either, maybe 
 like 2-4. The level 4 tech is pretty impressive and is probaly the biggest eye candy in the game.
 
  Also many stuff is ungradable, except it is done in a way that is more comlicated than need be. 
 Fot instance you have a graound defense gun turret, called point defence, it can be upgraded a 
 few tech levels, but instead of being to atually upgrade the existing model the game forces you 
 to have to build a brand new one, that appies to most building stuctures types too with the exception 
 of mass exatractors.
  An eve more annoying almost insane inclusion is having to create a different builder unit per tech. 
 You start at tech 1 engineer ok, now in order to build tech 2 structures you must first upgrade 
 one of you units fatories, ground, air, or sea, then you can buld tech 2 engineers, you have to 
 build them from scratch too, you can't upgrade the older mosel despite that they are almost graphically 
 identical and do the same things. if you want to build tech 3 you have to repeat this process,.... um 
 yeah. This is one of the most pointless editions to an RTS I have ever seen. Also because the differne 
 tech level engineers look almost the ame and the graphics are so tiny its hard to just pick them 
 out with ease (I'm using a 22 inch screen btw) . Sure you can zoom in, but why should you have to? 
 Thats just a wast of time. Honestly you would have to wonder if they actullay really made these 
 maps bigger or just made the units tiny to create the illusion of it being bigger. At any rate 
 I would much rather have larger units that I can see and pick out easily than 1000 tiny units.
 
  As far as resources go, you only have 2 in this game. Mass and energy. As I said before your Mass 
 extractors can be upraded 3 times, these foprtunately were done the right way and you don; t have 
 to build a completely new structure. poswer on the other hand there are like 3 power plant techs, 
 each gets bigger in size and that is probably why they could do a direct structure upgrade, but 
 still you can't help but feel that this didn; t have to be this way. You also have storage structures 
 for both mass and energy. Basically these increase the the amount you faction can, increase the 
 cap if you will because you can only hold so much which is an ok feature but it also mean more 
 micromanagement. Sound-wise the game is ok. it has some pretty big booms at time but nothing too 
 spectacuar.
  Because of the design of this game you never really feel like you are in the shxt and rather above 
 it all looking down from like you are a bird or something. Overall SupCom is ok RTS but no where 
 near the best that is out there because it it pretty much doesn do anything better than games that 
 already out there. You name it, style, substance, graphics, sound, presentation, story, unit varity, 
 faction variety. the only thin it seems to have done is make things overcomplicated in areas that 
 didn't need it.
  If you are in the mood for a classic playing, and looking RTS then this is game. If however you 
 are looking foir the best moden RTS out there right look elsewhere cause in the end this game is 
 just as overhyped as TA itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I've been anticipating Supreme Commander (SupCom) since it was first revealed in 2005, groaned 
 when it was cancelled, and cheered when it was re-announced. I have to say, it lived up to almost 
 all my expectations.
  
  Although I haven't played through the campaigns, the basic storyline is relatively plausible (for 
 3880 that is) and gives a decent background for the purpose of the game - blowing stuff up.
  
  The game's graphics is quite scalable, with decent performance even on a relatively low-end 
 PC like mine, although performance takes a big hit as soon as real armies start appearing. The 
 graphics is also detailed, with beautiful particle effects and texturing, but the animation leaves 
 something to be desired.
  
  That's the other important thing about this game - armies, not dinky little 50 unit armies, but 
 armies that can be up to 1000 units in size (per player) !
  
  SupCom is easy to grasp, and controlling your armies is a snap. The high level that you can zoom 
 in/out to also mean that you can keep your eye on the action at any level.
  
  The sound effects and music are a bit repetitive, but get the job done. Not much more to say there.
 
  
  The main gameplay is centred around you sending huge armies against the enemy while developing 
 your base and technology (there are 3 main tech levels, with an added Experimental unit level which 
 houses the games ultimate units) , once you've gotten to tech level 3, you can build Strategic Missile 
 (Nukes) Silos, these take very long to build, as do the missiles inside them, but the end result 
 can be a very satisfying (and pretty) white flash, with a destructive wave expanding outwards and 
 in the end, nothing but a rising cloud of smoke and a scar on the land.
  
  The maps are HUGE, with sizes of up to 81 X 81 KM (about 50 miles I think) , and don't think you 
 can play a short match, because on all but the smallest maps the game takes at least half an hour.
 
  
  Last but not least the game revolves around your ACU (Armoured Command Unit) which I like to call 
 the Supreme Commander. This unit builds your base and fights the enemy, better than units that 
 specialise in those two fields! Of course, if the ACU is destroyed, it goes out with a bang - literally.
 
  
  Overall SupCom is one of the better RTSs I've played and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys long, 
 thinking strategy games.
  
  If you have any comments/opinions on this review please PM me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  I'm not very big fan of RTS games , but I had to play this game , cuz its so good . I've finished 
 Cybran campaign , half UEF and started Aeon campaign. This game has got great visuals ,but when 
 you attack with big army it's realy starts killing your PC. I don't have a powerful PC , but it 
 still can play all games to date. Talking about gameplay it's very easy , every command you can 
 do with Shift . Units intelect is very goood , cuz when you tell them where to go they go , not 
 like in some ather games like maelstrom ( but I enjoyed maelstrom too ) . Graphics are are exellent 
 ,but I played on low so I didn't see much of it. In every faction comments are different ,but same 
 talking style. I think I'll finish all campaigns and maybe continue and multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sushiboy18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander = True RTS
  
  WARNING: PLAYER SKILL REQUIRED
  
  Supreme Commander is a blend between:
  -C &amp; C - First RTS
  -Total Annihilation - Its prequel
 
  -Total War - Epic Battles Lately, most RTS - C &amp; C and Warcraft are very one dimensional, 
 not graphical, but gameplay. There are a lot of restrictions on viewing angles and the variety 
 of units is limiting. Supreme Commander introduces more units, more depth and a nice control interface.
 
  
  However, it comes at a cost. The massive amounts of units, unit types and maps are very demanding 
 for both a casual gamer's computer and skill. If you find C &amp; C and Warcraft hard, don't even 
 try Supreme Commander. Micro-Management is a must and you must possess actual skill - Yes - Actual 
 Skill.
  
  Pros:
  -Good Depth to units
  -Challenging AI
  -Map Doubles as Overview by Zooming in and Out
  -Large letters for keyboard shortcuts
  -Dual 
 Display
  -Wreckage
  -Graphics
  -Controls
  -Statistics on unit kills in game
  -Travel/Construction time ETA
  
  Cons:
  -Player skill required
  -Demanding Requirements
 
  -Lack of unit Experience bonuses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosIncarnate
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, and I found it hard to organize so youll have to forgive the stream of 
 thought.
  
  First and foremost, this game is -slow-. I don't mean slow to run, slow to play. The first thing 
 you'll notice is that if you try to move a group of units a long distance, they tend to go one 
 at a time, and its not uncommon for the first one to arrive at the destination at the far side 
 of the map while several have barely left the starting point, so if you run into any resistance 
 on the way (or send them to attack) your force will get wiped out as the filter in one at a time. 
 It can easily take 10 to 20 minutes to move a force cohesively to attack. Oddly, a computer opponent 
 does not seem to suffer this problem. The massive size of the maps is neat, but really drags down 
 the pace of the game, especially since none of the units are very fast to begin with. Transports 
 can only move about 4 small units at a time, and 1 Medium unit and 0 big units, so if you plan 
 to move a large force with them your either going to need a lot to move them all or a lot of patience. 
 Maps also tend to be pretty flat, and can mostly be summed up as either green blue or light brown, 
 and sometimes white if its snowing.
  Units and buildings are slow to build as well. Some stronger units start out at 10 minutes to build, 
 experimental units usually start out at at least half an hour for engineers, and Ive seen buildings 
 up to 6 hours. 374 minutes to be precise. There are ways to speed up the process but that in itself 
 takes a lot of time and gains are marginal. Youll end up in a vicious cycle between trying to 
 vamp up resource income to afford to build the units you need and afford the additional resource 
 hit in speeding up the process. Im not saying its bad to make powerful units slow to build but 
 waiting 30 minutes for a single unit gets old fast. You can only build Tech1 unit production buildings, 
 so every time you want to build a new high tech building; you have to build a Tech1 and go through 
 the additional 10 minutes process of upgrading it. If you want the hundreds of units that are promised, 
 expect to spend many many hours trying to get them.
  The units themselves suffer a balancing problem. The early units can be built in just a few seconds, 
 but they are beyond worthless, as any turret or higher tech level unit will utterly annihilate 
 a sizable force. I quickly discovered in the first level as a Cybran the power of turrets. 4 Tech 
 1 turrets easily wiped out 40 of my Tech1 units before they could even inflict any real damage, 
 and a single anti air cannon was enough to take out a dozen aerial units. The tech 2 turrets are 
 about as effective on Tech2 units, but theres finally a break when you get access to Tech 3 since 
 there is no tech 3 ground turret. On the other hand, it takes several minutes to build a Tech 3 
 unit, so it will take a long time to make an army out of them. By endgame you will have artillery 
 buildings with massive range that a while to build but can easily wipe out your opponents base 
 and units from a safe distance, not to mention the experimental units.
  The straight down camera angle of the game makes it hard to tell the depth of the battlefield, 
 and I was running the game on max settings (so high shadows) . But whether you have the high ground 
 or the low youll notice your units firing into the ground a lot. When you zoom in all the way 
 the camera gets some tilt but by then you can barely see more than a single unit. Im inclined 
 to believe the firing is a little buggy, because the Cybran Monkeylord would often charge his cannon 
 only to do nothing.
  The sound in the game is horribly done. While it sounds nice when you can hear it, if youre zoomed 
 out in the slightest, as youll spend the vast majority of the game, the sound effects go dead. 
 Its realistic in theory but makes for a silent battle. There is also no voice-overs for the speech 
 in game, and sometimes the messages flash by to quickly to read. Expect to hear nothing but the 
 music most of the time.
  Last but not least, the strategy of the game. Despite what is promised by reviews about the size 
 of the maps, it lends little to strategy, and wholly to frustration due to travel times. I beat 
 the first three of six levels of the campaign with nothing but turrets, the fourth and fifth levels 
 with nothing but destroyers (landwalking ships that have huge range and can attack land sea and 
 air all at the same time) , and the last level with nothing but turrets, 2 experimental units, and 
 a couple artillery buildings. Thats rightthe whole campaign required 3 units and 3 buildings 
 to beat on normal. I played a skirmish match against supreme AI with similar results, I simply 
 shelled up with turrets and used artillery to win, with a few experimental units to speed the process. 
 A Tech 2 turret can be built in as little as 6 seconds by a sub commander, and is much more powerful 
 and quicker to build than a Tech 2 unit, and since there is unlimited resources and no restriction 
 on where you can build, you can see why I favor turrets so heavily. The long range of artillery 
 makes them an easy way to wipe out a base, and a couple of experimental units held in check can 
 wipe out any surprises. The unlimited resources make it pointless to attack unless you can win, 
 because they can easily rebuild a base while you try to rebuild an army.
  When I bought this game I expected to have battles of hundreds of units with low resource management, 
 but just the opposite is true. The easy units to build arent worth building, so youll always 
 end up simply building the power units that take a long time. Multiplayer might be a little better, 
 but I suspect it will be much the same, a race to build the most artillery and experimental units. 
 The land sea and air system has been done before (although perhaps air is a little more elaborate 
 here) . The units, buildings, and explosions are all nice to look at but thats about all the game 
 has going for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetken
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I just don't get it. Everyone seems to be obsessed with it, but it's extremely bland, sort of ugly, 
 and a waste of $60. All the factions play and look very similarly, it takes an incredibly long 
 time to get to the meat of a match, and once you get to it, it's straight out of 1997. I'm very 
 sad I listened to all the hype on this one. On the plus side, it's dang near bug free as far as 
 I saw and multiplayer matchmaking is flawless, but there's only so much you can shine a turd.
 
  Maybe a more hardcore RTS fan will love it, me though? Bleh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Graphics- although not as cutting edge as other new releases out, the graphics do their job and 
 does it well. The units appon zoom are beutiful and detailed. The environments are well done, along 
 with being, by far, the biggest maps of any RTS. Sound- The sound is what you would expect it to 
 be. futuristic lasers and the such. The sound is well done, but certain things can get repetative. 
 Gameplay- Right on the cutting edge of RTS's. Brings an epic, huge scale and feel to the game. 
 100's if not 1000's of units duking it out. Final Thoughts- A must have for any computer gaming 
 fanatic. Just be sure to have an updated rig and everything will be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I didn't really pay much attention to Supreme Commander prior to its release... but 
 after seeing all of the rave reviews it was getting I decided to check it out for myself. It's 
 a solid game, but I definitely don't see what all of the hype was about.
  
  Supreme Commander's story is set in the distant future, humanity has been split into three factions, 
 The United Earth Federation, the Cybran Nation, and the Aeon Illuminate, that have been warring 
 for a thousand years. As a new Commander, it's your task to aid your faction in defeating its two 
 enemies. This is pretty much the extent of the story as it's not very interesting, and you definitely 
 won't be playing the campaign to see what happens next.
  
  Supreme Commander is more about the gameplay than the story, to be fair, and this is indeed where 
 the game shines. Now from what I understand, Supreme Commander is the spiritual successor to Total 
 Annihilation which has a fiercely dedicated fanbase. I've only played Total Annihilation, and its 
 spinoff Kingdoms briefly so I'll be looking at SC from a more "newish" perspective.
  
  Supreme Commander, like most RTS games, focuses on building up your forces and crushing the enemy. 
 There's a twist to this, though, in SC instead of building a small army, you have to build a massive 
 army. You start out with just your Armored Command Unit (ACU) , a giant robot that you command your 
 forces from on the field, and using your ACU you construct some basic resource generating buildings 
 and some factories so you can produce engineers to aid you in construction, and of course offensive 
 units like tanks. SC lets you use land, sea, and air in your conquest, but chances are you'll just 
 focus on two out of three of these options (most likely land and sea) , but air can be very useful 
 in the beginning especially if your opponent has limited Anti-air support. I've won quite a few 
 games by bombing the enemy Commanders into oblivion. Supreme Commander also features a very nice 
 zoom out feature that lets you view the entire battlefield from a strategic map style perspective. 
 Since the transition is smooth, this feature can be very useful since you can't click the minimap 
 to go to a particular location like in most RTS games.
  
  Supreme Commander lets each player command up to 1000 units at once, and this comes at a huge cost. 
 If you don't meet the recommended requirements, prepare for a chug fest on anything higher than 
 1v1. Still, graphically the game is fairly impressive featuring full 3d graphics, fairly detailed 
 textures, and decent unit models. Unfortunately since you'll spend a lot of time zoomed out you'll 
 rarely see this detail.
  
  Audio-wise Supreme Commander is fairly bland. The sound effects are nothing special, since your 
 units are all mindless robots they have no real personality or voice acting (which hurts the game's 
 character quite a bit) , but there is fairly decent voice acting for the human characters in the 
 campaign. The music which is composed by Jeremy Soule is alright, unfortunately since the same 
 music plays over and over for all three sides it can get quite tiresome after a while. It doesn't 
 help that all of the different tracks are little more than remixes of the Supreme Commander main 
 theme.
  
  Supreme Commander is a great game if you're looking for large battles, but these large battles 
 come at a price. The game has a large CPU requirement, combine this with a bland, uninteresting 
 storyline, and generally unimpressive audio then whether or not you like Supreme Commander will 
 come down to how good your PC is, and whether or not you only play campaigns. It's worth playing, 
 but it's not the "greatest RTS ever". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marwin3369
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  The average RTS pits you against an opponent (s) on a typical map with choke points and impassible 
 terrain. You usually have fairly regular encounters where a group of your units directly faces-off 
 with a group of their units . Not to say that this isn't fun, but it isn't Supreme Commander either.
 
  
  In Supreme Commander you truly have control of an entire army that you design and build from scratch. 
 You control your Tech level, economy, and even the bonuses that you may or may not receive for 
 building certain structures next to each other. I have yet to see a map that allows for true choke 
 points since each side always has access to advanced land, sea, and air units. If the enemy has 
 setup torpedo launchers around a primary canal that leads closer into their base, just fly your 
 land units in using transports and bypass the threat entirely.
  
  This game is also extremely balanced and yet diverse. All 3 factions begin at Tech 1 and have access 
 to extremely similar units. Don't let this fool you since the units become much more unique as 
 the Tech level rises. The Cybrans, for example, have amphibious ships that have landed on my territory 
 covertly a few times and taken quite a toll.
  
  The graphics are above average although they will certainly be a strain on any system that's not 
 ready for it. My P4 HT 3.0GHz, 1gb RAM, SATA HDD, and Geforce 7800GS OC 256mb card run it smoothly 
 at medium to medium-high detail depending on how many units are on the screen at once and how many 
 effects are blazing. The only time I experience framerate loss is around mid to late game when 
 the unit count starts getting up there. I also am running it at 1440x990. The audio is certainly 
 not lacking although doesn't really give you anything special either. The voice acting is above 
 par for an RTS game but also not Oscar material. I was actually impressed enough with the plot 
 that I decided to play through all 3 faction's Campaigns which I usually don't even go through 
 1 campaign on most RTS games (I prefer skirmishes and multiplayer) . Needless to say, I'm hooked.
 
  
  Bottom Line: This is a great game for strategy enthusiasts and casual gamers alike. The learning 
 curve is minimal and easy since you get to use a sandbox mode to practice in with video tutorials 
 in an archive that you can watch at anytime. This is one of the few RTS games that I'll pony-up 
 $49 for just to get it as it releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is very enjoyable and I am greatly pleased to se what they have done with the game but 
 why O why did they make the game so CPU hungry for the AI.
  
  O for those of you with the amazingly powerful CPU's and Computers pls dont reply to this message 
 because all you guys say is just buy new hardware and that is becoming a bit lame for those of 
 us who dont see it fit to pay R 5000.00 - R 10000.00 for a computer upgrade just to play a game. 
 O and if you are wondering I am running the game above recommended but I must say that the instructions 
 at the back of the box are useless if they are wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  It's another Chris Taylor RTS. Pretty much a complete redux of Total Annhilation. Some things have 
 changed for the better, but the overall game is pretty close to the same.
  
  I found TA way faster paced, and a lot less enjoyable though. TA was just disapointing for me on 
 so many levels I was excited to see what they did for Supreme Commander. I knew that if they enlarged 
 the maps it would ease a lot of my frustrations....
  
  And it did! The game is no where near as fast paced when you first start out. Once you learn how 
 to get your base up and running quickly then you can get a bit of a high-paced game going.
  
  Resource management seems to be the biggest skill in this game, and something everyone should 
 probably focus on if their unfamiliar with the TA format, or out of practice.
  
  My biggest frustrations and disapointments are that I havn't figured out how to angle the camera 
 yet, and I don't even know if it's possible... to be fair I havn't gone through the manual in depth, 
 or gone through the tutorials yet. I was hoping for more intense battles, but the unit pathfinding 
 is pretty cruddy, and damage is delt so fast the battle is over before it even begins.... they should 
 ditch the unit caps too. :P
  
  Graphics are pretty decent, and I was surprised at the minimum specs. I got things turned down 
 a bit on my semi-upto date machine, and don't get too many slow downs.
  
  Sound really sucks though... I would have loved for them to focus more on the audio aspect of the 
 game... the music is repetitive and uninteresting.... overall very disapointing!
  
  Overall it's a very adicting game, and the gameplay out weighs the small concers I have it with 
 it. Definatly an instant classic for RTS gamers near and far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Xantos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  the only thing that i could complain about is that my laptop has trouble running it sometimes, 
 but besides that i absolutely love this game it is highly addictive and i love it... no i must 
 go continue my purging... Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 
 Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge Purge 100 words... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hot909guy69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  well, i was totally excited to play supreme commander.... all i can think of are the good old days 
 of RTS blown way open on a massive scale. This game is a good game... the disappointing thing is 
 that.. it really could of been a great game. I'm not going to go into why its great, thousands 
 of people have already done that.. im gonna go over my qualms. The qualms are not major but significant 
 enough:
  
  1) the units are quite simplistic and uninspired
  
  2) the maps seem to be somewhat repetitive and plane
  
  3) this really, really, really bugged 
 me about this game, most RTS games in 3d go to 3rd person view when a zoomed in.. even some of 
 the first ones such dune3 did that... it only makes since right? well SC designers forgot to that. 
 I mean if your going to have units on a massive scale , wouldnt u want to see them from 3rd person 
 so that you can see more than 1 unit at a time up-close? I mean HELLO...
  
  so once again, its not a bad game.. its actually good.. i'm just a bit disappointed ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmA101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS games i have ever played and i dont think anything will come along 
 any time soon and match it when i first played it the sizes of the maps were bigger than i had 
 seen before and the landscape was very impressivethen when i sent in my first few units and attacked 
 i just watched them destroy each other with facination. This RTS is amazing and will make you become 
 addicted to the game. Any person who likes RTS type games will love this game and should go out 
 into the stores and buy this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptkane
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  In general the size and scope of this game are what allow for it to be one of the more strategic 
 RTS games. The scale allows for different strategies to not only exist but also have more of an 
 impact. For example, an attack that is well balanced in terms of units that attack from range, 
 in the air, and with fodder may seem to be ideal; however, a strong player of this game will be 
 able to use his strategy to pick at the attacking force before overwhelming it. The scale of the 
 game also increases the need of the players to stay informed about what there opponent is doing. 
 This not only includes drones that can be cheaply manufactured and provide early warning of an 
 attack, but also being able to react to the type of threat one if facing and be to commit to battle 
 the units that are best for countering the attack. The only problem with this game is its hardware 
 requirements. However, running this game on a top of the line machine makes for the most enjoyable 
 RTS experience to date. The fact that the games graphics are so demanding will likely be the reason 
 for the games staying power. I can easily envision myself playing this game on and off over the 
 period of many years without watching the game become dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woody539
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander had one of the most anticipated releases of any game for the past 2 years. The 
 reason behind this was the mastermind Chris Taylor with an imagination so big he had to zoom all 
 the way out just to be able to see the whole thing.
  
  The game itself many know i revolves around 3 warring factions, the UEF, Cybran and Aeon Illuminate. 
 Technically speaking none of these guys are in the wrong or seen as the bad guys they are all fighting 
 for what they genuinely believe in.
  
  Learning how to play this game is as simply as spending time watching and acting out all of the 
 tutorial videos offered in the tutorial section of the game. Once you have gotten used to the controls 
 and have a slight understanding of the units and their abilities you are pretty much right to go.
 
  
  The graphics in Supreme Commander somehow find a way to being even the biggest and baddest computers 
 to their knees. This being a problem when even after turning all the settings on low a 8 player 
 free for all battle at its peak can take its toll on the PC and cause heavy and annoying lag.
 
  
  The only thing you can take away from the game is the fact that the single player campaign struggles 
 to exist. There are only 6 missions for each faction. Although the missions are broken into a number 
 of smaller skirmishes and can take some time to finish, it feels as if there is somewhat more of 
 a story to be told. For those of you looking a long and challenging campaign you may want to take 
 a look at other games on the market.
  
  Multi player on Supreme Commander is the one thing that is going to keep this game going for years 
 to come. Gas Powered Games has built a terminal in which players can simply join a ranked game 
 or create and join their own custom games. This is done quickly and efficiently making the multi 
 player seem even better.
  
  Some improvements the game could consider is a longer campaign that offers more choice such as 
 choosing where the next battle takes place which is shown in games such as the Dawn Of War expansions 
 and Rise Of Nations. This would increase the length of the campaign and also offer players more 
 choice as how to go about the war.
  
  Last but not least the factions themselves are different in terms of philosophy and ideals, but 
 they seem to have almost identical unit and building blue prints. Only at tech levels 3 and 4 do 
 you start to see any change towards the units on offer. More diversity in units would make a game 
 capable of endless strategies truly endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vassago_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  On September 30th, 1997, Chris Taylor brought us Total Annihilation. With hundreds and units and 
 unparalleled strategic command, the game offered more than any other RTS could muster for years 
 to come. Now, ten long years later, we are greeted with Chris' next gem: Supreme Commander.
  
  Building and expanding upon the excellent gameplay of Total Annihilation, Supreme Commander 
 delivers the goods. The game offers three different factions to choose from: The Aeon Illuminate, 
 The Cybran Nation, and the United Earth Federation. Each race gives the player a large selection 
 of weapons and equipment, with which they can wage war. Although they all share similar qualities, 
 each one has it's strength's and weaknesses. Mastering each faction is crucial, since you will 
 need to attack and defend against them.
  
  The one thing that Supreme Commander is truely known for, is it's strategic map zoom. You're given 
 the ability to zoom out of the sandbox and see the entire map from a satellite-eye perspective. 
 This is crucial when playing maps as large as those in SupCom, which vary in size up to 81kmx81km. 
 Trying to play this game without the strategic zoom function is nearly impossible.
  
  The AI in SupCom leaves something to be desired. While it's certainly challenging, it becomes predictable 
 with time, and will not pose too much of a problem to hard core RTS gamers. There are variable 
 AI settings however, which can changed things up quite a bit. The Supreme AI setting is undoubtedly 
 the best, as it randomly chooses between one of three main AI settings. The graphics in SupCom 
 are the topic of much debate across the forums. While the graphics are certainly admirable, they 
 don't seem to justify the extreme system requirements of the game. Only those currently sporting 
 $3000+ monster PC's can play the game on high settings. Most blame this on the support of Shader 
 Model 2.0, while other's blame the game's intensive physics/simulation model. In the end, I believe 
 it's a little of both.
  My own $2200 rig, which I built last August, can run the game just fine on medium settings, 4xAA 
 at 1680x1050 (w/ no shadows) . While I'd love to be getting 60fps out of this game, I'm just fine 
 with 30.
  
  In the end, I believe Supreme Commander was well worth the wait, and my money. It's provided many 
 hours of hectic fun, and will continue to do so for years to come. With the addition of user mods 
 in the near future, the possibilities of the game will surely expand and mature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrwooton
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I have been a proponent of Total Annihilation since it first came out... game play was smooth and 
 the capabilties to play networked was great too. Now, on to it's newer version Supreme Commander. 
 I was struck by the huge similarity to TA and how it seemed to play in the same way. Now don't 
 get me wrong, I love the new feeling in this version compared to TA, But I found I could play this 
 from the start without having to worry about the long learning curve... the first scenario about 
 kicked my but, so kudos on not making it too easy to play... I feel that you should be getting a 
 expansion pack ready real soon.. lol... thanks for letting me express my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danpc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The good:
  -----------------
  
  in-depth futuristic story line
  
  great graphics for an RTS
  
  plenty of unique ideas with a mixture of ones u'll notice from 
 previous RTS games
  
  tutorials that let you play around with all factions easily, that include optional videos illustrating 
 particular strategies and methods...
  
  easy to grasp, with a variety of different game play methods.
  
  The Bad:
  -------------
 
  
  when a large number of units have been created the game slows and judders, this is not however 
 caused by the graphics being high, but the processor and RAM, optimisation is taking place but 
 in the meantime for a fluent gameplay i suggest 2GB of RAM, a fast HDD and a dual core processor 
 and dont forget at least a minimum graphics card of a geforce 6800...
  
  the story line is rather cliche, though this doesnt ruin the game, it does feel like youve seen 
 it done time and time again...
  
  each faction does have a set of unique weapons and vehicles though it does seem to be the look 
 alone mainly, so this does mean that each faction does feel kind of similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majicebe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Upside: There's a lot to say, but most of it's been said. It's a very fun game, it's got great 
 graphics (if you can run it) , it's got amazing multiplayer, awesome replayability, amazing units, 
 actual use of strategy required, and everything from the patrolling scout units to the zoom-out 
 strategic view all feels incredibly polished.
  
  Downside: My PC is less than a year old sporting a 7800GT, and it brings my system to a crawl on 
 max settings later about 1/3 the way through a small map skirmish. Also, there really isn't much 
 of a difference between the 3 factions other than cosmetic; they pretty much all have the same 
 units doing the same things right up to the experimental units... but it's still incredibly awesome!
 
  
  Overall: Best RTS to come along in years, and it's everything and more it was cracked up to be, 
 but the machine that it'll take to run this at max is 2 years away. Buy it if you've got a new 
 machine, and if not, buy a machine in 3 months to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thundermare-pt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  A couple days after the launch day, I search the local game shops for the game. To my dismay, none 
 of them had it. It's the usual, but I cheer up and mentalize myself that I can spend another week 
 without the game, even though half the internet is talking about it, and praising it so highly.
 
  
  I am a strategy addict. I've played everything from the first RTS, Dune2, to the classics Starcraft, 
 C&amp; C and X-Com, to the less popular Sudden Strike and Hearts Of Iron, to the most recent Warhammer 
 and Company Of Heroes. So please belive me, this is my sincere opinion about the game, not a simple 
 bashing or vendetta. I really was hoping to see a grand RTS, like it was intended.
  
  So I finally got the game...
  
  The graphics looked so pretty in the pictures, and my PC is 
 always up-to-date, so I knew I would have the privlege to watch these beautiful graphics in real 
 time, with decent FPS. I was impressed with the scale and reach of Supreme Commander. But I also 
 found out some serious flaws which have simply no excuse. So, on we go:
  
  1- Graphics are pretty, but are rarely seen. In Company Of Heroes, even with max zoom-out, you 
 can fully apreciate the beauty of the game. With Supreme Commander, you'll be playing at such a 
 distance all you'll see are little, tiny objects so far away. Good graphics have gone to waste. 
 I still belive Company Of Heroes is better looking, though.
  
  2- What the hell happened to the adjustable scroll speed?? The screen goes by so fast, I can barely 
 avoid reaching the end of the map. Was it so hard to make the scroll speed adjustable? Even with 
 the patch, the issue is still there. It's a major flaw, in my opinion, since it degrades gameplay 
 needlessly.
  
  3- Ok, so I wasn't expecting the units to be so glamorous as in Company Of Heroes, because in this 
 game you'll be controlling a lot of them, but seriously... the units behave like a dead bird. And 
 their AI is so over-simplistic. They can't do anything on their own. The most you can get them 
 to do is... patroling. And a rather inefficient one, at best.
  
  4- Moving ground units. They either move separatly, therefore getting insta-gibbed, or they move 
 VERY slowly in formation. Either way, it'll take them a lot of time to get anywhere.
  
  5- It's such a shame that the bulk of the strategy in this game is economy-related. I spend 90% 
 of the time making and/or upgrading buildings. It's repetitive and boring.
  
  6- Unit tactics are almost useless. Old-fashioned unit packs will be the only way to do it. Unless 
 you intend to sit quietly in your base building artillery or missiles.
  
  7- I do think the story might be interesting. I'll be playing more of the campaign with the 3 factions, 
 since skirmishes are extremely boring and the AI is very easy to beat, even in the hardest setting.
 
  
  8- Overall, I found the game very easy. Much too easy, actually. I don't like to spend 2 hours 
 on one map just because I have to BUILD a lot. I'd rather spend the time plotting and planning 
 attack tactics, Company Of Heroes style.
  
  9- The maps are all generic. There's really no substance, no beautifull backgrounds, no dynamic 
 environment. It's all static and... ugly.
  
  Bottom line, Supreme Commander wasn't the killer RTS I was hoping. It actually didn't surprise 
 me or challanged me, and it's simply not as fun to play as many other great underdog RTS's out 
 there. I simply don't think it lives up to the hype.
  
  Thumbs down for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danhudy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and would recommend it to all you hardcore RTS gamers out there. Great gameplay 
 with tons of units and buildings, not to mention the upgrades that you can equip them with. Best 
 part about this game is that you can create a massive army in just 5 minutes (add another 30 onto 
 that with building your base) then deck it out with an AI that knows what their doing. This game 
 reminds me of Empire Earth but the navy cant be taken care of with just a cannon tower =P because 
 these new Naval untis can walk on land so this just adds to the excitement and challenge to the 
 game. Only downfall is that it takes like 10-15 minutes to create certain buildings so that makes 
 for a VERY long game but still exciting all the same. (Im sure some good modder out there will 
 create a mod to lower build times, or the producers will in future patches =] ) P. S. I dont know 
 what reviewers tilt is so i made it to match my score lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdnov
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The only time I feel it is necessary to write a review is when a game is under/over appreciated 
 or under/over hyped. In this case the game is OVER HYPED. I come from a background of StarCraft, 
 WarCraft, Command and Conquer, Age of Empires, and Rise of Nations. I run a AMD64x2 /w GeForce 
 7950gx2. As you've probably heard, Supreme Commander is all about scale. You can zoom out to the 
 point where the game looks like an ant farm, or you can zoom in to the point where even microbes 
 feel the need to close the shower curtains. Either level of zoom is pretty useless, and the only 
 time you zoom out all the way is to navigate the map. Most of the time you will be playing at a 
 normal zoom like any other RTS. Yes, zoom was part of the hype. How does the level of zoom make 
 such a big deal in peoples' review???... BLAH Speaking of scale, it will definitely take the average 
 RTS player some time to get used to the size of the units and pretty much not enjoying seeing them. 
 By this I mean that most of the units are pathetically tiny to just to make the big units seem 
 bigger. The big units, aka experimental, aka fatties are the real eye candy in the game. I don't 
 know why they call them experimental, whats the experiment? And besides, you would think computers 
 that far in the future could simulate the units usage... TANGENT, BLAH. They are insanely overpowered 
 and a single one can rip through a base with little or no support from lesser units. They take 
 approximately 40 minutes to 2 hours to make depending on which one you want. SET UP SOME DEFENSE 
 AND READ A GOOD NOVEL WHILE YOU WAIT, YES THIS GAME IS HOURS AND HOURS OF GAMEPLAY WHOOPDEEDOO... BLAH. 
 In the end, the game amounts to who can make a fatty the fastest. There is no gameplay whatsoever 
 before that, go build an actual army to destroy a base and see how inefficient it is. Speaking 
 of inefficiencies, the game is bogs down your CPU because it actually tries to calculate all the 
 projectile trajectories instead of dice rolling like most RTS's. This means the game is heavy on 
 the CPU which then means to some people that it must be good because it requires CPU power that 
 is not even out yet... yea that makes sense, BLAH. The last thing I have to say about gameplay is 
 just the way you interact with your units and how they function. It just feels awkward and cumbersome. 
 For a game that is all about macro management a player should not have to click on their own builder 
 and then scroll through the builders construction selection when they all build the same thing! 
 A player should simply be able to click a building to build and the closet engineering unit that 
 can go build it does it. For a macro manage RTS, this feature is essential and Supreme Commander 
 lacks it. Furthermore, Supreme Commander lacks a decent formation system. Sometimes the units will 
 walk around a lot before they form up. Also, once the units are formed you cannot make them inch 
 forward, when they move they have to scramble up and reform AGAIN. This wastes so much time and 
 can get your army killed. Some other things, air units in the game are useless because a handful 
 of anti-air turrets can take them out. The turrets will destroy them so fast that even kamikaze 
 missions are useless. And if you have units that can go in a base and destroy the turrets YOU MIGHT 
 AS WELL TAKE THE BASE WITHOUT AIR UNITS. Every game starts out with a commander which is this corny 
 looking robot, and it can be upgraded. It makes so much sense that the commander be on the field 
 with the troops with all the best weapons equipped while the army is ill-equipped and then not 
 have him fight because if the game settings are adjusted to what most people play, when the commander 
 dies, you loose. The graphics in the game are decent but everything just feels generic. THE UNITS 
 DO NOT SPEAK OR HAVE ANY PERSONALITY. This really is an extremely superficial game and the story 
 line does just enough to keep you going. The only reason I gave this game a value of 9 is because 
 it seems to have a community that will probably support the game forever and be around for multiplayer 
 battles. The bottom line is that the game is only fun for a while, once the novelty wears out only 
 a few hardcore players will remain playing it. I recommend playing the demo before buying. For 
 the price of one Commander-Supreme you could get 12 burrito supremes. It really disturbs me though 
 to see that this game could get a 91 on PC gamer or a similar score on other review sites, it is 
 suspicious at best. But if you don't believe my review, I pretty much agree with the 1up and Gamespot 
 review and I think they are the most accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameel_lodhi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Every other game I ever play for the next, I dunno, million years, is going to feel flat and small 
 and boring. Why? Because they'll only be running on one monitor. Thanks to its ingenious graphical 
 trickery, I can play Supreme Commander on two monitors, and it does funny things to my brain. Something 
 in it I don't usually use is being exercised, but it feels good. I feel totally in control of the 
 game this way. I'm not entirely sure how to describe the way I'm thinking when I use those two 
 screens. It's nothing anywhere near as static as the average DS approach of here is the action 
 / here is the map. Rather, it's more like I'm right in on a battle one on side, while on the other 
 I check to see if a frigate's finished building - not skipping my focus between the two, but somehow 
 watching both at once. Only it's ever-shifting, like I have a pair of robotic eyes zooming coolly 
 in and out at will.
  Advertisement
  
  I'm not entirely sure how I managed to play real-time strategy games without two monitors before. 
 All that clumsy mousing over bits of map, hotkeys to jump to structures and only being able to 
 manage one fight at once seems so terribly backwards compared to this. With enough practice and 
 some sort of fiendish mod, I reckon I could control the game with two separate mice too. I'd be 
 the ultimate General, coolly able to direct two wars at once, the look spoiled only slightly by 
 having to glue a pointy stick to my forehead so I could use the keyboard as well. SupComm's incredible 
 bigness (remarkably intact on just one monitor, should you be a pauper) is perhaps final proof 
 of the surprising fact that RTS, once the most-lampooned of all PC game types, is now firmly established 
 as the platform's most artisan genre. Built on a solid foundation of what made l'il army games 
 so compelling in the very first place - that is, WAR! - then pumped up with ungodly sci-fi steroids, 
 it feels like a definitive statement. In some booming, oh-so-macho voice it inarguably intones 
 'This. Is. How. It's. Done.'
  Zoom in'' Screenshot 1
  
  Like TA, the game's dirtiest trick remains arranging for your Commander to explode in an enemy 
 base. Oh, the humanity, etc.
  
  Which is also its greatest flaw. In striving to be the ultimate RTS, it accentuates everything 
 that those don't get on with strategy games despise the most. It's a game of constant management 
 on multiple fronts, of the paper-rock-scissors combat mechanic, of tactical thinking and total 
 familiarity with each of its many units. It's the Bible of RTSes - one man's revered tome is another's 
 tedious gibberish. It knows it's preaching to the converted, however, which is why it's so unrelentingly 
 intense. Just be warned - it's an exhausting game. There is no downtime here. Too many times, tired 
 out and aching for closure, but knowing another sustained enemy assault was due in seconds, I tried 
 to send a few nearby tanks into a base defended by a lone ground turret. It's just the one, I reasoned. 
 Surely they can deal with it. But it doesn't work like that - they were wiped out, because corners 
 can't be cut so. It's admirable consistency on the game's part, but sometimes, I just wish that 
 it'd give me a bit of a break.
  
  Still, SupComm's rewards for such heavy mental investment are manifold. By far its greatest achievement, 
 though, is scale. Less from the huge unit count, but rather the sense of titanic destruction, multiple 
 simultaneous goals and an ever-expanding game map in the campaign missions. Looking down with military 
 detachedness from the most zoomed-out viewpoint, troops reduced to playschool shapes and colours, 
 there's no question that this is indeed a war, and not some poxy, narrow skirmish pretending to 
 be one.
  Zoom in'' Screenshot 2
  
  The plot is humans vs robots vs aliens. Only they're all human really. Sort of.
  
  It's very 
 rare to have a conflict on a single front - land, air and sea assault generally have to happen 
 in carefully coordinated tandem, rather than being the usual this, then this and now this approach. 
 Coupled with the cleverness of the AI (actual cleverness, as opposed to just punishing hardness) , 
 this gives a sense of real importance to each battle. Victory is something to be truly proud of, 
 rather than just the doorway to the next level. Victory means you're a great leader.
  
  SupComm's fully aware too of how to best spend your time - the traditional tedium of unit building 
 and resource collection is stripped down as much as it can be. Both remain a vital art, just in 
 a very different way - if, say, you haven't got enough energy, it's because you've been lazy or 
 haven't thought carefully about the situation, rather than you just haven't built enough little 
 men with axes yet. If you haven't got a steady stream of battle-ready robots pouring out your factories, 
 it's not that they've ground to a halt and the game's churlishly refusing to build them - it's 
 just that they're building much more slowly because you're not generating enough resources to go 
 full-pelt. It's logic, but logic born of established RTS rules. Everything in SupComm is familiar, 
 even if you've never played its prequel, Total Annihilation - it's just that the stereotypes of 
 RTS it retains are handled thoughtfully rather than mechanically. Joyously, too - climbing up the 
 tech tree doesn't just give you slightly bigger tanks, but really big tanks who can deal a ridiculous 
 amount of damage compared to the ones they've just superseded. Also, city-sized cannons, boats 
 that can walk on land and giant spider robots. I'd suspect SupComm of having a bit of a laugh, 
 if only it wasn't so deadly serious.
  Zoom in'' Screenshot 3
  
  Somehow, it still looks just as exciting even when you're zoomed out so far that everything's just 
 squares and triangles.
  
  Still, it doesn't feel quite the game that its strategy stablemate Company of Heroes does. SupComm 
 sacrifices ingenuity and elegance for intensity and enormity. It's a fiddlier game to play, and 
 with less scope for pulling heroic victories and experimental tactics out of the hat. The interface 
 suffers too - it's a bit cramped and overloaded with mid-90s-looking cheapo icons, while quite 
 a few buildings look that bit too similar. And though it's graphically splendid for the most part, 
 the landscapes you fight on look universally bland. Of course the constant superultracrazyexplosiondeath, 
 and the seamless zooming from strategic to down'n'dirty viewpoints kind of masks that, but something 
 more detailed and deformable would have pimped the game up enormously.
  
  It's worth pointing out that SupComm's a hard taskmaster to your PC, too. Official specs may claim 
 otherwise, but anyone not running it on a dual-core rig is going to suffer slowdown once the unit 
 count starts creeping into the hundreds. Graphically, it's not too demanding (its two-screen party 
 trick didn't upset the Radeon X1900 in my rig, for instance) , but managing the AI for so many tiny 
 tanks is a real drain on the CPU. It's smooth, though not lightning-fast, on my last-gen dual core 
 Athlon chip, while even the cheapest Core2Duo will scoff it up. Some people may feel this is a 
 reason to drop the score; personally, I strongly don't. Desktop dual core chips have been around 
 for almost two years now - sooner or later there had to be a game that made multi-core processing 
 (also now established for two out of three of the newly current-gen consoles) more or less a necessity. 
 Let's be thankful it's a great one, and not some empty-headed Doom clone. It's unfortunate folk 
 with older systems will be left out in the cold (or with emptier wallets) , but the PC as a games 
 platform can't be expected to hang around waiting for the idlers to catch up forever.
  
  The overwhelming sense from SupComm (apart from the need to sleep for a week after a bout of it) 
 is that its design brief was mega-war first, player sympathy second. The mega-war it gets absolutely 
 right, but this is an RTS that could have bagged itself a 10 if it had reigned itself in a little, 
 had tweaked its flow just enough so that there wasn't quite so much exhausting struggle. For all 
 its grandeur, it'll simply feel too much like hard work for anyone who wasn't already sold on the 
 concept - a timeless classic should have more universal appeal. It's a triumphant achievement nevertheless, 
 a just reward for anyone who's ever lost their heart to an RTS - a love letter to the fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  All the hype, all the previews, all the movies and the Tag of being successor of one of the best 
 RTS classic ever made is TRUE!
  Chris Taylor &amp; Team has did it. SC is a real winner in every scenario, be it huge maps, lots 
 of units, dual screen , way points or Graphics, it is truly awesome.
  From the beginning till end, you will be mesmerized by the presentation of the game, you will even 
 like the tutorial ( which is little bit clumsy in a sense that it asks you to do everything by 
 yourself, instead of taking you through it, nonetheless it is really cool to play with all 3 of 
 the ACU's and built up till Experimental units ) .
  What i really like about SC is that it is far superior then conventional RTS available in terms 
 of game play. Its AI is little bit shaky, but still pretty much solid then others, in fact AI is 
 good enough to give you a run for your base in easy settings too. Units of all 3 factions are somewhat 
 same in types, but little bit different in work. The best option of the game is its waypoints, 
 you can literally put up each and everything through way point, and can stop micromanagement and 
 can enjoy the fight, without fiddling with your mouse or keyboard, you will only use your mouse 
 to zoom in and out of the map to get better or closer picture of the battles ( I really enjoy it 
 :) ) There is so much good about this game, that one should play it to admire it, but it is not 
 without some problems.
  Only let down is very few missions for each faction , total of 6 per faction, however, missions 
 tend to get lengthy from half hour to two hours in average.
  It really requires a monster system to run with everything ON. some battles especially 5th and 
 6th Maps can put your system to its knees with hell lot of units on screen.
  Some times Transporters do not respond to your orders , or just hover above the targeted units 
 for transportation.
  SC really rocks in MP matches, I have played it with my buddies and a medium size map took up around 
 4 hours of our lives , it was awesome.
  
  If you want to buy only one RTS for next 5 to 10 years , then look no further, a Get SUPREME COMMANDER 
 NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  One game to rule them all. One game to revive the genre. And Supreme commander is just that. Supreme 
 commander is made by the famous maker of the total annihilation serieses chris taylor. All around 
 it is the spiritual successor to one of the best RTS's ever.
  
  Let me start off with the good parts of this game.
  
  1. It is totally making the genre much 
 more alive. You can't even compare company of heroes to it like many people do its just not possible. 
 Most RTS's focus of smaller scale tactical battles. This game is about Strategy folks. I mean its 
 something new and reviving. We have had games like this is the past but not as well done. It allows 
 you to have makes from 10-50 KM height and width. And 1,000 units on a screen. 2. Graphics are 
 decent. They are very nice and especially like the explosions for nukes and different stuff. Very 
 nice all around.
  
  3. Sound is awesome its some real like starwarsy like ocestra like loud banging drum noises. It 
 really makes the game feel much more alive and fun.
  
  4. It is definantly worth its value.
  
  5. The gameplay is very tough at first. It can seem 
 overwealming and very hard to learn but you get the hang of it after a few games. Typical games 
 last from 1-3 hours. It uses so much strategy witch is great. Like I noticed Im could not bang 
 on my enemies front door and get in. So I built missile and artillary bases on an island off their 
 coast to bomb them to smitherings. Then I flew transports over the hills to land behind their base. 
 The Shift key is amazing it allows you to fully tell a unit were to go. Have you ever been playing 
 a game and got irritated because you sent a unit here and it ran through enemie defences and you 
 wanted it to go around without you micromanging it around. Supreme commander has a solution the 
 shift key. Just point and click you can make a path for the unit to follow. It also allows coordinated 
 attacks and stuff. You can que things up to the end game pretty much like que over couple hundread 
 units or something. This game truly takes advantage of Land, Sea, Air most games try to do sea 
 but fail miserably. If you fail to utilize one or make defences of one. Your done your ganna die 
 probally pretty soon. 6. So far from what ive played the AI has been very very smart not making 
 stupid moves :) !!!!!!.
  
  The bad
  
  The only real bad thing about this game is a few bugs here and there. But most of them will be 
 fixed in patches.
  
  All around I highly recommend it for RTS fans. Warning people with short attention spans will get 
 really angry and stuff with the slow pace of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Witpapier
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Nothing Like family, Compare this to Total Annihilation and you have the game you always wanted, 
 Cant wait for the Mods and Expansions coming for this one. ( A Great Game never gets Old) Ill always 
 play TA and I'll Always play SupCom.... A bit about the game, To put it simple there's nothing 
 else like it, well put together, well thought, and comes from 10 years of field practice (Total 
 Annihilation) easy for new comers as well as challenging for hardcore gamers, you have Land, Air, 
 Sea, Nukes, Artillery, Robots, Tanks, Jets, three races, all unique, ..... Cant name em all, great 
 graphics and most important of all, great game play, a Instant classic, If you haven't played it 
 before then I could simply say you havent played anything like it before. worth more than what 
 you pay for it.
  
  In the future I see a form of greatness, like a bright star in endless space. Ancient Ninja mumbling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manta2526
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game is truly a must buy! no matter what any one said, there is no Game out there like this 
 one, and having the same aspect as old TA, its simply a improved game by far!
  
  the Competitive side of its Mutliplayer is superb with three races thats totally different and 
 all with their special units, brings this game's Micro and Macro Management to a Maximum!
  
  do yourself the favor, if you where never a TA fan, get TA2 (SC) you wont be disappointed, 
 this is what RTS is all about!
  
  if you are a TA Fan, expect the best! because that is wot will be waiting for you when you get 
 it!
  
  Manta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfish_ak
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Deffinetly this is one of the best RTS's to come out in a long time. You can create some huge armys 
 to lay waste to your foes. I am still in the midle of the campaign but this is a must have for 
 those of you that like stratagy games. The story is unlike any yet and the concept is great, the 
 controlls are like all other rts titles. And it runs bug free right off the shelf which is amazing 
 now adays. Any strategy fans with the system requirements should pick up this one right away, you 
 will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobo24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  First off I've always been a fan of RTS's ever since I started with Starcraft. Supreme Commander 
 is a great game, the only problem that I found with it was, that it was an incredibly demanding 
 game, I havn't played a RTS since Battle for Middle Earth 2 which wasn't nearly as demanding as 
 this game. It can all be for the better, I love the game but trying to play it on a laptop isn't 
 the way to go, if you want a much better experience for this game you need a decent desktop. I 
 am currently running it on medium settings, the only time it starts to lag extremely bad is during 
 larger fights, but other than that it runs fine. I havn't started the campaign yet but I plan to 
 tonight, but from what I've seen and played in the skirmishes is amazing, it is a new and intuitive 
 way to play a rts, with your main base as a moving being that actually builds things for you, everything 
 else is implemented so well that you it is hard for you not to notice it.
  Overall I gave this game a 9 only because of how slow it runs on a slightly older computer, other 
 than that, if your a rts fan I recommend this game, and even if your not go out buy this game sit 
 down and play, you'll have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordCanada8
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is realy good. There are three unique races to play as (the uef are the Best!) . It uses 
 advanced strategy and tatics. but AOE 1 is a better buy... new is not beter! Evan though the graphics 
 are bad, it has the most in depth strategy of any RTS. Look it up!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Well this 
 review is not long enough so i will add more.
  
  In AOE there is economy, city building, advanced battles, good AI, more manageable maps, great 
 path finding, and a flawless editor.
  
  well, this is not a review for AOE, so here is a quick recap.
  
  SC is good but AOE is better. 
 (AOE 2 and 3 suck) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 26, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for supreme commander for awhile and here it is!!
  Gameplay:....... Not what i expected... The thing is that its fun controlling hundreds of units against 
 another army of hundreds... and yeah... All 3 units are available... Air, Ground, and Naval units... Thats 
 the good point of this game.. you can create both an army of air, ground, and naval units! each 3 
 races both have a gigantic kind of unit that can reduce plenty of other units to nothing!! its great 
 that you can see the whole map and command lots of units from there at will! Another good point 
 about this game is the Coordinated attack commands... you can tell them where to attack and when 
 they attack there and destroy anything thats in there way and still survive, they move onto their 
 next target! in most RTS games when you tell a unit to attack a certain place they take the shortest 
 route there! you can actually tell which way the unit is supposed to go! like if there is an undefended 
 part of an enemy base you tell them to go that way instead! You can also upgrade your main commander.. He 
 first starts out as a simple worker with lots of health and can defend itself... but when you add 
 an upgrade like the advanced cooling system it will not attack every 3 seconds.. but every half 
 a second! Resource management takes some getting used to but its all right... Edit: Ive gotten more 
 into the game... ive learned more.. and learned to use a lot of all 3 races especially the Cybran..
 
  
  Graphics: It lived up to my expectations! These are some of the most amazing graphics!! Although 
 you will need a beefy system just to have the Graphics at Medium and keep the pace of the game 
 regular... These graphics are still quite amazing even at their lowest settings... although the lowest 
 settings arent really pretty...
  
  Sound: Once again... not what i expected.. i was expecting a lot of sound in the game.. big explosions 
 there... flying missles making that sound when air is going against it.. but... all i hear is occasional 
 bam bam bam..... Not what i expected.. Although there are certain points that there will be a giant 
 BOOM sound and it may satisfy you... Since the sound is only fair it drags down gameplay due to 
 no satisfaction when seeing an enemy unit blow up.. Although at some point when you are battling 
 with bigger units you will hear more sound effects... but its good enough! Edit: I never realized 
 how good the sound was until i used my headset.... they're great!! i only used my speakers but after 
 using my headset... the sound kicked in... for some reason.. dont know what the problem is! but the 
 sound is still only Great not the best! Although thats not necessarily bad.... Value: Since im a 
 fan of the genre, i value this game quite a lot and it will be part of one of the greatest games 
 i ever played list!
  
  Tilt: Great RTS game but i only suggest this RTS to a guy with patience and someone who dosent care 
 about action as long as its fun... Yep... you will need a LOT of patience when playing this game.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamykasie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Let me put it this way. If you are new to the genre or maybe just don't rate yourself that much 
 then play a skirmish against the AI on normal difficulty and you will have a blast while learning 
 the ropes and developing your own strategies.
  
  If you want a serious challenge, then try the AI on hard. This brings me to a particularly impressive 
 side to the game, the AI is the best I've seen in a game of this type. It really does create moments 
 of incredulation, where you are left watching in helpless awe as the computer controlled units 
 ravage your best laid plans in a manner you could never have expected. At least not from a computer 
 opponent... and it will serve you well because when you try the multiplayer side of the game online, 
 you are going to need to bring your best game to the table.
  
  Online play serves as a staple diet to many gamers and most games released these days will accomodate 
 that need, the RTS crowd being no exception, but with the depth of play available through SupCom, 
 traditional strategies need not be the be-all-and-end-all. With a hugely diverse array of strategies 
 possible through the games mechanics, many highly skilled players can be found on GPGNet. When 
 you factor in a ranking system that seems to accurately match up equal players, the you are left 
 with a very satisfying experience online.
  
  Hardware wise, being a new release, this game is predictably quite demanding. If you have a dual 
 core processor then you really have little to worry about as the game has been optimised with multiple 
 cpus in mind. I have managed to play SupCom with no problems what-so-ever on a core 2 laptop with 
 a 1.66GHz cpu and GeForce Go 7600 graphics set.
  
  All in all, a fantastic game from the master of RTS Chris Taylor and well worth the wait for original 
 fans of Total Annihilation.
  
  A big thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chainer323
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game, love how the way points are done, even being able to queue up units even as 
 the factories are being build. However, there is something that i don't like about it. I was expecting 
 the fighters to be able to attack more then just other flying units, like what was in TA. Other 
 then that I love this game. Hopefully they will make it open code, that way we can all start getting 
 3rd party units like TA had. Haven't tried the skimish mode yet, been doing just the campains, 
 but hopefully the skirmish modes will be just as fun, if not more so then the campains are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander beats every other RTS hands down. THIS IS THE NEXT EVOLUTION OF RTS GAMING.
 
  
  Pros: Everything... The first thing you'll notice is the graphics. The graphics are incredible. 
 Unit animations are perfect, water has the right amount of transparency, and the textures are very 
 clean. The next thing you'll notice is the incredible amount of control you have over the camera. 
 Zooming in and out, incredible.... good bye forever mini-map. Zoom all the way in, and with a click 
 of the space bar... you are closer to your units then any game has gone before. Supreme Commander 
 makes it a point to fix alot of issues other games have. Base building is simple to do, but hard 
 to master. Queing buildings and units allows you to build multiple bases effectively, removing 
 the need for super-human extra micro management. The user interface is the best I've seen yet. 
 The HUD is easy to read and effective.
  
  Unit design is by far the best in a RTS to date. Experimental units are HUGE. Bigger then any RTS 
 unit before. These things are the size of skyscrapers. The weapons on them feel so powerful. My 
 sub-woofer shakes so hard when my spider bots lay waste to everything in site.
  
  By far, the coolest part.... I've been nerding out about it.... is tradeing nukes. You pull back 
 during a huge battle to find nukes and anti nukes connecting mid-air. Some nukes make it through 
 and BOOOM!!!! I practically piss myself in excitement everytime one makes it through and takes 
 out 300 units and some power plants in a second or 2.
  
  Cons: None, absolutely none! Not a single one.... at all..... NONE!!!! This game is as perfect 
 as they get.
  
  Final Word: This is the best RTS ever! If you have a top of the line computer, do yourself a favor 
 and pick this up. If your computer is pretty good to average... you should pick up a better computer 
 first! Playing this game on a computer that can't handle it at it's best... is only a tease. cyberpowerpc. com 
 has the best prices anywhere... It's worth the 4 grand to play this at it's finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelanismoria
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  First off, supreme commander is definetly an ambitious title, before i get flack from people, I 
 KNOW its not a ground breaking RTS, I guess it did try to claim to be, but even in that, it was 
 a matter of increasing the scale drastically, and it does deliver in that department. That said 
 and out of the way, the game itself is quite a bit of fun, but its not for everyone, the pacing 
 is VERY different from a game like dawn of war ( a personal fave of mine) so if you are expecting 
 nonstop fast paced action, look elsewhere, it can take a while for this game to get going, especially 
 on larger maps. But, if you are a fan of epic slug fests this is for you, with games lasting up 
 to many hours with literally thousands of units being chewed up in the process, its really pretty 
 immersive in that respect.
  
  I can also say the queuing system and zoom, while not absolutely innovative, are very well executed 
 and significantly reduce the work load of managing the battlefield. The formations ive had some 
 problems with, but perhaps im just incompetent.
  
  Graphics, lots of people complaining in this department: Not good enough, slow, too high system 
 specs. In turn, i personally feel the graphics are fine, i run the game on a low-mid range settings 
 and it looks clean and crisp, with plenty of detail, no its not a state of the art shooter, the 
 game is about scale so you cant have each unit have 14 thousand polygons and ultra hi resolution 
 textures, and yes, if you dont have a good system, you are going to have some problems, but if 
 you do, try fiddling a bit, there a few things that can help alot with still having great visuals, 
 EG turning shadows down or off.
  
  The single player campaign hasnt impressed me too much thus far, but its still alot of fun, and 
 its a good way to start figuring out your important starting game strategies, and the best way 
 to utilze various units and such.
  
  A bit on the units, im a little disappointed in how similar the units are from side to side, the 
 experimental units are certainly unique in of themselves, but the others just feel like clones 
 of one another, a little more diversity in that department would have been nice.
  
  BUT, in the end, i think its a great game, but dont go into expecting the end all be all of RTS, 
 but rather a grand scale evolution of the classic RTS total annihilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxcabaz
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game starts off with a nice graphic intro movie and an interesting story. First thing I wanted 
 to check was the tutorial as there it was possible to see how the gameplay was explained. At first 
 the game looked nothing special. Your commander unit is a standard building unit with offense capability. 
 You can also build engineers who can do that job for you, and a lot of them can do the job faster. 
 Your two main resources are energy and mass. To win you have build to the next tech level fast 
 and build as many as possible units while keeping your commander unit intact. Time: This may seem 
 as a simple task, but it comes at a cost. When going into campaign mode it was obvious the challenges 
 in the game did not come from strategic usage of knowledge of using and building armies or fighting 
 with armies, but with patience. YES, patience. This game is so typical RTS, you have to wait ages 
 for something to build to get the type of building. Its nothing like Warhammer 40k were fastpaced 
 action was prioritized. This was a huge setback for me.
  
  Graphics: yes who am I to deny the graphical content, however keep in mind please that high graphics 
 was possible 20 years ago, but no pc could run them so why bother then? Same case here. You have 
 to optimize the software in order get the same graphics, THATS the trick. Remember Doom3? Well 
 with my system rig I could play it very smoothy at medium settings, but you have to ZOOM OUT all 
 the way to have decent control over your units. The zoom in mode is really only for identifying 
 objects. I hate the dots when you zoom out just a a little bit, you can see dots or triangles appear 
 on the units, which are very small. I can't really enjoy the graphics when playing this game. I 
 dunno why, as with Warhammer this was no problem. I liked the units though, very interesting indeed. 
 I also like the big numbers.
  
  Value: Since the main campaign is very short but filled with gigantic gaps of inner patience to 
 complete the minimum amount of units to survive I think this game is not an epic action RTS as 
 it was put forward by the developers. Also there are several minor bugs in this game that I encountered.
 
  
  Final verdict: The graphics didn't blow my mind, the gameplay sure didn't. But it has some very 
 interesting ideas. Its an average RTS game that needs to be re-thought in essence again, to make 
 it more pleasurable for gamers who want fast paced action and better views on the units. Innovations 
 are not how big your maps are or how heavy the game can run, but to me its the gameplay itself. 
 Since that the major use of the game, to enjoy playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Skynet lives. I'm turning the PC off now, just in case the sentient robots inside break out. Supreme 
 Commander does funny things to your mind; its bombastic future-war could drive you to distraction. 
 Or outright delusion.
  
  Tonight was the last straw. I'm fairly certain that the computer-controlled enemy commander just 
 played a trick on me. The bait was a small group of light tanks leaving its base and the cover 
 of its anti-air flak cannons, heading toward a remote resource point. I couldn't sit back and ignore 
 them. On these battlefields, every scrap of metal and every power-plant matters. As soon as I felt 
 safe, I ordered a fleet of gunships, the future-war equivalent of Apache helicopters, to take them 
 out. They were met halfway by double their number in interceptors. Watching detachedly as my aircraft 
 fell out of the sky was fascinating. Knowing that I'd been outplayed, out-thought, and out-flanked... 
 That at any moment a wave of tanks would leave the enemy base, free to drive, unchallenged, to 
 the front wall of my defences, and victory. I'd been humped by the steel-clad equivalent of Deep 
 Blue. God, it felt good. First, some history. Supreme Commander has been in gestation for nearly 
 ten years. It's the unofficial successor to 1997's Total Annihilation, the most forward-looking 
 strategy game of all time. TA's vision of heavy metal war was lauded for its scale: its battlefields 
 dwarfed those of contemporaries such as Starcraft or Red Alert. It was equally lauded for ambition; 
 while most RTS games let you play with bizarrely limited armies, TA set you free. Every possible 
 toy vehicle or tin soldier that you could imagine was there. Battleships. Fleets of bombers with 
 swept-back wings and sleek fighters to escort or intercept them. Spy planes, radar installations, 
 scout bikes and mobile artillery platforms. A breed of tank for every situation. Short range missile 
 launchers. Long range missile launchers. Fixed artillery positions that could hurl shells kilometres. 
 Nukes. Anti-nukes. And the baby pee-wee with its laser pop gun. It was rightly lauded for its complexity. 
 Not only were you asked to manage straight fights, but you'd have to look after a hefty recycling 
 program (retrieving the steel carcasses of dead tanks and rebuilding them) , a navy, air-fleet, 
 and information warfare. Most of all though, it was lauded for its almost extreme sensation. No 
 game made you feel as much a part of a real war as TA. It was functional, almost austere. No hero 
 units, no link to the fantastic. Just cold metal and hot artillery. Total future war. The good 
 news is that all of the good of TA is present and correct here. TA is SupCom's jumping-off point. 
 It only gets better from there. Second: some fiction. Some time in the future, humanity has diverged 
 into three races. The UEF (United Earth Federation) are the most recognisably human - they are 
 the meat-head army with commanders who Emphasise. Every. Word. The Aeon are what happened after 
 humanity met ET: zealots who worship abandoned alien artefacts, wanting to spread their 'way' through 
 peaceful conversion if possible, but with nuclear force if needed. The Cybran sit somewhere in 
 between: they're almost indistinct from the computers that power their forces, wired and ready 
 to fire. Each side is plotting its own apocalypse; thanks to their tech, the Aeon are closest to 
 completing their war and subjugating the rest of the human race. The UEF are building the Death 
 Star-like 'Black Sun', while the Cybran are programming a 'quantum virus', designed to isolate 
 each world from the point-to-point teleport gates of humanity's space-faring future. The story 
 that powers SupCom is silly, pleasing guff: memorable because every side is both threatened by, 
 and ultimately guilty of, genocide. Sci-fi! It's probably an analogy!
  
  Central to this fiction are the Supreme Commanders themselves. They are men in mech suits, the 
 only living things on the battlefield; he's your first unit and is usually mission-critical. So: 
 a skirmish in SupCom begins with your commander warping in to a lush island paradise, empty desert 
 or red-dust world. These arenas are massive, far bigger than what you'd be used to playing in other 
 strategy games. Emphasising the scale is a neat interface. Rather than cluttering your screen with 
 a mini-map, you can simply scroll the mousewheel outward, further and further, until the entire 
 conflict is on display. The 3D models of the units disappear, replaced with icons. Vehicles and 
 positions you've scouted are marked with small icons: triangles represent air units, squares land, 
 and semicircles for naval power. Markers also tell you what type of unit it is. Those you have 
 yet to identify are represented with grey squares. You know something is out there - but what? 
 Zooming all the way out gives you two powerful sensations: the first is a sense of total awareness. 
 What you know, and what you need to know are clearly marked. You'll realise that you need to position 
 radar outposts at key choke-points, and send out spy planes to spot bases and their defences. Second: 
 it's just cool. In one naval battle, I spotted a fleet of submarines threatening a group of frigates, 
 themselves bombarding enemy positions. I put my finger to my ear, Uhura style, and mouthed 'picking 
 up multiple contacts on sonar, moving to intercept'. (Incidentally, there is further nerdcore thrill 
 to be had. If you've got a second monitor lying around, you can dedicate one display to a full-screen 
 radar display. You'll need a graphics card with two outputs - most modern ones do - and an acre 
 of spare desk space. We've tried it, and it's hilarious, but you will have to explain exactly why 
 you want to re-arrange the furniture to flatmates, spouses, family members or the cat. They will 
 not understand. Be strong.) For those who want more structure to their play, SupCom offers three 
 campaigns, one for each race. But these aren't filled with the strict half-hour, one-off missions 
 that we're used to. Instead, each level begins on a small map, with a story-focused objective. 
 In an early Aeon level, you warp in to help a beleaguered commander defend a small island. What 
 begins as a simple siege ends, hours later, with a massed attack. The UEF begin their charge in 
 waves - first with gunships and bombers, later landing tanks at the northern peninsula and attacking 
 south. You rarely have a moment to think properly - you just send your engineers to reclaim any 
 metal to supplement your resource pile, while erecting and repairing defences.
  
  Eventually, the UEF give up attacking from the air and bring up a navy - the map's borders expand, 
 and the naval base from where the attackers came from is marked. With that invasion repelled, you'll 
 have to take out a separate air-base, another navy, and another factory. Each is a separate island 
 hop, each requires a destroyer bombardment before landing your troops. Each needs to be reinforced 
 and covered, and each needs replacements on hand to fill the gaps left by losses. Even then, your 
 job isn't done - it's just getting started. You're given further space to play with: a new island 
 to the west is revealed, where the enemy commander has been building a last-ditch attack force. 
 Defeat that and your way will be clear for one final landing, and an assassination on the commander. 
 I spent a good (read: great) afternoon methodically clearing every UEF position, using each captured 
 atoll as a staging post for the next assault. Each time, the excellent AI kept finding new ways 
 to beat me back, inflicting horrendous casualties on my dear robot armies. This could be a criticism. 
 I don't think I've played an RTS that's this demanding. It's not just the intensity of battle and 
 the constant, belligerent noise. It's also down to the sheer scale of the management required. 
 There's so much to think about; constantly balancing your resources and production. Remembering 
 your long-term objectives (winning, and explosions) while assessing current threats (aerial attacks, 
 or a long-range bombardment) and building a proactive defence (nuclear missile defence program, 
 flak cannons, walls and shields) . Managing your route up the tech-tree, ensuring your engineers 
 and commander are constantly busy. And that's before you even reach combat - where you'll need 
 to select targets, order advances, and organise retreats. Even harder, the economic decisions can't 
 be put off: you're frantically multi-tasking as you manage your front lines and supply lines. The 
 three difficulty settings don't offer much respite. I was well beaten even on Easy at first, and 
 you'll always face an intelligent, imaginative foe.
  
  It's similarly demanding on your PC. Even the dual core monster (sporting two Gb RAM and two Geforce 
 7900 GS running in SLI) we keep in the back of the office to scare freelancers saw some slowdown 
 - particularly toward the end of a game when a couple of hundred units were trading blows. On a 
 lesser specced PC - in this case a not-unreasonable P4 3GHz with 1.5Gb of RAM and an X1950 3D card 
 - I fought a dogged, constant battle, not with Cybran infantry, but with framerates. Even the opening, 
 smaller maps ran at about ten frames per second until I was forced to drop the resolution. The 
 reason? SupCom is the first PC game we've really seen to be built for multi-core processors, and 
 it eats them like cornflakes. Beware. Another upgrade cycle is inbound. Having said all that, when 
 you begin a map, you might be surprised just how staid, how close to a standard RTS, SupCom feels. 
 All this tech, for the same game we've always played? Securing resources by dropping down mass 
 extractors on defined points, whipping up a power-station, and a few factories? Yet gradually, 
 as you take care of the early house-keeping, SupCom begins to show its ambition. Once a factory 
 is up and running, you can play with some of the automation built into the interface. A repeat 
 button on your factories lets you queue up construction tasks indefinitely. In SupCom's Einsteinian 
 world, mass and energy are interchangable, and there's no resource cap. You can throw down as many 
 power stations, as many factories, and as many mass fabricators as you like. Infinite resources 
 are yours, if you wish. I've been in battles where I can produce a heavy tank every ten seconds. 
 It sounds like the domain of the pure tank rush, but consider this: it takes a good two minutes 
 to move an early force to your opponent's base. And by the time they've got there, your enemy has 
 invariably invested in a tier 2 defensive line (SupCom's units and structures are built in tiers 
 - each improving accuracy, range, potency, speed, and armour) that outclasses your expeditionary 
 force. In fact, it's easy to 'turtle'. Resource production is both infinite and fixed: you don't 
 have to leave your base, and you can still be swimming in energy. For some players, that's the 
 perfect excuse to turn their entire economy over to defence, investing in gun emplacements, bubble 
 shields, even walls. To crack that shell, you're going to need quite the tactical hammer. Welcome 
 to tier four: experimental units. SupCom's greatest victory is in the sharply defined feel of each 
 side. Despite the fact they have mostly similar units - boats, tanks, planes - they feel distinct. 
 That's partly down to form: the Cybran forces are dark, scurrying, eight-legged robotic insects. 
 The Aeon are sleek futurists; all moulded edges and slick metal. The UEF are bulky, brutish and 
 belligerent: robots with a Rambo complex. But the feel is also a product of function. Take the 
 tier one artillery. The Cybrans just lob shells that may or may not hit their target. No matter; 
 a direct hit is devastating. The UEF have a similar idea - but their shells air-burst into four 
 cluster-bombs. Any army caught in a sustained barrage will be in real trouble. The Aeon's artillery 
 is my favourite, with its accurate slingshots of laser blue energy: a real fireworks display. But 
 nothing says distinct armies like bringing a tier four experimental unit to a fight. These are 
 the big boys, the toys you wheel out during the end game. They have titles like 'Maver', 'Galactic 
 Colossus' and 'Fatboy', and they have the potential to shred every other unit in the game. They 
 also take an age to construct, so they represent massive investments in resources and time. You 
 could pump out 15 or 20 heavy siege bots for the same cost. Personally, I have a soft spot for 
 the UEF's Fatboy: it's a heavy artillery piece, welded to a factory, and dropped on treads. In 
 one skirmish game, it took about ten minutes to s-l-o-w-l-y inch its way across the desert. Ten 
 tense minutes after which I realised that while its energy shield (a bright blue defensive bubble) 
 could probably hold off a brief air assault, without any air cover, it was doomed. As it reached 
 the first wall of a Cybran base, I was panickingly sending fighters to protect it: I needn't have 
 worried. By the time they arrived, the Fatboy had won all by itself.
  
  What's remarkable within these melees is the honest physics. We still see, in many strategy games, 
 shells that redirect themselves as they fly, homing arrows, and missiles that pass through walls 
 on the way to their target. SupCom has no truck with such fallacies. It fires shells the size of 
 caravans at any point on the map, and what gets in the way, gets hit. I fell victim to such specific 
 physics early on, when a wing of my bombers moved in on an artillery position - directly through 
 its arc of fire. One shell clipped the leader, sending it into a death spiral. I've seen assault 
 bots take tank shells aimed at the missile launchers behind, tanks skewered on the legs of a Monkeylord, 
 and chain nuclear reactions as one nuke hit a power-station, which blew up another, which finally 
 engulfed a commander. Sweet.
  
  Worries? I'm most concerned about a balance issue. It's quite possible in the early game to put 
 an opponent out of contention with a sneaky trick. This is fine; it's called good strategy. What's 
 less fine is the revenge wronged players can wreak by marching their commander into your base and 
 detonating the backpack nuke. It's funny the first time, a rare chance to go out with a bang rather 
 than a whimper. But it can be inordinately frustrating in four player free-for-alls - condemning 
 those who win an early fight to losing the late game undeservedly. My only other real worry is 
 about the landscapes. Their massive scope has cost Supreme Commander the kind of detail and interactivity 
 that we've seen in Company of Heroes. The only objects you'll really see other than your buildings 
 and units are trees and cacti. There's nothing that can give you a sense of scale or theatre. It's 
 only once a battle has been fought, when the deserts and islands are pockmarked with craters, or 
 covered in the carcasses of dead tanks and transports, that these landscapes become places. You'll 
 always remember the level that ended with a crashed Aeon UFO, proud even in defeat, its silver 
 corpse pointing to its former home in the sky. Nevertheless, SupCom is a remarkable piece of work, 
 and a worthy successor to Total Annihilation. Strategy games don't come this big, and this ambitious, 
 and they never demand this much from you. Take command - if you think you can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  SupCom is one of the most confusing and complex strategy games I have ever played. While the masses 
 of units are fun to watch, my framerate really sucks. I have to crank the settings down to medium 
 and low levels, which realy takes a lot of the fun away. Another flaw is the HUD, which takes up 
 more than a fourth of your screen! I have a 17 inch lcd, but this game makes me feel like I have 
 14 inch. But putting these aside, Supreme Commander is a game that should last awhile. The ability 
 to zoom in and out by using your mouse wheel is a great feature. I feel like I can breath a little!! 
 It took me awhile to get use to the way the game played. The various training videos were interesting 
 to watch, but I prefer hands-on learning. There is a lot to learn in this game. Managing your Supreme 
 Commander is one thing, but there is also a large list of to-do's for base management, unit controll, 
 coordinated attacks, ferry systems, and the various tech levels for each unit and structure. But 
 I think I'm getting the hang of it. One thing this game has that pretty much any other RTS doesn't 
 have is SCALE. In games like C&amp; C Generals, the infantry are as tall as the tanks!! Wierd eh?
 
  
  This game is a sight for sore eyes, but the few problems keep it a few miles shy of what it could 
 have been in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erlova
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  For me, it doesn&Acirc;&acute; t mather if you have a high-ended machine or (as me) a descent one. 
 I have a Pentium D at 3,2 Ghz, 1 giga ram, Nvidia 7200 LE (and I repeat LE ) at 512, 80 gb HD sata, 
 and I can play this game at medium at 1024x768 (60 mhz) . I'm glad with the permormance of the game 
 cause I got a big battle in skirmish mode at 81*81 Km and just a bit of slowdown. I've always wanted 
 a good quality for my games (in graphics, of course) , but the performance of many of the latests 
 games are the most important thing. With this Hardware Performance Guide, I can appreciate the 
 quality of the image in high, medium and low tests, and as youy can see, ther isn't so much differnce 
 between high and medium test. Feel right with your pc (if you have one like me or a little better) , 
 you can play this at good quality with great performance. This HPG from gamespot are the beste 
 cause they show me what I loose (in image) with different graphics test. You don't have to buy 
 a monster to play this game, just see what you win and loose with your graphics adjustments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kallistosprom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  So where do you start?
  
  Well first off I am a fan of the orgional TA but I do own all the C&amp; Cs and enough RTS game 
 to sink a large battleship so whether or not this is biast or not i'll leave it up to your own 
 decision.
  
  Well to start i thought i would run through the tutorial. Unlike most other tutorials Supreme Commander 
 uses a video system where you watch what to do and how it is played. From an experienced RTS perspective 
 this was brilliant as I didn't have to spend hours going through how to point and click. But I 
 would say for the less experienced RTS person they will find it rather fast paced and confusing 
 tutorial at times. At least its broken down into different areas rather than everything at once.
 
  
  The HUD (the display) I found rather big and covered too much of the screen. At times you just 
 wanted an extra monitor just to be able to see more of the screen. But i guess the argument would 
 be why would you when you can zoom out.
  
  This is when the scale of the game is apparent. It is really huge. When we tried it multiplayer 
 we lost a fleet. With a maximum unit limit of 1000 (which does include buildings) we found that 
 reaching that population limit is almost impossible unless you don't fire a shot the entire game 
 and just keep all those units piled in a corner.
  
  With its size also comes length. This is not a short game. You want a short game, play Command 
 and Conquer. We played a game against a tough computer opponent and one game took the entire night.
 
  
  Units are nice and quite balanced (much better than the beta I played in) though I do wish you 
 could upgrade indiviual engineering units.
  
  Trying to balance resources can be a right pain though the game doesn't punish you too much if 
 you run into trouble. You do find, at times, that your concentrating more on your input and output 
 than on actually commanding your units. This becomes less of a problem as you go up the tech tree 
 but does mean tank rushes are less likely (something most RTS games have a lot of trouble with) .
 
  
  The other problem with size is the runs appalling on most systems. I'm running on a duel core and 
 with everything on medium/low it crawls on huge battles.
  
  The automated system building is nice, you can pretty much que everything from base building to 
 putting units on repeat. No longer will you have to sit there and click 50 times for the same unit. 
 Engineers can support each other and as long as you build something using the origional engineer 
 they will follow each other around helping each other.
  
  Like the origional TA you have a commander unit which builds pretty much everything at the start 
 until you start pouring out engineering units. He can be upgraded but i found this a little pointless 
 and too resource consuming even in the later stage of the battle.
  
  Planes, trains and tanks. Planes will dog fight, ships are great support units and tanks will circle 
 strafe firing. The artifical intellgence of the game is rather amazing for today's standards. So 
 many times, so many RTS games I have sat there watching units do some really strange things and 
 pure frustrating watching them not que or drive completely in a different direction that i want 
 them to go. The computer will try every weak point and strategy to get in and around you and does 
 not get confused by water.
  
  This is not a short game, not by any stretch of the imagination. Plus I like that fact that , in 
 terms of an economy, i don't need to watch a unit go back and fore to get a resource.
  
  The super units on each side are nice but not too silly, unlike red alert 2 or playing the germans 
 in company of heros, i'm not going to see my base disappear in a huge artillery strike. There is 
 always a way round everything. Every unit is useful including the early tech because its generally 
 faster and more movable than the later tech tanks. I do miss not having air bourne engineers but 
 that does mean that bases don't appear from nowhere any more. You want an inch of land you have 
 to fight for it.
  
  Multiplayer is traditonal but it would have been nice to see a coop campaign like what Ground Control 
 2 has. In the game you can share resources with your friends which comes in really useful when 
 you run out mid building. I'm not sure though what the tick box option for shared resources does, 
 it didn't really do much when we tried it.
  
  Graphical it looks nice, I don't think its going to win many awards for graphics but then again 
 I enjoy Civ so graphics are never one of my top piorities. Still the lazer weapons look very pretty 
 and when you zoom in it does look very nice. But to be honest how often are you going to zoom right 
 in? Never to be honest. This is war. Huge bloody battles with craters and dead vehicles spawlled 
 across the battlefield, which can be sucked up by engineers for your own resources.
  
  The only thing is though due to its huge scale you don't really care about your units. Ok its nice 
 when they do survive but theres no promotion system so you do really throw them in to die. SP is 
 all about positioning and thats where its strategy is.
  
  Sound wise, again not going to win many awards but if you enjoyed the orgional TA it is the same 
 sort of thing. The music suits the age at which the war is fought. Mechs and bots. Though it is 
 no starwars sound track.
  
  All in all its a great game. I am not going to say otherwise but compared to C&amp; C games it is 
 different so it won't suit everyone's cup of tea.
  
  So i'm just going to have to buy both.
  
  thankyou for reading
  
  Jules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Soul
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Over the last few months, the hype has grown, anxiety boomed and strategy fans seemed to have good 
 reasons to smile. Supreme Commander, the announced next leap forward in the genre is Chris Taylor's 
 successor to the massive success of Total Annihilation, one of the 90's classics for the PC.
  
  The hype was massive, expectations were set high. The screenshots and videos revealed huge 
 armies marching and battling one another in incredible battlefields, the likes of which had never 
 been made possible due to hardware limitations. Indeed, in scale Supreme Commander is impressive. 
 Lots of units, a great zooming capability and a convenient strategic view that lets you see and 
 control your units with a certain degree of efficiency. What could go wrong then?
  
  It's hard to understand the marks it has been getting... I have seen reviewers claiming its revolutionary 
 gameplay but, from my experience, I must say it was a huge disappointment on that department. Don't 
 get me wrong, the game does work well and is finely tuned and tweaked (except for the excessive 
 system req. that could still offer better visuals) , but the truth is that you can't help yourself 
 thinking that no significant features have been implemented to a style that is one decade old. 
 It's a common strategy game, not particularly deep, that seems to cover it up with a big scale, 
 making the games overly based on multi-tasking and mechanisation rather than thinking and being 
 truly strategic.
  
  Technically speaking, the sound effects and music aren't particularly impressive, being a good 
 background company but nothing above that. As for the graphics, some effects are a feast to the 
 eye, while others could be better. Overall, it feels as though the style the designers went for 
 is the weakest link, rather than the engine itself, but I guess that is a question of personal 
 taste, so I don't blame or penalise it for that. Optimisation-wise though, Gas Powered Games could 
 have done a lot better. Even on top-notch PCs the game seems to stutter when there is a considerable 
 amount of units on screen, something that should have received more attention from the development 
 team.
  
  All in all, Supreme Commander is a decent strategy game, but certainly not a milestone or a candidate 
 to any game of the year nominations. It re-uses old concepts, giving them a fresh look and a bigger 
 scale, but doesn't do anything quite new. Die-hard fans of Total Annihilation will love it, but 
 for the rest there will certainly be a lot of better games this year. Don't get mistaken by the 
 hype -- Chris Taylor could have done a lot better this time around... Too bad.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game, to start. While it has some shortcomings, it is definitely a top-tier 
 title. The actual gameplay mechanics are great, and the replayability is top-notch.
  
  The high point of this game is the scale. I don't know of any other strategy games that simulate 
 strategy on this scale. Most strategy games simulate either micromanagement (which this game does 
 have) on a small scale, or focus on unit tactics. In a round, this game will have you commanding 
 armies with a very intuitive UI from a tactical overlay. This is really the main appeal, don't 
 expect a warcraft-esque upgrade system.
  
  There are a few fundamental problems also. The game takes a while to start moving (around 30-45 
 minutes) , and everything leading up to that point is extremely formulaic. (Start out with 3 mass 
 extractors, 2 power plants, then a ground factory.. etc.) The game does really shine, as previously 
 mentioned, when you have a steady income and high unit production. Then you can focus on the battle, 
 which is very rewarding.
  
  The game ships with a large amount of maps, and a lackluster campaign. The three factions have 
 minimal plot and are very generic. Every mission basically plays out like a skirmish map, which 
 doesn't provide much incentive to play the campaign. Also, the factions don't play any different. 
 They have practically the same units, except for the experimental units. However, each does have 
 a very unique visual style which does add some spice to the game.
  
  The game looks amazing. While the technology isn't ground breaking, the amount of units fighting 
 simultaneously and density of the effects really make this game look amazing. It really has to 
 be seen in action to believe, and these scenes remind me alot of the climactic battle scenes in 
 the new star wars movies. On the downside, this game is very taxing on any current system. I play 
 with an AMD X2 4200+, 2 GB RAM, and a 7900GT (all OC'ed about 10-20%) , and I have performance issues. 
 The game is very stable, and has not crashed on me ever. Once a massive amount of units are in 
 play, the game can start to really lag up. On any given round, I start with 100-ish fps, but after 
 about an hour I get as low as 20 sometimes (at high presets) . There are some settings like LOD 
 that will give u significant performance boosts with minimal visual hit, so you can always get 
 the game to play decently if you are willing to sacrifice some visuals.
  
  The sounds are good, but not great. No complaints on the sound effects department. Everything sounds 
 powerful and sharp. The music is good, but very repetitive. There must be only 5 or so tracks and 
 they do really get very annoying. To their credit however, they are good and do suit the mood really 
 well.
  
  All in all, this game is very good. I recommend it to almost anyone who has an even mild interest 
 in rts games and also the hardware to run this. The thing that makes this game stand out, more 
 than anything, is the scale. If this sounds intruiging, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I got the game just after the release-day. I saw everything i expected from this game, but like 
 many others, i started to pick out what can make it even better.
  
  The most important thing of all RTS - gameplay. The first impression you will get from this game 
 would be the massive and stunning scale, just like the reviews and the screen shots said, so i 
 won't talk too much about it. Even if you zoom in at max, trees are still tiny , and you may suddenly 
 realize why the game doesn't include ground soldiers like C&amp; C, ha. The economic building sets 
 the game aside from all others. You will need Mass and Energy. Energy is easy to get, so in the 
 game you can transfer it to mass if neccessery, just careful not to over-done it or you may get 
 -1000... for your energy output. And unlike other rts, your resourses do not go wildly infinite 
 if you wait , there is a limit depending on how many storage devices you have, and the destruction 
 of those by enemies can harshly cripple your growth. Also something new introduced to the structure-building 
 is the effeciency thing. As many of you may already know, how fast your factories can build is 
 largely depended on how many energey generators are connected to it on each side, the more the 
 better of course. The thing you need to note is how to connect them to give the max output, and 
 that need some base-planning. Enough of the sim city, let's jump into some close actions.... With 
 air, naval, and land units all under your command, there are endless ways you can play to achieve 
 your goal. I played for some hours now, the basic strategy i found is know your enemy -send scout, 
 choose units -decide the what is the most effective units combination according to the info u gethered, 
 and where to strike -choose the weakest part of your enemy's base. things like way-points, coordinated 
 attcks between air, land, naval units, are things you need to master to win. When the battle begin, 
 it is a pleasure to watch, not just the sacle, but the little things like burning trees, wreckeges, 
 realistic explosions, camera shake..... all are bonuses added to the fun factor.
  
  The only thing i disliked is the lack of variation between units. What i'm saying is, for each 
 unit belong to a faction, there is always a counter-part form each of the other 2 races. For example, 
 all the 3 races have destroyer, cruiser, frigate, sub.... from the same tech levels, and there is 
 almost no diffrence between them except the looking. this apply to nearly all units in the game. 
 i'm really wishing for some uniqueness 
  
  Second important thing - Graphic
  
  Yes, the units, and terrain are highly detailed (if you have a good pc) , and generally speaking 
 this is one of the most up to date RTS'. But, somehow i feel the clolor and details  
 It miss some good things from Company of heros , like the iron-like rusty , and dusty, realistc 
 terrain, which can surely add lots realism to the game. The others i cannot comment about since 
 i havn't play that much, but yes, sure go get it if you have a high-end pc (suggest anything above 
 7800, a relatively good dual core cpu, and least 2G ram, my pc is better than that and i still 
 had tons of lag in hundreds-unit battle) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dri6115
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  As so many other people i have awaited this Sequel to Total Annihilation for a while. TA introduced 
 something new to the RTS genre back in 1997 ... yes, 10 years ago. And this was after Dune 2 and 
 especially C&amp; C had set the bar pretty damn high.
  
  I will try illustrate why this game just isn't good enough for 2007 (and basically not good enough 
 at all)
  
  New features.
  
  The only thing that has been added, is the ability to zoom out and get an overview of the battlefield, 
 which is nice... i guess... one of the things i noticed in the all-zoomed-out mode was, that you 
 could see shells from AA (Anti-Aircraft) for instance.. why??? What use is that to me and by all 
 thats holy, how does this add anything to the game...
  
  A. I. where?
  
  It impresses me almost beyond belief, that in nearly 10 years (and more if you count back to the 
 glory days of Dune 2 and
  Command &amp; Conquer) there is still no sign of the developer spending more than maybe 10 minutes 
 to look at the A. I. coding.
  Imagine my disappointment, when i discovered that the old Build Base and when base if properly 
 defended with passive defenses, swarm enemy with tanks, missile launcher and other stuff (ships 
 and subs in the aqua scenarios) actually still works (does anyone remember the tank swarms in Red 
 Alert 2? Same thing)
  
  Are they stupid?
  
  In every single scenario, start by figuring out, from which angle the enemy attacks and then build 
 10 AA turrets and 10 Cannons, keep them updated tech wise and you're set. No tank will penetrate 
 this (because basically they come in deaf and dumb) and the brunt will be taken out of ANY air 
 raid if you spread a handful more AA around your base. Never ever does the enemy think: Ohh, let 
 me take a look at the map. Maybe i should try attacking from another angle this time... and perhaps 
 i should try with tanks, since ive lost 2000 plains in the last half hour 
  
  For instance, in one scenario, i am supposed to build a Gate and receive/send some stuff. Ok, gate 
 is built, but alas, nothing will come through, until i eliminate some mighty artillery cannons 
 that suddenly appears as the game map expands. Why on earth did the enemy wait until the gate was 
 built to use these and why do i have unlimited time to build shields, nukes and other goodies while 
 the only thing that the devs has seen fit to harass me is about 15 plains (at this point in time 
 my base contained maybe 50 AA turrets and an untold number AA tanks, which i had build primarily 
 because i was bored) .
  
  What's the rush?
  
  The game is not fun and never exciting. Your adviser will pop-up once in a while and say Hurry, 
 ooh hurry , but nothing ever happens. The zoom.
  
  As stated the all-zoomed-out is kinda useless and there is no reason to zoom in and watch the units, 
 because even at maximum zoom, there is almost none of the details that one would expect from such 
 a game. Sure you can see some mech arms moving around, but nothing like watching a small scout 
 buggy in Total Annihilation moving up a hill, while it rocked back and forth on its shock absorbers, 
 as it hit small mounds of dirt and what not... all in all, you will probably end up playing SC in 
 some kind of medium zoom mode, where you can see the individual units, but still retain some overview.
 
  
  Wash, Rinse, Repeat
  
  And finally, why don't the enemy ever expands his base (s) . He hardly even seems to bother with 
 rebuilding what i thrash. Sometimes he will try and repair his damage buildings, but if he tries 
 this, the only thing you need to do is to kill his builderbots and he will continue to produce 
 these on and on and on... and send them to the exact same spot.
  
  I could go on, but i'll just move along and hope that Westwood eehh.. EA once again will renew 
 the genre, because Supreme Command adds nothing at all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSmileyFace
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Man when they said that this game was gonna be huge i thought it was gonna be really popular not 
 real size wise. The maps on this game IS GIANT. I couldnt believe how big they were when i first 
 got it today. The games size is definetly a plus and also i like the way they set up the story 
 line. Sure their isnt any heros or anything but i like the way that they made each side totally 
 seperate fighting for something they believe in and because of that no side is really evil. One 
 down side is because it is so huge it takes a lot to run it. I have a Geforce 7600 GT with 2 GB 
 of RAM and a 1.86 Intel Core 2 Duo and i got to some laggy parts in the biggest maps. All aside 
 i really just love how massive the wars can really become if you just give it time and really mass 
 up your units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok... there's been a lot of talk abou this game.
  how are you going to be able to keep control of so many units?
  how can you finish games on such 
 giant maps?
  what kinda computer do you need to play this game?
  well.... the answers are easy, first off, you can zoom out all the way so you can see all your 
 units and you can use hotkeys to select and group them. also you can set patrol and movement paths 
 that can me changed by dragging them around with reselecting everything and starting the whole 
 thing over again... PLUS it has an ETA timer so you know when your group is gonna get there.
  second off, if your opponent is turtling, you ca nuse teh map size to manuever around and attack 
 him on all sides... any base will go down if you have hundreds of units attacking on all sides 
 and from the air... also the nukes are freakin HUGE!!! and experimental units escimate literally 
 everything in their path, but they all have a weakness so defend them where they need it.
  third off, well... your gonna need a pretty good comp to get this one going... i usually get close 
 to 500 units in my attack group befoer i attack, so once the action gets up this gae starts lagging... 
 but not too bad, plus i can always zoom out to reduce poly count and then use the mini map (YES!!! 
 even the mini map can zoom in and out all the way) to watch the fighting.
  a lot of people try dissing this game, but thars because they are rather bad at it or havent played 
 against someone that challenges them. In good fights, the battles arent only in the center or at 
 eachothers bases like in many other RTSs, in AOE, the fighting was primarily in the middle area 
 between the bases and in the bases... same with BFME2 and EE... here in Sup Com, the fighting is 
 for strategic points, like an island you could use as an airstrip or put an artilary on it, or 
 for mass deposites, or an area the gives clear room for building a second or third, or if your 
 like me, fourth base.
  battles cant be won by spamming your best unit... you need to use them all.... if you use only 
 T3 siege bots... they'll kill you with gunships or battleships... if you only use airplanes, they'll 
 throw all sorts of AA at you and then use units like the GC to walk over to yuor base and destroy 
 it... balancing air, land and sea is important... also keeping defences and artilary is important.
 
  i could go on forever about how diferent stragities can bring down even the best players if they 
 neglect to defend against a certain force... This game is truely something else
  Ever since Total Annihilation, I've always wanted to play an RTS that had that many units... just 
 thousands of units on the map blasting eachother and leaving battlefields littered with wreckage 
 and craters... this is that game!! SUPREME COMMANDER IS THE BEST RTS... BEST GAME EVER MADE!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usdm85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Supremem Commander is a game for the ages, just like its semi-predecessor Total Annihalation. 
 Many of TA's features have been brought into SC and has made it a great game.
  
  At first look I was skeptical, the maps seemed plain, the units seemed cartoonish and cheesy with 
 their bright colors and anime-like appearance in some cases, spiderbots, gundam looking ACUs. I 
 was excitied that the game has dual monitor support, finally something that use use both my screens! 
 I downloaded the demo and everytime I played I found myself liking the game even more. The multitude 
 of features and possibilities keep me playing again and again. The game appeals to virtually any 
 player-style out there. Whether you devote yourself to creating an impenetrable fortress of doom, 
 or rushing masses of units across miles of open ground in a blitzkreig of death and destruction, 
 or anything in between.
  
  One of the greatest features of the game is the system of waypoints, the ability to cue up an infinit 
 amount of build orders, or to ferry huge armies around the map with a few simple clicks, I applaud 
 the designers for their innovation.
  
  The drawbacks, though few, are there beneath the glamor. One thing I found myself missing was the 
 ability to lay mines, something that would have worked out great with both sea and land situations. 
 Another thing that bothers me is the lack of creativity the maps posses, there is little detail, 
 although on an 81km x 81km map I suppose detail would be overlooked anyhow.
  
  In total if you only buy a game every once in a while I highly recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirmetreus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is just an awesome game to play. When you first play it, its hard to get into 
 it. Most players might be unfamiliar with the way an ACU works, and the lack of a Headquarters.
 
  
  Its very hard on your first play, since the resource system is also unique. Rather than stock piling 
 this and that, or gaining regular intervals of cash, Your resource is constant and comes from a 
 stack of generators and mass extractors/fabricators.
  
  After a while, you get used to it. the minimap is small and cramped, so your'll quickly get used 
 to using the strategic zoom function. Now this is where the game really kicks off - you have an 
 entire thearter of war to command from, and see everything through your intel gathering scouts.
 
  
  Soon, your'll start waging HUGE attacks, and the theater will become your best friend. But theres 
 one big problem - attacking.
  
  You could spam for hours, and melting down an enemy base is just really hard. This is where the 
 strategy begins - You need artilery, mixed air/sea/ground to win. However, some of the maps are 
 really restricting - so you can't do anything other than spam this single unit type.
  
  This makes the game very difficult and frustrating, especially the single player campaign. Its 
 really annoying to be forced into a naval assault - only to have it all destroyed by the computers 
 huge spam of torpedo turrets.
  
  The games redeming feature here is the multiplayer, and even thats marred by a cheap lobby - theres 
 nothing worst than a seperate lobby from the game. In a modern game, its not simply a detracting 
 feature, its a disgrace. You'd expect most games, even those cheap gamespy ones - to have intergrated 
 lobbies. If starcraft can do that, you damn well expect a modern game to do so.
  
  Another problem is system specs. If you not on 64bit or Dual Core, your stuffed. At least then 
 you can play the game on low settings, but then you need a graphics card to handle anything else. 
 and why not have one of those flashy DX10 cards with vista to take use of the special effects?
 
  
  The sound effects are awesome. The giant lasers, burning sounds and explosions arent enough, its 
 the dramatical music.
  
  Skirmish AI has a massive selection - from teching to rushing, or slight buildtime big tidal wave, 
 but this eliminates the mystery of a CPU opponent, and they still don't match up to computer opponents.
 
  
  Overall:
  The games great, with a wonderful finish and possibly the most indepth strategy basis to date. 
 If it isnt for the sheer complexity and difficulty that puts you off (which can be learnt) its 
 definately the lobby that will put you off after you finish the singleplayer. Game after game returning 
 to the most ugly black thing ever. and starting and restarting after you don't connect to a game 
 gets incredibly annoying.
  
  Your sure to get your monies worth out of SupCom - but you expect more for multiplayer with a modern 
 game. Its a breath of fresh air is a genre thats starting to get stale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlyseal
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Are the maps in this game huge? Bigger than a Star Jones trapped in Au Bon Pain.. Are there hundreds 
 of units on the screen at once? Like bugs on Anna Nicole.. Is it innovative, engaging or beautiful? 
 Not even close.
  
  Let me explain..
  I was just as excited as any other strat gamer when I heard about SupCom but was quickly disappointed 
 after playing through the short campaign, skirmish and multiplayer mode. Graphics/Gameplay: Though 
 the game looks pretty good zoomed in to the unit level, you spend a majority of the battle in a 
 zoom mode they should call God's Nether Region . Here your massive shiny armies are reduced to 
 tiny icons that can be difficult to distinguish in the heat of battle. There is no way to manage 
 this game if youre not fully zoomed out or at least far enough out to view the continents, unless 
 yourve had a few RedBalls.. :: Insert generic RTS formula here:: -gather energy and mass See Also: 
 wood, ore, gold, tiberium, food.
  -deal commands: move, patrol, defend, attack, build, repair
  -Rush, Turtle, Tech to the Bomb 
 (-_-) zzzzzZZZZZZZZ
  
  Depth: Everyone touts this as a BIG game but the only big thing about it is the map area. Like 
 a farmer who feeds his pigs expired cake and candy to make a profit at market this game quickly 
 deflates in a few days with a foul odor. Every race has the same units and buildings that all function 
 the exact same way . Their only difference are the graphical facade associated with each race. 
 As far as I can tell, there are only nine exclusive units in this game that you: A. Never survive 
 long enough to start making B. Youve already decimated your opponent and youre really lonely on 
 Friday night with 8 hours to spare The experimental units i'm talking about are all some form of 
 the Spider crawler from Rise of Legends, one of the MechWarriors, a moving factory and the Attack 
 Saucer from Independence Day complete with center mounted death ray. Where's the Death Star?!?! 
 Sound: Who cares..
  
  Bottom Line: The amount of fresh new ideas developers are produciong for RTS gameplay is comparable 
 to the chances Paris Hilton doesn't have a venereal disease..
  
  Why can't the races have different methods of extracting resources or creating energy? Why do all 
 three races follow the same technological path? Supreme Commander is an OK, generic RTS with a 
 large view but thats as far as i'm going to praise it. It feels more like a Mad Max destruction 
 derby than a sophisticated clash of technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrago
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought this game and I love it.
  
  Gameplay: it is very fun to play with all three factions, the zoom thing is cool to but I say that 
 my AI is worst then the comp AI I mean I build up a 200 Tech II heavy tanks with the UEF and instead 
 of going all in one block they go in a line (A very long line) so each one of them is enering the 
 DANGER zone alone and die quickly so this is the only problem.
  
  graphics: Amazing nothing else to say.
  
  Sound: I could have been better.
  
  value: In 
 my country it costs 300 NIS which is 75$ which is not alot but it could be in a lower price.
  
  Conclsion: The wet dream of a strategy fun so buy it and enjoy it. Just wait for patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acervartan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  SC is excellent needless to say. There are few key things that make it so good though:
  
  1) Cuing: you can cue EVERTHING and it really takes the headache out of micromanagement. Everything 
 from construction, to production of units to combat to movement can be cued and in any combination. 
 You can assign a construction unit to build a series of building, move somewhere else, build some 
 more and then begin help another's project all by holding the shift key. Changes to the cuing are 
 also easily made if you want to change something. I really like how you can cue attack orders such 
 as sending a squadron of fighters to take out a series of targets on the map and then return home. 
 Given how large some of the maps are, this feature is critical. 2) Scale: Not only are the maps 
 large but the scale of development is also large. It can take 10, 20, 30 minutes of actual game 
 play to get the larger unit/buildings up and running some take even longer. That said, most take 
 only a few minutes or less but this building scale really reinforces the strategy of planning your 
 construction ahead. It also means your opponent cant just crank out a bunch of new hardware minutes 
 after you delivery a crippling attack. Now, there is an advantage to raids and non-full out attacks 
 as you can cripple key production that will be felt and hour later in the game by your enemy. Some 
 people may balk at having to wait so long for experimental unit construction but it really works 
 for the game.
  
  3) Unit variety. While there is essentially no difference between factions (except the experimental 
 units and certain upgrade options for your commander) , the units are fun and varied and allow a 
 lot of choice in strategy. Yes, the game is slow as a dead beaver on any of the larger maps or 
 with lots of AI. Hopefully they will optimize it in the future, but cranking down the graphics 
 is a viable solution and since the zoom is so flexible, running at lower rez isnt that big of 
 a deal since there is no limit on how far out you can zoom. As well, except for the smallest maps, 
 be prepared for a few sessions to finish a game.
  
  Skirmish (my favourite mode) is flexible and gives you all the features you want. AI is good though 
 still falls into some fairly repetitive patterns. The campaigns are good and slowly expose you 
 to the different units and strategies. Naval has been well implemented as has air, so you wont 
 be just using ground forces in the game.
  
  Definitely the best RTS released since Generals but is very different and more like a turn based 
 strategy game (but not turn based) . Given that it is only $40CND, the value is huge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterspeed4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander... bringing a new name to the genre RTS it has advanced controles what only take 
 1 or 2 hours to get a hang of from the ultra zoom to the building ques... multiplayer with 8 people 
 online with nukes in there hand its best to fight off the enemy as soon as you get in a game and 
 istead of the old gold iron and stone methed you now have mass and engergy mass well... is made 
 by pumps what are scatard around the map and engergy you have to make your self but with great 
 graphics and sounds this RTS game posibley will be making about 7 more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander has had a lot of hype surrounding it. People speaking highly of it through the 
 public beta testing and the numerous previews by countless websites all led the public to beleive 
 that the game was revolutionary, innovative, and a breath of fresh air. In my opinion, the game 
 is quite the opposite: despite all the hype surrounding this game, Supreme Commander is nothing 
 more than a Total Annhilation update. That doesn't mean it isnt fun though.
  
  Any Total Annihilation veterans will immediately recognize gamepaly elements that are torn straight 
 from that game years ago. Players are thrust into the role of a commander, a mechanized behomoth 
 that acts as a main builder unit and a battlefield commander. You start out by building structures 
 over metal deposits to harvest metal resources, and you build power generators to generate the 
 energy resource. Unlike most RTS games, players are not giving a lump sum of cash each time a resource 
 is collected. Instead, resources are generated and spent at a constant rate. For example, if you 
 are building a structure that drains 9 metal and 15 energy, and your metal generation is 14 and 
 your energy 200, the net resource intake will be 4 metal and 185 energy. This is extremely handy 
 for generating the large amount of units required in the game.
  
  Speaking of large amounts of units, the battles in this game are absolutely massive. Even early 
 in the game a player will need upwards of 30 tanks, 14 antiaircraft units, a dozen or so artillery 
 units, and a handful of other miscellaneous units to assault a base... and he or she still might 
 not overtake the base. This leads to great battles, and coordinating all these units is a pleasant 
 challege as the developers provided an assortment of tools (attacking and movement ques, coordinated 
 strikes, etc) to help the player defeat their enemies. While the lower level units are interestng, 
 players soon gain access to tier 3 and experimental units which are simply a blast to play with. 
 Huge artillery guns that can send shell kilometers down range, stealth bombers, mechanized walkers 
 with giant cannons in each hand.... the list goes on. And seeing these units en masse as they clash 
 with enemy army will give any player a warm fuzzy feeling... something reminiscent of watching those 
 battles in the movie Braveheart.
  
  Sound is pretty dull in this game. While their is good bass to go with the explosions, there seems 
 as if a lack of effort was put into the audio effects while playing the game. Fortunately, mission 
 briefings are told through dialog that is top notch and often gets me pumped up for the next battle.
 
  
  Visually, Supreme Commander is an odd mix. While it looks great on a medium grade rig or higher, 
 the visuals make a sharp drop if played on anything lower than a dual core with a 7600 series card. 
 Ground textures are dull and flat, and units also have dull textures despite being extremely detailed 
 with moving parts. It would have been nice to see a little more effort nthe texture department 
 of the game.
  
  My biggest problem with this game is that it seems like a ripoff of Total Annihilation. I know 
 it is supposed to be the spritual successor to Total Annihilation, but it would have been nice 
 to see some innovation in this update. I would almost go so far as to call Supreme Commander a 
 remake of Total Annihilation.
  
  Play this game if:
  -You loved Total Annihilation.
  -Youre an RTS fanatic.
  
  Avoid this game if:
  -Youre looking for something new and different.
 
  -You have a lower-end or dated computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storm21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Even with all the sweet features like strategic zoom, simulated warfare vs rock-paper-scissor format, 
 and a fully 3D environment, Supreme Commander remains a flashy upgrade to Chris Taylors original 
 Total Annihilation. If your computer can't handle the flashy graphics, then it's basically TA in 
 3D, but not too much more. That aside, if you are a TA junkie like me, you will not scoff at this 
 grandeur upgrade over performance: so many elements are still available from TA to make this game 
 a must-have RTS for 2007.
  
  As many have suggested, the pleasure one receives from this game is relative to what kind of system 
 one has. In my opinion, this really is not as bad as it seems: if you have a 3-4 year old system 
 (as I do) running with a single-core 2.66 GHz processor, a Radeon 9550 256 MB Graphics Card, and 
 1 Gig of DDRAM... it's time to upgrade buddy.
  
  Think it not as a hindrance to your gaming experience until you upgrade; rather, take it as a kick 
 in the butt to actually make that upgrade!
  
  However, if you do buy a new system -- a word out to computer newbies -- do NOT buy Windows Vista: 
 get XP Pro with a free upgrade coupon for Vista when games will actually use it well.
  
  Overall, I would give this game an 9.0. It would be higher, but the gameplay (not talking about 
 the new interface here, which is excellent) , in my mind, hasn't changed much from Total Annihilation, 
 and the music is definitely a down-grade from the epic music fans remember from TA. These issues 
 can be easily dealt with, though, by implementing mods made by the SupCom community and by playing 
 your own epic music (think TA soundtrack) in the background. Furthermore, I gave Value such a high 
 score simply because this game is ENTIRELY moddable: ever wanted to have a revision of Starcraft 
 or an epic Star Wars simulation? Well, now it's possible. Changing the interface and internal organs 
 of this game is what, in my opinion, will make gamers return to SupCom for all their RTS needs 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zogman81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Only spending a few hours on this game so far it has been a lot of fun though I do have to play 
 it on my work computer. (3.4, Dual Core, 7900GTX, 3 gigs of ram) And it does play very smoothly 
 with all of the settings turned up pretty high even when you get large armies built up and tons 
 of buildings. Unfortunately my home computer needs to be upgraded for this game and I would say 
 that is one of the only downfalls, you need a powerful computer to play it. The sound could have 
 been better. I am mostly referring to the lack of voice over sounds when you click on units. The 
 sound effects on the other hand are great.
  
  I have played a lot of RTS games and this has to be one of the best ones I have played. Similar 
 to Rise of Nations, also a game I enjoyed. I love how large you can build your bases and the giant 
 armies you can create. I am disapointed in Gamespots review of this game, lately it seems like 
 they are giving good games lower scores and bad games higher scores? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  While the game is very impressive from a technical standpoint, though not flawless, it fails to 
 get me emotionally invested. I prefer my games to be like SC, C&amp; C or WC - in those games resources 
 and land control are important, but if you really want you can take a small 12 unit team and cause 
 mayhem as well by playing smart.
  
  That's not easily done in SupCom. Leading to game play being somewhat one-dimensional. It's all 
 about big strategic in-your-face battles and very little room for sneak attacks etc. It's a hard 
 feeling to describe but it feels like playing in slow-motion. Almost everything that happens you 
 could have guessed would happen 30 min before it actually happens.
  
  I also miss the vibrant characters from SC, C&amp; C and WC. The game's storyline is generic and 
 the individual units are forgettable machines other than for the damage they cause to the enemy.
 
  
  This game was meant to played in multi-player and as such a game I believe it has it's merits. 
 However - the single player campaigns are totally forgettable and uninspiring. C&amp; C 3 will prove 
 just how flawed SupCom really is... mark my words.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  I know i and a lot of others have been eagerly awaiting Supreme Commander with what can only be 
 described as severe impatience. Well now its out the game doesnt dissapoint. The first thing im 
 going to mention is the graphics. They are beautiful, to watch a skirmish is nice but to watch 
 a large scale battle is an experience. Its a rare time when playing a game is actually quite rewarding. 
 The scale of the game too appears to have justified the hype. This may be one of the first recent 
 strategy games which requires you to work around problems instead of just charging into them. You 
 have to figure out where your enemy is weakest and strike or perhaps even go around to the back 
 door and send several hundred units into it. The ai does a convincing job of working out ways to 
 take you down, especially on the harder levels so even if you dont like online play it should be 
 enough to entertain you for a while. The tech tree although not inspirational is certainly adequate 
 for a game of this size. i cant help feeling that although we have land, air and sea units that 
 it would be nicer to have maybe a bigger variety of unit per team to get a bigger feel of difference 
 between them. This is only a minor gripe however. My largest moan and one which unfortunatly cant 
 be overlooked is how much of your pc this game eats up. My PC is by no means slow with a dual core 
 athlon 4600 and a 7900 512mb graphics card and 2 gig of 3200 DDR ram but i cant play the larger 
 battles without putting all video settings to low and even then the stuttering is almost game stopping. 
 I think by the time affordable pcs are powerful enough to run this game there will be better games 
 out. In my eyes this is a huge problem and one that stops this game being a classic. To have the 
 large battle capabilities at your fingers (or in your dvd drive) and not be able to utilise them 
 is hudely frustrating. The sound does a good job of emersing you in the atmosphere but is neither 
 a good or bad point of the game. To summerise
  + The graphics are great + The scale is immense and offers many tactics until now unusable
  + 
 its hard not to get immersed in such an atmospherical + The AI holds its own very nicely - The 
 power drain on current pcs is ludicrous - Could do with a few more units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  well am really shocked when i got the game and started my first skirmish game cuz when i first 
 got the beta and the demo i was really bored by building nuclear power in a time exceeding an hour 
 that was horrible so i thought in the retail it will be different
  but noo
  yeah i understand the fact that it has a bit of real strategy simulation but still you cant spend 
 over an hour to get the needed tech and another 2 hours to build the nuclear warhead thats insane
 
  the game gfx is really attractive never seen like it in an rts game though thats what makes me 
 play it actually the A. I. is quiet impressive from most of the RTS i played before
  the sounds really needs a bit of fixing since most of the units voices come from the center speaker 
 although i have an XFI card with 7.1 system but still when i choose any unit even with the preseted 
 key ctr+1 for ex. i still hear them in the center even am at the right corner of the screen.
  when you first start a skirmish game its very interesting and you start to watch those amazing 
 gfx of the game as the game start to take over an hour you start feeling bored (at least me) the 
 HARD A. I. is amazing it really has some quiet impressive actions against what you built.
  you can stay for like 4 hours and not finish a game if you and the opponent are at the same level 
 which really kills me to stay 4 hours in front of only 1 game its not chess ppl its an RTS.
  other then that the game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirasus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Right, what do we know? This game's big, very big, in both senses of the word. This sets new standards 
 for RTS's that just haven't been attempted before. The sheer scale of the battles, are awe-inspiring, 
 and as we've heard from the Gamespot reviewer, it lets you really be creative and tactical, something 
 which has never fully done in any other RTS.
  
  It is incredibly addictive, and the huge battles also invoke huge motivation to get one up on your 
 opponent. To think of a strategy that makes a sharp impact unexpectedly, makes you feel somewhat 
 proud.
  
  The game is also apparently very moddable, which reminds me of games such as Unreal Tournament 
 (which is of course completely different being a First-Person-Shooter, and this being a Real-Time-Strategy) . 
 Admittedly I have not researched this much yet, especially as the game have only just been released, 
 and look forward to seeing what this presents in the future.
  
  The learning curve in this review, I found very difficult to write. This is because you cannot 
 simply learn the game and how to play it. You must experiment with different tactics, of which 
 are in great abundance, and find which one suits you the best. Even then you cannot simply use 
 one strategy as you must continually adapt it to your opponent, and sometimes change it for a surprise!
 
  
  But why a 10?!!!
  
  Yes, the factions have very limited differences. Yet this is not something to dislike too much. 
 As technology advances, all factions like this are going to share in the same technology, which 
 means that it is the tactics and the largest weapons such as the experimental units that make the 
 difference. Making the experimental units the main differences in the armies basically shows that 
 although all sides have the same technology, it is the overall faction personality that differentiates 
 them.
  
  Yes, it brings systems to their knees, yes, you end up turning down the detail, but this game, 
 even though it's out and we're playing it, is set to play fantastically in the future. Imagine 
 how satisfying it will be if you finally buy a system in the future that can run this game on max! 
 It reminds me of the next-gen consoles that are emerging, incredibly powerful systems that just 
 haven't been taken full advantage of yet.
  
  That's why I'm giving it a 10, I think judging the game on what it can do, and what it will do, 
 is more important than the small things that it can't do at this moment in time and to me, this 
 is a game I will be tracking and playing for a long time to come.
  
  ... and lets face it, the gameplay is amazing - 10, the graphics are inspiring - 10, the sound is 
 well thought about and can be very effective - 10, and finally, this game sets new standards and 
 is unlike any RTS before it so value to me = 10.
  
  Fantastic un-biased Gamespot review too, cheers ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooq
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  This game is massive. The sheer scale of the battlefields are almost intimidating at first look. 
 The campaign really gets you situated with the game's scale, as you start out small and the map 
 expands as you progress. If the multiplayer is half as good as the campaign, this game should be 
 legendary. Sadly, I've only played the demo. The seamless integration of the dual screen option 
 is probably the best thing ever. I haven't seen another game do it, and what better venue then 
 the latest, largest RTS. The only reason this game has below a nine in my book at this point is 
 because of the lack of story whilst playing. You don't really get a sense of a theme while you 
 are playing other than the consistency of your unit/building designs. There are plenty of variables 
 to keep you busy however, sometimes a little too busy. There hasn't been a time where I could stop 
 clicking, there is always a wall to be erected or a turret to be upgraded, so as with any great 
 RTS, strategy is key! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parthohaque
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is the flagship game of the genre and i say it because of two reasons. Firstly this is the 
 best RTS game i have ever played. Secondly, the core of this game is very similar to that of any 
 typical RTS game -----build a base and stabilize it, build an army, improve your base, strengthen 
 you army, etc. This game may even feel oddly familiar to a few gamers. so whats the hype about?
 
  
  Although gas powered games havent added any NEW revolutionary features they have altered and improved 
 almost every aspect of this genre making the game revolutionary in many ways. From the design and 
 variety of the structures, units and terrain to the size of the maps and population limit, they 
 have changed it all. So although the main objectives are similar the way in which you will achieve 
 your goal has been greatly changed.
  
  The huge maps allow for humongous and long battles. Also owing to the size of the maps now when 
 you attack your enemy you will have to consider you tactics much more than you would have to in 
 any other RTS game. Concerning this they HAVE added a new feature. The coordinated strike feature 
 lets two different armies constituted of different units attack the same base at the same time 
 and so making the offensive more effective.
  
  The AI of this game is very smart too. It continuosly comes up with new ways to ruin your day and 
 even i have had up with new tactics to win. The different units and the sheer number that you can 
 build will provide you with many options to destroy you foes. As the only 2 resources in the game, 
 mass and energy, are generated by your own structures you can build as big an army as you like 
 and theres virtually no limit to expanding you base. So the battles are almost always huge and 
 fierce involving hundreds and hundreds of units. During one of these you will realise how impressive 
 the size of the giant units actually are. The smaller units look are dwarfed by the biggest and 
 the large units make full use of their size advantage.
  
  The units of the different races, though they look different, act quite similar. The huge bots 
 destroy every thing they see that does not bear the same color as itself and they are very good 
 at that. While the smaller units weave in and out and keep relentlessly attacking their foes. Naval 
 warfare according to me was quite impressive but, i dont know if it was something with my playing 
 style, the aerial units didnt last long. Nuking your enemies is extremely satisfactory and the 
 Commander makes killing look like a walk in the park.
  
  One GREAT thing about this game is the ability to create a list of commands for a unit so that 
 it'll perform a series of tasks without you having to order it every single time. And it is very 
 easy to use all the different options that this game provides. complicated things can be done very 
 easily. its so easy that you can develop your base, fortify it, build more units and attack your 
 enemy all at the same time. The scale, variety and system of this game makes it stand head and 
 shoulders above the rest.
  
  However all this doesnt come free and you'll have to pay in the form of PC upgrades if you want 
 to enjoy this game to the max. As the graphics are great and in battles MANY units are gonna be 
 involved your pc will have a hard time displaying. But i found that the framerate can be improved 
 considerably by reducing the graphics. But you will miss quite a bit of the fun in low graphics 
 such as the huge explosions.
  
  This is a dream come true for RTS lovers as many limitations (such as population) are virtually 
 removed and although it plays just like a typical RTS theres a lot of variety. Gamers new to this 
 genre will find this game a very good starting point. Thanks Mr. Taylor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are decent, but I can't help but feeling like the units are toys when zoomed 
 up close. High settings can &amp; do bring a high end system like mine to its knees on huge maps 
 / huge battles. Low settings don't really look that different than high settings, but you'll experience 
 a phenomenal boost in performance.
  
  Interface: The interface is purely awesome.. Seamless map/tactical display is a feature every game 
 should have (you can zoom out seamlessly to a huge map of the whole area) . On top of that, this 
 game is meant to support dual monitors - you can have one screen running the zoomed-out map, and 
 the other the up close view (or you can set them to view two different areas up close, or any combination 
 you can imagine) . Being able to set waypoints for units is fantastic too, instead of individually 
 catering to a unit.. you can have it attack here, here, here... go around this, attack this and 
 this too.. come back for fuel/repair, then go back and attack these guys.. - it's GREAT for taking 
 out the enemy's mass pumps (a needed resource) . The pane with all your tools is a bit big (it should 
 be thinner.. because it takes up quite a bit of the screen) , fortunately.. this game supports modifications 
 &amp; I think there are already some interface mods out there.
  
  Gameplay: The campaign modes are short. Luckily there's skirmish &amp; multiplayer modes to mess 
 around in with your friends. Although I have a gripe about the AI: either it totally sucks... or 
 it overwhelms the crap out of you. That said... you can control like 1000 units at a time. Granted, 
 if your computer isn't high end.. you'll be clutching your mouse as your system grinds to a slow 
 pace.
  
  Units/Tech: This game has some pretty cool stuff; shields &amp; 'doomsday' (nuclear) weapons.. 
 Overall the game is good in this aspect, but as I said before.. the units look like toys.
  
  Sound: Could be better, but it's not crap by any measure.
  
  Replay value: Eh, this is 
 hard to judge.. I'm not a huge strategy gamer, so I really don't come back to play them after I've 
 beat them once or twice through (depending on how many different campaigns there are) . It's just 
 not ground breaking like Starcraft was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Photon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is so immersive, I played for 8 hours in one sitting and thought only an hour went bye. 
 There is so much to do and watch in this game, that time will fly by. It takes a powerful machine 
 to run it at full graphics and not get any stutter. You don't have to turn the graphics down much 
 to get a good frame rate. It also makes you think about what your doing and how your doing it. 
 I thought I had an army strong enough to wipe out my neighbor and I went on the attack, only to 
 find out that he not only moved his base, but when I finally did find him, he had so many different 
 kinds of weapons and machines, he destroyed me in a short amount of time. I thought I knew a lot 
 about RTS, and I do know something about strategy gaming, however, there are so many different 
 ways, tactics and weapons or weapon platforms that can be used or made in Supreme Commander, that 
 I feel like I'm starting over in the learning process. Which to me, is more fun then I imagined. 
 Finally, a game that not only makes you think, but makes you find new tactics to destroy your enemy.
 
  And as of the writing of this review, my neighbor and I are tied with a victory a piece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the coolest, and best, games to come out in a long time. It's an RTS 
 in theory, but it plays more like a massive futuristic war sim. It's really quite cool.
  
  The three factions are all interesting, and are extremely well balanced. The only problem is that 
 they aren't too different (especially when compared to factions of games like Warcraft or Starcraft, 
 but that's beside the point) . However, they do play uniquely, and when you throw in the amazing 
 experimental units for each side, you have factions with distinct playstyles.
  
  The graphics are quite good, but only if you have a very good system. The game is definitely a 
 system hog, and could push many systems to the limit. This is one of the biggest downsides, but 
 the game is so good that it's almost worth upgrading your computer just for this.
  
  The scale though is what makes the game so unique. Maps are 80km X 80km in area, and there can 
 be hundreds, if not thousands of units on screen at once. The game does a good job making it possible 
 to reder all these highly detailed units well. Along with all the units, you can set up long range 
 artillery, launch missiles (including nukes) , organize huge air forces and navies, and all sorts 
 of things. It's really cool.
  
  Anyway, if your system can handle the game (try the demo) , then the game is definitely worth getting 
 to compliment your RTS collection. Also, pick up Company of Heroes, both games are completely different 
 and will keep you busy for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoloJon
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes, unfortunately I didn't find much to like about Total Annihilation 2, I mean, Supreme Commander. 
 It feels very much like its predecessor, but unfortunately without much more than a graphical upgrade 
 and some bells and whistles. It does innovate, however, with a great zoom function (have seen this 
 in other games throughout the years, but not as well executed.
  
  Story-wise, it feels a bit weak (although the cinematics are nice and the overall polish on the 
 interface and integration is superb) , with a third race shoe-horned into the conflict.
  
  I have played many RTS games over the years, and while I'll not call myself an expert, Supreme 
 Commander left me wanting more of a mission-based tutorial rather than just static movies to watch. 
 The first few missions do a fair job of introducing new terrain and weapons (didn't have the patience 
 to get to the super-weapons -- more's the pity) -- but other players (especially those that are particularly 
 good at mass micromanagement) may not have quite the frustration. That being said, I still believe 
 the difficulty should ramp up a little further into the game, once one has a handle on the unit 
 types, how they are used, etc.
  
  Graphically there are some nice touches, but like Total Annihilation, the races and units are a 
 little blasee and while they are distinct among races (mostly because of the bright colours used) , 
 the units themselves aren't quite as identifiable as the units in say, Homeworld. Using combined 
 arms is still a struggle, despite the updated queueing system.
  
  Overall, I wanted to like Supreme Commander, and am loathe to just uninstall it without giving 
 it another go (perhaps on a different difficulty setting) , but there is only so much time I can 
 waste on missions, chastised for being slow (but not quick enough to mount a massive army of clones 
 to match the AI) -- and basically when I am motivated to uninstall the game after an extended play 
 session, I take it as not a good sign and a waste of my somewhat valuable time.
  
  Perhaps I need to go back to RTS school, yes, but then again, it's my belief that games should 
 be more fun than challenge (if one has to choose) , and unfortunately, I'm not finding Supreme Commander 
 as fun as I'd like it to be. Multiplayer is likely another story, however -- but I'm reluctant to 
 go up against human opponents, when, against the AI, it always seems an uphill struggle against 
 ridiculous odds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elwood499
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is a good game but not on a outdated PC. It gets very clunky when you Huge armys 
 clashing and nukes flying and effects on buildings witch all help to slow the computer down. The 
 problem is when you have a brand new game thats a head of its time on the average computer its 
 going to run slow . not slow like unplayable that all depends on your computer but what i found 
 is that on most computers is that when you have these battles going on thats when its the worst 
 frame rate and its less responsive. I recommend you wait and buy this one when you get a new computer 
 so that the Experience is not ruined but if you want it buy it fine but if you don't want to spend 
 the money on it or a new computer but you still want to play this game or a game like this then 
 you should get total annihilation the Graphics and scaled down enough to have massive battles and 
 still have great frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexmon
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Huge number of units, and mind-numbingly big explosions! Sound effects and music are 
 great. Campaign is well thought-out and cool. Gameplay can be fun (mostly) . New, and unique zoom-in 
 and out feature. Lots of different ways to fight (land, sea, air) .
  
  The Bad: Been there, done that-feel RTS game. Traditional build army, kill enemy base, etc etc. 
 Runs terrible on even mid-range systems (thanks god my computer is a high-end!) . Not enough variety 
 in the factions and units. Graphics are WAY WAY WAY too over-hyped (they're about average) .
  
  Graphics: When I look at screenshots of early pictures of this game, I was SO pysched. When 
 I bought the game, and played the beta and demo, I was a little dissapointed. The graphics are 
 average for today's RTS game. If your looking for eye-candy in an RTS, go get Company of Heroes.
 
  
  Gameplay: I already knew the gameplay was going to be the traditional-RTS gameplay right off the 
 bat. Simple build up base and army with engineers and Commander, harvest resources, and go kill 
 enemy (s) . The new zoom feature is cool, but just doesn't help keep the slack for the rest of the 
 gameplay.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is phenominal. The soundtrack is great, and hits all the right buttons, 
 at all the right times. The units themselves, such as shooting, and walking, sound realistic and 
 great. Voice-acting is pretty good too!
  
  Overall: I have given this game a 7.8, as it has some new and refreshing gameplay, sound, and graphics, 
 but it just doesn't cut it with the same-old RTS gameplay. If you're looking for a real tactical 
 RTS, try the Total War series, or Company of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmm78
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I must admit I was gradually losing interest for the RTS genre since more and more boring/uninspired 
 games hit the market (except for the Relic`s magnificent Company of Heroes) , but Supreme Commander 
 brought me from an unbeliever to an ecstatic frantic maniac.
  From the beautifully crafted cinematics throughout the campaigns this game really shows its superior 
 class. Although a pretty much classic RTS with several unit improvements, SC emphases on scale. As 
 in life, size does matter as huge maps can host hundreds of units engaged in totally massive epic 
 battles. This daring enterprise pays off adding an absolute immersive level of strategy so addictive 
 that you could find yourself playing for hours on end.
  The Good: - absolutely freakin` huge in every aspect - no more of that annoying unit cap ( although 
 I haven`t tryed it yet it could still be there once you`ve build your ... dunno one thousandth unit, 
 but by then your computer`d be pretty much deceased anyway) - gorgeous cinematics, great script 
 - MP is just endless fun
  The Bad: - Zooming out to strategic level is not such a great idea. You`ll end up playing with 
 dots, triangles and tiny squares when sh*t happens... and that is most of the time. CoH`s shortcut 
 key version was much better (imo) as you could focus better on battle micromanagement and than 
 cycle to strategic. -although the units are nicely balanced, up to Tech3 there`s not such a big 
 difference among them... let`s see : we have blue, red, green tanks...
  In the end I still have to say : this game is an absolutely must-have, because with all its flaws 
 it definitely stands up as the best RTS so far.
  
  PS: Optimal configuration: Intel/AMD Quad Core, 8Gigs RAM dual channel, SLI 2x8800 GTX Nvidia cards, 
 2x 24inch LCDs and ... Windows XPx64 of course :p
  PPS: CoH was better in some respects, main being grafix, AI, but WW2 games get really old, really 
 fast... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casartelli
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  What hasn't been said before about SC? There are of course a few con's. First of all, the GUI is 
 horrible,.. it fills at least 30% of your screen. I really needed to adapt to the much smaller 
 game screen. Everyone writes about the incredible high specs you need. When I run SC on High (you 
 can customize it to very high) with 1064x768 it runs just fine. Sometimes there is a small fps 
 drop when there are over 200 units in the screen. I have a 2.4 dual core (1GB) and a 7800GT.
  
  The single player campaign is a dissapointment. Just 6 missions for every side and the first 
 3 are boring cause you can only play with teer 1 and teer 2 units. In that case it's just waiting 
 for 30 minutes until you builded 200 units... Select all units,.. move them to the enemy base... 
 you won.
  Further on it still keeps quite simple. Build 50 anti-air units.. build several anti-nuke structures 
 and build 2 nuke structures.. Wait for the nukes to be builded, scout the enemy's camp, bomb their 
 anti-nukes and nuke the bastard... Nuking the enemy is actually quite cool :) Besides all this, 
 SC is still a great game. I love the action, the nuking and the free cam mode. SC is a pioneer 
 for the next generation RTS. Let's wait if it can competes with C&amp; C3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  When this game released a demo, I could not wait to download it and start building my army. When 
 the actual game released I found that it was better than I ever could have hoped. I found that 
 not only was the game the absolute pwn, but it was also better than the demo. The only con I could 
 find for this game is the long build times, and the quick and painless action. All the units took 
 minutes to build, and were destroyed very quick and easily. Until you could reach the highest build 
 level, all units are either very easy to destroy, or impossibly hard to destroy. I found this out 
 the hard way during a skirmish with the AI. The AI built a support command unit, that completely 
 destroyed everything I threw at it. And it also destroyed my commander without breaking a sweat. 
 And not only that, but it went on to destroy my teammates commander with half health remaining. 
 But other then the shear difficulty, I had an amazing experience. If you have the hardware and 
 the time, definitely pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tholan1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  It is hard to fully describe Supreme Commander due to the games sheer size. It demands a lot of 
 processing power; both from the player and from your computer.
  
  At first glance, Supreme Commander looks very simple. And in many ways it is since it is a simulation 
 which lends itself very well to inituition. This goes a long way to keep the game from being too 
 intimidating to those new to the RTS genre. At the same time, however, those familiar with the 
 genre could be disappointed by the first impression the game gives you.
  
  You will quickly realize how easy it is to build a large number of units. This naturally leads 
 to many rush focused strategies... or simple spamming with little strategy involved. However, defending 
 a mindless spam or rush is relatively easy in Supreme Commander. This forces both sides to adapt 
 and find ways to crush their opponent. This reveals how deep the game actually is.
  
  There are four different levels of technology (research) in the game. Each new level is a significant 
 improvement over the other. If the initial tech 1 and 2 rushes fail, the game will inevitably progress 
 to tech 3 and 4 where the player gets some really nice base busting options. At this stage of the 
 game, players will have 100s of units at their disposal meeting in gigantic clashes.
  
  This is not to say that micromanagement does not exist. It is alive and well and for me, this is 
 a bit of a negative. Unit AI should do some of the things you make them do when you micro them 
 to keep your focus on the overall war. However, this is a relatively minor complaint given the 
 great satisfaction you get from bringing so many units to a battle. The UI does a great job to 
 help you manage all these units once you understand all the options you have available to you and 
 their keyboard shortcuts (make sure you read the readme file) .
  
  The graphical presentation is also very nice, but of course not as stunning as a game that only 
 needs to render a handful of units. I find this a very welcome sacrifice. That is not to say that 
 the graphics are a slouch. This is the first time in an RTS where I could see a horizon. This, 
 in combination with the games scale, gives it a great sense of immersion.
  
  My biggest gripe (which is still small) is that the actual size of many of the units do not come 
 across. Many of units at your command are many meters in height and length but they often appear 
 to be much smaller. I find this is primarily due to the fact that you can't quite zoom in close 
 enough to get a good feeling of how large many of the units are. Some of the units also don't move 
 very realistically considering their size. This loses some of the epic feel that the game otherwise 
 so expertly conveys.
  
  All in all, a very solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I won't write a long review, just a few words. I don't understand all those people giving 9+ scores 
 and shouting that it's the best game of the year. Well, maybe of Y2007 as it only started.
  
  This game is a total copy of Total Annihilation - mass battles, resources salvaging, robots, 
 etc. I like TA way better as it had tremendous graphics back then, now when i compare Supreme Commander 
 graphics to, let's say, Medieval 2, i'd give Supreme Commander a 7, not more.
  
  So in my eyes, Supreme Commander is a good game, very similar to C&amp; C, Total Annihilitation 
 and a million other RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertBoekee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  I'd been playing the demo for just over a week and was just starting to get bored of the one race, 
 one map skirmish when my pre-order turned up. The game is absolutely superb and has all the makings 
 of something that could be played for years. The graphics are superb but at the same time can be 
 turned down enough to run on some older systems. The units and structures give a real sense of 
 size especially when you walk a cybran monkey lord into the enemy base and are confronted with 
 aeon sacred war bot and hundreds (and i mean hunfreds) of smaller units weaving in and out of the 
 the monkey lords 6 legs. And when one of the experimental units finally blows the explosion and 
 damage caused sounds and looks magnificent. I'v enot even started the single player campaign yet 
 but i'm sure i'll be playing this game for a very long time. As for my ratings, if we get the updated 
 content, new units, maps etc. that went along with TA then you can bump that upto a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cook66
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is yet another RTS, one of which we have seen so many times. The genre rarely 
 makes any progress, almost every time a new RTS game comes out, it feel as if you've played it 
 already. While this can probably be said about Supreme Commander as well, they have done it well 
 enough to give the RTS genre yet another look.
  
  Supreme Commander feature three different races which can all be played, their structures and units 
 are mostly similar, with a few differences. Each race has it's own specialties which makes them 
 unique even though a lot is the same.
  
  You can choose between the Humans from Earth, the Cyborg - half human half machine made by man 
 (yes, that old clich&eacute;) and the Alien wannabies. All the races have different goals and objectives, 
 all of which can be broken down to Kill everything which doesn't agree with us. There is no nice 
 race they all have their own agendas and seek to whipe out the two other races completely in order 
 to restore peace to the galaxy .
  
  The game will have you fighting on several different worlds, with terrains like snow, desert, and 
 plains/forest, here is a lot of maps to choose from, except for the obvious lack of the giant maps, 
 which only has two different options.
  
  The units you can choose from in this game is the standard land units such as different tanks, 
 light soldiers, Anti Air vehicles and so on. For the earial units you have bombers, fighters, scouts 
 and more, all pretty standard. The naval units are no special either.
  
  The buildings in the game have some pretty nice graphics, they are easy to use and can be upgraded 
 as you progress through the tech levels.
  
  The engineer is a major aspect of this game. This unit can be used to many things, such has constructing 
 buildings, repairing other units and building, gather resources and support other buildings by 
 lending a helping hand if it's needed. They can move through both land and water and come in three 
 different tech levels.
  
  A thing in this RTS which I have not seen in any other is the option to add several actions for 
 a unit to do, you can for example set your engineer to build several buildings, then repair a unit, 
 then gather some resources and when it's done with that it can go support the local Land factory 
 with tank production. This makes it very easy to have several projects going on at once, you can 
 set one group of engineers to build a wall, another to build defences, a third to collect resources, 
 a forth to build structures all while you coordinate an attack on the enemy and use your scout 
 to look around the map. This system is probably what makes this game stand out the most, as you 
 can get so much done at once that you can even do whatever needs to be done in your base while 
 you still do your best to wipe out the enemy.
  
  The resources or gold used in this game is mass and energy. Energy can be provided by making power 
 plants. Each tech level has different plants you can use. Mass is primarily gained from Mass Extractors 
 which is a building you place on a spot rich with mass, it will produce unlimited mass and will 
 only stop if you order it to, or if it's destroyed.
  Other ways of providing mass is by having an engineer turning trees and destroyed units and buildings 
 into it. You can also build structures which turn energy into mass, that is very expensive though.
 
  
  The unlimited flow of resources makes it possible to build an extreme amount of buildings in this 
 game, and you can virtually go on forever if you wanted to. The commander also produce a small 
 amount of mass and energy, so as long as he survives you will be able to rebuild your base.
  
  As for the commander, this is one of the big differences this game has from other RTS. The 
 commander is a huge robot which can fight with severe precision and is able to defeat most enemies, 
 it can also build buildings and functions like a king, if the commander dies, the mission is usually 
 over. And if a commander dies you are going to want to stay away. It's not a good tactic to use 
 your own commander to take out an enemy commander, even if the enemy has low health or your commander 
 is superior. The reasons for this is simple, if a commander dies he/she turns into a nuclear bomb 
 and destroys almost anything within reach, the explosion is so huge it usually take out the entire 
 base the commander was defending, along with any units you sent out to destroy it. Any attempt 
 to take out a commander is a suicide attempt even if you succeed.
  
  The commander can also be upgraded, you can choose between a set of different arms and torsos which 
 provide anything from higher firepower, shields, cloaking deviced to faster production, teleportation 
 and higher tech levels. Each race has different upgrades available, but I still think the options 
 you have with this is very limited and it could've been done a lot better with more customization 
 options to hands, head, legs and so on.
  
  As for the gameplay, controlling the game, moving the camera and issuing order it all feels well 
 designed and good thought out, there is a few minor things which could have been done better, but 
 this is still by far the best made RTS I have played, everything feels solid and it's easy to do 
 complicated things.
  
  The graphics in the game is pretty good, for a RTS it's excellent. The camera can be tilted down 
 so you can see the game in full 3D, which is pretty useless, but still a nice feature. Units and 
 buildings are well made and the explosions, and other weaponry provide a very satisfying experience.
 
  
  When it comes to performance, you are going to need a pretty good computer if you want to run the 
 game in full detail, I've had no problem running it on my computer, but older machines might experience 
 some problems and I recommend you only buy this game if you meet the recommended system requirements 
 set.
  
  If you are a big RTS fan or someone who is new to the genre and want to try it out, this is a very 
 good choice of game, it is very well designed and is good for both beginners and experts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opollo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  To have been able to play on the beta and watch this game grow has been amazing and to finially 
 play the full thing at last falls nothing short of brillant, you wont get any better than this!! 
 If your a stratagist then you will love this game, as it has everything you need for waging war. 
 I played Total Innihlation for several yrs and this is its Sequal without a doubt, Mr Chris Taylor 
 you've done it again!!
  
  I do fear that it does take allot of power and would check that your pc can handle it... The GPG 
 net is superb as it allows you to mix and talk to other players who will help you out as they all 
 are either experts or new to the game and setup matches there and all available news is there aswell, 
 its just a complete package that has it all.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auroraxt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Being a Total Annihilation fan (all those years ago, ahh the memories!) I have been waiting for 
 this game, following it day and night, ever since I heard that Total Annihilation was finally going 
 to have its well deserved sequel. And what a sequel it is. Amazing, yes. Ambitious? Hell no. That's 
 an understatement. SC raises the bar, and then raises the poles on which the bar sits as well.
 
  
  Lets get the main issue out of the way first. I'm sure you already thought about this - crisp graphics, 
 massive maps, hundreds of units. Surely it will lag. The answer is yes. And that's a big yes. I 
 have a decent system (P4 3.4ghz, 1GB RAM, x800xt PE) and the game managed to play extremely smoothly 
 up until there were over around 2000 units on the map, after that it went downhill quite suddenly. 
 But this comes in no surprise when you have maps the size of continents and graphics to die for. 
 There is no question about it, while this games looks superb, your computer will be screaming in 
 pain by the end of the match, even if it is high end.
  So, if you have a mediocre or below computer, be warned: it will probably lag, slowing down to 
 1fps at the peak of the match, which can sometimes be frustrating as you simply want to see such 
 amazing battles take place in a fluid, smooth environment. Gameplay is fantastic, if you can put 
 aside the lag, you will find it is very easy to control your battalions of deadly looking machines, 
 even in the chaos of the most fearsome battles - fleets of aircraft doing dogfights above giant 
 spiderbots which are simply trashing enemy units by stepping on them as if they are mere toys in 
 their way, while huge battleships stationed near the shore pound away relentlessy at anything their 
 greedy sights can find. All at your command at the touch of a few buttons and ready to give the 
 enemy hell.
  
  And here comes SC's party piece. No, its not the graphics, or the sound or the lag. It's the fact 
 that at simply scrolling your mouse wheel, you zoom out into space and there, right before your 
 eyes is the entire map of the the battle field. Key strategic locations, such as Mass deposits 
 suddenly take up a bright green colour. You can instantly see how the battle is playing out, take 
 appropriate actions to demoralize your enemies before zooming back in again because your eyes just 
 want to feast on the intense carnage going on.
  The AI - perfect. You have a wide variety of AI to choose from, starting from the usual easy, normal, 
 hard to AI which tries to reach the highest tech level possible in the shortest time or an AI which 
 decides your skill level as you play the game, so you will never find it too hard or boringly easy. 
 In fact sometimes the AI pulls such a brilliant move out of the bag that it leaves you dumbstruck.
 
  
  The map selection is good, there are over 30 high quality maps to destroy and conquer. Some of 
 the maps are as huge as 81kmx81km, which just further shows how ambitious the game really is. The 
 selection features a wide variety of terrains, which will be familiar to you if you played Total 
 Annihilation - snow covered plains, lakes of acid, lava, and massive oceans dotted with islands 
 - perfect for those hour long naval battles.
  
  There are however, rather unfortunetly some minor glitches which I have noticed during my short 
 time of playing this otherwise brilliant game. These include music stopping midway through the 
 match and some units having difficulty firing/reloading. I am sure these will be smoothed out in 
 the updates which will soon follow, but it still gives a slight sense that this game was rushed 
 to be released.
  In conclusion, I think this is worthy of being a sequel to such an amazing game as Total Annihilation. 
 It's a shame about the lag issues, but hell, when you see a colossal robot grab a unit and smash 
 it, you will probably forget all about it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grope2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  If you liked 'TA' then you are defiantly going to enjoy this game greatly. Although this is a strategy 
 game, it has a great in depth background for each fraction which makes them seem all the more real, 
 the campaign is enjoyable but when you play this game you really just want all out action and the 
 skirmish delivers this with a hell of lot of punch, you have various set up difficulties such as 
 horde which means they tend to send more units to fight you, you can set them to build big Economies 
 which is great for an ally you want to share resources with while you send in the troops. The maps 
 are well laid out and the water and explosion effects are very impressive. The AI is pretty smart 
 and do in the end send nukes to destroy you and your allies. The game may not have the same feel 
 as Total Annihilation but this game is an great improvment and you can't really re-create something 
 as unique as Total Annihilation, this does however make a whole new feel which may to some be better 
 than its predecessor. But all these units, graphics, and effects take a lot of power to run and 
 when you get to about six teams fighting you system will slow greatly and even the speed adjustment 
 doesn't work. The sound is pretty good, not the best i've ever heard, not as good as company of 
 heroes but it still sounds quite impressive. The game is a great value for money, for &pound;25 
 it was well worth the cost.
  Overall this is a brilliant game and i'd recommend it to anyone who plays strategy games and anyone 
 who is considering purchasing it. Patches will change any bugs that occur and might even smooth 
 the power out so it doesn't slow as much, MOD's will improve the amount of units such as land transport 
 since this is the 'most modable game ever' according to gas powered games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarything22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Supreme commander is not the first game to bring my computer to its knees, in fact many of todays 
 more recent games seem to be setting the bar ever higher in terms of graphical power. Supreme commander 
 does not do this, oh no, it brings down computers in a much different way.
  
  Imagine a vast virtual continent the size of europe, thousands upon thousands of killer robots 
 ,Explosions going off everywhere and its all going on at once . So you see supreme commander kills 
 computers with it's sheer scale rather than with shiny graphics (although they are still very nice) .
 
  
  Now that thats out of the way I can honestly say that I have no other problems with the game whatsoever. 
 The gameplay is fluid, the graphics are beutiful, the sound is rich and clear (complete with excellent 
 ochestral score) .... oh and it's extremely addictive.
  
  Since buying the game not 2 days ago I have played almost a complete 15hrs (stopping only to keep 
 my body from dying of malnourishment) . Now if you'll excuse me i'm going to see if i can make my 
 computer melt by making an army of 25,000 units..... mwahahaha....: p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcw9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Yes, all whom played it know it. This game needs a lot of RAM and vid card power to get it to run 
 smoothly, but, even before playing, i was confident that my geforce 7900 would handle it. Smacked 
 at high settings i was impressed. The graphics was good for a futuristis RTS, and little details, 
 like shields, and nuclear blasts were impressive. It felt very atmospheric. But... with 1,000 as 
 a population cap for four players, the smooth gameplay did not last. With about 2,000 units now 
 on the field, the lagg hit very quickly, and the frame rate decreased to 1fp/s. Its all because 
 the one problem RTS's have always had. Every single unit and peice of debree, has to be kept in 
 check, so needs to be stored somewhere. And that somewhere is your RAM and grahics card memory. 
 The build up is emense and eventually causes the poor card to collapse and cry. While the smooth 
 performance lasted, i give this game a thumbs up for graphical detail, stunning effects, and good 
 gameplay. But you must be aware, that to run this game with more then two players on the field, 
 you must have a brilliant system. Singleplayer campain, to be really honest, isnt that impressive. 
 For me, a game like this, needs to be action packed, and skirmish and multiplayer are the two things 
 that gave me what i desired from a futurisitc RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horney89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Well some great additions to the world RTS in this game with the ability to scroll out and check 
 up on the rest of your force or were the enemy may be placed on the map and should keep me at least 
 entertained until the new command and conquer comes out.
  
  So what does Supreme Commander have to offer well mighty killing power from gigantic armoured commanders 
 and the ability to create an unprecedented amount of units. With engineers and the commander being 
 able to have building projects backed up so you can keep up with the battle and create the vast 
 amounts of units you will need to over throw the power of the other faction to win the battle and 
 eventually the war. I have yet to try multi-player yet so Im unable to comment on this all though 
 there are many people already on there. So if your looking for a game that will keep you entertained 
 for a couple of hours a day week or whatever this is worth a look and really has moved the RTS 
 genre along a few steps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric2006bc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Any strategy fan feels very much at home playing Supreme Commander. Same control actions are available 
 as always  easy mouse selecting locations, left click to select, right click to designate the 
 destination. Which is more a queue is also provided. Buildings as well as engineers can be given 
 a series of tasks.
  
  Build up unit factories and defense structures. Get your army ready and start destroying your foes. 
 The factions are very well balanced (almost same unit abilities) so the game is more about quick 
 strategies as you cant really hope that other players wont gather the same (if not a greater) 
 amount of forces. If youre not playing Assassination (except if its ok with you to get a draw) 
 the game can quickly end if you send your commander to destroy the enemy base. Its the closest 
 thing I could get to a rush and it was fun, I have to admit. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
