-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Supreme Ruler 2020
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/supremeruler2020/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Only grand strategy game set in the modern world.
 Very ambitious game design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay either involves too much micromanagement or runs on autopilot.
 Nonsensical international events.
 Dated visuals obscure map details.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 211 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: BattleGoat Studios
Genre: Wargame
Date:     Jul 1, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Supreme Ruler 2020's steep learning curve and micromanagement will turn off all but the most fanatical 
 strategy gamers. 

  Geopolitics is the subject of Supreme Ruler 2020, a fiendishly complex real-time strategy game 
 from BattleGoat Studios. Unfortunately the developer doesn't appear to have learned any lessons 
 from 2005's more-than-promising Supreme Ruler 2010 and has issued a sequel with virtually all of 
 the flaws of the original game intact but, in many cases, made even worse. Unbelievable political 
 events, statesmanship by proxy where the game practically plays itself, and an incredibly steep 
 learning curve that comes without the assistance of an interactive tutorial will turn off all but 
 the most fanatical strategy gamers.  

  The focus of Supreme Ruler 2020 is exactly the same as its predecessor -- attempting to guide the 
 country of your choice through all of the wars, economic crises, and international intrigue that 
 states face in the early 21st century. Sandbox-style grand campaigns are available, along with 
 scenarios dealing with specific situations, such as the United States taking on an allied Canada 
 and Mexico for control of North America. Multiplayer support for up to 16 players is also offered, 
 although the absence of an online matching service means that you have to connect with other gamers 
 via direct IP.  

           Additional feedback to make sense of all this would have been a big help.      

  Regardless 
 of the game mode or the opposition, you play a president or prime minister with total control over 
 all of a nation's affairs -- both foreign and domestic. Policies are set by bossing around a cabinet 
 of six ministers who look after portfolios, such as the state department, defense, and trade. This 
 is handled by pinpointing key policy initiatives and checking them off under each minister's area 
 of responsibility. So if you want to crank up the troops, you might make "massive military buildup" 
 and "increase unit readiness" the top priorities of the defense minister. On the other hand, you 
 can move toward peaceful nation building by ordering your finance minister to prioritize such initiatives 
 as "family subsidies" and "health care." The buck stops with you, so you can do just about anything 
 you want.  

  The game feels somewhat similar to Paradox Interactive's grand strategy franchises Europa Universalis 
 and Hearts of Iron, with slightly futuristic concerns replacing the medieval and WWII worries of 
 those series. Comparisons shouldn't be taken too far, however, as Supreme Ruler 2020 isn't nearly 
 as refined as something like Europa Universalis III. For starters, it is just about impossible 
 to make heads or tails out of the gameplay. As with its predecessor, tutorials are built around 
 rough walk-throughs of the interface and some basic game concepts. These guided tours contain a 
 lot of information, but it's hard to remember enough of it to put into practice when actually playing 
 the game because of the absence of any sort of interactive element.  

  Even after you do suss out gameplay, you quickly discover that a lot of the basic game mechanics 
 seem broken, or at least the information is poorly presented. The cabinet system is an absolute 
 mess. There is little feedback regarding the effects of each policy change, which leaves you in 
 the dark about what is actually happening when you prioritize issues. Every policy is accompanied 
 by nothing but skimpy tooltip pop-ups that tell you next to nothing about what they actually do. 
 "Massive military buildup," for instance, is accompanied only by a few sparse words revealing that 
 checking it maxes out unit building and deploys reserves. That's awfully uninformative when you 
 consider the vast number of military units and facilities that the average nation will crank out 
 during the course of a campaign. The AI seems fairly good, at least, although Supreme Ruler 2010 
 was already no slouch in this department. So if you put your ministers on a war footing, you can 
 pretty much guarantee that the military will get top priority all over the nation. Barracks start 
 going up, and you soon receive e-mail from the defense minister suggesting that you start utilizing 
 unused army construction slots. If you ignore all of the nitty-gritty about what's being built 
 when and where, you can still fight a pretty solid war on autopilot.  

  But watching a game play itself isn't very satisfying, and neither is the alternative; digging 
 deep into micromanagement to construct every uranium mine, water works, and barracks on your own. 
 Given the complexity of the game design, the former is certainly the path of least resistance because 
 the game generally knows how to play itself better than you do. So adopting a cruise-control philosophy 
 can lead to quicker success with meeting campaign and scenario goals. Yet it's hardly enjoyable 
 to play this way because you spend most of your time waiting to make a decision. The latter option 
 offers a lot more action in the form of taking charge of everything, although the game is such 
 a wide-open geopolitical sandbox that determining what to do at any given moment can be deeply 
 frustrating.  

  Supreme Ruler 2020 could also use more intelligence when it comes to political events. Many actions 
 within the game seem more like they come from the Bizarro World than our own, and the weirdness 
 is much more pronounced here than it was in Supreme Ruler 2010. Ministers never object to their 
 priorities, even if you give them ones that contradict one another. For example, you can tell the 
 defense boss to start a massive military buildup and a discreet military buildup at the same time. 
 Trading is screwed up by nations continually offering goods that you don't need. If you take over 
 Ontario, for instance, you'll soon be inundated by worthless offers like water from Kazakhstan 
 or electric power from the Philippines even though you now possess one of the most resource-rich 
 regions in the world.  

           Just another average afternoon in the Middle East.      

  International actions frequently 
 have no connection with reality. The UN, for example, typically steps in to offer Israel supplies 
 during war with Lebanon, Syria, and Egypt -- a helping hand that you're never going to see in the 
 real world. Israel itself is run by Arab ministers like defense chief Sayed Arafat and secretary 
 of state Mohammed Hussein. You don't have to be a political junkie to know that something is wrong 
 with that picture. Wars and their underlying factors don't seem to make any sense. Even in the 
 wacky futuristic world of 2020, it's hard to imagine how Ontario would have a 10 percent casus 
 belli on Alabama; or how Israel and Syria can go from being mortal enemies one moment with no chance 
 of resolving anything via diplomacy to signing a peace treaty no questions asked just a day later. 
 Maybe there are reasons for these oddities, but the game certainly doesn't bother to try to explain 
 them.  

  The visuals and sound only add more confusion. While the new world map was apparently modeled on 
 NASA photos and looks pretty good from a distance, all of the features are pixelated and the terrain 
 is barren when viewed up close. The biggest issue is how buildings and units vanish when you zoom 
 out to get a look at an entire region. This is a big-picture game that needs to be played with 
 the map pulled back, yet the graphics force you to zoom in tight to actually see what's happening. 
 Even then it's tough to make out what's taking place during battles, and there is no collision 
 detection, so units pile up into vaguely tanklike blobs. Audio is nearly nonexistent, notably in 
 regard to order acknowledgements from units in battle and from your cabinet, who communicate with 
 you solely by silent e-mail. You do get some irritating gunfire and explosion sounds during combat, 
 however, along with a soundtrack of repetitive martial music.  

  Supreme Ruler 2020 should be consigned to a hardcore strategy game ghetto where casual players 
 fear to tread. Despite the game's tremendous ambitions, all of the game's potentially positive 
 features are buried beneath an avalanche of nonsensical politics and gameplay that forces you to 
 choose between cruise control and tedious micromanagement. Let's hope that the entire game engine 
 gets a serious overhaul before Supreme Ruler 2030.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: offbase
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  The GS review and user reviews give plenty of description of the basic game premise, play and mechanics. 
 So, I'll get to the nitty-gritty. While you can control just about everything else in this game, 
 you have frustratingly little control over the decisions and actions that can cause you to win 
 or lose.
  
  For example, after about 100 hours of game play, I still can't figure out whether an option to 
 call upon your so-called "allies" to honor their commitments to you exists; if it does, it certainly 
 isn't where it should be, on the diplomatic menu. So, while you can be distracted in mid-battle 
 by "allies" on the other side of the world calling on you to declare war on some banana republic 
 thousands of miles away from you, you cannot ask your bordering ally to declare war on the mutual 
 neighbor who has attacked you without direct provocation and with whom you have done battle 5 miles 
 from your "ally's" very own border. So if you as Germany, for example, are allied with France, 
 Hungary and Ukraine, and you attack Poland, the Netherlands will attack your western border. Yet 
 your ally, France, who is practically on top of the Netherlands, will do nothing, and you have 
 no means of requesting them to honor your alliance. 
  
  On the other side geographically, if you attack the Netherlands in the West, you will quickly be 
 attacked by Poland, Austria and the Czech Republic in the East, yet your Eastern allies bordering 
 these attackers will be similarly aloof, while you have to means through which to "pinch" them 
 to awaken them to the fact that, Hey! We're allies! Get off your duff and do something! They won't, 
 and you can't.
  
  Wanna try a great one? Offer Iran $10Billion in military goods for a paltry $500Million's worth 
 of oil. They'll jump on it, right? Wrong! They will counter offer, demanding in addition to your 
 war-making bounty triple the world market price for the amount of oil you're requesting. Huh? Ok, 
 maybe I'm unknowingly playing the Superman edition of the game, and I somehow rolled Bizarro Iran.
 
  
  Oh, and war is kind of like potato chips, even for a military juggernaut. Once you start, they 
 won't LET you stop! Destroy practically the entire Czech army, take all by 10 square feet of its 
 territory, then pull back, give them all of their territory back as a good will gesture, and offer 
 them a choice of peace or destruction. Guess what they'll choose every time? Hilariously, they 
 will also refuse to make peace even as you approach their last city with overwhelming military 
 force, they have absolutely no hope of victory or outside relief, and their surviving allies are 
 in no position to help them.
  
  I could have made better us of all that time picking lint out of my bellybutton.
  
  A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggsett
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Ruler 2020 has alot of features and consequences.
  First let's get the bad things on the table.
  the graphics are moderate but you will forget about 
 then later on as you get into the game.
  Probably too much consequences for everything you do but this just makes more realistic.
  It's 
 hard to get deals done with a neighbour who dislikes you only a little.
  The tutorial doesn't teach you much.
  
  Now the good stuff :)
  The AI knows what's going 
 on and will for example if a neighbour has mobilised he's military reserve to defcon 4 but is not 
 at war with anyone
  the neighbours of that country are going to do it too (they will obviously raise it to an affordable 
 level)
  Micromanagement is incredible low with the option to pause the game and the various cabinets (Land, 
 Production, Financial, State, Defence and Military probably forgot one or two.)
  makes it easy for the player as they can manage their areas without much problem and you can give 
 then directions like raise taxes, decrease expenses,
  trade only with allies, Decrease armed forces, Mass Produce Military, and so on.
  The game gives 
 you stuff like UN (United Nations) the possibility to get relations with UN by giving away technology, 
 goods or even engage in diplomacy to other UN members is making the game easier.
  Also by engaging in alliances with other countries has consequenses like
  he's enemies will decrease 
 relations with you and if you support your ally (either militarily or by sending goods/money to 
 wage the war) he will most likely attack you or at least see you as a threat/next target.
  The AI also doesn't conquer quickly because they arent actually going to conquer the world at all.
 
  But it was that about consequences.
  When you build nearly anything at all they require energy and energy require oil/coal or many other 
 thing (comes on what you use to produce energy)
  to produce energy
  
  This was My Review Hope you Enjoyed it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have to disagree with GS on their review of Supreme Ruler 2020. While it lacks some bells and 
 whistles, it is a very deep game. From what I have played it, there is a lot under the hood that 
 just wasn't touched be the GS reviewer. Where he/she found fault with the game there exists a pretty 
 good game. 
  
  What is lacking is the lack of instruction within the manual and the tutorials. While I think the 
 tutorials are fine for getting started, a little more fleshed out manual may be a help. And probably 
 my only other point would be that I would like to be a able to change the unit icons on the map 
 to something other then the lone choice you have. Units tend to get lost in the crowd to easily. 
 Other then those minor issues, the game plays very well. 
  
  For those that have the game, try playing as Irag in the 2020 campaign. Very challenging (spoiler: 
 watch out for Iran!) .
  
  Now, I have to admit, I played the game after the latest patch. So, my view point may be a little 
 different. Point is, if you haven't tried this game, get it. It will entertain you for many hours. 
 Hopefully, Paradox and Battlegoat will put out a descent demo so those that are still sitting on 
 the fence can give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veriahl
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I saw this game and as a devoted fan of most stuff released under the Paradox banner and thought 
 "oh this might be real fun and provide me with lots of nice game time having just left WoW". Now 
 i started up and found it like most of these type of games a rather steep learning curve but that 
 is fine that is part of the fun when playing these types of games. After a little while i started 
 noticing lots of inconsistances in the game engine and tech upgrading not showing up properly when 
 building new buildings. Many things didnt either seem to work as intended or were peculiar when 
 they did actually work.
  
  One of the most amazing bugs i've ever encountered in any game i encountered in this game as well 
 when i first saved my game and to go sleep after some 16 hours of straight game time. The next 
 morning when i loaded the game something bugged hard and fast in my face. 2 very substantial countries 
 in the world had gone missing namely the USA and China that i found more then a little odd but 
 thought oh well this may prove interesting scenario. I then saved the game and loaded again and 
 now Mexico decided to disappear too and suddenly Canada was HUGE.
  
  Now i did mention i played this quite a long time but to be honest that isnt exactly hard as you 
 can do the most amazing this while playing this game. Like go shopping for an hour or two and quite 
 possibly 3-4 months in game had gone past at the fastest game pace, this ultimately led to me playing 
 on my PDA while waiting for the game to actually move.
  
  Now as a native swede i decided to shockingly play sweden and decided to work my national debt 
 off. I very quickly realized i needed to start producing stuff to sell to the rest of the world. 
 However as i was doing this energy consumtion surged beyond reasonable or atleast understandable 
 soon my native sweden looked like a huge power plant and it was still not enough. 
  
  Now i got a bit tired of all of this and finally got rid of the national debt and started focusing 
 my country to get new warfare technology so i could test the combat aspect of the game i then noticed 
 that my target (estonia) was allied with everyone more or less in the game and quite possible a 
 few alien races as well. All things considered i had built my own alliances with lots of places 
 in the world not to mention formed a grand scandinavian alliance (something that has not happened 
 since the 1500s some time) so i thought oh well lets get at this. I then chose to declare war upon 
 the unsuspecting estonian nation which i had handidly not made any alliances with in the past by 
 some strange reason.....
  
  I then must admit i found the result somewhat disturbing every country in the world decided to 
 declare war on me and i quit the game before any of those previously mentioned aliens would hear 
 about it too. Even the supposedly allied countries decided to declare war on me. Altough i rather 
 enjoyed some parts of this game it appealed to me like a slow sim city game i may wait a while 
 before i try playing it again maybe in 2020 or so they may have fixed all the things that is wrong 
 with it.
  
  In conclusion i doubt i have played a buggier game since hmmm Elder scrolls : Daggerfall but that 
 was a lot more fun to play and were quite inventive in game play in comparison to most games at 
 the time. I am however serious that this game has to be the slowest game i have ever laid my hands 
 on it made the old Harpoon 2 game look like a formula 1 car. This game would probably been faster 
 if they made it turn based in fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rherd77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  At First I rated this game at 8.5, then 9.0, and now I've changed it to 9.5 as I keep discovering 
 more depth and detail to this game. This is not a strategy game for the casual player - if you 
 think tactics in Command & Conquer are the pinnacle of Military theory then stay away. But if you 
 are looking for a strategy game that combines a detailed and comprehensive military model - with 
 tactics on the Battalion level using real-world modelled unit designs - and a full diplomatic and 
 economic level, then SR2020 pulls it off very, very well.
  
  The game comes with shorter 'Scenarios' - the German invasion of Poland (you play Poland) is my 
 favorite here, and then it also gives you a Campaign mode that they call 'Sandbox' - the sandbox 
 is in fact anything you want to make if it. You can pick where in the world to start (over 180 
 choices in a 'world like it is today' version, and over 250 choices in a 'world broken up' version) . 
 You can set victory conditions that include peaceful victories and time limits, or just go for 
 world domination :)
  
  The official Gamespot review doesn't do the game justice for its depth and detail - yes, it is 
 not for everyone. But if you like detailed strategy - 'real' strategy - then very few games like 
 this ever come along, and this is one of the best.
  
  Now I better get back to my latest game before I lose my upcoming election....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outcrowd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I generally ALWAYS agree with the Gamespot reviews and scores. Here, however, I think it is overly 
 critical. 
  
  Yes, the graphics are somewhat dated - but the game isn't designed to look or play like the Battlefield 
 series. It's a strategy game - pure and simple; and it focuses on strategy unlike few games before 
 it.
  
  For example, I love the fact you have to keep supply lines intact and must be concerned with ammunitation 
 and fuel. Further, not only is unit movement affected by terrain, the unit weight is increased 
 or decreased according to the amount of weapons or fuel it contains. Unlike so many other games 
 this adds an element of real world physics and eliminates unlimited supplies that enable you to 
 disregard reality. Damaged units must be repaired so strategic deployment of bases and roads is 
 critical. This game makes you think about troop deployment as opposed to the usual "crank out as 
 many units as possible, as fast as possible, and throw everything at the enemy" tactics that have 
 become the staple of today's RTS games.
  
  As for units, the games progresses in expedited real time, so that structure and unit construction 
 and repair replicates the real world. Thus, while you can recruit conscripts in as little as a 
 week, it takes a couple months to build elite units like special forces or marines. The same is 
 true for buildings, tanks, air and naval units. Plus they all have relative movement values so 
 that, for example, ground recon units can travel a few hundred miles over the cours of a few "hours;" 
 while heavy infantry on foot move painfully slow.
  
  As for the micromanagement, as noted, you can allow your cabinet members to run virtually every 
 aspect of the game, or you can control as much of it as you like. True, the "tutorial" is among 
 the worst I've ever seen - but since I discovered the developer's website forum I have been able 
 to answer all of my questions and the game becomes infinitely manageable and intuitive. And that 
 is without submitting my own questions - just reading what other's have written. Most of my questions 
 concerned, as the GS review points out, the rather complex economy and the fact that the consequences 
 of your decisions may not be immediately noticeable. Things like resource management, immigration, 
 unemployment, etc., in the absence of a tutorial, were seemingly impossible to figure out; however, 
 a wealth of information exists on the forum that enables you to understand how everything works.
 
  
  In that regard, I like the economy. Countries need basic resources to power the economy such that 
 petroleum is needed to fuel its war machine, or even to crank out items that can be sold on the 
 international market. Some countries are rich with natural resources, while others requires extensive 
 trade - and the heavy trade deficit it entails. While manufacturing consumer goods can be profitable 
 - it can be expensive. Industry needs electrical power, and to produce electrical power you need 
 petroleum, nuclear or hyro power. You also need resources like timber or ore. Social spending and 
 taxes affect unemployment and inflation, which affect the cost of producing goods, which affects 
 your trade surplus and deficit. Social spending and taxes also affect population, which affects 
 production and supply. Once you know where to look, you can see what your industry produces and 
 consumes, and how much it costs. True, the AI offers trades from time to time that it appears you 
 don't need but they can simply be ignored. On the other hand, while you may have a sufficient amount 
 of a resource, it could be costing you more to produce then its worth. Resources from other countries 
 are often offered at prices below what you can produce them for yourself - even if your production 
 output is high. And you can initiate virtually any deal that you want and "shop" the international 
 market to locate the best deals. Further, world events unfold in [relative] real time. Thus, for 
 example, it can take years for a country like Iran to develop nuclear weapons. 
  
  Overall I think this is a great game for anyone that enjoys real world economic and military strategy 
 and simulation. The fact that the graphics do not look like Age of Empire bothers me little. For 
 people like me that enjoy tactics and strategy more than eye popping graphics this game is an excellent 
 choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPokes
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  
  In the game you choose to be the leader of any of the nations in the globe down to tiny island 
 nations with 20,000 inhabitants. It is the year 2020 and there is a global rececssion and resource 
 shortage. It is on a 3d map made using nasa satellite imagery, giving you a civilization style 
 view. 
  
  The economic model is incredibly detailed (essentially the main focus of the game) . There are 9 
 different resources that you need for your country, some that the populace need (oil and consumer 
 goods) some for industry (industrial goods, ore,) and some for the military (military goods) . All 
 of these items have a manufacturing price and a world markete price. Obviously the idea is to manufacture 
 what is most profitable to you and sell it on the world market. Anything that is too expensive 
 to manufacture you can import and so on. You get to choose the amount of a markup you charge when 
 you put the goods on the market both domestically and abroad. Domestic prices have a direct effect 
 on factors such as your gdp (if things are cheaper people have more money) . 
  
  The military model is very detailed as well. It is very helpful because your defense minister can 
 be given control of the military and you simply have to set "hotspots" and the purpose of the spot 
 (attack, defense) as well as the force size to commit to that spot and how much air support it 
 gets (planes in range will automatically fly there and fly air patrols) . There is a detailed supply 
 model as well which affects your units in your own as well as enemy territory. You need an infrastructure 
 in place to supply your troops and need to use supply trucks tagging alonge behind the army in 
 enemy territory. 
  
  Sounds like a military/political buff's wet dream so far right? 
  
  This game could have been awesome. If you are into really complex strategy games this could 
 have been your holy grail. HOWEVER, much of the game so far is broken, and the AI is horrible. 
 
  
  Some features have not yet even been implemented, as I found out after pouring $100 billion into 
 recon satellite technology only to find it doesn't work. 
  
  The diplomacy feature is almost totally broken. The AI will only ever ask for alliances and offer 
 trade deals of individual commodities. It does not even attempt to make use of any of the other 
 options (of which there are many) . It will accept deals that you propose, but it will not honor 
 them. (I had mutual defense pacts with other nations but when I was attacked they simply sat there 
 and watched me die) . 
  
  The ai in general is awful. It does not understand how to prosecute a war unless the countries 
 at war are right next to each other with a good amount of infrastructure in place. They seem to 
 have no idea how to use supply trucks and will simply advance as far as they can and then grind 
 to a halt a little ways into enemy territory. Also forget it if nations at war would have to use 
 their navies to get to each other. The USA was at war with Russia and China for 3 game years and 
 there wasnt a single casualty on either side. they just declared war and sat there spending billions 
 on combat readiness.
  Also it seems like the AI doesn't even build structures or anything. After a while you start asking 
 if there even is any AI at all. 
  
  In short, as of right now there is almost no point in playing the game at all. Even with a whopper 
 of a patch I don't really see everything wrong with this game being fixed any time soon. Total 
 letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedigaurdian22
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The game looked like a decent Strategy game, so i decided to give it a go. Picked myself up a copy 
 went home and arrived at a harsh disappointment. The graphics are well, fail. It looks like a bunch 
 of cardboard cutouts running around my screen and the combat is large non transparent explosion 
 clouds that completely block out the chance to see: whats going on, whos winning, and how many 
 troops your loseing.
  
  The game floods you with so much information that you cant really keep track of it, the HUD is 
 always filled with so many things you must pay attention too, its overwhleming. The political system 
 makes almost 0 sense. Why the hell are the united states sudenly independant nations? and why are 
 we killing each other?
  
  I really dont recommend this game but if you enjoy MAJOR micro management give it a try
  
  
 peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vizhonary
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  From the perspective of a hardcore wargamer, the very kind that were early adopters of SR2010 and 
 a good chunk of why they were able to make an SR2020. I was the sort that had I reviews 2010 would 
 have given the general review as it was: Overall good, great shot for a first PC game in that genre 
 and with original elements, lacking, low budget, but definitely worth the price. Sadly, can't say 
 the same for this one.
  
  It is improved alright, but in a move toward mainstream sort of way. It now has music. It has better 
 sound in general, even if there are bugs on release that just make them annoying as all snot because 
 it's just a NOISY game most of the time, but that is supposed to be fixed in the first serious 
 patch.
  
  It is also definitely improved on the scale. It encompasses the whole world in one game which was 
 the #1 wish that most of us hardcore , epic scale strategy gamers expressed - One, persistent world 
 map. On this point they did indeed suceed... It has scale.
  
  It is also improved on graphics, as it should be, considering the genre it is competing in, but 
 honestly, I'd have played it with the same graphics SR2010 had, had they gotten the rest of the 
 game right. This is part of the bells and whistles catagory and not the meat I crave in a game.
 
  
  The final place I'd admit serious improvement is in the user interface in general... Though I am 
 such an old school gamer, going back to the text only days, so had no problems navigating SR2010, 
 I would consider SR2020 much easier to play. And in that lies part of the problem... The ease. 
 So, we get to why I only think this deserving of a barely passing score in my book and fails my 
 recommendations to anyone but the collector niche. I'd demand my money back if I could get it.
 
  
  First, the AI is too good.. This is part of the general gripe that Battlegoat admit to right out. 
 They have made the AI so good that though they claim some personality differences between them, 
 with priority settings to tell them what you want done in place, they all basically play the same. 
 This is so much so that they have decided to dumb down the whole ministers part of the game and 
 remove the options to replace ministers from the game altogether... It would be purely cosmetic 
 at this point, anyway, and some of the things that made ministers unique in the first game appearantly 
 just confused the normal gamer... Too high a learning curve... Strike! Excuse me, but the personality 
 the different ministers had and need to find the right ones for the jobs is part of what I liked 
 best about the first game. May be more mainstream to Keep It Simple, Stupid, but I'm not mainstream, 
 nor is the concept or genre of the game.
  
  Another aspect of the AI being too good is that part of it's too good aspect is that they are so 
 streamlined for what they do - Balance budgets, and run in a world trade economy - that they don't 
 know how to do much of anything else.
  
  Their wars are mostly a bumb rush with all forces which if that fails leaves behind either dead 
 countries that get steamrolled by their enemies, or a pair of nations that are now totally disfunctional, 
 locked in a war neither can win and stuck in a position that without an admited bug they are trying 
 to fix would leave them unable to die without someone else coming along to give them the coup de 
 gras.
  
  In the design of the game, in all their wisdom and to make it easy to get around universal arms 
 broker scenario they had in SR2010, they just removed equipment trade from the game altogether. 
 Can trade resources, but not territory or weapons.... No arms trade in a game that is supposed 
 to simulate a world at war , or at least on the brink of war scenario... You can trade designs 
 to equipment but all countries have to build their own. I'd call that taking a chunk of the meat 
 out of the content and even more of the realism.
  
  Another aspect of the AI being too streamlined is that the AI is way too easy to cheat in trades. 
 That is a complaint showing up regularly in the battlegoat's own forums, where I posted a rant 
 of my own earlier tonight before pondering how to more pleasently word this review. I expect this 
 is part of a requirement the AI's have when dealing with each other because they all MUCH be able 
 to support each other in a world economy because of the problem I will next describe...
  
  None of the computer controled countries can ever build new structures. No new facilities, roads, 
 rails, military bases, stationary weapons system, and so on... Appearantly it was counter the world 
 trade scenario that the game was supposed to have and if countries could build the infrustructure 
 to support themselves and fill their own needs, the whole world trade system might break down... 
 That is the way I interpreted the excuse, and that is definitely what it is - And excuse for a 
 major shortcoming in challenge and again a blow to realism.
  
  They forgot to make rails and roads the exist destructible and with the strange rules they have 
 for how many can be placed where and how rails and roads can interact with each other, mistakes 
 will sometimes happen and once made, they cannot ever be fixed... Oh, you can always add to your 
 logistics infrastructure, but you can't ever redesign or fix it if you end up with some strange 
 connections and unwanted half-connected deadends.
  
  The world doesn't really grow at all... Other than what players do to change add to the landscape, 
 it is a pretty stagnant, pretty simple, and very bland, easily spankable world. This is a good 
 move toward making the game more playable but beyond the bells and whistles, and the smoke and 
 mirrors this game is infact less than it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gix47
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Hands down, this is the most boring game i have played yet, and i mean boring in that its like watching 
 paint dry, you could just as easly till your peolpe want you want and let the game run itself, really 
 were is the fun, and i am a fan of this type of game but its all to easy to let the game run on 
 auto-pilot and never look back, watching the time (ingame) run by just so you can do stuff is very 
 dull, it really takes a few years (ingame) to get anything really goin, which isnt bad but i think 
 for a week to go bye a hour had past.. thats a hour of nothing but waiting.. i dont mind the dated 
 gfx but the game play is just dull... and lifeless, and the cabinet is totallt useless in areas of 
 were thier should gave adviser and the emails you get from them is mind-numbing becouse no matter 
 how many times you agree that something should be lower... it never gets lowered... but at the sametime 
 they can run the government without you... so in hindsight your not really needed, and then whats 
 the point of playing.. supreme ruler of the auto-pilot, maybe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealth_B
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Ruler 2020 is certainly an improvement over its predecessor. The greatest improvement in 
 my opinion is the option to play the world map.
  
  The Good:
  
  +ability to play on the world map
  +very in-depth management of a country's economy and military
 
  +well-researched information on the countries
  +being able to pass responsibilities to ministers
  
  The Bad:
  
  +performance issues (I 
 have a pretty high-end machine and scrolling over the map is very cranky)
  +very little feedback (why did my country hate the USA? why did they love Latvia? why do my people 
 like me and why don't they?)
  +very poor diplomatic system with no feedback (what impact "Free Trade" has?)
  +while the military 
 and economic management is pretty in-depth, they're not very real-world like: financially you only 
 control taxation and spending
  +no control or whatsoever over the social life of your country
  +while the interface is responsive, 
 it's also very '95-ish, as in bad design
  +no detailed statistics and/or graphs (population, approval, GDP, GDP per capita, etc)
  +very 
 poor map layouts
  +ministers don't seem to always be doing what you tell them to do (I set DEFCON to 4, so he mobilised 
 most of the armed forces, and when I set DEFCON back to 1 and told him to reduce mobilisation, 
 he didn't)
  +terrible tutorials
  +many other details that you don't understand how they're modeled in the game (for example military 
 logistics) because they're not explained well
  +I liked the globe and layouts in Superpower 2 a lot more then the map in this game
  
  I love 
 this genre of games so this is not a noob talking. All in all this is a good game, and all the 
 bad things listed are actually things that I would have liked to see in the game. A Superpower 
 3 would probably be close to perfection. Anyway as there are very few games in this genre, it is 
 a welcomed addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollaman123
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately a must for anyone who likes very in depth complex economicaly, diplomatic, 
 and militaristic games. The game has a balance of all three, and each has it own use and purpose 
 that serves in the future. If you enjoy this style of gameplay on a large scale map where battles 
 are not in epic proportions, then you should enjoy this game.
  
  As for graphics, they are very simplistic 3-d style, nothing out of the ordinary or extrodinary.
 
  
  All in all, this game is very fun if you know how to play it, but new comers might be a little 
 confused as the tutorial is less than helpful, but those who played 2010 will find it a breeze 
 to begin. I feel this game has improved much since its first installment, with all the right touches 
 and more added, along with a new more exciting world screnario with over 150 countries to play 
 agaisnt! (playing south africa and U. S. currently)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryp911
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short. I just want to say a few things though that are important to me.
  
  First off, the in game help that used F1 is not there like it is in Supreme Ruler 2010. There is 
 no help at all other than skimpy ToolTips when you hover the mouse.
  
  Second, when you load a saved game in 2010 there was a full description of what the scenario was 
 about. The stats etc.. Not here in 2020. Nothing.
  
  This new version in my opinion is NOT better than its predecessor 2010. It looks like a skimpy 
 version that tried to save money in every way.
  
  The Tutorial really sucks!!! It is horrible!!! It's worthless. Won't help you in the least bit.
 
  
  As hot as it makes my CPU for what it is, it's really a rip off. I have a top end PC from Dell, 
 an XPS 600 that I have maxed out. This game makes the CPU hotter than Call Of Duty-4 and Supreme 
 Commander. As stupid as the game is, there is no excuse for that.
  
  I'm very sorry I shelled out $40 for this game before PCGamer got a chance to enlighten me to the 
 truth about it. I'm going back to 2010 and play that instead. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
