-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Survivor (2001)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/survivor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 3.2, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Magic Lantern
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 12, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're harboring even a tiny urge to buy this game, please listen very carefully to this advice: 
 Don't do it. 

 Fans of the hit TV show  Survivor  can be a pretty dedicated lot, and there's no doubt they'll be 
 strongly tempted to snatch up Survivor: The Interactive Game should they spot it while Christmas 
 shopping. But if you're harboring even a tiny urge to buy this game, please listen very carefully 
 to this advice: Don't do it. Just walk out of the store and try to forget you ever saw it, because 
 this is one of the most inept pieces of drek ever to be pawned off as a computer game. Even the 
 name is a giveaway -- when a game publisher has to remind you that its game is "interactive," chances 
 are it only barely meets the minimum requirements of that adjective.           Even if you're a 
 huge fan of the hit television show...    

  Nearly every aspect of Survivor is dreadful, so let's hit the high spots first. The game installs 
 smoothly and takes up a reasonable 330MB hard-drive space; all the real-life castaways from  Survivor: 
 Pulau Tiga  and  Survivor: Australia  are featured; and hitting the Esc key while playing gives 
 you the glorious opportunity to exit  directly  to Windows, where hopefully you'll find something 
 to do that will assuage the futility of having spent time waiting to see if the game would ever 
 become entertaining.   

  After firing up the game and seeing a few decent-looking video clips, you arrive at the main menu, 
 where the manual says "you will have the option to select the series you wish to play." But that's 
 not quite right -- only Outback is available for play in this release. The manual alludes to future 
 expansion packs, but their existence would serve only to prove either that  anything  can be sold 
 if marketed properly or that it's impossible to underestimate the tastes of the gaming community. 
           ... stay far, far away from this awful game.    

  In the single-player game, you choose difficulty level and game length. True masochists will opt 
 for the full mode, which consists of 13 episodes (each episode is two "days" long) ; the half option 
 lets you begin after the two tribes merge with seven episodes left; and short lets you start with 
 only three episodes remaining. Next you pick a tribe and decide whether to create a character or 
 play as one of the real-life survivors. When creating a character, you're given points to spend 
 on skills like strength, running, swimming, fieldcraft, communications, cooking, cunning, empathy, 
 and so forth. Sounds like pretty standard stuff, but it does make you wonder about the difficulty 
 setting you chose earlier: The manual says that, on medium, "your skills will be on par with those 
 of the other survivors," which might make you think it doesn't matter how you assign those points. 
 A few minutes of gameplay (and we use the term loosely) reveals that some of these ratings do affect 
 your character's performance, but it's still confusing, which apparently is in keeping with the 
 entire game concept.   

  Next comes the game's most tension-filled sequence: role selection. You've got only 15 seconds 
 to pick a role because "the other tribe members are  racing  to pick roles as well" (emphasis added) . 
 Don't sweat what role you pick. You, the gamer, don't actually perform any type of survival actions -- all 
 you do is watch your character walk around the camp, squat by the fire, stab at invisible animals 
 with a spear, or scoop water out of what appears to be a toxic waste site. Finally, you get a chance 
 to set your "emotional energy" levels, which the manual claims determines how much you like other 
 survivors and how much you're willing to invest in maintaining a positive relationship. More on 
 that later...    

 Then the horror begins. Each day is broken into five segments: two survival periods, a reward challenge, 
 an immunity challenge, and the dreaded tribal council. It's during the survival period that you 
 watch your character saunter around camp (the manual says you can unlock the camera and look at 
 anything by hitting F6, but it doesn't work) and are given the opportunity to strike up conversations 
 with fellow tribe members. This is the time when you're supposed to forge alliances and discuss 
 other members' strengths and weaknesses, but the responses of the computer-controlled characters 
 are neurotic and contradictory. Someone might tell you something like "Sonja's not going to be 
 around long," but when you chime in with "Sonja's on edge," they'll come back with a reply that 
 makes it sound as though Sonja's a lock to make it to the final four.           There's no point 
 to the game's various events.    

  Although you might as well just leave for a cup of coffee during the survival period, since it 
 might well be the slowest three minutes in gaming, we decided to try out some strategy: We simply 
 lowered our survivor's emotional energy to zero for a couple of characters we thought weren't of 
 much use, then walked around relentlessly slandering them. Mysteriously, when there were just two 
 other characters remaining, the one whom we'd abused horribly to her face voted for us to remain -- so 
 we won!   

  As bad as the survival period is, the challenges for rewards and immunity are even more torturous -- a 
 series of interminable clickfests that should be patented as a cure for insomnia. Some challenges 
 involve pushing a large object (rock, log, and so on) by clicking on "faster" or "slower" depending 
 on how fatigued your character is; others involve a little hand-eye coordination by letting you 
 shoot at targets with a bow and arrow or slingshot, toss rocks at circles with various point values, 
 or chuck a burning stick onto a large pyre -- whee! Should you tire of these physical activities, 
 you'll thrill at other tasks like taking part in a survivor trivia contest, guiding fellow tribe 
 members through mazes by clicking on directional arrows, or -- believe it or not -- solving a  slider 
 puzzle . Throughout all these wretched minigames you'll stare in awe at stupendously choppy animation, 
 blurry and undefined terrain, and some of the most bizarre color schemes ever devised to represent 
 grass, sky, and other parts of the environment.           You could roll this log, or you could 
 just hit the Esc key.    

  It might take a couple of hours for you to get to the tribal council in the full game mode, and 
 that's a good thing -- the tribal council sequences are completely lifeless and seem to last an eternity 
 to boot, with no way to skip any of the painstakingly slow walking sequences and just get on with 
 it. But there is one good thing about the tribal council: Should you botch it and get the ax, you'll 
 already know there's probably no reason to play the single-game mode again.   

  Survivor offers multiplayer support via TCP/IP, but just barely. There's no support for GameSpy 
 or any other matching services, so finding an opponent will be as frustrating as rolling that big 
 rock up a hill for five minutes just to get five pounds of rice. Only medium and short games are 
 available in multiplayer mode, but in one last bad design move, you're given only 60 seconds to 
 discuss who's going to be kicked out of the outback. Chatting with fellow Survivor fans over whose 
 flame will be snuffed should be the most engaging part of the experience, which explains why you 
 have so little time to do it here: The designers didn't want to ruin the game's perfect track record 
 for inducing tedium, indifference, and disgust.   

  Oh, by the way -- did we mention you shouldn't buy this game?    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooooo bad! Seriously, all you do is wait through camp trying to get your idiot character 
 to do his/her job. (They usually just sit around) You have almost no control over your survivor 
 so you can't give demands like "Fish" or "Cook". Challenges are unoriginal and are certainly games 
 that would never be in the show. They're so boring, all you usually do is hit up down up down up 
 down until Jeff yells something like "That's enough!". The most entertaining challenge (And it's 
 really boring) is the bow challenge where you're riding down a river shooting targets. But after 
 all the targets are shot, you've gotta wait like 5 - 10 minutes to actually reach the end. It's 
 the same thing over and over again, like I said, you'll stay at camp for like 5 minutes trying 
 to get your survivor to do his/her job, then after the time's up, you'll go into a challenge, after 
 that, you go back to camp with some sort of pointless reward like pillows or something.
  
  Pros: Survivor is a great show.
  
  Cons: Everything is so awful! Where do I begin?!?
  
 
  Just don't get this game. It's boring, slow going, unoriginal, and every other bad thing. Seeing 
 how bad this game is, I can't imagine what the "Office" game will be like. If someone try's to 
 convince you that this game is fun, just say "NO!" and walk away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot won't let me post a score lower than 1. This game is 0. It's not a 1, it's a 0. They took 
 a decent reality show, and sucked the life out of it.
  
  This game is undescribably bad. I got this game free and secondhand from a friend, and I felt ripped 
 off. It's like the programmers intentionally programmed it to be a huge piece of garbage. The only 
 people who bought this game are diehard fans, and boy are they screwed because of it.
  
  Comic book guy: Worst use of brandname ever.
  
  Pros: Game disc catches on fire. Most fun I've 
 had with this game!
  
  Cons: -The Conversations between user and NPC don't make any sense. In one quick conversation, 
 you can form an alliance, lose the alliance, threaten the NPC, form another alliance, be threatened 
 by the NPC, learn that NPC hates Gretchen, agree that you hate Gretchen, get scolded for badmouthing 
 Gretchen, and form another alliance. The conversations are insane and frustrating. It's like talking 
 to someone with multiple-personality disorder, bipolar depression, and extreme memory loss.
  -Note, even if you manage to form an alliance, it really doesn't mean anything. The NPCs' vote 
 is determined by a dice-roll, making the entire conversation-half of the game moot because alliances 
 don't mean squat, because it's all freakin' random. Don't you feel stupid. You could've sat on 
 your hands during the entire conversation level, and you'd have gotten the same results.
  -Rewards and immunity challenges: Boring, unimaginative, cliched, involve tedious-clicking, and 
 no matter how much you try you always seem to lose.
  -Tribal council: As I mentioned, since everything is generated randomly on the spot, you have no 
 idea who to vote for or who is voting for who. (I hate to admit it, but this twisted-section of 
 the game is most like the tv show. That's not saying much, because even still this part barely 
 resembles the show.)
  
  This game will p&&& anyone off, kids, adults, especially grandma. I honestly don't know who designed 
 it, or if they even cared that this is one of the worst games ever. This is just another example 
 of a decent brandname abused in video-game format, so as to rake in a few extra dollars from trusting 
 fans. Don't buy this game, just forget it was made. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Why did I say this would be a good flash game? All you do is click. The Left Mouse Button 
 is really to only thing you'll press. The events are not fun at all and probably should be used 
 in a Kindergarden Skill Building computer game. Ugh, the game is so crap, I can't even write a 
 proper review for it.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics are choppy and looks as if they rushed. The sound is horrible 
 and the same jungle beat plays in the background again and again. It gets really annoying.
  
  Replay Value: The replay value is non-existant, because the game is so bad you won't want to 
 play it again.
  
  Overall this game was horrible and will stay horrible. I wonder what the developers where thinking. 
 Where they brain dead at the time? Maybe they did this as an April Fools joke. This was released 
 in 2001. A game released in 2001 should not be this bad. The only thing good that comes out of 
 the game is an example of what a complete failure looks like. Honestly, this could have been a 
 great, even amazing franchise for them to build on. Too bad the game was horrible. If they had 
 made the game good, they could have actually made some money from this. Instead all they have left 
 is another game for their Wall of Stupidity.
  
  DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES: RENT, PURCHASE, STEAL, ACCEPT AS GIFT, DOWNLOAD OR BORROW THIS 
 GAME. DOING SO WILL FOR A FACT RESULT IN BUT NOT LIMITED TO EXTREME LEVELS OF: NAUSEA, HEARTBURN, 
 INDIGESTION, UPSET STOMACH and DIARREAH THAT PEPTO BISMAL WON'T EVEN BE ABLE TO CURE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmr_128
Rating: 1.1
Date: May 25, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game completely sucks! the only thing to do is play little games and "gossip with every one. 
 And when one person says to vote for this person your going be an ass and do it and be the only 
 one voting. "oh but dude they said they would," well retard thats to bad because the A. I. SUCKS!! 
 I would rather listen to Abba than play this. never again! the games could have been ok if you 
 could go back to them instead of having one chance to do something, and worse the game shuts down 
 every 5 seconds. whats the point of custom character all you do is pick someone and you are them, 
 and the only difference is that they are not part of the cast. GOOD BYE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SummonerYevon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  What I've found with this edition of Survivor was choppy gameplay, and... to make a fine point on 
 it, a world where characters dont respond to human command what-so-ever. The challenges were lackluster 
 in the sense where a first-grader would be able to win the $1,000,000 prize. However, it is fair 
 to say that this game does make a decent first impression into the world of Survivor. It allows 
 the player, however awarkdly it may seem, to try to see how it can be from the mindset of a survivor 
 character. The game allows us to choose a likeness of the survivor world, and we do get to 'play' 
 all 16 episodes of Survivor. Also, we get to form 'alliances' to help us stay in the game, but 
 in doing so, help voting someone else off, away from the million dollar prize. Overall, a decent 
 game, that doesnt compare to "Survivor: Ultimate Edition." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  This is the WORST game I EVER played!!! Trust me when I tell you - Don't buy it!! The game is in 
 fact a piece of JUNK which you will delete after a few minutes - it won't take you longer to realize 
 how bad it is.
  
  The graphics are awful and I mean REALLY BAD, it looks unfinished, the gameplay is BAD, the camera 
 is BAD, everything about this game is BAD, really really BAD.
  
  In short: the game SUCKS!!! Actually, if it sucked it would be a good thing, this is beyond that, 
 it gives the word a good name!! Don't take the game even if it's for free, you'll just waste your 
 time and get mad afterwards.
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! Don't take it even if it's free!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: switch17
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the hit TV show Survivor can be a pretty dedicated lot, and there's no doubt they'll be 
 strongly tempted to snatch up Survivor: The Interactive Game should they spot it while Christmas 
 shopping. But if you're harboring even a tiny urge to buy this game, please listen very carefully 
 to this advice: Don't do it. Just walk out of the store and try to forget you ever saw it, because 
 this is one of the most inept pieces of drek ever to be pawned off as a computer game. Even the 
 name is a giveaway -- when a game publisher has to remind you that its game is "interactive," chances 
 are it only barely meets the minimum requirements of that adjective. 
  If your thinking about buying this game then just remember this," WORST GAME EVER", it will crash 
 every 30 minutes. My friend bought this game and he almost cried, because spending money on this 
 trash. 
  There is no point of playing the game. You just push a button and you've done your job. Please 
 don't buy this game. I'm begging you! Peace! You won't survive if you play this game!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 1.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  Take Caution, DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!! One of the worst games I have ever played. This game is a 
 glitch magnet with tons of errors and some of the worst AI i have ever seen. The game starts you 
 off with choice of which season you want to play (which there is only one thank god) . After you 
 choose your difficulty you choose the tribes you want to have. After that you either choose which 
 person you want or make your own which is the worst I have seen. In the Create a character you 
 have to choose from some all ready made people and just change their name and stats. Then in the 
 game you get to talk to the computer tribe members to make alliances. The only problem is that 
 if you don't win an immunity challedge you most likely will be voted out. It takes forever to get 
 someone to be on your side. The challedges aren't challedging because all you do is push a button. 
 Believe me this game is one of the worst I have seen. STAY AWAY AT ALL COSTS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: represent32
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 8, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  The first promblem youll notice when you put this game in you may have to wait 15-20 min for instalation. 
 Then when you play the game the cut sceens look like they were very rushed, and are choppy. When 
 you play the game like in the show you must form allicences inorder to stay on the island. You 
 do this by clicking on the people and talking to them. The promblem is the person could be on the 
 otherside of the beach and you can still talk to them. The conversations you have with your teammates 
 lack the normal flow of talking. You can Say i think Rich should be voted out and they'll say back 
 to you Im hungry. The Reward and Immunity games are horrible and not wroth your time. In short 
 don't buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
