-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Suzuki Alstare Extreme Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/suzukialstareextremeracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 12 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Criterion Games
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     Dec 14, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an ultimately tedious exercise that offers precious few innovations and even fewer reasons 
 to continue playing once you've run through its tracks a first time. 

 Motorcycle games for the PC are divided into three distinct categories, and an obvious front-runner 
 dominates all but one of these. In dirt biking, Microsoft's high-flying Motocross Madness 2 leaps 
 over the competition. For realistic road racing, you need look no further than EA Sports' incredible 
 Superbike 2001. But if you're a fan of arcadelike motorcycle racing, in which real-world authenticity 
 takes a backseat to turbocharged action, you'll find that high-quality games in this category are 
 rare indeed. The latest attempt at one of these is Ubi Soft's Suzuki Alstare Extreme Racing, an 
 initially thrilling but ultimately tedious exercise that offers precious few innovations and even 
 fewer reasons to continue playing once you've run through its tracks a first time.   

  In fact, Extreme Racing is merely a mildly reworked update of Ubi Soft's own mid-1998 game Redline 
 Racer, which was a nice-looking but ultimately disappointing game even back then. Designed by England-based 
 developer Criterion Studios, Extreme Racing looks a bit better than its predecessor and has a slightly 
 more complex physics model. However, that's not saying much, considering the frightful simplicity 
 of the first game. The fact is that bad computer artificial intelligence, ridiculous speeds, and 
 a complete lack of depth and variety are not a good combination for any racing game. And since 
 Extreme Racing has all three, it seems far more suitable for an arcade than for the PC.   

  Like Redline Racer, Extreme Racing seats you on a built-for-racing bike that moves far too quickly 
 for the relatively narrow roadways you'll have to navigate. The game sports seven unique environments, 
 which range from a big city street to a winding country road, to a snow-capped mountain, one of 
 which is featured in each of the under-ten-minute events. Success in the "main game" season mode 
 unlocks faster bikes, which you'll undoubtedly need to proficiently compete with the ever-increasing 
 pace.   

  The real challenge in the game isn't in gracefully gliding through the gears or testing your balance 
 through demanding turns, but in somehow keeping this wild and totally unrealistic machine on the 
 track and off the roadside scenery. Fortunately, if you do collide with said scenery, it must be 
 of adequate girth or protrude sufficiently onto the track for your speeding Suzuki to be impacted 
 by it. Otherwise, your bike is unaffected by its surroundings, exhibiting no wheel spin and just 
 a hint of wobbliness as it blasts over pavement, sand, snow, dirt, shoulders, and even small rock 
 outcroppings. If you're really good, you can use some trackside obstacles in much the same manner 
 as Olympic bobsledders use the walls of their tracks - to deflect back onto the racing surface. 
 Is this authentic? No. Is it fun? Just for a little while.   

  Even if you do dump your bike, the repercussions aren't terribly serious. Sure, your rider will 
 get the rag doll treatment as he's viciously propelled hundreds of yards down the track, but he'll 
 be back in the saddle again and ready to go within a matter of milliseconds, none the worse for 
 wear. Furthermore, the chances that your artificially intelligent competitors will gain significant 
 ground on you during such a mishap are slim. That's because the computer-controlled drivers in 
 Extreme Racing adjust their speed to your speed and slow down when you're driving poorly; yet, 
 they suddenly surge when you're tearing up the course. The result? You'll rarely lose the leaders 
 no matter how capably you ride. This sort of philosophy may be fine for a coin-op game, but not 
 on the PC, where fast riders should be able to distance themselves from slower riders and where 
 sluggish riders should suffer the consequences.    

 That's not the only troubling aspect of the computer drivers' behavior. In what seems like a throwback 
 to the early days of PC racing, your computer-controlled peers are blissfully unaware of your presence, 
 and they will drive into you and through you with wild abandon. Curiously, even hard bike-to-bike 
 collisions rarely result in a crash, though you may well be knocked for a 180-degree spin while 
 the legally blind guy who nailed you speeds off into the distance.   

  Yet, whether you're running a single race or contesting the multievent "main game," Extreme Racing's 
 most damning problem may well be the lack of depth and planning in the game's design. For instance, 
 how can a half dozen relatively similar bikes and just seven environments be considered satisfactory? 
 How can a garage facility that consists of just three simple sliding controls - one each for "power," 
 "steering," and "braking" - be misconstrued as interesting? Where are the qualifying sessions, 
 performance upgrades, and replays? And why have mandatory checkpoints even been included on the 
 tracks when they are quite capable of terminating your game prematurely, even when you're in first 
 place?   

  Extreme Racing does offer some relief from the repetitive single-player mode with a split-screen 
 two-player option and eight-player racing over the Internet, the latter of which is very easy to 
 set up with Ubi Soft's proprietary "game service client." However, the game doesn't support force-feedback 
 controllers.   

  Visually, Extreme Racing gives a great first impression. Sitting on your motionless bike at the 
 starting line, you'll witness a beautifully rendered and colored world that looks very lifelike. 
 The competing bikes are nicely colored and decked out in the same Suzuki racing trim you'd find 
 in the real-world Suzuki Alstare team. Plus, the game's frame rate is very fast, and Criterion 
 has implemented a convincing sense of motion blur.   

  However, you'll soon notice that the game's pretty environments are also unquestionably stagnant. 
 Trees do not bend with the wind, leaves do not fall, and clouds do not slip across the sky. There 
 is no fogging, there are no birds or airplanes, and the rudimentary depiction of lens flare - two 
 translucent circles that dance about the screen - is more annoying than anything else.   

  Any visual racing effects are few and far between. Somehow, these inordinately powerful bikes are 
 not capable of kicking up dirt or dust even at 300mph, nor do they spew smoke or flames when they 
 get damaged. You will notice the odd near-microscopic spark when you've smacked another object, 
 yet the bike remains in pristine condition even when it hurtles uncontrollably into a retaining 
 fence or over a cliff. The rider is capable of just two poses - upright when he's punched the turbo 
 button and crouched for the remainder of the time. And he never varies from those positions unless 
 he is thrown unceremoniously from his mount.   

  The game's audio has far fewer redeeming qualities. The game's rendition of the furious whir of 
 a Suzuki engine is disappointingly muted, as are the sounds of other bikes. Tire screeches are 
 too infrequent, and the sound of howling wind is just a single continuous tone. If you crash your 
 bike, you'll hear only a few simple blips rather than the slam-bang audio bursts you'd probably 
 expect from such a collision.   

  All this goes to show that Extreme Racing isn't worth the price of admission. Suzuki Alstare Extreme 
 Racing is a bland alternative that can be recommended only to those who wouldn't tire of its simplistic 
 approach.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
