-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Swashbucklers: Blue vs. Grey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/swashbucklersbluegrey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sticks pretty closely to the Pirates! recipe for piratical goodness.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Second-rate copy of a vastly superior game.
 Little depth to captaining ships and trading, let alone the arcade action and character development.
 Repetitive Fed Ex quests.
 Washed-out visuals and embarrassingly cheap dialogue sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.6, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 1C
Developer: Akella
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 8, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An inferior copy of a classic, Swashbucklers isn't worth your time. 

  Mix the Wild West with the high seas and you get Swashbucklers: Blue vs. Grey, an action adventure 
 game about pirates during the Civil War. However, the gameplay isn't as innovative as this offbeat 
 premise, considering that Russian developer TM Studios has simply duplicated Sid Meier's take on 
 buccaneering from his Pirates! games, right down to the arcade minigames. There isn't any amusement 
 to be found in the derivative, go-through-the-motions gameplay that mimics a vastly superior predecessor. 
 The PlayStation 2 production values (the game was apparently designed for Sony's last-generation 
 console) , which boast nonstop loading screens and outdated graphics, really hammer home the bottom-drawer 
 philosophy behind this second-rate rip-off.  

           Like the rest of Swashbucklers, the boxing minigame is tedious and dull.      

  Nevertheless, 
 there are enough interesting aspects to the story to make you wish that Swashbucklers had been 
 more ambitious with its gameplay. You take the role of Abraham Gray, a pirate plying his trade 
 in the Caribbean and along the southeastern seaboard of the United States during the Civil War. 
 Dropping the usual 16th-17th century piratical escapades for a more modern era is a great idea, 
 especially given how the game dresses up the period with cowboy touches. Gray dresses more like 
 a Texas Ranger than a buccaneer from Havana, what with his beat-up cowboy hat and twirling six-guns. 
 City ports look like refugees from an old oat opera as well, with dirt streets, sheriffs' offices, 
 and taverns. Another nifty touch is Gray's mental state. He's a schizophrenic who hears voices, 
 which comes in handy when this hallucinatory alter ego provides tips on how to play the game. Not 
 much is made of this during play, although the concept is at least an interesting way to handle 
 the pop-up instructions provided during game tutorials.  

  Depressingly, that's about it for the positives. For starters, everything about Swashbucklers screams 
 bargain bin. The visuals are all washed-out, as if they've been put through the photocopier one 
 too many times. The graphical quality isn't much better than that offered in the PS2 version of 
 the game, although everything is sharper on the PC and it at least offers widescreen support for 
 modern monitors. Visual elements of the game are often repeated, too, which means that ports feature 
 the same dirt streets, the same taverns, and the same sheriff's departments. Every section of the 
 game needs to be loaded, too, despite the dated look. Loads are nearly instantaneous, but they 
 still break up the flow with continual screen fade-outs and transition screens. A comic-book vibe 
 to the visual flair makes the dated stuff a bit more tolerable, but you're still playing a game 
 that looks as if it came out five years ago. Furthermore, the interface is one of those big "designed 
 for a TV set" affairs, which makes it a chore to simply use your inventory.  

  Audio is an even bigger advertisement for yesteryear. Presumably to avoid the costs involved with 
 recording dialogue and then translating it for different markets, characters in Swashbucklers grunt 
 conversations like angry, drunken versions of the adults in Peanuts cartoons. Unfortunately, this 
 half-baked attempt at simlish doesn't work here, given that you're trying to make sense of a storyline, 
 not groove on the cutesiness of virtual dolls expressing emotions without uttering any intelligible 
 words. You can't get much out of this grunting, either, because it all sounds like a cross between 
 a snore and a belch. Thankfully, there are captions for all of this snorted dialogue, so you can 
 ignore these annoying noises and just read your way through conversations while listening to the 
 pretty good Wild West-style musical score.  

  It's a pity that you can't similarly disregard the gameplay. This is a clone of Pirates! in every 
 imaginable way, but without the depth and sense of fun that permeated that 2005 remake. Character 
 development has some role-playing game aspects, although they're pretty rudimentary. You level 
 up fairly quickly, but can apply the points gained to only three skills: fencing, shooting, and 
 defense. Perks that provide special melee attacks, defense bonuses, and the like can also be chosen, 
 which gives you at least a little more freedom to build a character. Regardless, there isn't enough 
 choice here to let you really customize Gray. The arcade-style combat is equally straightforward 
 on both terra firma and on the high seas. You move around with the WASD keys and fight with clicks 
 of the left mouse button. Both ways of doing battle are fast-paced; Gray is an expert swordsman, 
 and the vessels at his command are able to rip off cannon fire at Gatling-gun speeds. It's only 
 when dueling enemy captains at the conclusion of boarding sequences that you're required to do 
 any thinking, and this really just requires you to pace yourself by taking breathers every now 
 and again as you run out of energy.  

           Bloody sword-fighting sequences on the decks of boarded ships at least let you work out 
 some frustrations with the game.      

  Quests are generally pretty basic delivery runs where you drop off supplies, hand over prisoners, 
 sink vessels, and so on. There is little interaction with non-player characters, and no need to 
 fuss around with loading ships or dumping off cargo. Consequently, in the many Fed Ex quests you 
 simply land in a port, talk to someone to accept a job, sail to another port, and talk to someone 
 about taking your delivery. Wash, rinse, repeat. You can make cash on the side by auctioning off 
 captured vessels, or by running goods from one port to another and doing the old buy-low, sell-high 
 thing. But there isn't any strategy here because the auctions are conducted automatically, and 
 the prices for cargo remain static even when you're buying up tons of stock. You know you've got 
 a pretty simplified market system when it doesn't even recognize basic supply and demand.  

  Earning money from ship-selling and trading isn't really necessary, either, given that you can 
 make just about all of the cash that you want by taking on all comers in the boxing minigame on 
 offer in various ports' bars. This is a bare-fisted version of the captain duel described above 
 that is incredibly easy to win. All you have to do is pound away for a few rounds and occasionally 
 pepper your opponent with a roundhouse special attack to walk away with as much as a thousand bucks. 

  If you're looking to recreate the Pirates! experience, just replay that fantastic game. Don't bother 
 with this dull copy unless you've got a fetish for mentally ill buccaneers.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jrmunger
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Swashbucklers does a number of things well that may not be immediately obvious when you first pick 
 up the game. For example, the game offers many of the same "mini games" that made "Sid Meier's 
 Pirates!" such a hit. Mini games include: trading, ship battles, boarding, dueling the enemy captain, 
 and plundering the enemy ship.
  
  One of the things that Swashbucklers does really well is give the player a sense of accomplishment 
 by allowing them to pursue progressively more difficult challenges. For example, I love that you 
 can take on larger ships with more guns and still have a chance to capture her if you play the 
 battle to your strengths. The larger battleship might have more sailors, greater armor, and a lot 
 more guns, but if your ship is faster and more maneuverable you still have a chance if you force 
 the enemy ship into a game of "cat and mouse." 
  
  I also really like the introduction of boss fights into the game. After completing a series of 
 quests, the main quest that you're working on usually comes down to a boss fight that again challenges 
 the player to take advantage of the boss characters weakness. 
  
  If only the game did everything right. The graphics are so unappealing that it's hard to give the 
 game a chance. Also, comparisons to "Sid Meier's Pirates!" are unavoidable where the characters 
 only grunt and make unintelligible sounds. Seriously, what were they thinking! It's hard to draw 
 me into a game if I can't even understand what the characters are saying much less relate to them.
 
  
  The game is overall above average. However, I expected much more from developer "Akella" who also 
 made such open-ended, inspired games like "Sea Dogs" and "Pirates of the Caribbean." I hope they 
 can once again create a game that not only gives you tasks and assignments, but gives you that 
 sense of adventure that makes you feel that the world is your oyster!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
