-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/swat3closequartersbattle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 701 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SWAT 3's most impressive feature has to be the amazing artificial intelligence employed by friend 
 and foe alike. 

 Proving that there's room for innovation even in a crowded genre, SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle 
 enters the squad-level combat arena armed to the teeth with unique features and killer gameplay. 
 Though the game suffers from a few design flaws and a complete lack of multiplayer capabilities 
 (at least initially) , it still has what it takes to challenge Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear for supremacy. 

 Set in Los Angeles of 2005, the game puts you in command of a SWAT team faced with mounting terrorist 
 activity. It seems that every insurgent group worth its salt has come to LA to stir up trouble 
 during the days preceding the signing of the historical Nuclear Abolishment Treaty. Your job, over 
 the course of 16 missions, is to root out these radical elements, protect the civilians and dignitaries 
 who stumble into their path, and bring your team back in one piece.  

 The gameplay is unique among squad-level games in that you command your troops on the fly and not 
 just from tactical maps. While the Spec Ops games offer this feature, in SWAT 3 it actually works 
 well and is absolutely essential for mission success. As each crisis arises, you are given a thorough 
 rundown of the situation from Metro command. The location, any hostages, and expected opposition 
 are all outlined in the game's excellent briefing screens. You can check to see what each notable 
 enemy and hostage looks like so that you shoot and protect the appropriate people when the time 
 comes. There's even a timetable of terrorist demands for some of the time-critical missions.  

 
 After your briefing, you select appropriate gear for yourself and your team. The weapon selection 
 is limited but more than sufficient. Each trooper in your unit is equipped with tons of extra equipment, 
 like CS gas canisters, flashbangs, all-in-one "toolkits" (which are handy for unlocking doors and 
 disarming explosives) , and an Opti-Wand. The Opti-Wand is a tiny mirror on the end of a 48-inch 
 stick and is particularly cool because it lets you see around corners and into rooms before entering. 
 Each trooper also has a hefty supply of handcuffs, which you'll need on every single mission.  
 

 That's because SWAT 3 isn't just about taking the bad guys down. More often than not, you can coax 
 the perpetrators into surrendering, at which point you must cuff them and radio in for your backup 
 forces to come pick them up. In fact, you must do this frequently; since you can't always tell 
 who's an enemy and who's not, you typically have to cuff and cart off everyone you encounter. Of 
 course, this is for your protection as well as theirs, and it adds a unique element to the gameplay. 

 The only problem with the cuff-and-cart requirement is that, as the squad leader, you must personally 
 radio in every single pickup request. Even if you kill or arrest every bad guy on a given level, 
 your mission is still not done until you radio in a pickup request for every single living perp. 
 While having to do this is probably realistic in some sense, it can become overwhelming on the 
 later, far more chaotic levels, especially because you need to radio in all the requests yourself. 

 It's little problems like these that collectively keep SWAT 3 from being the hands-down champion 
 in the squad-level action genre. However, it has bigger problems, like a complete lack of multiplayer 
 support. Sierra claims that a multiplayer add-on is coming very soon, but it's almost unthinkable 
 that the game could have been brought to market without it. The holiday buying season is undoubtedly 
 responsible, which is too bad because SWAT 3 is one game that begs for a multiplayer option. Even 
 so, SWAT 3 has plenty of good points that help compensate for the omission of multiplayer support. 
 For instance, the graphics are spectacular and arguably the best in the genre. Character models 
 are incredibly lifelike and even have eyes that blink and dart left and right. The motion-captured 
 movements are similarly realistic, and the textures are outstanding. Each level in the game is 
 equally well rendered. Environments like the church, bank, and convention center are amazingly 
 detailed - and daunting, because they have tons of doorways, rooms, and objects for terrorists 
 to hide behind. For sheer immersion, SWAT 3 clearly has the competition beaten.  

 The game's interface is also excellent; it has a transparent inventory overlay that lets you select 
 a new SWAT toy without ever taking your eyes off the action. You can easily order your squad members 
 with an unobtrusive menu that sits neatly in the upper corner of the screen. Even better, you direct 
 each order with your reticle. In other words, if you want a team to breach and flashbang a room, 
 you point at the doorway and issue the command. The interface and command system gives you near-total 
 control of your troops, even in the heat of battle.  

 But SWAT 3's most impressive feature has to be the amazing artificial intelligence employed by friend 
 and foe alike. The terrorists in the game are a formidable bunch who react to all manner of situations. 
 Some will come running at the sound of gunfire, while others will go look for help. Others will 
 investigate blood spots on the floor or opened doors - but each acts differently from the rest. 
 The same goes for your squadmates, who act according to their uniquely predefined personality setting. 
 Some will rush headlong into danger, while others will proceed with caution. And regardless of 
 their style or orders, the computer-controlled troopers in SWAT 3 are easily the best and most 
 effective teammates you could ever hope to have on your side. They carry out your orders efficiently 
 and oftentimes better than you could. You'll still see the occasional logjam on stairways in this 
 game, but nothing that halts gameplay for very long and certainly no mission-ending catastrophes 
 caused by bad pathfinding.  

 Unfortunately, the game has a bad tendency to loop audio, mostly on quips coming from cuffed bad 
 guys. It can be incredibly annoying, and it often takes extreme restraint not to put a virtual 
 bullet in these perps' chatty little heads. The audio also falters when you have to make numerous 
 reports in a short span of time. For example, on one level you must rescue a number of hostages 
 in a TV studio. If you radio in too many reports too quickly, you'll hear a stuttering, overlapping 
 barrage of acknowledgements in reply. And unlike in Rogue Spear, you automatically fail your mission 
 if you die - you cannot switch to your next squadmate. Even if that's realistic, it can be frustrating 
 on the larger levels when the very last terrorist gets a bead on you before you can squeeze off 
 a round.  

 However, even with its minor failings, SWAT 3 is impressive. It's a crying shame that it shipped 
 without multiplayer support - and it would be a bigger shame if Sierra adds that support later 
 at an additional cost - but the game that did make it to store shelves is a very good one.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dhruv7000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Swat 3 Close Quarter Battle was released in 1999 and that's why I call it the best game of that 
 time. The difficulty is almost just right its in between easy and just right. The true experience 
 of this game is only when you play in the hard difficulty mode otherwise its too easy. There are 
 enough missions to keep you occupied till a maximum of 2 months only if you are not good at it. The 
 game is very addictive [I play the demo almost everyday even though I have played it a million times!] .
 
  The Swat 4 was also released but I am waiting for swat 5. You can select weapons according to your 
 mission and each swat member has a tactical aid kit c2 explosives, gas a primary and a secondary 
 weapon. You can even choose which element leader would you like to be. You are the element and there 
 are 2 red and 2 blue officers.
  The graphics are good [although new games today have much better] but let me again remind you - this 
 was released in 1999 and seems anywhere near to a good 2003 first person shooter. The sound is also 
 refined and clear. The game play is almost like real [again for a game in 1999] . A lot of hopes are 
 lying with me for the next to next release-Swat 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've always loved this game. Even though its very old but it does not feel much dated. The Artificial 
 Intelligence is still better then most of the games that come out even today. The graphics are 
 decent, good textures. I mean they don't disappoint you even today, its still fun to play with 
 them. The game play is top notch, absolutely dig it. The amazing AI, the sharp corners, the shooting, 
 the picking locks, deploying CS gas and lots more cool features. You actually feel like a SWAT 
 team leader leading a intelligent team of officers that do a great job. The soundtracks are good, 
 stealth movement has different music and the fast dynamic mode (you'll get it when you play) has 
 fast paced music which goes well with the situation. You must play this old gem it won't disappoint 
 you.
  
  And on another note, i think it is better than SWAT 4 except for the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armandm3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 3 Close Quarter Battle is a good game make by Sierra. The game is very realistic even it is 
 pretty old. It has been released in the year 1999-2000 but the graphic are pretty nice and even 
 attractive to play it. I say the game is very realistic because when you're being fired you don't 
 lose life as any other game will do. This game reflect a little the reality on this domain. Another 
 nice part of that game is that when you lose or you restart a mission or even make a new career 
 the place where the enemies was will not be the same next time, causing the game to be more real 
 and more hard.
  
  More and more you advance in the career more you will learn on the game and each mission are more 
 interesting more you go further. The graphic are dated for now but it remain nice to play it with 
 all the items you get in the game, but for a mission you may choose only what is the most important 
 for the exact mission you're doing making it nearer to the reality as someone won't be able to 
 take bombs, grenades, etc... only with him. The choice for equipment are very wide that let you 
 a better chance to get the right equipment at the good moment. 
  
  The game is definitely a good one even if have ben created in 2000 but you can make it become a 
 multiplayer game but upgrading it with the latest patch from Sierra. Hope you will enjoy with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  great team AI+great enemy AI+varying spawn points for the enemies+realistic tactics+unique fps 
 concept/roes+great graphics:
  Unprecedented Squad-Based Gameplay:
  SWAT 3: CQB.
  
  SWAT 3 is one of the most underrated shooters in the market. The beauty of the game is the command 
 aspect. During the missions you'll command 4 other SWAT officers that react very well- and aren't 
 a nuissance! They actually can do their job just as well as you can or better. The enemy ai is 
 unpredictable but realistic: surprise them and they might all attack or just some of them might. 
 Or they might run away and taunt you. Sometimes they'll sneak up on you. In any case they keep 
 you on your toes like you should. Also nice is that you aren't always killing your enemies but 
 instead you often try to cuff em. It's cool when you manage to do so and get them evacuated cause 
 then they might give your higher ups vital intel for your mission. In any case then you'll have 
 to play tactically and react well to survive and get a good rating. It seems strange at first but 
 after a while everything looks, plays, and reacts very naturally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  There are no fancy plans to make, no detailed mission objectives and you only supervise a small 
 team. So you might ask if this game is better than all the Rainbow six games out there? Well yes. 
 First of all, the graphics are very good and still are by today's standard. The sound is particularly 
 great. I remember getting into that Disco and earing gun shot and people screaming far away through 
 the corridor and wanted to rush in and save some people.
  
  The fact that the villain are never at the same place is a great idea and add to the challenge. 
 The variety of guns and gadget is a bit poor and this is probably the only bad side of the game. 
 But one thing must be said. It is the only game I know that reward you for using non-lethal weapons 
 and using them is fun. The mission variety is great and entertaining. Two missions are memorable. 
 The one where you get to the house of a maniac who kidnapped a girl and you found her.... at a very 
 unusual place and the other is the mission where, right in the the middle of an easy mission, you 
 find yourself on a time chase to disarm bombs all over the place. Swat 3 is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to imagine a more exciting premise for a realistic squad-level combat simulation than 
 taking control of a SWAT team. Finding the best way to simulate SWAT operations, though, has proved 
 frustrating for Sierra - and at least part of the problem was that the company often put the cart 
 before the horse by cramming its SWAT games into genres that were hot at the time rather than fitting 
 the design to the subject matter. Police Quest: SWAT and SWAT 2 were flawed attempts at FMV adventure 
 and real-time strategy, respectively. For Sierra, the potential of its SWAT series must have felt 
 like the million-dollar check nobody could cash.
  
  But doggedly, they stuck with the concept - and I'm sure glad they did. Thanks to some utterly 
 convincing 3D-modeled graphics, SWAT 3: Close Quarters Combat will grab you by your body armor 
 and drag you into the action from your very first assignment - and once there, you'll find yourself 
 hooked by the game's superior artificial intelligence routines, seamless interface, and the sweaty 
 tension of each of the 16 missions. The first two SWAT titles felt like games; by narrowing its 
 scope to focus intensely on in-the-field tactics, Sierra Studios has made SWAT 3: CQB feel like 
 the real thing.
  
  You play as an officer of D Platoon in LAPD SWAT, and though the action is set five years in the 
 future, the events that frame your missions are frighteningly plausible even today. An international 
 anti-nuke summit featuring representatives from every nation in the world is about to take place, 
 and it's SWAT's task to ensure the safety of all of them. That won't be easy, because despite the 
 name, this is no City of Angels: besides being faced with the threat of terrorists drooling at 
 the thought of so many potential hostages being crammed into one location, you've also got to deal 
 with the indigenous crazies that call L. A. home. In a move more developers should follow, Sierra 
 Studios has opened up every mission of the game for instant access - but it's much more rewarding 
 to play those same missions in Career mode because you'll learn more and more about the threats 
 your squad will face and the events leading up to each crisis.
  
  There are a ton of environments to charge into, all modeled after actual photos and each looking 
 very sharp. They include private residences, a nightclub, underground sewers, and even the Los 
 Angeles International Airport control tower.
  
  SWAT 3 features four basic mission types: capturing barricaded suspects, serving high-risk warrants, 
 hostage rescue, and deploying rapidly to the scenes of emergencies with little knowledge of what 
 you'll be facing. The vast majority of situations fall into the last two categories, but each mission 
 is still exciting and unique because of the tactical challenges posed by the various locations 
 and the characters you encounter during each operation. All sorts of audio tidbits add to the ambience 
 - hostages and captors choke and cough when hit with CS gas, terrorists laugh maniacally as they 
 squeeze off automatic-weapons fire, rescued victims take umbrage at being cuffed, and downed suspects 
 groan in pain as they lie bleeding on the floor.
  
  The interface is so slick and seamless that you'll be able to focus on command decisions even from 
 the game's first-person perspective. There's no mission-planning segment in SWAT 3: all orders 
 are issued on the fly, enabling you to adjust a team's actions instantly to reflect changing circumstances. 
 Simply point your reticule at a door, hallway, or person, and you can quickly issue the appropriate 
 command via a menu tree that's always visible. You can even control teams on the other side of 
 a room or building by using a Search command and listening to their audio feedback as they advance.
 
  
  The only distractions you'll face in the line of duty, in fact, are what might be the most convincing 
 character graphics and special visual effects ever to grace a first-person game. Suspension of 
 disbelief? It comes pretty easily when you can see creases in your team's uniforms and a flash 
 of fire erupt from their muzzles as they open fire. Character faces and clothing are equally realistic, 
 and the end result is that you really do care about saving the lives of as many people possible 
 on each mission - even the lives of the guys that were spraying machine-gun fire at you from behind 
 a wall.
  
  Yes, I said from behind a wall, because thanks to some impressive artificial intelligence programming, 
 you'll be faced with that sort of lifelike behavior in SWAT 3. Some suspects can be subdued simply 
 by shouting at them to get down and drop their weapons; some use hostages as human shields as they 
 pop off rounds at your team; still others will ignore your commands and raise their weapons to 
 fire even though they have four high-powered assault rifles trained on them.
  
  There's so much to love about SWAT 3 that I'd instantly recommend it to any fan of squad-level 
 tactical action - but that recommendation wouldn't be unqualified because there are some puzzling 
 oversights here. The first is the manual: it's smug and poorly organized, leaving you in the dark 
 about key aspects of play, particularly how your leadership performance rating is calculated (it 
 also never mentions how to arrest a suspect - you need to use the Evacuate command) . Then there's 
 the lack of a multiplayer mode. To be fair, Sierra Studios made it clear in numerous previews that 
 the multiplayer missions (and a level- editor) would ship after the game was released, but the 
 fact remains that without a multiplayer mode there's little reason to come back to SWAT 3 once 
 you've completed all the missions.
  
  But you can count on quite a few hours of absolutely engrossing gameplay before you finish SWAT 
 3, and by then your command decisions and tactical skills will have been so challenged that you 
 can hang on until that add-on arrives. If you're a fan of thinking-man's shooters, SWAT 3 should 
 be the next addition to your software collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is fairly old. To my surprise, it plays like a modern shooter all the way long.
  The graphics are fairly crisp and sharp , and on today on the lower echelon of graphic accelerator 
 the game can be played on the highest setting, without any effort, and still looks great. The images 
 move most of the time as real SWAT mates would do and so are the other NPC's.
  The sound is simplistic, but does its job well. Occasionally you hear the captives talk to you, 
 and you can even hear the bad guys talk to you during and after the shooing's done (using a more 
 subtle lingo after you cuff them...) .
  The game itself is actually simple : in each scene , you must arrest the criminals and protect 
 and evacuate the civilians, using 2 squads of 2 members, and you act as team leader. Your selection 
 of equipment before each mission is fairly limited (you can choose between 4 gun types) but the 
 game play does not require much more than that.
  Evacuating the civilians is fairly simple - you just cuff'em and radio the trailer unit. Once they 
 are out of your sight, the trailer will notify you and the will magically disappear... Arresting 
 (or killing) the criminals is surprisingly easy if you play by the rules - use the mirror before 
 entering each room and corridor (where's the fun in that ??? All guns blazing attitude just can't 
 work here) , and than Bang , Clear and Enter command will do most of the job for you, while you 
 cover for your mates.
  Even though all I described sounds simple, it works well on the first few levels, and later on 
 you must assist more actively to you mates, or else you're toast pretty fast.
  The Elite edition adds a few more levels, and that is a blessing, because most missions (the first 
 9 of them ) are pretty easy, and consists very few jail-birds-to-be types. The latter levels are 
 a little more complex (the sewers mission is fairly hard without a map) .
  The AI on this game is Ok most of the time. Sometimes your SWAT members get lost for some reasons, 
 or just get stuck somewhere, and like their father you have to come and pull them out, and sometimes 
 they take the most ridicules route to the destination (walking backwards...) , but all in all they 
 are manageable. The enemies fights pretty well, they don't hesitate to shoot, and they hit well, 
 so you have to be careful, because as in most reality based squad shooters, 1 or 2 shots can kill. 
 The enemy's also travel between rooms, retreat, etc - very nicely done.
  Enemy placings are random on some of the times, whats adding more complexity to your hunt.
  
 
  I really like this game. I can't say that it gets better as it gets older, but as in when it was 
 launched - it is plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The next installment of the SWAT series certainly dosen't dissapoint as it takes the series to 
 new levels by making a risky but much needed change from stratagy to tactical shooter. While the 
 first two SWAT games where great, and did indeed contain shooter elements (such as manual aiming 
 for your officers) the developers made a smart decision making the transition. In SWAT 3: CQB, 
 you take on the role of the Element leader of a 5 man squad of highly trained SWAT officers as 
 you try to maintain justice during international peace week. This will require you to take on a 
 series of call ups around LA including home invasions to a dance club and many other creatve scenarios. 
 The gameplay is now your team based tactical shooter style introduced by Rainbow six but it is 
 done much differently here as you must try to arrest as many suspects as possible instead of just 
 blasting a cap in they're ass. Remember this isa Police sim, not Doom so you mustthink like an 
 officer to successfully carry out those warrents.
  The graphics are pretty good for they're time, so it wouldant be fair to compare them to todays 
 standards. but for 99, there really good.
  The sound aspect is pretty well done as theres lots of well done voice work though the guns sometimes 
 sound a little strange. The music is your ususal cop show nail biting suspense stuff from Miami 
 Vice or even one of my favourites T. J. Hooker. To sum it up this is a really well done Police sim 
 that is a huge innovation for the series and a great tacticak shooter as well.
  So if your a fan of the series, a Cop buff, or just like tactical shooters you've got to check this 
 one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  SWAt 3 is a very good first person shooter, if you've played SWAT 2 then you'll expect this game 
 to be bad. But this game is much better than last year's game and I reccomend that shooter fans 
 try this game out.
  
  Last year's game: SWAT 2 was a major dissapointment and left fans of SWAt dissapionted. Now the 
 developers have rebounded with SWAT 3, which is a giant leap from last year's game and is worth 
 your money. Unlike last year's messy gameplay, SWAT 3 is a game that has good gameplay and is much 
 improved from last year's game. Last year's game was a strategy game while this year's game is 
 a first person shooter and it worked out much better than the bird's eye view strategy game that 
 the developers took with SWAT 2. The graphics have also improved mightely, SWAT 2 didn't have horrible 
 graphics but compared to this year's game. SWAT 2's graphics are laughable. The game features 16 
 missions and they are done pretty well done, the game doesn't pack much replay value though so 
 once you've beaten the game you won't be coming back to the game very often.
  
  SWAT 3 may not be that good of a game, but considering how bad SWAT 2 was, then this game is a 
 gigantic leap. I recommend that shooter fans at least play this game and give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Overall SWAT 3 is a great game. The graphics, sound, and gameplay all tie together well. But nowadays 
 the glitches in the game stick out more than they used to.
  
  For example, when I tell my unit to toss a flash bang into a room, they stand right in the path 
 of an enemy who might be on the other side, when thet should be standing off to the side of the 
 door. And when you turn up the difficulty it gets real ugly. Once he gets shot down, each cop walks 
 over to him, one by one, and gets shot, leaving me by myself. Also, sometimes as I'm shooting at 
 an enemy another cop will step right in my path and I shoot him in the head (and he only gets minor 
 injuries?????) .
  
  And when you have an AI leader, he does some stupid stuff. The biggest problem is that he has you 
 wasting flash bangs and gas grenades on rooms you already cleared. And when he tells you to follow 
 him, he often walks your entire team into a trap.
  
  Fortunately, these flaws can be avoided by doing multiplayer. Unfortunately, not many people use 
 this game anymore, and the only reason I do is because my computer won't run SWAT 4.
  
  On the positive side, the game has a variety of missions, weapons, and tools to use to succeed 
 in every mission, and if you can get past some of the games glitches (particularly the AI bugs) , 
 it's a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that was really fun in this game was you could shoot your own, and then they turn 
 on you! Nah. I liked the ability to select commands to execute the team to perform for you like 
 open door/compromise... etc etc. Not that intricate, but very well thought up for its time. Not 
 many FPS's out at that time that were actually good. Very limited weaponry, and a very short game 
 If I remember. I wouldn't bother with this title unless it was given to you or 5 bucks on a clearance 
 rack. You actually shoudln't see this anywhere now. I don't know why I have it. I didn't buy it! 
 The AI isn't that great, and the storyline is ho hum. Thank god for sequels eh? If this was all 
 that the PC could offer I'd be in limbo right now with nothing to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Just in case anyone is wondering, this review is based off of the GOTY edition. The difference 
 that I can tell in GOTY is that you can choose between a 5 man "original" mode or a 10 man "GOTY" 
 mode career. The things that are nice about the GOTY is that there's a bonus where SWAT members, 
 or people that train SWAT, talk about their jobs. While I was watching, I can't help but think 
 about how if I was a criminal, there were all these loopholes in the way SWAT cleared a room that 
 allowed me to take at least a few of them out before they got me. 
  
  Anyway, the game itself isn't spectacular. The enemy AI is good and their aim is God-like. As expected, 
 you won't be able to see your gun, just your targeting reticule. The tools at your disposal are 
 very nice, but the very limited number of weapons you can select from during career mode is frustrating 
 (let me guess, the default is a MP5) . The AI of your teammates is awful. An example would be all 
 of them walking into a room one after the other, getting killed by a terrorist hiding in some obscure 
 part of the room picking them off. It's fun issuing orders to your men/bots until you see a pile 
 of them out of action in that same place. The good aspects of the game touches on the smaller things, 
 such as radioing in to get your wounded men, secured hostages, and terrorists out. The small things 
 pay attention to detail, so it can feel like a job. This game isn't about a thrilling game experience. 
 It is more of a cop simulation, which it was originally meant to be (remember the 1st SWAT?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  SWAT-3 IS JUST THE GAME U DREAM ABOUT, AN OFFICER'S LIFE, A LIFE DEDICATED TO THE CAUSE OF HUMANITY, 
 VALOUR AND SACRIFICE.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.9 OUT OF 10, NO JOKE EVERYTHING IS DETAILED THE SURROUNDINGS, FELLOW OFFICERS, U CAN SEE 
 YOUR IMAGE IN THE MIRROR ON THE WALL WHILE U HUNT DOWN TERRORISTS AND LAWBREAKERS. RAISE IT TO UR 
 EYE LEVEL AND U GET THE REFLECTION OF THE HEADLIGHTS OOPS! OF UR GUNS STRAIGHT IN UR EYES AND U 
 WILL CLOSE THEM AS IF U ARE IN THERE.... IN REAL LIFE! GREAT FOR ANY GAME I HAVE SEEN TILL DATE.
 
  
  SOUND:10 OUT OF 10, THE BLAST OF THE WEAPONS WILL JOLT YOU. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:9.7 OUT OF 10, PLZ BUY THIS GAME AS IT IS A MUST BUY FIRST PERSON SHOOTER. THE A. I IS CUNNING, YOUR 
 DUTY AND PRESTIGE LARGER THAN LIFE, AND IF U DITCH UR FELLOW SOLDIERS OR KILL ONE OF THEM ALL OTHERS 
 JUST MAKE SURE THAT U GET A BULLET STRAIGHT IN UR FOREHEAD. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
