-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/swat4stetchkovsyndicate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More of that same great SWAT-style gameplay.
 More aggressive suspects.
 Co-op play is still fun.
 Highly replayable design.
 No in-game ads this time!.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only seven missions.
 Load times and frame rate are still problematic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 974 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Irrational Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Feb 28, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Stetchkov Syndicate's additional weapons, aggressive suspects, and new multiplayer mode breathe 
 new life into an already great tactical shooter. 

  Last year, SWAT 4 quietly established itself as the preeminent tactical shooter on the PC. It was 
 a beautifully executed game that effectively captured the tense and stressful job of being an elite 
 police officer. The newly released Stetchkov Syndicate expansion pack builds off of that solid 
 foundation, offering more difficult scenarios, thanks to more aggressive and unpredictable artificial 
 intelligence. You'll also find the expected array of additional weapons, a new multiplayer mode, 
 and cooperative play for up to 10 players this time.  

          The Stetchkov Syndicate builds incrementally on the great foundation laid by SWAT 4.   
   

  If you're reading this review, you're probably already familiar with SWAT 4, as The Stetchkov Syndicate 
 requires the original game to play. For those who aren't familiar with the game, the primary difference 
 between SWAT 4 and other tactical shooters is that you're required to protect life (including the 
 lives of suspects) as much as possible. You're awarded the most points for arresting suspects without 
 severely injuring them, and you're penalized big points for unauthorized use of deadly force. Just 
 like a real police officer, you must use careful judgment about firing your weapons. The basic 
 gameplay in The Stetchkov Syndicate doesn't differ much from the original game. You are still the 
 commander of a five-man squad, with your four subordinates split into two pairs. You'll use fiber-optic 
 cameras to peek under doors and around corners, bust into doors with breaching charges, and toss 
 nonlethal grenades into rooms to stun suspects as you try to arrest them.  

  The Stetchkov Syndicate gives you a few new tricks to take into the field in the form of new weapons 
 and tactics. Over the course of the campaign, you'll unlock a variety of new equipment. New guns 
 include a submachine gun modeled after the real-life FN-P90, a Colt accurized rifle, a grenade 
 launcher, and even a stun gun with two shots and longer range than the Taser from the original 
 game. You'll also be able to deploy glow sticks to mark off rooms that you've cleared, as well 
 as use night-vision goggles. Suspects can arm themselves with a light machine gun, a new machine 
 pistol, or even a .50 caliber handgun. The expansion pack now lets you issue delayed orders, much 
 like in Rainbow Six. This is useful for rooms with multiple entry points, as it lets you stack 
 your four-man element on one door and issue a go code while you break into the other door. You 
 can even split your element into pairs and have them each break into a separate door at the same 
 time. There's also a new punch command that you can use to subdue stubborn civilians or suspects 
 into being zip-cuffed. This is actually useful, because if you ran out of nonlethal munitions in 
 the original SWAT 4, you were sometimes required to shoot civilians in the leg in order to get 
 them to submit.  

  You'll need all these new tricks, as the suspects in The Stetchkov Syndicate seem to be more aggressive 
 and unpredictable than ever. You'll have to use overwhelming shock, such as a well-tossed flashbang 
 or a hail of pepper balls from an air gun in order to get these suspects to submit. Some even require 
 you to follow up all that with a shock from a stun gun before they'll drop their weapons. Suspects 
 are also more apt than in the original game to run away into other rooms or charge into the room 
 that you're in. This makes things more tense and requires you to pay closer attention to the blueprints 
 of the building, so you can deploy door wedges at key exits to manage the movement of suspects. 
 As you can imagine, The Stetchkov Syndicate's missions can be difficult at times, but since there 
 are only seven missions in the campaign, experienced players should fly through it in a few hours. 
 It's still a fun ride while it lasts though, and you'll do everything from the usual high-risk 
 arrest warrants in drug labs to disarming bombs and rescuing hostages in a government office. The 
 missions are also just as replayable as in the original game, since suspects and hostages don't 
 spawn in the same places every time you load a mission.  

          Suspects don't give up quite as easily in the expansion pack as they did in the original 
 game.     

  The Stetchkov Syndicate adds additional value in the multiplayer area, with a new game type called 
 smash and grab. In this mode, suspects square off against SWAT members as they try to pick up and 
 move a briefcase from one area to another specific area before a timer runs out. The SWAT team 
 tries to prevent this by killing or arresting suspects. Arrests will knock off a big chunk of time 
 from the game timer. This new team-based game type is pretty interesting, but cooperative play 
 is still the heart of SWAT 4 multiplayer. This time, around up to 10 people can participate in 
 a co-op game over LAN or online, and you can design your own quick missions for co-op play based 
 on any of the seven expansion pack maps or the original SWAT 4 maps. Built-in voice over IP support 
 makes coordination even easier. Online play is acceptably smooth, but reported network latencies 
 are still higher than we'd like them to be. Our other primary complaint is that suspects' skins 
 look far too similar to the SWAT members' skins, so accidental team kills are more common than 
 they should be, at least until you get used to looking for the subtle differences. Those are just 
 minor complaints, though, as multiplayer Stetchkov Syndicate is pretty solid.  

  The Stetchkov Syndicate, like its predecessor, looks and sounds great. The lighting and shadows 
 are well done, requiring you to use tactical lights or night-vision goggles in a lot of areas. 
 The character models look really detailed as well -- at least those who are wearing tactical vests, 
 as they have all kinds of grenades, weapons, and accoutrements hanging off of them. The only problem 
 comes when the bullets start flying, and that's when the frame rate takes a noticeable nosedive 
 on midrange systems. The frame rate problem is noticeably worse in single-player than it is in 
 multiplayer, but it's still quite playable. There are also excellent sound effects for weapons, 
 and the voice acting is pretty impactful when you're yelling at suspects or civilians to surrender. 
 Dynamic music spools up when the gunfire starts or when a grenade goes off. The mixing seems a 
 little more sloppy here than in the original, but it doesn't detract too much from the overall 
 presentation.  

  If you can't get enough SWAT 4, then The Stetchkov Syndicate should definitely sate your thirst 
 for new content. We do wish there were more than just seven missions, but at just under $20, we 
 can't complain too much about the value. Tougher enemy AI, plus the other additions to the game, 
 make this expansion pack easy to recommend to anyone who loved the original.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aussieyabo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Now, when I first bough the game, I loved it. But after a month or 2 I started noticing problems. 
 The game took around 5 minutes to start up all the time, but cold wait 5 minutes. But then it started 
 taking 15 minutes, or it just wouldn't start up. My PC is pretty damn good too, if it can run Crysis 
 and CoD4 with a breeze, I think it should run SWAT4 EXP hands down!!!! But now, I have to uninstall 
 it, then re-install it to play. But now it's getting worse and that doesn't even work!! Though 
 what GameSpot's pros about this game were correct, theres no doubting that the game (for its time) , 
 is unfinished and should have been for polished before it was installed on my computer. So, now 
 it's uninstalled on my PC and SWAT 4 EXP is now in my bin. R. I. P. SWAT 4 EXP. I'll miss the good 
 times, R. I. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Story: Your a swat team member. Kill the gangs.
  
  Missions: Kill arrest and save hostages.
  
  Controls: Mouse and keyboard. Pretty advanced FPS 
 controls.
  
  Features: New guns, new maps,10 player coop
  
  A. I.: Super smart. They know when to take hostages and they patrol the area looking for you and 
 your team.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good for the year 2006. Everything is pretty detailed.
  
  Audio: Amazing. Audio is superb. Everything is good about the Audio.
  
  Multiplayer: Deathmatch 
 style gameplay and 10 player coop/ There is also TDM.
  Requirements: a pretty good PC, a love for tatical shooters.
  
  The Good: Everything. This game 
 is So good.
  
  The Bad: Several crashes and random glitches really make this games rating go down.
  
  The 
 Ugly: The Taiwan swat team.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: a good tatical shooter based off a SWAT team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWMPerry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 contained a number of improvements over SWAT 3 - but lost many of the things that made the 
 original great. I loved the addition of door wedges and viable less-lethal options, and the new 
 graphics engine was pretty, for instance, but they ruined it with hideously ugly and unrealistic 
 character models - not to mention dumbing down the weapons.
  
  Stetchkov Syndicate continues this tradition. The graphics are largely unchanged, with the exception 
 of, it seems, more physics interaction. But the character models are also unchanged, which is a 
 shame. The new maps are well designed and expansive, but the designers seem to have gone out of 
 their way to remove doors where a wedge might be useful.
  
  The new weapons are an odd selection, too. A welcome new two-shot Taser (which looks like a dustbuster) ; 
 a Desert Eagle (which is of no practical use) ; a sniper rifle (with no maps lending themselves 
 to sniping) ; a grenade launcher (which would have been great as a secondary weapon, but is useless 
 as a primary) ; a Minimi/M249 (which you never get to use in SP) . And a P90, which is a gun I've 
 loved for a long time. I visited FN Herstal's factory in Liege and wrote a document for the Swedish 
 Air Force recommending it. And here it is in SWAT 4 - but it's ruined. Quite apart from the burst 
 mode it shouldn't have, it's firing characteristics are nothing like the real gun.
  
  Still, it's good fun to use, and the game's still enjoyable; however, there are still a couple 
 of major problems that let it down.
  
  Firstly, yet another of those blasted hunt-the-bomb missions. And it doesn't help that your teammates 
 never mention that they've found a bomb.
  
  Secondly, the fact that there are only seven missions, some of which are too insipid to even warrant 
 the name. SWAT 3 had the Convention Centre, the LAX tower, the TV studio, the Brentwood home invasion, 
 the City Hall with the suitcase nuke; SWAT 4 had the hospital mission, the Fairfax residence, the 
 research centre... All well designed missions that had a passably compelling storyline and well 
 structured engagements, but Stetchkov just doesn't have any missions that really stand out. They're 
 all... competent, but dull.
  
  There are good points too, of course. Apparently compliant enemies will stand up and pick up their 
 gun again if you turn your back on them before cuffing them. The new guns are satisfying, and the 
 many spots where you are separated from a villain in such a way as to permit shooting but not moving 
 to cuff are a welcome challenge.
  
  All in all, it's worth playing. This expansion's problems are more a case of missed opportunities 
 than real problems - particularly the fact that they let the same old ugly, cartoonish SWAT models 
 remain irks me.
  
  Still, it's a good pack. It just could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is not much of a change from the original SWAT 4. Some new things were added 
 to the games such as new weapons, light sticks, night vision goggles and some other stuff. The 
 campaign was relatively short and disappointing. Nothing was really added to the campaign, the 
 only different was, was that it was a different campaign. I personally play this game for the multi-player. 
 Aside from the extremely slow pace that this game has-it is really fun. I recommend it to anyone. 
 With the expansion pack there are new game types and voice-over ip. It is still the same thing, 
 but it is still really cool and if anything a little better than the multi-player in SWAT 4. This 
 game should be purchased for the multi-player and nothing else. It is a great experience and a 
 lot of people still play on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgober
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is an easy to MOD team based FAVORITE! This is not however, a shooter, it is an apprehend 
 the bad guy, tatical shooter, that rewards you for non leathal apprehensions. But shooters should 
 check it out as you can just kill the bad guys!, Quick draw aside it is easy to learn and a joy 
 to play!! A new MOD is currently under development,. It is called Take down. Check it out @ 10-david. com 
 for all the cool new stuff being added. over 100 plus new weapons and a plethora of new skins and 
 it will make use of the new 24 per side multi-player mode!
  
  Check this one out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunny_butt
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 28, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  No wonder the Hold/Initiate Commands were noticeably absent in the original SWAT4. It does not 
 work half the time, making simultaneous assaults through multiple entries unreliable.
  
  Example #1:
  Red Team stacks up at one door to a room, and finds it unlocked. You mirror under 
 the door and see suspects near the door, but not near enough to knock out with a C2 breaching charge. 
 You give the Hold command for Red Team to Open and Clear at that entry point. Then you tiptoe 
 around the corner to another door to the same room that is further away from the suspects, mirror 
 under the second door to make sure there are no suspects near it, open your door, fire in a gas 
 grenade, wait and listen for the suspects to start choking, and give the Initiate command for 
 Red Team to Open and Clear the room from door 1. Then you make entry yourself from the second 
 door. A perfect plan, right? Wrong. You enter the room after giving the Initiate command to Red 
 Team only to find yourself alone, facing multiple suspects who are armed with assault rifles and 
 wearing body armor. Where the $@#% is Red Team??? You look over to the first door to find either:
 
  a.) the door still closed with Red Team standing idly on the other side, and the Initiate command 
 no longer available on the interface;
  b.) the door opened and Red Team not saying or doing anything, just standing there with their weapons 
 pointed at the floor;
  c.) same as (b) , and when you order Red Team to arrest the suspects, they refuse citing that theyre 
 busy here, apparently stuck in a loop while waiting for the Initiate command which I already 
 gave earlier and cannot give again because it no longer appears on the interface.
  
  Example #2:
  Blue Team stacks up at a locked door to a large room with 2 entry points near opposite 
 corners of the room, and mirroring under the door reveals a mix of civilians and suspects. You 
 give a Hold command for Blue Team to Breach, Gas, and Clear. Then you order Red Team to Fall 
 In, and run downstairs and through a maze of corridors and rooms to the other end of the building 
 where a second set of stairs leads up to the second entry point. All the while the Initiate (Blue 
 Team) command appears on the interface. Red Team stacks up at door 2 and finds it unlocked. You 
 mirror under the door to make sure the coast is clear. Then you take a deep breath, get ready for 
 the simultaneous entries, cycle through to give orders to Blue Team (default key=Tab) , and the 
 Initiate command has magically disappeared from the interface!!! Blue Team is still at the other 
 end of the building, standing on either side of a door which they already prepped with a C2 breaching 
 charge, and waiting for an 'Initiate' command which no longer appears on the interface. WTF!
  
  The command through 'Viewport' function is also noticeably inconsistent, as in when you use 
 your team member's helmet camera to point him toward a door and order him to mirror it. You can 
 see him make the movements to mirror under the door, but then your specially trained SWAT officer 
 will not tell you (neither verbally nor with on-screen subtitles) whether he saw anything or not 
 on the other side!
  
  Besides such examples of obvious bugs and design flaws, the game continues to exhibit limited pathfinding 
 AI which often means:
  a.) one or more of your SWAT members is stuck on a staircase or a narrow part of the map,
  b.) 
 when you give the order to Fall In, your specially trained SWAT officers carelessly open doors 
 to run through yet-to-be-cleared rooms, and consequently get mowed down by armed suspects.
  
  Owing to bugs, the game is artificially difficult because the bugs cripple your ability to 
 use listed features and commands. Otherwise, it would be just about right. You may also need to 
 play many of hours to realize the bugs.
  
  In addition, the frequent looping of phrases like Youre in my spot, boss and Get out of the 
 way from your SWAT officers while youre busy trying to mirror under a door, pick a lock, set 
 a breaching charge, etc., gets annoying very quickly to the point where youd like to shoot them 
 in their heads yourself just to shut them up.
  
  The game looks fantastic, especially if you have the hardware to run it on maximum graphical settings. 
 However, thats just the problem with SWAT4: it only looks great, but it sounds awful (with the 
 frequent loops) , and plays like an unfinished Beta.
  
  Sierra's history with the SWAT franchise has been an uneven one. Just search here for old reviews 
 of SWAT, SWAT2, and others to see for yourself. Time and time again I have shelled out a lot of 
 money to buy the games at retail, because Police Quest had been a fun series and SWAT is a great 
 premise. SWAT3 was a classic hit, so fans like me were salivating for SWAT4 and more, but the incompetent 
 fools who gave the green light to put this piece of turd on store shelves just lost another customer. 
 I will likely not buy anything from them again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alrudy2005
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Pure killing, gets boring after a while, and people who play games such as Battle Field , all versions, 
 just do it because of the ranks and little objectives that keeps you entertained for a while. But 
 once the same idea of getting a higher rank and a high rank has gotten bored, the whole game just 
 feels outdated. Swat 4 and the Expansion Pack, brings you a gameplay of never ending fun, and a 
 game in which you wont get bored even after playing for hours and months and even years. Swat also 
 brings forth a stat tracking system, but more importantly is the ability to be so tactical, and 
 not just be limited to pure killings. Teamwork is an essential part of this game, and not just 
 in COOP mode, but also on multi-player. The different types of game modes on-line, are amazing 
 and so well thoughout of. VIP, SmashAndGrab, Rapid Deployment, Barricated Suspects will give you 
 the fun of a game you've been searching your while life time, without thinking of changing games. 
 VOIP, and Teamcams, are just the top of the iceberg this tactical game brings forth. The maps greatly 
 created and awesome graphics, makes you feel this isn't a game at all, but real life mode. Its 
 a must have game for those who are realistic game players and more tactically involved, than the 
 same old boring shoot and kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate is an expansion pack to the original SWAT 4, where you took control 
 of a SWAT leader, leading your team of four men through multifarious missions which include apprehending 
 the suspects and rescuing the hostages. Despite the fact you have access to many weapons which 
 might make you trigger itchy, SWAT 4 opposes the use of these weapons, only firing them when it's 
 absolutely needed, such as defending yourself from any amount of suspects. Such as this make SWAT 
 4 stray far away from most typical shooters.
  
  SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate is no different than it's predecessor. Once again, you are thrown 
 into another batch of situations, but this time, you are en route to take out the Stetchkov crime 
 family. They may seem like a daunting bunch, but if you know your tactical skills and pertinently 
 use them, it should be a simple task to handle the Stetchkov's and everything that surrounds them.
 
  
  If you have played the original SWAT 4, you should have no problem mastering the controls once 
 more. On top of that, you are greeted to more weapons that you can use to your advantage. Some 
 of those weapons include the Fabrique Nationale P90 (otherwise known as the FN P90) , M249 Squad 
 Automatic Weapon (known as M249 SAW) , and a simple, yet powerful grenade launcher. Other nifty 
 tools that you have are night vision goggles and an option to disable your armor, which in turn 
 allows for faster movement than you would by having it on. One of the more useful and new additions 
 is the ability to punch someone. While this might sound amusing, it is rather significant in the 
 case that someone disobeys your order that you arrest them. It's a non-lethal way to get the job 
 done, and a great addition, too.
  
  The single player campaign offers seven brand new missions at hand, but the campaign itself is 
 relatively short. The campaign will roughly take 7 to 10 hours to complete. The single player campaign 
 does not supply much upon completion, except the satisfaction of defeating the game. However, the 
 game does supply different levels of difficulty, possibly allowing for a challenge of your tactical 
 skills.
  
  As stated earlier, SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate is basically the same as the original version 
 when it comes to handling and administering the missions. Like in real life, the SWAT does not 
 fire upon suspects unless it's absolutely necessary. In the game, it's no different. Each mission 
 starts with an overview and briefing of the particular mission, as well as sighting details about 
 the hostages and/or suspects. Typically, the mission's objectives are to arrest the suspects unless 
 they fire back, then in which you are pretty much forced to kill them, and rescue the hostages 
 within the facility.
  
  If you arrest all available suspects, rescue the hostages, and do other objectives the way you 
 are supposed to, you will receive a perfect score. On higher difficulties, this proves to be a 
 challenge, because you must complete the objectives under very strict rules, which is then shifted 
 into points. Each difficulty has a set amount of points you must surpass to complete the mission. 
 Points are deducted if you injure a hostage , and the mission automatically ends if you kill a 
 hostage. Again, if you like a challenge, SWAT 4 provides that for you.
  
  The A. I. of the enemies and your teammates have been enhanced, and somewhat more noticeable if 
 you've played the original SWAT 4. Some enemies try to resist arrest, and that makes your stun 
 gun a bit more valuable than before. Also, enemies tend to flee to different rooms to avoid being 
 captured or sometimes to try to ambush you. Your teammates follow your commands well enough for 
 their intelligence to be decent. The A. I. is just as smart and parlous as you have to be when playing 
 the game.
  
  SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate has a much more realistic atmosphere than it's predecessor. Gas 
 from the CS gas grenade is beautifully well-done, and other effects like being a victim of a flashbang 
 have their strengths as well. Gun models are well-crafted and look as realistic as their real life 
 counter-parts. On the negative side, the load times are horrendous. The load times in between each 
 mission are annoying because of their length. Most load times will take over 30 seconds, no matter 
 how powerful your machine is. Clipping issues are abundant, but the only time you would acknowledge 
 this problem would be gun clippings through the door or a thick wall. Other than that, it's about 
 as realistic as you can get.
  
  The music and sound for The Stetchkov Syndicate is about as crystal clear as they come. Original 
 SWAT 4 players will be disappointed that there is no 911 call recordings in this game, which I 
 thought brought the original game a more realistic feel than it already had. Voicing during mission 
 briefings is well done, but at rare times I have noticed a couple of skips. No problem with weapon 
 sounds, as they sound just like they sounded in the original game. Also, on the topic of sound, 
 is the new and very useful feature of VOIP (Voice Over IP) . You can use VOIP in online multiplayer 
 by using a microphone. All you have to do is press the button you assigned the feature with to 
 enable, and then say whatever you please. With that said, there are no problems with the VIOP capabilities.
 
  
  Despite the short single-player campaign mode, SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate immediately makes 
 up for it with it's dazzling multiplayer. Smash and Grab is one of the newer multiplayer modes, 
 which involves the SWAT protecting a suitcase while the suspects try everything they can to take 
 it. Barricaded Suspects is similar to deathmatch in most other games, where you receive points 
 by either arresting or killing the opposing team. Rapid Deployment requires the SWAT to disable 
 several bombs placed on the map within the time limit, while the suspects try to defend these spots. 
 All of the multiplayer modes available offer plenty of hours of fun, especially when you're playing 
 with people around your experience level.
  
  What's even more fun is co-op mode. Up to ten players can join in on the fun, which thereafter 
 they are broken down into two teams of five. The A. I. in The Stretchkov Syndicate is real good, 
 but even the A. I. cannot match against real human players. Personally, you can just breeze through 
 multiplayer co-op with experienced players, but for some odd reason, it's quite fun.
  
  With an enhanced single-player, captivating multiplayer, and a muckle amount of content, SWAT 4: 
 The Stetchkov Syndicate delivers what was outstanding with the original SWAT 4 and improves it 
 even more. Some trouble spots with The Stetchkov Syndicate include a truncated single-player and 
 lengthy load times. However, that is quickly thrown out the window when you become introduced to 
 it's multiplayer. The Stetchkov Syndicate's multiplayer will pull you in and won't let go for some 
 time. If you enjoyed the original SWAT 4, you are coerced to buy the expansion pack - and that's 
 a good thing. If you want to experience the world of SWAT, there is no other choice but to pick 
 up SWAT 4 and SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treunder
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Swat 4 is a fun game to play with your friends on data party or over the internet, the fun thing 
 about this game is all the excitement when you reach a door and are going to clear it. The game 
 is all about the doors and you never know what's waiting for you there, it may be terrorists or 
 it may be civilians, sometimes even the civilians have guns witch makes you think over a sec before 
 you kill her/him .
  The graphics could have been better and there could be more commands and options but you can't 
 make a game totally perfect could you?
  I recommend playing this with friends, though the game is short of maps and some maps are short, 
 but you can make missions your self where you can choose between having up too 30 terrorists or 
 1 terrorists.
  And all the loading can kill a person.
  I totally recommend this game and hope other people will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos13sael
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  SWAT4: The Sketckov Syndicate is the expansion for SWAT:4. First of all, you need to have SWAT:4 
 already installed in your PC before installing it.
  
  GamePlay: Changes in gameplay include some new tactics, such as holding a command before initiating 
 it, throwable lightsticks and a bunch of new weapons (assault rifles, sniper rifle, new tazergun 
 and grenade launcher and other...)
  
  Missions: SWAT:4 Sketckov Syndicates features 7 new well-designed missions. Unfortunately they 
 are not at all easy, and do not satisfy the gamer at maximum.
  
  Multiplayer: Fortunately, the upgraded Multiplayer mode which offers new gamemodes (Smach and Grab 
 and Co-op up to 10 players) , will make you not to get bored of the game during the first week of 
 the purchase. Also
  players can now vote to change map or kick/ban a player they find abusive. Finally, there is VoIP 
 so you can
  talk to other players while playing via your microhone.
  
  Graphics: The same as SWAT:4
  
  Pros:
  -Very good AI
  -Upgraded Multiplayer mode
  -New 
 weapons and tactics
  
  Cons:
  -Single Player is still very boring
  -Missions are difficult to complete
  
  To sum up, Sketckov Syndicate is a great upgrade for 
 your SWAT4 that will offer you a bigger variety of multiplayer gamemodes, many new weapons and 
 tactics, but still it will make you get bored of it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  I thought I wasn't going to be in the mood for this add-on after playing Rainbow Six: Lockdown. 
 Still, the SWAT franchise is appealing in its own way. The previous game definitely deserves to 
 be acknowledged by gamers. It's a solid action game that provides plenty of content and exciting 
 missions to go through (both in single-player and multiplayer modes) . What's more to the point, 
 the game is certainly worthy of a decent expansion pack.
  
  As you may already know, SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate has a fairly straightforward storyline. 
 As a member of the city's number one police organization, you must intervene and put an end to 
 various crime activities across various reported areas. Wherever you end up, it's down to you and 
 your team to handle the situation quickly and professionally, even if it means yelling and hitting 
 a few civilians along the way... hm, the ends justify the means, right? Anyhow, there are seven 
 new single-player scenarios that come with the add-on. Although it may not seem like much, each 
 mission has a variety of goals you need to complete and there's a significant amount of replayability, 
 given that hostages and opponents spawn on different spots each time you load a particular map.
 
  
  To those of you who prefer going through missions cautiously, step by step, this game has it all. 
 You may take the time to plan out your attack before the mission begins and you are frequently 
 obliged to think carefully before you go into action. Also, most crucial areas and buildings have 
 more than one entrance, so it's up to you to adequately place each member of your squad. Before 
 you enter the building, or a specific room, it's often a good idea to place squad members in front 
 of each doorway. This is where the new 'held commands' feature falls into place. Players are now 
 able to delay issued orders until all units are in the desired position. When everyone is in place, 
 all you have to do is issue the 'GO' command and watch as your plan unfolds (in my case, it was 
 usually a slaughterhouse) . Anyways, once you're inside the lion's den, it's time to kick some butt. 
 Remember, be on your guard. The enemies you're dealing with rarely spare civilians and they will 
 gladly ice cops if they get a chance. You are allowed to use any means necessary to bring the bad 
 guys down, but the main goal is to straighten the situation out before things get really hairy. 
 Thankfully, there are numerous items to help you clear out the area and rescue any unarmed innocents 
 in the vicinity. A cool new moment comes with the use of lightsticks that are used to mark any 
 areas that have already been surveyed. There's a whole bunch of additional weapons you can choose 
 from before you begin the mission.
  
  By the way, the game allows you to, once again, bash a few civilians around if they refuse to comply. 
 At times I found this to be pretty helpful when running into hostages with an attitude. You can 
 simply shout at them, give them a good whack or threaten to shoot them if they disobey. This time 
 you can even punch them a couple of times if they are being a royal pain in the ass (it's for their 
 own good, after all) . This system works fine. But eventually, I really got tired of pushing and 
 punching people around during missions. I guess they could've come up with more ways to get hostages 
 out of life-threatening situations. Hey, there's nothing I enjoy more than to smack someone in 
 the nose, but sometimes it takes a lot of punching to make the hostages listen to reason and somehow 
 that doesn't feel right... ya know (Oh boy, I think I might have a slight touch of JackThompsonitis) .
 
  
  The game is extremely challenging, which is probably why I enjoyed it so much. If you rush to meet 
 your enemies head on, without any teammates to provide covering fire, it's likely that you'll be 
 dead within 2 seconds. Enemies are usually very accurate and will fire when you least expect it. 
 Plus, you there is no 'save game' option available, so you have to do your best and make each mission 
 a successful one-time effort - which in turn requires patience, tactics and team coordination.
 
  
  I noticed that the enemy AI is sometimes completely unaware of your presence. During a particular 
 task, I opened the door and there was a baddie only a few feet away. He wasn't facing in my direction, 
 but he was damn well near enough to notice someone was standing in the doorway with a grenade launcher 
 aimed at his freakin' head. Then again, the game clearly features a few improvements in this respect. 
 Civilian AI works better this time around, and your opponents are often quite smart... well, expect 
 for the occasional slip-ups I mentioned just then.
  
  The Smash &amp; Grab mode is a fine addition to the multiplayer. Two teams are pinned against each 
 other and the goal revolves around a single briefcase (I really hate that briefcase) . The suspects 
 must attempt to take the briefcase to a specific point on the map, while the opposing team has 
 to grab the briefcase or simply eliminate all foes. Every time an objective is reached, a certain 
 amount of time is taken away from the mission timer, which makes the gameplay all the more exciting. 
 The developers have also introduced support for VOIP (Voice Over IP) , which in turn allows for 
 improved attack coordination and gives players an opportunity to complete their goals more easily. 
 Missions in co-op are even more engaging, and can now be played with up to 10 players (that was 
 immensely fun, I tell ya!) . was particularly impressed with the audio in SWAT 4: The Stetchkov 
 Syndicate. Every voiceover throughout the single-player missions appears to be authentic. When 
 players enter a room crammed with hostages, suspects and SWAT members, all hell breaks loose, and 
 you can hear everything from gunfire and explosions, women screaming, people choking on tear gas 
 and so on. At that point, you get the impression like you're actually participating in a hostage 
 situation or a robbery. It's pretty exciting altogether.
  
  The game doesn't appear to suffer from any major technical mishaps. Fair enough, I did experience 
 infrequent lag issues during crowded multiplayer online matches. The frame-rate tends to slow down 
 a bit when you're playing on medium-range rigs, but that's about it.
  
  Despite the relatively short single-player campaign, SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate makes a good 
 purchase. It's entertaining enough for your average gamer, and it will surely please SWAT fans. 
 Single-player missions are dynamic and exciting, and the multiplayer is excellent, especially when 
 you're playing the co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to say that my original review didnt give the game what it deserves. This 
 game has got to be one of the most intense games ive ever played. On the subway station level a 
 guy shot me when i was near the end of the mission and i yelled and i fell backward off my chair. 
 It was very funny tho. In the expansion youll be going through 7 new missions the first 4 or so 
 are fairly easy but the last couple of them are very difficult. One nerve racking mission has you 
 in a agricultural building trying to difuse bombs before they go off. You dont know how many bombs 
 there are you just know you have 15 minutes, as well as having to deal with the hostages and enemies. 
 In the expansion they give you some new weapons and gadgets, one thing i found pretty useful is 
 being able to use the mirror stick around corners. The graphics in this game while very good are 
 getting somewhat dated now, especially in the character models, but the swat team looks pretty 
 good still. The sound effects and voice acting in the game are very good as well as the music which 
 adds to the intensity of the game. This game as a whole the expansion and the original are really 
 great games that anyone with a high end computer should try. The loading times which were bad back 
 when i had a slower computer are now very fast, under 15 seconds most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  The Good: (expansion) This game has so much replayability how could you not like it if your a fan 
 of tactical shooters? Your job is to save lives but if you just want to shoot and kill bad guys 
 you can lower the difficulty settings and go wild.
  The Bad: (expansion) Some glitches/bugs but they will not ruin the overall experience of the game. 
 The game runs slow in certain areas when you have everything maxed.
  
  Gameplay:8.0
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:8.0
  Multiplayer:8.0
  
 
  Conclusion: (expansion) This game will remain on my PC for quite a longtime because it is a great 
 training/practice tool for tactical shooters or any fps for that matter. Slow, steady, watch your 
 angles and corners. The best safety on a firearm is your brain.
  
  My Score:8.4 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The game offers the use of video cameras at the end of a stick to check under doors, and live video 
 feeds from your teammates to see what they are up to. Commanding teammates is a breeze and done 
 with one button which leads into an array of commands that they can follow, with out hurting themselves 
 unlike RAINBOW SIX. In this game, they can flash or frag a room perfectly and then rush in with 
 precision. You also have the option of dividing the group up into somthing like 4 different teams, 
 all of which can follow different commands, so one team can go storm a room from the back, while 
 another team provides cover from enemys that may wonder down the hall while another flashes the 
 room to prep it for being raided.
  
  The A. I are great and the enemys are all diferent , some have more skill than others, and some 
 have weak hearts and will surrender at as soon as you tell them too. They will hide from flashes, 
 try shut door on you, aswell as sneak up on you aswell.
  
  to conclude this game is a MUST HAVE for any fan of the rainbow six series, BECAUSE ITS WAY BETTER 
 !!!
  Hands down the best tactical police shooter to date.
  can be purchased for under 20 bucks at most retailers.
  
  i give it a 9, AWESOME
  
  oh 
 yay i forgot to mension the multiplayer, yes !!
  
  you have the option of doing missions with online players, aswell as go head to head, SWAT vs Swat 
 against them. and its great. Flash bangs , tasers, and pepper sprays all are a riot when doing 
 it to an actual person who can fight back cuz they are to busy, SHAKING, and convulsing due to 
 the pepper spray u sprayed in their eyes and the taser lodged in their neck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippofoe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  THE SETUP:
  
  ok. i've played rainbow 6 raven shield religiously for a long time. thousands of hours. thought 
 it would be tough to beat it with another tactical shooter.
  
  i picked up the gold issue of swat 4 and gave it a try. i only play the game onthe elite setting.
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  first thing i notice: the graphics are amazing. a whole ton of eye candy greets you, and it runs 
 very smooth on my older computer. amazing. this is a 'next gen' game that runs on my laptop!
  
  second thing: the AI is far and away impressive. no more raven shield static targets with limite 
 options. the guys in swat 4 react solid. take cover. flee. attack. it's all random. sometimes they 
 head your call, sometimes they freak out. i love the bystanders and hostages. really mixes things 
 up. they react random, too. mostly they comply, bt once in a while you gotta punch the in the face 
 to get them settled.
  
  this randomness really steps the game up a couple notches. i've had amazing, hectic firefights 
 in tight places as a result.
  
  third thing: replayability. i've spend dozens of hours ona single level playing over and over again. 
 hard to get bored.
  
  third thing: intensity. when i play swat 4 it simpy takes a lot out of me. it's intense. this might 
 be a downfall, but i can't play more than a couple mission during a session simply because i'm 
 emotionally worn out. i know this sounds silly, but swat 4 just ups the 'dead serius' factor above 
 and byonf raven shield. lastly, i really enjoyed the subtlies in tactics. i played around with 
 various loadouts and it was fun to come up with a style that suits me. basically have the AI pop 
 open doors with breaching charges that i follow with tear gas. works wonders.
  
  oh, and i like the 'rules of engangement' thing. you simply can; t shoot everyone up. you got to 
 give the suspects a chance to give up. very intense yelling at some guy when you dont know if he'll 
 simply shoot you.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  the character models are just not as bad ass as the old raven shield models were. raven shield 
 you felt like you wer the cream of the crop, crunched down and poised to pounce. swat 4 you run 
 around sanding up and feel quite mortal.
  
  the lack of guns. raven shield had a plethora of cool stuff to try out and tweak. swat 4 is pretty 
 limited to a couple of assualt rifles and pistols. they suffice, though.
  
  you cant switch between characters in the game. this sucks. this means you HAVE to play very cautiously. 
 if you get taken down, hte game's over. so a lot of the time you find yourself ordering your squadmates 
 ahead to do all the action. you really become a 'mother hen' in this game.
  
  poor audio. your team talks too damn much. and they shout back and forth, too. ruins the illusion. 
 you'd think the enemy AI would hear us coming from a miles away! i got over this mild point, pretending 
 it is all in the walkie talkies and no one else canhear us.
  
  THE VERDICT:
  
  welp. i'm afraid to say i actually deleted my beloved Rainbow Six Raven Shield off my harddrive. 
 the bottom line is that swat 4's amazing graphics, varied AI, and intensity kicked butt.
  
  dare i say, even with swat 4's flaws, it sets the gold standard for tactical shooters for the PC. 
 i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  So, I've never played any SWAT games from earlier in the series, 4 is my first. A great game to 
 start of the series with, though. SWAT 4 is a game where you are the leader of a 5 man SWAT team, 
 and lead your team through various little missions, none of which really connect to form a story, 
 but each have a background on their own. Since this is a PC game, you might be wondering how well 
 you system will handle this game. Well, the PC I'm running it on now is pretty powerful, but won't 
 run it smoothly at absolute top specs, but will run very nicely at high res. My PC at home is practically 
 garbage. A Geforce 5500 and a 1.8ghz processor is what it's sporting, barely running half-life 
 2, and it barely runs SWAT 4. Hope that gives you some idea.
  
  The controls on SWAT 4 are somewhat simple, and at the same time, lacking. First off, the movement 
 is very slow. If you're stuck out in a hallway and launch into a firefight and have to reload, 
 you're not getting back through that doorway beside you. And, the more damage you take, the slower 
 you move, making it absolutely painful on missions say where you have a bomb timer ticking down 
 on you. The weapon changes are awfully slow, and selecting a weapon almost feels like punishment. 
 Weapons are assigned to the number keys, although it doesn't tell you which backup items are on 
 which keys, and there's no way to assign the weapon switch to the mouse scroll button or anything 
 like that.
  
  Aside from impressive graphics running at even medium res, the realism SWAT 4 brings to the table 
 is refreshing. Sure, the movement is rediculously slow, but there are a lot more things about this 
 game to make you really feel like a specially trained SWAT officer. First, when you start each 
 mission, you'll get a briefing and can sometimes even hear the 911 call. Then, you'll be able to 
 review the maps (some of which are drawn on napkins!) and choose your point of entry. Then, you'll 
 select your entire equipment arsenal and that of your team. The equipment in SWAT 4 consists of 
 quite a few different automatic rifles, a "less-than-lethal" shotgun, a semi-auto shotgun, a pump 
 action shotgun, a paintball gun that shoots OC gas (yes, it's as cool as it sounds!) , a taser, 
 a couple pistols, the typical compliance grenades, an electronic mirror for doors and corners, 
 a door stop, and a couple goodies for opening locks! The equipment that the Stetchkov Syndicate 
 expansion adds is a very nice touch, which items from really powerful guns to an enhanced taser, 
 night vision goggles, and more.
  
  While in the game, you'll run across even more civilians than suspects, some of which will cower 
 when you shout at them to get down, some will resist, in which case you can punch them, taser them, 
 gas them, and much more to get them to comply! Aside from them, the suspects, most of which will 
 shoot at you, might also get overwhelmed and give in and lie down, some will cower, then pull their 
 gun back up, tricking you, and all kinds of other cool stuff that adds to the realism.
  
  Controlling your team can be great, and garbage at the same time. You can issue commands to half 
 or all of your team for going to certain places, breeching and clearing rooms, with or without 
 grenades deploying, and just deploying grenades, tasering people, and tying people up. Unfortunately, 
 often times they like to not stick with you very well. Many times the entire team will stay guns 
 pointed at a harmless civilian who won't get down, while you're unknowingly moving ahead into an 
 ambush, and they're not there to get your back. Also, the command system suffers from a lack of 
 complexity. Say, for instance, one objective in every mission is tying everyone up. So, you might 
 miss a couple people on your initial runthrough the area, you should be able to tell your team 
 to search for unsecured civilians and suspects and restraing them. A big one is also when you have 
 to disarm bombs, they should be able to do some roaming on their own to search for bombs, but they 
 can't, due to lack of complexity in the system.
  
  The music can get annoying at times. Sure, it gets you pumped up whenever a bullet gets fired or 
 a grenade thrown or a suspect spotted, but two problems with that: 1, even when there's no danger, 
 if you just fire a flashbang to get compliance from a beligerant civilian, you have to listen to 
 this music for a minute, and 2, the music can make it really hard to hear what's going on in the 
 firefight. I know I can turn it down, but that's such a hastle.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer, since I'm really not much of a multiplayer style gamer, I prefer 
 to go it alone, but it looks pretty basic, and I don't think an ass load of people play on it, 
 so it probably kinda sucks.
  
  The life of this game, honestly, can well under a day. You must already have the full game of SWAT 
 4 to play this expansion, and the original 14 missions can be beaten in about 6 hours, and the 
 paultry 7 missions added here for the same price as the full game will last you around 3 hours. 
 The missions just don't take that long, there aren't enough of them, and it's not that much fun 
 to play through them again. So, 21 missions, at about 25 minutes per mission on average, you'll 
 probably get a life of about 9 hours out of SWAT 4 plus Stetchkov Syndicate expansion without multiplayer. 
 This expansion is really only worth it if you get the Gold edition, which right now runs $30 and 
 gets you SWAT 4 plus this expansion. Any more questions, feel free to message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: collinma21
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  The load is so terrible, that I can't even join an online game. By the looks of the number of people 
 in each game, it looks like many others are having this same problem. 
  
  I've also purchased this game for a friend of mine who has a much older computer with only 512 
 meg ram. His actually load times are about the same as mine. So I'm wondering what can be done 
 to improve the performance of this game prior to Irrational Games actually releasing a patch? Does 
 anyone have a registry tweak or a beta performance patch? The game is a lot of fun once it loads 
 up, but you better have a lot of patients if you want to try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 is one of the most realistic tactical shooters i have ever played.
  
  I would say the game is better than rainbow six series in many ways.
  
  first of all, There 
 are many guns to choose from, all of which are different and have their own unique abilitys. for 
 example the ak 74 rilfe is great for taking down those targets with body armor, but if your going 
 against someone who is a little more safe, you can go in with a 9mm mp5. 
  
  The game play is great and challenges you to redo missions to get higher scores, (higher scores 
 equal less people dieing, and more arrests instead of kills) but this is more easily said than 
 done, to arrest someone you can press the action button which makes you yell "FREEZE, HANDS UP" 
 and some times they comply and some times they dont. but the best thing about being able to yell 
 at the people in the game is that it is easy to distinguish enemy from civilian who are often dressed 
 alike because civilians always drop to their knees, leaving you plenty of space to put down some 
 lead on the enemys chests. Another good feature about this game is that you have the option to 
 pepper spray, taser, and pepper ball (paintball gun with peper balls instead) to gain extra points 
 for no deaths.
  
  The game offers the use of video cameras at the end of a stick to check under doors, and live video 
 feeds from your teammates to see what they are up to. 
  
  Commanding teammates is a breeze and done with one button which leads into an array of commands 
 that they can follow, with out hurting themselves unlike RAINBOW SIX. In this game, they can flash 
 or frag a room perfectly and then rush in with precision. You also have the option of dividing 
 the group up into somthing like 4 different teams, all of which can follow different commands, 
 so one team can go storm a room from the back, while another team provides cover from enemys that 
 may wonder down the hall while another flashes the room to prep it for being raided.
  
  The A. I are great and the enemys are all diferent , some have more skill than others, and some 
 have weak hearts and will surrender at as soon as you tell them too. They will hide from flashes, 
 try shut door on you, aswell as sneak up on you aswell.
  
  to conclude this game is a MUST HAVE for any fan of the rainbow six series, BECAUSE ITS WAY BETTER 
 !!!
  Hands down the best tactical police shooter to date.
  can be purchased for under 20 bucks at most retailers.
  
  i give it a 9, AWESOME
  
  oh 
 yay i forgot to mension the multiplayer, yes !!
  
  you have the option of doing missions with online players, aswell as go head to head, SWAT vs Swat 
 against them. and its great. Flash bangs , tasers, and pepper sprays all are a riot when doing 
 it to an actual person who can fight back cuz they are to busy, SHAKING, and convulsing due to 
 the pepper spray u sprayed in their eyes and the taser lodged in their neck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 2:17 am PT
Review:  My original review (written a few years ago) was very radical so I have deleted it for Christ's 
 sake.
  
  I still know what I was talking about though so I would like to elaborate it again in a more appropriate 
 way and leave it to you to agree or not.
  
  SWAT 4 is a great game. Its best selling point, which distinguishes the series from Rainbow Six, 
 is that you can't shoot a terrorist at first sight. Lethal force is permitted only when hostiles 
 are about to hurt you or somebody else. Violating the code and you will be graded poorly at the 
 end of a mission, which matters for hardcore gamers, and ruin the experience for yourself. Your 
 presence there is always to give criminals the last chance to succumb to custody. House slaughtering 
 won't work out. As a matter of fact, on all difficulty settings except "Easy", gamers are asked 
 to replay the level before they can continue on the next if they got a poor grade under a certain 
 threshold.
  
  In "SWAT 4: The Stetchkov Syndicate" (What a mouthful! "SWAT 4 TSS" for short.) , the first and 
 only expansion pack to SWAT 4, the player returns to deal with terrorists. Unlike the first installment, 
 these cases are related to one another and the plot would unveil itself one piece after another. 
 Did I say terrorists? Yes. Terrorists don't work alone and you ARE seriously outnumbered. The first 
 SWAT 4 sometimes throws easy missions at you where you only have one suspect on the loose who may 
 even lock himself/ herself up like a sitting duck. Not anymore. SWAT 4 TSS always have you cope 
 with hellish situation where the arena has been completely overrun by hostiles who loves opening 
 doors to see who's the guest! Bear in mind, SWAT 4 doesn't allow saving nor healing. Carelessly 
 turn a corner and you are dead. That's why I got so pissed back then with these enhanced enemies. 
 It's like playing Rainbow Six's Terrorist Hunt but with much hindrance. The code (only fire when 
 fired upon) is what makes SWAT 4 special but it's also the prime cause to blame for your many many 
 deaths and the frustration that comes after them.
  
  The team AI has degraded. The team has great difficulty maneuvering around. You must be as big 
 as a polar bear to always block your teammate's way, aren't you? So often you will hear retarded 
 statements from your brethrens like, "You're in my spot, sir." or "You have to move." Worse, you 
 need to tell them what to do next for the SECOND (or third, or fourth) time even after you move 
 out of the way. It's also very stupid of the team to cross unexplored zones to in their heated 
 attempt to keep up with you. It is commonplace for those brainless fools to get themselves ambushed 
 and killed.
  
  SWAT 4 TSS, on the whole, follows the original's spirit well. However, it hasn't exactly fulfilled 
 the qualities to be a great game. One final warning: Guts is not enough. You've got to have high 
 tolerance of restarting levels on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callofdutycheat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  An add-on to the original game Swat 4. I love it how you can hold your command when you select 
 one, because instead of your team just bursting in straight away you can select the command, hold 
 the command, then prepare yourself and then commence the command. The game-play is 10/10! SUPERB! 
 But I think the graphics could just do a little more working on, because when you unlock the Desert 
 Eagle it looks very extremely animated instead of the realistic tint it should have!
  
  The next Swat expansion or game should be excruciatingly good!
  It will probably consist of better 
 graphics and sound but there is nothing bad about the sound right now!
  
  IT'S EXCELLENT!! GET IT IF YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 9, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Seems like more missions from the SWAT4, to make it short....
  
  the only thing that is lacking is some hard core "kill them all" type missions.
  if the last 
 2 missions where all out shooting battles then it would have been much more "right" for the story-line 
 (if you can find the thin story-line) .
  finishing it high ranked means you almost did NOT kill ANYONE!!!
  (lots of bean-bags and teasers)
 
  
  All the nice new add-on weapons and gear, like the sweet new sniper rifle with silencer, and the 
 stun gun, and you never get to fully utilise them...
  
  the AI is better then the original game, and the missions are bigger, but you get the feel that 
 you have already been there, the new weapons are nice addition but not amazing, or even worth using 
 - kinda add-ons.
  
  all in all this one is worth playing, but not a top priority.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasertoffe
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 8, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  As a game SWAT4 with the Stetchkov Expansion is great. But as an expansion I'd have to say Stetchkov 
 is more or less a disapointment.
  
  It adds several must-have features to the game. But in my opinion all of these should have been 
 in the game from the beginning. This expansion adds just about the amount of new content as teh 
 Swat3 team gave away in patches.
  
  7 new maps and just a few 2-3 new weapons is relly cheap for a full pirze expansion.
  
  What 
 I do love about the expansion is the fist feature. You can now beat someone to make them comply. 
 That added alot to the realism, not having to pepperspray civilians or taze them. Also the Voice 
 over IP is an awsome contribution to the game. It makes Coop gameplay rise from mediocre to great.
 
  
  On the real downside. The loading times went up to completely unacceptable with the expansion. 
 It's the worst I have ever seen. It's not unusual that people drop out of the server when swapping 
 map in multiplayer, it just takes too long. We should probably not expect a patch that fixes this 
 since the publisher has been extremely cheap on this respect as well. There is known bugs in the 
 expansion, but we'll probably just have to live with them
  
  All in all. If you like SWAT 4, you just HAVE to get this expansion. IT is worth it. But if you're 
 not a real fan of the game then wait until the price drops. 
  The features should have been in the original game. 
  
  I'd rather see this a big overprized 
 patch than an expansion. It fixes bugs, adds gameplay and some new bugs. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4: The Stetchov Syndicate is the expansion pack to last year's SWAT 4. At 20 dollars, it's 
 pretty cheap compared to other game expansion packs. It's not jam-packed with a lot of content, 
 but it has enough to keep one occupied for a bit.
  
  TSS features 7 new scenarios, this time which is connected by a story about a Russian crime family. 
 It also features a few new weapons, multiplayer maps, and some new gameplay mechanics and multiplayer 
 modes.
  
  The new gameplay mechanics indroduced into TSS is the fact that you can melee attack non-compliant 
 people with your weapon to get them to comply. Another new mechanic in TSS is the fact that suspects 
 will pick back up their weapons and continue the fight if you don't keep a good eye on them. Also, 
 there is some new tactical equipment that offers a bit more flexibility on a mission, like ammo 
 pouches for extra ammo in case you run out, night vision, etc. Otherwise, gameplay is rather similiar 
 to SWAT 4.
  
  The sound is pretty good, with the same great voice-acting found in SWAT 4, but the weapons still 
 sound rather underpowered and the music-mixing in this game is a bit more sloppy. For instance, 
 loud and dramatic music will still continue to play, even though you got past the more dangerous 
 parts of a level and you are merely rechecking the entire level.
  
  Graphics-wise and interface-wise, those aspects are more or less the same.
  
  Overall, SWAT 
 4: The Stetchov Syndicate is a must-have for any SWAT fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive. Offering an intelligent, challenging and flexible interface, a highly replay 
 able campaign, multi weapons and tactics, and multiplayer modes that include cooperative play up 
 to 10 players. The hostages act so real and the suspects are more danger and unpredictable than 
 last time..... This tactical shooter requires player to be patience and alert all the time.... which 
 is fun. However, there are many areas need to be improve so that the next series of SWAT will be 
 a stunning accomplishment..
  Might be one of the best and outstanding expansion pack first person shooter of the year!!
  Give 
 it a shoot..!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  If you like the original SWAT4, you will like this game. Stetchkov expansion retained what is good 
 about the previous SWAT4- the slow paced, tatic on the fly and encouragment for non-lethal game 
 elements are still very interesting and challenging. 
  
  New maps and weapons are introduced, but you still wish there is a greater customisation with the 
 weapon such as attachment / laser sight/ handle grips- those elements just make you feel like some 
 kick-butt INDIVIDUAL member of SWAT. Neverthelss, some Cobra stun is a welcom option for those 
 that wish to use non-lethal, and VoIP is a late but welcome addition
  
  Good game nevertheless. Buy it if you enjoyed the original SWAT4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephenup
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This expansion is an amazing add-on to an already amazing game and one of the most addictive to 
 play online The expansion includes alot of amazing new weapons, missions, multiplayer action and 
 more utility's such as night vision googles and glow sticks and scope on the new sniper rifle, 
 Sierra have also added an Voice over IP so now when playing online you can communicate with your 
 team better also on multiplayer there is a multiplayer game called smash and grab which is even 
 more addictive than VIP and any other multiplayer this expansion is truely the best tactical game 
 add-on of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  SWAt 4 SS is an amazing game. The single player is amazing (This is one of those games where the 
 single player is better than the multiplayer) The multiplayer is good but not great, and thats 
 were SWAT 4 SS loses marks. SWAt 4 Punishes for killing the other team, (?) so you have to arrest 
 the other team and is a pain in the a** when the suspects can shoot at you. In the single player 
 game though you control a squad and tell them what to do. A very good campaign awaits you, but 
 every time an enemy sees you he surrenders (Huh?)
  If you liked SWAt 4 pick this up. Its a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  In general this game gets a great review. now i am not saying i was to impressed but you have to 
 give it to them for trying. I have not personally played any of the other swat games however.
 
  
  the graphics were good and i applaud them for it. the graphics did have some misshaps like falling 
 through a solid wall and falling through floors but those are more technical errors then really 
 graphical ones.
  
  the sound was fine and that is all i have to say because there was nothing too good or too bad.
 
  
  since this was my first Swat game i wasn't expecting the gameplay setup but i guess it would make 
 more sense to have a more technical controller setup... i mean come on its swat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Hello.
  
  Swat4 Has done it again I didnt think the the expansion pack could be as good as the 1st levels 
 but the expansion pack is even better.
  You Must buy this game its great and so much fun.
  Well worth buying this game its like no other.
  Forget the shooting games like COD and MOH Them 
 are great games but the combat is completely differnt a whole new game that holds its own.
  Differnt controls but they handle great and its a all out fun game.
  
  You must buy this game 
 IT ROCKS!!.
  
  A+ To the makers Great Job Guys you Rock!!!! 
  
  But the only down fall is only 7 Levels :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Last year, SWAT 4 quietly established itself as the preeminent tactical shooter on the PC. It was 
 a beautifully executed game that effectively captured the tense and stressful job of being an elite 
 police officer. The newly released Stetchkov Syndicate expansion pack builds off of that solid 
 foundation, offering more difficult scenarios, thanks to more aggressive and unpredictable artificial 
 intelligence. You'll also find the expected array of additional weapons, a new multiplayer mode, 
 and cooperative play for up to 10 players this time.
  
  The Stetchkov Syndicate builds incrementally on the great foundation laid by SWAT 4.
  
  If 
 you're reading this review, you're probably already familiar with SWAT 4, as The Stetchkov Syndicate 
 requires the original game to play. For those who aren't familiar with the game, the primary difference 
 between SWAT 4 and other tactical shooters is that you're required to protect life (including the 
 lives of suspects) as much as possible. You're awarded the most points for arresting suspects without 
 severely injuring them, and you're penalized big points for unauthorized use of deadly force. Just 
 like a real police officer, you must use careful judgment about firing your weapons. The basic 
 gameplay in The Stetchkov Syndicate doesn't differ much from the original game. You are still the 
 commander of a five-man squad, with your four subordinates split into two pairs. You'll use fiber-optic 
 cameras to peek under doors and around corners, bust into doors with breaching charges, and toss 
 nonlethal grenades into rooms to stun suspects as you try to arrest them.
  
  The Stetchkov Syndicate gives you a few new tricks to take into the field in the form of new weapons 
 and tactics. Over the course of the campaign, you'll unlock a variety of new equipment. New guns 
 include a submachine gun modeled after the real-life FN-P90, a Colt accurized rifle, a grenade 
 launcher, and even a stun gun with two shots and longer range than the Taser from the original 
 game. You'll also be able to deploy glow sticks to mark off rooms that you've cleared, as well 
 as use night-vision goggles. Suspects can arm themselves with a light machine gun, a new machine 
 pistol, or even a .50 caliber handgun. The expansion pack now lets you issue delayed orders, much 
 like in Rainbow Six. This is useful for rooms with multiple entry points, as it lets you stack 
 your four-man element on one door and issue a go code while you break into the other door. You 
 can even split your element into pairs and have them each break into a separate door at the same 
 time. There's also a new punch command that you can use to subdue stubborn civilians or suspects 
 into being zip-cuffed. This is actually useful, because if you ran out of nonlethal munitions in 
 the original SWAT 4, you were sometimes required to shoot civilians in the leg in order to get 
 them to submit.
  
  You'll need all these new tricks, as the suspects in The Stetchkov Syndicate seem to be more aggressive 
 and unpredictable than ever. You'll have to use overwhelming shock, such as a well-tossed flashbang 
 or a hail of pepper balls from an air gun in order to get these suspects to submit. Some even require 
 you to follow up all that with a shock from a stun gun before they'll drop their weapons. Suspects 
 are also more apt than in the original game to run away into other rooms or charge into the room 
 that you're in. This makes things more tense and requires you to pay closer attention to the blueprints 
 of the building, so you can deploy door wedges at key exits to manage the movement of suspects. 
 As you can imagine, The Stetchkov Syndicate's missions can be difficult at times, but since there 
 are only seven missions in the campaign, experienced players should fly through it in a few hours. 
 It's still a fun ride while it lasts though, and you'll do everything from the usual high-risk 
 arrest warrants in drug labs to disarming bombs and rescuing hostages in a government office. The 
 missions are also just as replayable as in the original game, since suspects and hostages don't 
 spawn in the same places every time you load a mission.
  
  Suspects don't give up quite as easily in the expansion pack as they did in the original game.
 
  
  The Stetchkov Syndicate adds additional value in the multiplayer area, with a new game type called 
 smash and grab. In this mode, suspects square off against SWAT members as they try to pick up and 
 move a briefcase from one area to another specific area before a timer runs out. The SWAT team 
 tries to prevent this by killing or arresting suspects. Arrests will knock off a big chunk of time 
 from the game timer. This new team-based game type is pretty interesting, but cooperative play 
 is still the heart of SWAT 4 multiplayer. This time, around up to 10 people can participate in 
 a co-op game over LAN or online, and you can design your own quick missions for co-op play based 
 on any of the seven expansion pack maps or the original SWAT 4 maps. Built-in voice over IP support 
 makes coordination even easier. Online play is acceptably smooth, but reported network latencies 
 are still higher than we'd like them to be. Our other primary complaint is that suspects' skins 
 look far too similar to the SWAT members' skins, so accidental team kills are more common than 
 they should be, at least until you get used to looking for the subtle differences. Those are just 
 minor complaints, though, as multiplayer Stetchkov Syndicate is pretty solid.
  
  The Stetchkov Syndicate, like its predecessor, looks and sounds great. The lighting and shadows 
 are well done, requiring you to use tactical lights or night-vision goggles in a lot of areas. 
 The character models look really detailed as well -- at least those who are wearing tactical vests, 
 as they have all kinds of grenades, weapons, and accoutrements hanging off of them. The only problem 
 comes when the bullets start flying, and that's when the frame rate takes a noticeable nosedive 
 on midrange systems. The frame rate problem is noticeably worse in single-player than it is in 
 multiplayer, but it's still quite playable. There are also excellent sound effects for weapons, 
 and the voice acting is pretty impactful when you're yelling at suspects or civilians to surrender. 
 Dynamic music spools up when the gunfire starts or when a grenade goes off. The mixing seems a 
 little more sloppy here than in the original, but it doesn't detract too much from the overall 
 presentation.
  
  If you can't get enough SWAT 4, then The Stetchkov Syndicate should definitely sate your thirst 
 for new content. We do wish there were more than just seven missions, but at just under $20, we 
 can't complain too much about the value. Tougher enemy AI, plus the other additions to the game, 
 make this expansion pack easy to recommend to anyone who loved the original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAnarking
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  I picked up and finsihed this the other day because im a big fan of the swat series especially 
 Swat 4.
  
  While it was great fun while it lasted it felt a bit short and a little by numbers.
  
  For 
 instance while the new levels and such were welcome, I felt there was very little difference between 
 this and the actual stand alone pack. With some half hearted story line tacked on about some Russian 
 crime family and such.
  
  Apart from the length everything else is great, the game is highly polished and the levels are 
 extremely well designed with many nice touches made to the gameplay such as the other swat members 
 dialouge during some instances in the levels and such.
  
  A good game for anyone who enjoyed Swat 4 but probably not that good for anyone feeling the original 
 was lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Has more multiplayer maps. A new multiplayer option called Smash and Grab. The new maps 
 and mission are really creative and adds quite some interest into the game. More weapons for you 
 to unlock. Only $20.
  
  The Bad: Still has the frame rate problem. Only contains 7 maps. The loading times are looonnnnggg.....
 
  
  Since the release of Swat 4, people had became more addicted with their new gameplay. You were 
 able to control a team of 4. Also, you could arrest people, or shout, "Put your hands up!" And 
 quotes of that matter. My favourite feature of that game, was all of the gadgets that you can use. 
 They all had a great variety, and made the game way more fun. Now, the expansion pack called Swat 
 4: The Sketchkov Syndicate has been added to the gaming world. This expansion pack added a lot 
 of new features on the game. SWAT and shooter fans should not miss this opportunity and get this 
 expansion pack.
  
  In this expansion pack, there are seven new mission. If you played the original of Swat 4, you 
 can see that there is no connection between any of the mission. There is no major crime gang. Just 
 some random crimes going around the city. The good thing about this game, is that there is an actual 
 storyline. The storyline is that eventually, you meet up with a Russian mob, and you might already 
 know, but that all seven mission that you did are connected with this russian mob in some way. 
 These missions are quite creative, such as this one mission where a group of christian rebels, 
 who go to a satanic concert (It's a probably a good death metal band... noooo!!!) and kills everyone 
 there. There's also a mission with a group of farmers that goes to a government building. But the 
 best if the one where the government building explodes, because you use your night vision goggles, 
 which is the only place that the gagdet is useful for anyway.
  
  Unfortunately, there is one thing that I hoped would improve, but it didn't. In the first part, 
 they had the bad thing, which is, there were no checkpoints. You die, you start over, and that 
 sucked because it's a realistic games, where the bullets are very dangerous, and when a hostage 
 dies, it's over. I hoped that they would add checkpoints onto the game, but nooooooo.... they didn't 
 listen.
  
  They have lots of new weapons in the game that you unlock, such as the European Submachine Gun, 
 a Grenade Launcher, The Colt Accurized Rifle, and lots more weapons. These weapons are good, but 
 should get more variety. But, like all of you swat fans know, the multiplayer is the best thing 
 about the game. I gotta agree with you in this case, strongly agree with you. In the multiplayer 
 option of the game, the game becomes more realistic, because weapons are divided into certain teams. 
 Some weapons go to the suspects, and some to the swat team. The suspects has the cool uzi type 
 machine gun pistol, while the swat team has this cool Cobra stun gun.
  
  You can now be more bossy!! YAY!!! There are now two more orders you can, well, order people to 
 do. There is the hold command, and the go command. When you open a door, but don't want them to 
 come, you say HOLD!, and then they will hold their position. Then later, you can say GO! and then 
 they will move.
  
  Like I said before in this review, my favourite feature of the game, is the gadgets. Fortunately, 
 there are new gadgets in this expansion pack. One of the gadgets is called a lightstick. It's a 
 pretty cool gadget, but it is quite useless. Maybe they made it because some people though that 
 it would be fun to keep throwing it. That's what I did. But, the nightvision is the worst gadget 
 on this game, in fact, ever. All of the maps on this game requires no night vision. It's just a 
 waste of the gadget inventory slot.
  
  The singleplayer option of the game in this expansion pack, is still quite fun. Remember in the 
 original, when you tell the hostage to put his/her hands up, the hostage just screams, "Why are 
 you talking to me?! Please, help me! Get the criminals!!" And they just ignore and don't put their 
 hands up. My way of dealing this situation was with one of the grenades. Also, there was an issue 
 with the ammo. But, all of this is solved with one small feature. Punching. You are able to use 
 your fists at someone. It's a great way to save some ammo, and to put those stupid hostages down 
 without using a grenade.
  
  The A. I. does have some improvments. You know when a suspect gives up and puts his gun down? Well 
 if you just ignore him and continue doing what you're doing, he'll pick up his gun and shoot you. 
 And they will be alert when they see a flashlight nearby.
  
  One of the best features in the multiplayer option, is that it contains a new multiplayer gaming 
 mode called "Smash and Grab". I personally, like to call it reverse VIP mode. In this mode, the 
 suspects have to move a briefcase, to the exit of the map. It's better then the VIP mode, because 
 there is no chance of you being a guy with a pistol who keeps getting shot.
  
  Now you can be known for your skill, or not so good skills, on your multiplayer games. Thee is 
 stat, and ladder tracking... yay. There is also voice-overs! New co-op leader assignment, and then 
 the option to play with no armour, if you want to run around naked or something.
  
  The graphics of the game is quite good, and realistic. How they did all the aftereffects of the 
 grenades are great, and they don't have any of the obvious glitches. But, the frame rate situation 
 is still not fixed. The frame rate still fails at times, and I don't like it! And also, there are 
 ridiculously long load times. And also, loading to the main menu. COME ON!! IT'S A MAIN MENU! Oh 
 well... it's worth the wait, unless you die all the time.
  
  The sound also has some problems. It skips during the briefing, and well, in most parts. But the 
 sound effects are still good. They sound realistic and it doesn't skip. It works just fine. The 
 voices are also pretty good. You require a microphone. Although not must people use it, it's better 
 than typing while people are shooting at you and then it goes unto your stats and people think 
 you suck and then you end up homeless for the rest of your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Why it took this long to make an expansion for SWAT I don't understand, but I was more than happy 
 to pay for it. SWAT 4 is the last of the mature shooting games where you don't bounce around like 
 an idiot and frag everything at will. Real police tactics, and real reactions to those tactics, 
 have made this SWAT version the best shooter since the original Rainbow Six games.
  
  I had read the expansion drops you right into the next level of difficulty, but as the enemy AI 
 are definitely smarter, so is your team, and I found this to make the game easier. My men are quicker 
 on the draw and don't seem to get hung up on things as easily as in the full game. I can actually 
 make it through a whole map with the entire team, if not losing just one (stupid Jackson won't 
 learn to duck) . High marks for the polished AI.
  
  The problem? The new weapons are a major disappointment. The Cobra stun gun is nice and I now use 
 it instead of the regular Tazer, but the Colt Accurized rifle was a heartbreak for me. Finally 
 a chance to snipe, but its sights set slower than the old Rogue Spear rifles, and still none of 
 the maps are big enough to where you actually need a sniper rifle anyway.
  
  The night vision goggles are officially the worst I've seen in any game. I used a pair of second-gen 
 goggles eight years ago and it was 10x better than what this game portrays. Obviously nobody checked 
 the homework on the developer that worked on this. It's almost as if there is a pixel drop in that 
 everything becomes blurry. Also, the amount of light the goggles capture varies way too much. Yes, 
 in 100% darkness true goggles don't work, but there is no point on any map that you have 100% darkness 
 and I found myself taking the goggles off to see better.
  
  The grenade launcher is the true savior. All the less lethal grenades can be loaded and launched 
 to the other side of a room with ease. The CS gas in a launcher is now a standard for me on most 
 maps. A problem, however, is you can't pick a specific spot you want a grenade launched if your 
 AI is carrying it. Still, it's highly effective for fleeing suspects, especially with the baton 
 shot.
  
  Not enough new maps, that's my biggest complaint, but the maps they do give us are well worth it. 
 Bigger, yet not "Hollywood". Remember how small the maps were in Rogue Spear, and when the XBox 
 version of Rainbow Six Three took over, the maps were just ridiculous in size? SWAT's expansion 
 sticks to what it knows best: tight spots, just more of them. The office buildings are packed with 
 cubicles and the new club is a more deadly version of the A-Bomb. There's another "find the bomb" 
 fun-run with a gaping hole in the middle of the map for lots of fun shooting.
  
  The voice IP in multiplayer is good except you can't leave your mic on to chat. A lot of modern 
 police radios, especially digital, can have open mics now, so why we're forced to press G to talk 
 when are already pressing E to lean, Z to zoom and C to crouch, I have no idea. My left hand is 
 officially bent out of shape.
  
  It's worth the buy, I think, if you enjoyed playing the first game over and over. The AI seems 
 to move around a lot more so now every mission is even more fresh. I had one final enemy AI sneak 
 around behind me and it took me five minutes to find him before he killed me on a blind corner. 
 Moments like that are rare in a good tactical game. It's nice to see the real "tactical shooter" 
 still exists, now that Ubisoft has successfully FUBAR'd Rainbow Six, so, hopefully, we'll see more 
 of the SWAT franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Elements are easy enough to control; orders are straightforward and simply executed. However many 
 times your boys will just drop the ball. The AI constantly does things like stand in the middle 
 of a door to mirror the room (often fatal) , or drop flash bangs right on the door threshold (occasionally 
 missing the opening completely, and landing behind your team) which does little in areas larger 
 than a prison cell. The ability to queue said commands for your element or red/blue teams was a 
 welcome change, but not very solidly implemented. What was wrong with the Rainbow Six style go-codes? 
 Despite the numerous flaws and frustrations the game is still fun to play, if only because of the 
 nice graphics and sound features. There still isn't anything like watching a door blown open by 
 C2 and hearing the ensuing chaos of flash bangs, gunfire, and the hapless cries of hostages. The 
 maps themselves are solidly designed and very convincing. Achieving the same high standard set 
 by the previous two games. Kudos. 
  What I really want is a combination of the first two SWATs. Yes I liked the SWAT 2 RTS. I don't 
 need some grandiose story line or plot development. What I want is complete control of a scenario. 
 If I want my boys entering from a helicopter, done. If I want to try to negotiate first, great. 
 If I want to deploy sniper teams, and use them as a tactical asset, super. I want to have to deal 
 with Stockholm syndrome (hostages siding with their captors) . Enough of this linear design. 
  Being the greedy man that I am, I also want to feel apart of the actual police force. It would 
 be great to have to earn your place as element lead. Or have to qualify with your weapons, and 
 participate in clearing exercises. Maybe I could earn attribute points, so I wouldn't have to deal 
 with the ridiculous aiming system for the whole game? There are so many ways this title could be 
 improved, I can't help but feel cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  Just to start off I'm Rating this a 9, because its just an expansion with extra missions and an 
 added story line. Not that there is anything wrong with that.
  
  Here is the link to My Review on S. W. A. T. 4. 
  (Copy & Paste in your address bar.)
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/swat4/player_review. html? id=271984
 
  
  I like I said in my Review in the original, this is a good FPS and if your a fan of hunting done 
 bad guys then this is your game.
  
  On April 4th this and the Original will be released in a Gold Edition for only $29.99 so if you 
 can wait save yourself $10 bucks, buck if you get the expansion NOW don't worry You won't feel 
 cheated out that $10 bucks on bit.
  
  Peace out Ya'll
  -Crim
  
  Rated on the TOP 500 Game Reviewer's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeeeee9
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  this new swat from the same puplisher but we are in new generation they must think about new somthing 
 make the game special not boring if play swat 1 or 2 or 3 you don't see any diffrent only on graphics 
 and soud and a. i
  but where the somthing make you forget anything in your boring life and play it for fun this game 
 don't came with new everything classic and classic game die in past .
  if someone ask how make story or what mean story to game????
  the answer is!!!!!
  1st about 
 how make stoery they can make story about the group of swat team with some bad guy im not writer 
 they must start the brain and think th war games make story why swat dosn't uhh!!!
  2d in the new genration of games the story is good for make you watching and feel somthing command 
 you to play right....
  but the true this game is the best tachtical game you never see
  tip: the a. i good but if some a. i lost in map you will try hard to find him.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretagent013
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Good: More guns, maps, bigger maps, more challenging.
  
  Bad: Feels like it like a lot more lag at times than the original. The same dummy computer officers, 
 very little alterations to their behaviors, They stack differently and appropriately most of the 
 time.
  
  Some little things you may or may not care about: as mentioned b4 the map are freaking huge and 
 maze like. wedges will probably start being less practical.
  Lightssticks . . . completely useless in my opinion. Grenader launcher is awsome! Tazer is awsome! 
 machine gun fails to impress me.
  drugs . . . exacly what we needed. 
  Double entry is awsome, quite useful most of the time.
  In mp u have the option of choosing a 
 diffferent uniform, cool . . whaever.
  nigthvision can be pretty useful at times cuz its dark in sp. in mp i aviod the nvg to not get 
 sprayed in the face and get arrested. good way to see things without letting the enemy know your 
 there with your flashlight.
  
  It is worth $20?: To a swat 4 fan - yes
  To a person without the original - no, get gold
  to a regular person, maybe worth 15.
  7 mission 
 is a little . . . short.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Bacon_master
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best Swat or Cop game ive ever heard as you go up levels in Career You Unlock 
 New Weapons and New Stuff Like an Ammo pack Witch makes you able to Hold More Ammo and the levels 
 Are Really good and theres a Few New Muilplayer Game Modes Such as 10 Co-Op, Co-op and a Brief Case 
 where you ether be the Swat or the Suspects and the Suspects have to get this brief Case and take 
 it to this point and the Swats Job is to Shoot on Arrest them and try and make them not rech the 
 point wth the brief Case and you can also make your own Skins but thats in the folder of the Add 
 on with full Instructions and what programs to use but yer this is a Must Have if you Have Finished 
 All of swat 4 this Just Add On Just Makes ya wanna do the Same thing beat the levels and see the 
 new weapons and yer 
  
  
  
  Da bacon Master 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamfight86
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  played you the arm are the best thing that can look played is reviewed hah is not the same thing 
 to look and see this precious game and the best combat game that I ecept the part of halo but This 
 a grate part that can say of this game and played is good game this part you can not same my that 
 this game is fabolus you can say of this game is perfect in my point of lopook the part playing 
 this say this is a excellent but the movie of the game is not perfect and I dont like the movie 
 but the game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I have always liked the swat games, and the 4 is best ofcourse. I belive this is the first swat 
 expansion, that I have heard of thougt, and its good. I haven't tried so many thing yet, but I 
 have tried internett playing, and some missions. Its some new weapons and features that is new, 
 which is very good. There are also new missions ofcourse. What can I say.. Its better, and its 
 good you have voice on internett, so you can talk with other players. I thougt there would be that 
 on single player to, so you could command them with your voice, but that was a misunderstanding 
 I had read. The graffic is also very good, but it excist better. So if you liked swat 4, im sure 
 you will like this too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
