-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SWAT 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/swat4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique, police-style gameplay.
 Highly replayable.
 Intense gameplay.
 Co-op play available for LAN or online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Teammates can get stuck on level geometry.
 Framerate issues during some encounters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 4,629 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Irrational Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Apr 5, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The newest iteration of the series is the best one yet, offering an intelligent and flexible interface, 
 a highly replayable campaign, and multiplayer modes that include cooperative play. 

  The original SWAT game, released in 1995, was Daryl F. Gates' Police Quest: SWAT. Named after the 
 former Los Angeles Police Chief who formed the world's first SWAT team, the original SWAT and its 
 sequel were actually strategy games. It wasn't until SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle was released 
 in 1999 that the series transitioned into the first-person-shooter genre. Throughout the years, 
 each SWAT game has attempted to simulate what it's like to lead the world's most highly skilled 
 and trained police officers into dangerous confrontations. It's been more than five years since 
 the last SWAT, and the newest iteration of the series is the best one yet, offering an intelligent 
 and flexible interface, a varied and highly replayable campaign, as well as multiplayer modes that 
 include cooperative play.  

          Your ultimate goal is to arrest suspects, not kill them.     

  As with the real-life 
 SWAT teams, your job as an element commander in SWAT 4 is to take your five-man team into dangerous 
 situations and defuse them. These situations range from a botched jewelry heist to high-risk arrest 
 warrants to a raid on an illegal casino. In almost every mission, there are innocent civilians 
 mixed in with the bad guys. Those of you who are Rainbow Six and Counter-Strike veterans will need 
 to cool it on your itchy trigger fingers. Even when you do run into armed criminals, you don't 
 have carte blanche to shoot them immediately. You have to follow the same strict rules of engagement 
 as a real police officer and do whatever you can to subdue and arrest suspects without lethal force. 
 Your guns are meant to be a last resort and should only be used if an armed suspect is an immediate 
 threat to your team or civilians. This is the primary detail that separates the SWAT games from 
 the military-style action games. The rules of engagement add a good deal of difficulty to the game, 
 and SWAT 4 pulls this off well. At the end of each mission you're graded on how well you did, and 
 more points are awarded for arresting as opposed to killing suspects. You are assessed big point 
 penalties for improper use of force, and for the most part, these penalties are levied fairly and 
 intuitively.  

  The 14-mission campaign isn't linked in any way. There's no overarching storyline that connects 
 them all, so the campaign plays out just like a series of stand-alone missions. It starts you off 
 with a training level that does a good job of acquainting you with the basics of using your weapons 
 and commanding your teams. It's here that you're introduced to the game's interface. Your four 
 subordinates are divided into a pair of two-man groups: red and blue. You can issue orders to the 
 entire element or to each pair separately. Switching between the groups is done by tapping a key. 
 The commands you give are done in a context-sensitive manner and are based on what your crosshair 
 is pointing at. Point at a door and hold down the right mouse button, and you're able to access 
 a menu that gives you different options, such as "Open and Clear," which orders your men to open 
 the door and enter, or "Open, Bang, and Clear," which will order your men to open the door, toss 
 in a flashbang grenade, and then run into the room to clear it of threats. Point your crosshair 
 at a civilian and you can order your men to zip cuff him or her for safety. Aim at a locked door 
 and you can order your men to pick the lock or blow it open with a charge or breaching shotgun. 

  The context-sensitive interface extends to a multipurpose use button as well. Point it at a suspect 
 or hostage, and the use button will cause you to yell at the person to put his hands up and surrender. 
 You'll be doing this a lot in SWAT 4, as you attempt to get suspects to respect your authority 
 before shooting them. Point your cursor at a dropped weapon and you can pick it up to secure it. 
 Aim at a cuffed criminal or civilian and your use key will radio a status report into command. 

  There are also interface options that allow you to remotely command one of your squad elements. 
 For example, you can order red team to stack up at a door, and then leave them there while you 
 take blue team around the corner to a second door (which leads into the same room) . Even though 
 you're out of visual range of red team, you can bring up a picture-in-picture window of what red 
 team is seeing, and through that window you can order them to enter the door they're standing in 
 front of. This is a neat option that allows you to simultaneously enter a room that has two doors. 
 During a given mission there are also picture-in-picture windows you can open that give you a view 
 of what external snipers are seeing, and you can even control your snipers via those windows.  
 

  It seems like a lot to take in, and certainly it takes a few mission runs before you become used 
 to all the options available to you. But once you've gotten a few missions under your belt, ordering 
 your squad elements and moving along with them becomes second nature. The structure of the campaign 
 seems to mimic this standard learning curve, as the first few missions are rather simple and easy, 
 but the difficulty ramps up considerably in the later missions, where you'll find complicated building 
 architecture and numerous heavily armed suspects.  

          The briefing offers valuable information on each mission... because knowing is half the 
 battle.     

  Before going on each mission you can listen to a quick briefing, and this presentation is done 
 well. The premise of each mission is explained by a radio dispatcher, and further context is given 
 by the element commander. In certain missions you can even listen to a 911 call to glean more information. 
 It's important to study these briefings carefully as they can contain photographs of suspects and 
 hostages, as well as floor plans of the buildings you assault. Some missions have more available 
 information than others. In others, you only have a rough sketch of the building and no clear idea 
 about the number of suspects and hostages. Based on this information, though, you can choose a 
 weapon and equipment loadout for your team.  

  SWAT 4 includes a good selection of assault rifles, submachine guns, shotguns, and nonlethal weapons 
 like Taser guns, pepper spray, and a paintball gun modified to shoot pepper balls. You can also 
 choose between ammo types like hollow-point bullets for more stopping power against unarmored suspects, 
 or full metal jacket for better penetration against body armor. The grenades and gadgets are probably 
 the most important selections. You'll need to carry in flashbang and tear gas grenades for assaulting 
 rooms, and you also have special gear like the Optiwand, which is a fiber-optic camera used for 
 peeking around corners and under doors. Door wedges allow you to seal off exits to keep suspects 
 from running away into rooms you've already cleared.     

  Once you're actually in a mission, you'll find that the game rewards patient and deliberate play. 
 The nature of SWAT 4 as a realistic simulator is that it's very easy for you and your team to get 
 wiped out if you make any kind of mistake. Charging into rooms without first tossing in some kind 
 of grenade to incapacitate or distract suspects inside is a surefire recipe for disaster. As a 
 result, once you get the feel of the game, you'll find that the gameplay in SWAT 4 is fairly methodical, 
 punctuated by a few brief moments of intense action. Stick an Optiwand under a door to check for 
 occupants, open (or blow open) the door, toss in a grenade, then rush in and clear threats. Repeat 
 on the next door.  

          The Optiwand can warn you of enemies lurking behind doors.     

  What ends up complicating 
 matters is the varied artificial intelligence of the enemies and hostages you find. Some criminals 
 will give up the moment you yell at them to drop their weapons. Others won't surrender unless you 
 incapacitate them with a flashbang or tear gas, or even a Taser gun shock. Some immediately shoot 
 back, while others will try to run away and escape into other rooms. Bold suspects may even run 
 into the room you're in and unexpectedly attack you. Hostages are equally unpredictable in how 
 they behave. Most hostages comply immediately, but some need to be hit with a nonlethal weapon 
 before they can be restrained.  

  The fun in SWAT 4 comes in trying to sort out all the mess and bring order to the chaos while remaining 
 within a police officer's rules of engagement. Thankfully, the AI of your squadmates is generally 
 smart enough to handle most situations. They're usually good about engaging suspects and only shooting 
 them when appropriate. They're also extremely accurate when called upon to fire. Your squadmates 
 are even smart about moving up and down stairways and keeping their weapons pointed up or down 
 as appropriate. The main issue is that your AI teammates are sometimes slow on the trigger. Often 
 times, in an attempt to get armed suspects to surrender, they give enemies too much time to fire 
 back, and as a result, it is difficult to get through many of the later missions without sustaining 
 casualties. It can also be annoying in the cases where your squadmates get stuck on level geometry, 
 or are slow to comply with orders because they're too distracted with a suspect spotted through 
 an interior window.  

  Despite the flaws, SWAT 4 is extremely unique in its gameplay style and premise, and it executes 
 cleanly for the most part. What's more, suspects and hostages spawn randomly in each level every 
 time you play, which adds a great deal of replayability to the game. No matter how many times you've 
 played a mission, you can never be too sure of the whereabouts of suspects, which makes for a consistently 
 intense experience. Replaying levels does make them easier over time, but that's not from memorizing 
 the locations of enemies, it's from gaining a better understanding of the building architecture, 
 which plays a huge role in the game. For further replayability, SWAT 4 even includes a mission-maker 
 interface that lets you customize any of the levels to include variable numbers and types of suspects 
 and hostages, as well as specific mission requirements, like sustaining zero casualties. These 
 missions are saved as pack files, which can be traded with your friends.  

  Multiplayer modes also contribute to the great overall value of SWAT 4. While the game does include 
 team-based modes that are playable for up to 16 players online, the most attractive option is cooperative 
 mode for up to five players. You can play out any of the game's built-in missions or you can play 
 one of your custom-built missions in cooperative mode. Co-op SWAT 4 is extremely fun, and the interface 
 allows any player to issue orders. Direct your teammates to open a door, for example, and they'll 
 see a red arrow over the doorknob to indicate which door you're talking about. While the other 
 gameplay modes like VIP escort, team-based deathmatch, and a bomb-defusing game are fun in their 
 own right, SWAT 4's co-op mode is easily the best aspect of its multiplayer options, especially 
 considering the dearth of cooperative games available today.  

  SWAT 4's graphics mirror its gameplay: it's great for the most part, but it has a few noticeable 
 flaws. The character models of your team are fantastic, and they animate beautifully when executing 
 scripted moves like breaching open a door and entering a room. They're modeled in such detail that 
 you can even see the number and type of grenades each of your teammates has left by glancing at 
 their utility belts. The models of the various hostages and suspects, however, don't look quite 
 as good. They're noticeably blockier, and their joints can look and bend a bit strangely while 
 you're cuffing them. The level architectures are very well detailed, and each building's layout 
 looks and feels believable, including the degree to which they're furnished. SWAT 4 also does a 
 good job with lighting, as you'll need to rely on your tactical light a lot in dark rooms and areas. 
 The biggest downside to the game's graphics is that the frame rate can be a big issue. SWAT 4 chugs 
 noticeably on machines with 512MB of RAM. Upgrading to 1GB can make most situations play out a 
 lot smoother, but in intense firefights with tear gas in the air and multiple suspects and squadmates 
 firing, the frame rate still takes a big nosedive.  

          The level architecture in SWAT 4 is one of the best aspects of the game.     

  SWAT 
 4's sound effects are sharp and realistic, particularly the gun shots, which sound quite powerful. 
 What you'll hear most in the game is yelling, both from suspects and hostages, as well as from 
 your own squad who are screaming for everyone to lie down and surrender. There's a good deal of 
 cussing in the game, which reflects the intense, life-or-death scenarios you face. The whimpering 
 from wounded civilians and suspects can get annoying at times, but it can also be funny to hear 
 the grumbling complaints from cuffed criminals. There are other nice sound details in the game, 
 such as the metal detector in one level that goes off every time you walk through it. SWAT 4 doesn't 
 include much in the way of music, but you will hear fast-paced tunes spool up dynamically every 
 time you enter a confrontation or forcefully enter a room with a grenade blast.  

  As a realistic police simulator, SWAT 4 definitely hits the mark. Though the frame rate gets chunky 
 at times, and there are a couple of irritating bugs and quirks, the AI delivers on most counts 
 in a game that is designed with great replayability. The cooperative mode is also extremely fun 
 and should make this game attractive for those looking for something to play together with friends 
 at a LAN party or online. If you enjoyed SWAT 3, or if you like tactical-style shooters and are 
 looking for something with a twist, you won't go wrong picking up a copy of SWAT 4.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (169 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Single player mode on this game is decent and well structured unforgiving tactical action. 
 Different types of nades, sprays, less lethal guns and a wide range of lethal guns give the game 
 some well thought out structure.
  
  However where this game really shines is the multiplayer. Just look at the single player mode as 
 training for multiplayer. Multiplayer has 4 different modes, coop, rapid deployment, Barricaded 
 Suspects (deathmatch) , and Vip escort.
  
  It is the VIP escort mode that really shines out of these modes. It requires high level teamwork 
 and intelligent play to succeed. When you get shot you die, there is no energy or health, you have 
 armour and you can take maybe a couple bullets to the well protected parts of your body but thats 
 it. This makes the game very realistic.
  
  I really recommend anyone trying the multiplayer in this game, despite it being 4 years old now 
 it is still in my opinion the best multiplayer game there is. Forget COD 4 this is much better, 
 much more precise, much more of a team game, less forgiving for sure but that adds an edge of realism 
 to the game.
  
  Get this game and try the multiplayer vip escort mode, you won't regret it. There are hundreds 
 of good servers and you can play using a cracked version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 will demand a lot of patience and caution when playing it. Mainly because this isn't a normal 
 shooter, but it tries to be realistic tactical shooter, almost like a simulator.
  
  The game don't have history and every mission is independent and have it's own "surprises". You're 
 a leader of one Swat Squad, compound by four men divided in two teams (blue and red) . In the beginning 
 of every mission, in the briefing, you can change your gear (and your squad gear) to best suit 
 in the mission that you're called. 
  
  Swat 4 also isn't that kind of game that you just have to shot every thing in sigh, mainly because 
 that the highest mission in Swat isn't kill, but save lives. And together with the bad guys, in 
 the middle of the chaos, you'll encounter many civilians and, kill one of them, is the best path 
 to fail any mission. 
  
  Swat 4 also uses a system that work very well, and give it some arcade characteristics: a score 
 system. Every action that you make, can count positive or negative points to you, and, depending 
 of the difficult level, you need a minimum of it to reach the next mission. So, if you just kill 
 one suspect, you probably will lose points because you used unauthorized use of lethal force. First, 
 you need to try make all the suspects (and even the civilians) comply, before start to think in 
 shoot anyone. Swat give us many options to do our job without killing, like shooting in the legs 
 or arms, using the Flashbang or the Beanbags ammunition and you can also neutralize an armed and 
 dangerous suspect with the pepper spray. The game only allow you to shoot to kill only in two situations: 
 1) if any suspect threaten you or anyone of your team and civilian; 2) if any suspect fight back.
 
  
  The Gameplay can be a little strange in the beginning, because you have many options to do things. 
 But the complexity of the missions will increasing, giving to you time to get used to the commands 
 in the first missions. Make your red team breach one door and drop a CS gas and clear a room while 
 the blue team make the same in another room and you cover their back is an option; or you can also 
 breach a door and make the blue team enter and clean making the red team cover their back. 
  
  The movements is also limited too. You can't jump, and shoot while running will make the weapon 
 more difficult to control and will make the aim be worse. If you're shoot in the leg, you'll cannot 
 run anymore. And you can only perform a sidestep walking, so, lean through corners and doors is 
 a much more safe option than a sidestep through the same corners and doors.
  
  And Swat 4 have another "system" that put the replay value to the highest levels. Every time that 
 you start a mission, all the suspects and civilians will be randomly re-spawned in the level. So, 
 if in the first time you had play in some specific mission, that room to the left was two suspects, 
 but the next time, maybe have more suspects, hostages or nothing. And they can be in the next room 
 or in the hallway. Maybe there's no one there. The number of suspects also change too.
  
  And when you're tired of the Carree mode (the normal single player mode) , you can edit any Swat 
 4 mission, with many customizable options.
  
  The graphics remember a lot the graphics of Fear, but with less shadows and lights. The game can 
 be a little unstable, mainly when using textures and the bump map in high settings. Also, the movements 
 of the characters can be a little strange, but I think that fit perfect in Swat 4. But the weapon 
 design leave much to be desired. 
  
  The sounds make their job. Special attention to the explosions effects, that really shine here. 
 The voices are a little repetitive too.. but well interpreted. The music means nothing here, and 
 sometimes can flurry you in some ways.
  
  But, for me, only one reason separates Swat 4 for 10: it's AI. Not that is bad, it's great, but, 
 some times, can be a little idiot. Idiot enough to make you give up for some time to play it. And 
 the worse? because of your teammates. Almost always, they will give you many headache. I always 
 had to stay close to them, giving orders and taking care of them, looking if they were doing everything 
 right or they can be just shoot down without even retaliate the suspects.
  
  Swat 4 have a great Multiplayer. I played some time, and I had much fun playing it. Have four modes, 
 including the Cooperative mode (my favorite) . The lag can mess a little with gameplay, but I think 
 that is only matter of time to get used to it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintanger730
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a great game. The interface could not be easier, ordering squad mates around is very 
 easy, and the squad and sniper cams are very fun. One way they could have made it better was being 
 able to stack orders, and have different teams carry them out at the same time, but who cares. 
 
  
  The equipment and guns are great, and the body part damage is very realistic, get shot in the arm, 
 you aim worse, shot in the leg, go slower. 
  
  The hostage mechanics are very cool, it feels very realistic tossing a flashbag the running in 
 screaming to get on the floor, and the occasional stubborn people who require tasering adds more 
 realism. Unscripted standoffs with suspects are tense and believable. The details like collecting 
 guns as evidence, and reporting progress just add to the realism. 
  
  SWAT 4 gets frustrating pretty quick. The combat can being brutal and unforgiving. Many times an 
 otherwise great mission will be ended by a quick shotgun blast walking around the corner. Often 
 it only takes one or two shots to kill and the enemies are VERY quick on the draw, and if you're 
 not fast, or hesitate to yell and give him a chance to surrender, you will die A LOT. 
  
  Other than the unforgiving combat, SWAT4 is a great solid tactical FPS that requires A LOT of patience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RodinaRossija38
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I live in Russia and I love games here and I think they are better than American games because 
 Russian industries make them with more passion and result with unique. But SWAT 4 was very fun 
 to play especially for the fact it is so cheap in price. The game mechanics and functions are very 
 great and how it works in general is absolutely stunning. Online is also very fun. I sometimes 
 play in Russian server and it's like we are all Moscow OMON! Anyway, I think this game was very 
 good, fun and brilliant which makes me think why aren't games like this produced today? I don't 
 like a lot of the games today. I also want to try expansion pack Stetchkov because it has to do 
 with Russian man but I can't find it anywhere : (
  
  Thank you for reading.
  
  
  
  
  
  I live in Ulyanovsk, Russian Federation. It is not cold all year and I never seen a bear 
 on the street. Is this 800 words? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 brings in new idea, however, it's not as refined as it should have been.
  Lets talk about the good, shall we?
  
  SWAT 4's gameplay is unique from any other. If you've 
 played RAINBOW 6, this is quite familiar. You lead a highly trained group of SWAT Units that respond 
 to what you command them to do. However, when you do make contact with the enemy, you have to yell 
 and subdue them, before you can shoot them. If they point a gun or fight back, that is when you 
 are allowed to fire. This adds an intriguing perspective to FPS shooters. 
  SWAT 4's difficulty is insane. Passing levels will really work your patience. Why is that? One 
 little mistake, may have your INTIRE squad wiped out. That maybe the worst of all. One thing I 
 do not like, is that your team, never pursues, or protects you when you are busy. This glitch feels 
 like you're on your own sometimes, facing down 20 terrorists with AK's and here you are using Pepper 
 Spray. Glitches will also test your patience.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite nice. However, the detail is something to pay attention. You can 
 spot cock roathes in abondened buildings, cigarette smoke, even count the number of flash bangs 
 your team has.
  
  Sound: Music is something I hate in SWAT 4. The music, honestly sounds like a horror movie. I hate 
 that. Also, I'm not entirely pleased with some of the voice commands and gun sounds, but other 
 than that, it's fine.
  
  The Bottem Line: SWAT 4 has been a long time in the making, and it should have been more polished 
 with more modes and such. It does bog down on the overall polish of the game, however, it does 
 not subtract from the fun. SWAT 4 sounds and feels like a great shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a great game that worth playing because one reason.. the game will change every time 
 you will play the same level.. but i think you didnt understand so ill say it again in a better 
 words: when you start some level, there will be like 5 peoples, 2 of them are suspects and the 
 others are inesent, you will need to catch the criminals and handcof them..
  
  the sounds are really nice.. i mean its like every other shooting games
  
  graphics: the graphic 
 is ok.. there better games with better graphic than this but still SWAT 4 graphic is ok.. the weapons 
 models are looking like they made of stone insted of metal.. i hate that
  
  gameplay: its fun :D.. SWAT style.. you will need to handcof every one you see... theres lots of 
 shooting at some levels.. but some of them have really little shooting... the greatest thing in 
 the gameplay of 
  swat 4 is that: 1) you have a team and you can tell theme what to do.. 2) the game will change 
 every time you will put the same level there will be other suspects and thats what SWAT 4 is all 
 about
  
  the multiplayer is aweful and not worth playing.. the single player is ok.. the game isnt worth 
 buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthKing93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Swat 4 is perfect in every way, very little improvements would be needed and that would be graphics! 
 It is ultimate realism, being a law enforcement SWAT commander or team member! I have never had 
 so much fun in an old game like this, it has fun multiplayer and extremely fun single player! The 
 weapons were cool and realistic the way you used the mirror or thing to see past doors and such! 
 The actions and commands you could give are really awesome! This game really rocks and I recommend 
 it to anyone who loves law enforcement or wants to have a good time shooting and arresting! I do 
 not understand why this game is rated M, I am 15 and I have plenty of M rated games.. I guess because 
 I am mature? This wasn't that bad. I am definitely looking forward to the next Swat and so should 
 you! I hope the next Swat has better graphics and good movements, and better details on the weapons. 
 Thats it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Really Awesome!
  THE GOOD:
  Enemy AI, Realistic Environments, Real Guns and Weapons.
  THE BAD:
  The suspense of thinking an enemy is about to pop out of the shadows, Level 2 on the 
 Career.
  ****
  
  AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! AWESOMENESS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Whilst I do collect a small amount of scale models, I am not exactly what you'd call a realism 
 nut. Despite this, the hyper-realistic SWAT 4 is perhaps the most rewarding game I have played 
 in many years and can easily beat up better looking and more recent titles in the genre like Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. The basic premise is pretty simple: you play as the leader of a Special Weapons And 
 Tactics team and attack and neutralise a variety of armed and dangerous criminals. The gimmick 
 (if you want to call it that) is that you are required to preserve all life as far as possible, 
 including the suspects. This means that you are forced to use a variety of tactics to coerce suspects 
 into submission, including yelling at them, non-lethal weapons (like beanbag shotguns) , flashbangs, 
 tear gas, pepper spray, tasers and so on. This really adds an extra layer to the action, as a moment's 
 indecision on your part gives a suspect the perfect opportunity to riddle you with hot lead.
  
  You also are expected to act like a real police officer, meaning that you should move through 
 areas where firefights just occurred and call in reports on casualties, arresting everyone (even 
 hostages, as they must be questioned by detectives later) , securing weapons as evidence and so 
 on. This layer of gameplay is great, because it really helps with immersion and forces you to play 
 methodically. It can actually be quite funny when hostages refuse to surrender to you and you have 
 to taser them as well (though for some reason you can't punch them) . But why, I hear you ask, can 
 I not just ignore all this and blow through in a hail of bullets and corpses. Well, first of all, 
 you'll probably fail an objective if you shoot a hostage by accident or fail to arrest someone, 
 but the more important answer is that at the end of each mission, you are graded on performance 
 based on how professionally you behaved and, depending on the difficulty setting, you require a 
 certain score to progress to the next mission. Penalties like "unauthorised use of deadly force" 
 (ie. killing a suspect who's not threatening anyone) can stack up quickly and kill your score, 
 so you really have to be careful.
  
  As well as all this, you also have some of the resources of a police officer. You will have your 
 four faithful squad mates (who always reappear even if they die) who can perform all the tasks 
 that you are capable of and can split into two smaller teams if you need to split up your forces. 
 You can also view their progress using their helmet cameras, as well as issue orders based upon 
 that camera feed. For the most part this works really well, though there are a few issues with 
 them getting stuck in geometry. They also aren't all that accurate with grenade throwing, so it 
 may be more productive to do that yourself. One feature of team-mates I really liked was that they 
 can make mistakes, like occasionally accidentally shooting a hostage instead of the suspect or 
 losing his nerve and gunning down a non-cooperative suspect who wasn't a threat (he was choking 
 on tear gas at the time) . This happens rarely, though, and most of the time you get away with it, 
 so it succeeds at being cool without completely frustrating you. You may also get a sniper or two 
 in missions, though generally they aren't very helpful because they only cover one or two windows. 
 However, one quiet shot can save lives, so they aren't to be sniffed at either.
  
  This is the point at which I'd usually move on to the story, but SWAT 4 doesn't have one. Instead 
 you have a series of unlinked missions, getting harder and harder as you progress. I actually think 
 this is a great choice, because it is a bold move for a modern game and it avoids the absolute 
 rubbish that serves for plot in some other games (like Rainbow Six: Vegas) . Each mission has its 
 own unique background and build-up, which you can see in the briefing, and each presents a unique 
 challenge (which get harder and harder as you go along) . Missions will range from arresting a serial 
 murderer in his house to stopping a doomsday cult blowing up a housing estate to rescuing an injured 
 South Korean diplomat from assassins. The variety is great and whilst the briefings generally give 
 poor reflections of the number of suspects (eg. telling you to expect three hostiles with pistols 
 and finding 10 guys with body armour and AKs) , the missions feel authentic and immersive. The only 
 flaw with that is that they don't send in five SWAT guys to attack a building crawling with 20+ 
 well-armed hostiles, but I'll let that slide as it is necessary for difficulty. A final thing that 
 I liked about the missions is that each time you load a mission, the game randomises the number 
 and location of suspects and hostages, which really can mix things up, as you can't be sure that 
 the guy who was behind that door last time will be their again, or that the patrolling guard will 
 walk into your sniper's line of fire.
  
  The graphics in SWAT aren't exactly pretty, it must be said. Whilst the game is only three years 
 old, the character models are a bit blocky and a lot of the outdoor effects are really bad (though 
 you rarely have to go outside) . Whilst technically they aren't exactly pretty, you will almost 
 certainly be able to run it on full power these days, which helps. The real strength of the graphics 
 is in the artistic style. It really is gritty, with graffiti, bloodstains and rubble looking dirty 
 and crude, even in the cleaner levels like the hospital. I normally don't make a big deal of graphics, 
 so let's move on to sound. Again, it isn't exactly outstanding here, with the sound of guns being 
 perfected in video games years ago. However, almost every level features different suspects and 
 civilians, each with their own distinct dialogue and character (mostly) . Again, this helps with 
 immersion because it is nice to hear that the crazy doomsday cultists don't start asking for a 
 lawyer or something stupid like that. The sound can get cluttered in gunfights, though, with squad 
 members giving status reports, guns being fired, screams, explosions and all the rest leading to 
 total audio chaos, which is a bit of let-down, though I suppose it is quite realistic at the same 
 time.
  
  Now I feel I would do SWAT 4 a disservice if I didn't speak about immersion. It truly is a shining 
 example of how a game can suck you into the character of the protagonist. I am not particularly 
 organised in my playing style, not really planning ahead or thinking about flank attacks or whatever, 
 but SWAT really starts to make you think in this fashion. You will methodically search rooms that 
 are almost certainly empty, blocking off stairwells with door wedges, use the fibre optic microscope 
 to check under doors you are certain are clear and so on. I also discovered that I actually started 
 to care about hostages. For example, in the hospital mission, I was seriously rattled when I started 
 calling in status reports on downed civilians and I realised that they were not just injured (like 
 they normally are) but were reported as DOA (Dead On Arrival) . Further on in that mission, there 
 was a bed that had a cake and a banner next to it that read "Happy Birthday Grandpa", but the bed 
 was empty and covered in blood. It rattled me so much that when one of my squad mates made a joke 
 about the cake that I shot him through the head as punishment (which instantly failed me and caused 
 my comrades to cut me down in turn) . This is just an example of the sort of thing that SWAT 4 is 
 capable of.
  
  In conclusion, then, SWAT 4 is a truly shining example of everything the tactical shooter genre 
 can be. I admit it isn't exactly for everyone, as it requires patience and forethought to get the 
 best of it, and a lot of gung-ho Halo players will just be frustrated by it. However, if you can 
 accept such a thing and the tough difficulty curve, SWAT 4 is the perfect game to pick up from 
 the bargain section of your local games store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Well, I played this game three years ago and havn't touched for 2.5 years by now since after the 
 release of call of duty 2, and then battlefield 2, and then call of duty 4..
  
  Well it's a great game.. no doubt, no question, no **** a fine game. With great graphic, great singleplayer 
 skirmish, decent campaign, excellent multiplayer , nice gameplay, challenging one-life system (No 
 save point in entire mission) , realistic bullet demages ( You get worse shooting with a hand wounded, 
 or move slower with legs hit, and die by a single bullet in the head..) , since it could be really 
 difficult (It really hurt!!!!! When 35 terrorists with assault rifles of increditable demage and 
 accuracy, and while your teammates AI are solid and dumb) , and so it really require tactical shooting 
 instead of run-gun ones..
  
  The multiplayer was the BEST!!!!!! It have co-op, team-death, bomb disarm and the interesting VIP 
 mode.. the VIP mode is especially fun to play..
  
  Well, about its bad side.. clearly, it lack a simple melee system... when you're outta ammo (especially 
 the ammo you have is limited, and you couldn't pick up enemy weapons to use) , you are just waiting 
 to die without even a last stand with some melee demage or knife till the enemy..
  
  Sometimes it's really too hard... when you have to fight against 35 terrorist with Ak-47 with very 
 limited ammo and very limited of not dead before 2-3 shot.. and sometimes just once in neck, you 
 are dead.. with NO svae points.. so if you die after killing 34 terrorists.. definily too lucky...
 
  
  And, the load times is sometimes too long, especially in multiplayer, when connecting.. you need 
 to load every time you get to the server, and then load again for the server map, or even IF you 
 fail to connect to the server, you need to load again.. That's what kill my patience for this game 
 and turn for COD2 in 2006..
  
  Storyline-8/10
  Graphic in 2005 option is great :8.5/10
  Gameplay:8.5/10 (challenging!)
  Gameplay-9.5/10 (multiplayer)
  Sound-8/10
  Value-9/10 ( A SWAT 
 series legend)
  Realistic level-9/10
  
  Overrall-9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is one of those rare titles that reminds us why we love games. I mean it; when designers 
 go the extra mile to flesh out each and every level with painstaking accuracy and detail, it shows. 
 Everything about SWAT 4 gleams care and attention, and it powers an otherwise-excellent game into 
 superstardom among the tactical game genre. I'm not snubbing Rainbow 6, Ghost Recon, or any of 
 the slew of new-age thinking shooters, but Swat 4 finds its unique spin and latches on, creating 
 something new and original while staying fun and enjoyable.
  
  Out of the thirteen missions, some sparkle more than others. In particular is an early mission 
 which takes place at the A-Bomb Nightclub. It's the first level which slaps you in the surprised-looking 
 face with an unbelievable and nearly-unheard of dose of realism and detail. Right through the doors 
 lies a Frankenstein '79 pinball machine boasting "The bride was made to jive" and a seductive albeit-grotesque 
 zombie female. Shelves are lined with alcohol bottles which sport fake-but-real labels. Posters 
 for bands with titles such as "K-Relly in a-minor" plaster the grungy walls, and the manager's 
 office is littered with advertisements for upcoming shows. Another, later mission involves going 
 into the DePlessis Wholesale Diamond Center, which absolutely screams genuineness. Advertisements 
 whose quality is that of street corner billboards or the Sunday newspaper hang proudly on the wall, 
 and there are even posters for "Tribes: The Movie," among other humorous movie debuts. Even more 
 impressive was the Halogen mission which is a college-funded embryonic research laboratory held 
 hostage by Christian fundamentalists. As I work in a medical science lab, I appreciate every minute 
 detail the designers put into the surroundings, including autoclaves, eye wash stations, and posters 
 warning of safety. I cannot stress how much SWAT 4's detail blew me away.
  
  SWAT's missions, unfortunately, don't vary much in approach and execution. Every one is a labyrinth 
 of hallways, which have doors that must be opened or breached with C2 explosives or a lockpicking 
 device. Commands are issued to the four-man squad by holding the right mouse button down for a 
 slick menu, or simply by clicking the middle mouse button over the environment. Sometimes it's 
 extremely prudent to use a telescoping camera device under the door to scope out what lurks behind, 
 because without a careful pace, walking into a clandestine AK-47-wielding camper spells doom for 
 the SWAT team. Breached rooms may be cleared by tossing in a flashbang, tear gas, or a special 
 grenade which launches rubber pellets and stuns the enemy. Unfortunately this is where SWAT's first 
 fault arises, because the computer teammates have a difficult time actually throwing the grenades 
 through the open door. Frequently, the thrown grenade will strike the wall immediately beside the 
 doorway, bounce back, and detonate in a split second at your feet, which incapacitates you for 
 several seconds allowing the enemies, who have their full wits about them, to open fire and gun 
 the team down. Frustrating, but once you learn to watch out for it, it won't be that much of a 
 hindrance, thankfully.
  
  As the artificial intelligence plays an enormous role in SWAT 4, it's a blessing that for the most 
 part it's competent, even if collision detecting is poor. Team members generally carry out commands 
 with precision, and enemies behave as startled, hostage-holding terrorists should. Sometimes incidents 
 occur which will jolt you from the immersion, such as mid-breach, a terrorist opens the door and 
 runs into a team member. The models sort of stick together and everyone opens fire. Most times 
 the SWAT will take injuries and off the terrorist, but other times the SWAT will miss the terrorist 
 and take out hostages behind him, failing the mission and requiring a restart.
  
  At first, SWAT 4's gameplay is jarringly different to that of other tactical shooters, in that 
 the mission isn't to sneak in and shoot the bad guys. Instead, following police protocol -at least 
 loosely- you must demand the bad guys drop their weapons. Don't worry, it isn't as bad as it sounds. 
 Once the button is pressed and the bad guy doesn't comply, or raises his gun, the bullets start 
 flying. It is extremely refreshing to use different tactics, and the way in which SWAT 4 introduces 
 and employs them is excellent. Civilians must always be detained with zip ties and then reported 
 in to the dispatcher, which becomes tedious towards the latter missions, since the sheer volume 
 of hostages rises drastically. Regardless, it follows true with SWAT's realistic nature, which 
 in this case, makes the game.
  
  There are some other minor issues, such as a graphical glitch with the flashlight, but none are 
 serious or do anything to impede the fun. The game is surprisingly short, topping out at around 
 five or six hours, but the replay value is immense. Every mission can be edited with number of 
 bad guys or hostages, how each will behave, objectives, and more, which lends credence to how seriously 
 the designers cared. It's rare to find a game which absolutely explodes with detail, and extraordinary 
 in a game which is this polished and exceptional. If it were double the length and mission objectives 
 were more varied, SWAT 4 would have been stellar, dropping Tom Clancy for good. As it is, SWAT 
 4 is a rare diamond in the rough that not many gamers have played, but most should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is the latest in the line of tactical law enforcement shooters from Sierra. Irrational has 
 done a great job of making this game satisfying to both the hardcore fan and the casual player, 
 with easy-to-use commands and a streamlined interface.
  
  The graphics do look decent for a game that's 3 years old now, and it still stands: environments 
 are detailed and can actually give a spook in some of the more hectic missions. This amount of 
 detail adds a depth of realism to SWAT 4.
  
  The career mode is a great challenge to both old-timers and newcomers as well. The missions can 
 be played through either Easy, Normal, Hard, or the highest mode, Veteran. The missions are also 
 completely random; you will never know who you're going to meet eye-to-eye with on missions, as 
 the generator always place varied NPCs into the missions, giving it a variety, and making sure 
 no mission always plays out the same way twice.
  
  However, the squad AI is rather glitchy, They sometimes do not follow orders correctly, and sometimes 
 completely freeze when multiple anomalies happen at the same time. This can be overlooked, as it 
 usually is not a problem and can be resolved with a simple "Fall in" command. There are also enough 
 weapons to sate your tactical needs, but it still falls short of the larger variety of weapons 
 that most FPS gamers are used to seeing in other games. Again, this can be overlooked, if not with 
 some difficulty.
  
  The multiplayer is also quite fun to play, and also incorporates a co-op game type which allows 
 players to tackle missions with 5 players total, as well as Barricaded Suspects, VIP Escort, and 
 Rapid Deployment. This allows for plenty of fun and hectic scenarios with plenty of enjoyment involved.
 
  
  All in all, SWAT 4 is a solid and dedicated tactical shooter, with plenty to offer to everyone 
 that's played an FPS before. It is a fun and tense FPS with plenty of variety and modes for great 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raihan_07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  SWAT- Special Weapons And Tactics, The name of most thrilling law enforcement team of the world. 
 If you want to have that thrill you have to play SWAT 4. It is a high tactical FPS game. The most 
 significant side of this game is superb artificial intelligence of enemy. It's don't like other 
 game that you know where they are, then go there and shoot there. You'll find them in different 
 places at different times. You have to play this game as a real SWAT officer. You have to keep 
 patience, move cautiously, can't fire to kill (it will reduce your point) , have to make a strategy 
 and blah.. blah.. blah. Graphic is very good. You don't need a high power pc to play it. Sound quality 
 is superb. But there is no armor system as real SWAT. But controlling teammate via cam is a positive 
 feature of this game. You have to earn point for going next level if you chose medium or high difficulty. 
 You have a mid range of weapons and tactical gear which are customizable. But your aim is low casualty 
 and capture. So what are you waiting for? Go Play. Enjoy. Till next time, bye everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is the fourth installment in the beloved SWAT series, i've played em all the way back to the 
 first one, which was almost 10 years ago. SWAT has never been a huge success in terms of sales, 
 its only when SWAT 3 shifted to 3rd person perspective the franchise really came into the spotlight 
 (even so, it didn't sell big) . What made SWAT 3 special, is that it gave the player the ability 
 to be a squad leader and issue commands real-time to A. I squad mates using an innovative and easy 
 to access voice commands interface. The very same idea is implemented in SWAT 4 but with extra 
 new features.
  
  One of the main new ideas in SWAT 4 is "Remote control" of ur squad mates. Basically it means u 
 can laze out in a safe corner, sip on a can of soda and issue commands from a distance without 
 moving urself around and risking ur own life. Using the SQUAD camera (which appears in a seperate 
 screen on ur HUD) u can issue commands to ur squad mates and actually see through their eyes as 
 they move around. This feature is really usefull when u need to split ur squad, so u can just stick 
 with one team and use the cam to watch and order around the other team. In addition to that, there 
 is a cool "SNIPER CAM" feature, which allows u to gain control of Snipers located (At specific 
 points) outside the area. If a sniper spots a suspect, he calls u up on radio and informs you, 
 you can then simply access the sniper using SNIPER CAM and shoot the SOB. These new features not 
 only immerse you more by giving you the feeling of really being a squad leader, they also make 
 the gameplay more deep and fun.
  
  The Graphics in SWAT 4 are excellent, don't expect a Doom 3 or SOURCE, but it certainely is a good 
 lookin' game. The lighting is not real-time, but its well placed in every level, surfaces are well 
 bump mapped, gas and other particles effects run smooth without eating up ur frame rates and the 
 character models have enough polygons to make them look realistic enough, flash light is decent 
 but could've been better. My only complaint would be the lack of VSYNC, i just couldn't find the 
 option for it (i dont beileve it exists) this ofcourse causes video tearing which can be noticable 
 in some levels.
  
  The sound in SWAT 4 is superb, it uses a dynamic music engine, whenever you make a breach entry 
 the music pounds fast and a techno-industrial track kicks in which adds to the chaos and pace of 
 the game. Soundeffects are excellent are very realistic, keep in mind that the SWAT series always 
 tried to be as realistic as possible, every sound is taken from real-life guns/grenades etc. The 
 best part of the sound design in the game, is all the screaming and yelling that takes place. When 
 you breach into a room full of suspects and/or hostages, your squadmates , you, the suspects , 
 hostages start yelling out their own lines, as you hear gunshots or grenades exploding. All of 
 these sound elements just create an immense environment of chaos and makes u feel like u really 
 are in a SWAT mission.
  
  Now to the negatives, the game does have a few problems, mostly minor but some frustrating. First, 
 The SQUAD A. I can be dumb sometimes, in which they'd report that a room is "CLEAR", BE WARNED they 
 are not always true, sometimes u'd walk in a room thinking ur trusty squad did their job and the 
 next thing u'd know is some terrorist popped out of a corner and sprayed ur skull with AK47 bullets. 
 Second, The PENALTIES are silly, what the heck are u supposed to do when 95% of the terrorists 
 dont give up no matter how many bangs u throw at their eyes, i kept getting average scores until 
 i gave up and started shooting every suspect i see on the head (Even injured ones) , i'd even execute 
 them after cuffing them sometimes out of frustration. Thirdly, the character animation is a bit 
 stiff, u'd wish with all the time they had they would have implemented smooth life-like animations 
 to the character models. Finally, NEED MORE MISSIONS, the game (Although extremely replayable) 
 needs more scenarios, there just arent enough. I finished them all in about 5 hours or so.
  
  Now to the other details that make the game good, i'd say its the level design, its just incredible, 
 the level of detail, thought and depth put into the levels really shows. One of my favourite levels, 
 if not my favourite is the Religious Group level, where u storm this apartment building belonging 
 to some new-found religious group, the part where all the luminous stars and planets were stuck 
 on the wall of the dark hallway was just creepy, and the best part was my squadmate read my mind 
 and said "this place's givin' me the creeps", that scene was a masterpiece itself.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, especially if u have a friend to play with you, Co-Op just never gets old.
 
  
  In conclusion, SWAT 4 takes all the elements that made SWAT 3 so good and adds a bunch of new innovative 
 features to it + a new engine and great level design. If you love being a squad leader with total 
 squad control and if you generally like tactical-shooters, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electric-Guitar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  
  SWAT 4 brings realistic-yet-accessible shooter action to the PC. Combat is tense and quickly resolved, 
 as one burst of direct fire is often enough to take your operative down of course, the same thing 
 is true for your opponents. 
  
  Two things that goes a long way towards making SWAT 4 such a great experience are the rock-solid 
 weaponry and the accurate, real-world environments. Instead of the oil tankers and nuclear facilities 
 present in games like Rainbow Six, SWAT 4 throws players into the midst of common facilities, like 
 mini-marts and old, run-down houses. This is a nice change of scenery that helps separate the game 
 from its many peers. 
  
  The graphics are very well done overall, but with more than a few rough spots around the edges. 
 That said, the game's overall design is very much impressive, and the level layouts especially 
 so. This quality extends to the sound work, with great weapon effects and radio chatter. The only 
 gripe I have is with the responses of NPCs, which repeat way too often. 
  Aslo the multiplayer, you can play with real people just like you, setting on the PC, you can choose 
 to be a suspect or a SWAT officer.
  
  As to how SWAT plays, it's much different than anything you're used to, whether or not you prefer 
 arcade or tactical shooters. As this is a police simulator of sorts, you'll have to shout commands 
 at perps to comply before taking them down with force. Sometimes, you'll even have to use pepper 
 spray or a taser to take down an overly emotional civilian. Hostages don't only need rescuing, 
 they need restraining  you have to handcuff every suspect and civilian that doesn't end up dead 
 or incapacitated. Players with less patience for this kind of thing can set the game to easy mode 
  you'll no longer be penalized for being the vigilante cop if you do. 
  
  Overall, SWAT 4 is simply a well made shooter that gives genre fans a taste of something different. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 8
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Swat 4 is a very realistic game. The characters, guns, buildings, etc. are fantastic. Swat 4 puts 
 you into the shoes of a real swat agent. From breaching doors, throwing smoke grenades, and yelling 
 get down. You can shoot the enemy until he gives up but if he doesn't you are forced to kill him. 
 But as we all know being a Swat agent is not easy. This game is very challenging, at some points 
 you can bust in and take down the enemy but other times you have to become stealth. Other than 
 the storyline Swat 4 has a fun and more run around online part. Where you can build your own teams 
 and complete missions and take down the target. Overall, if your up for a fun, realistic, challenging 
 game, that puts you as a leader than buy Swat 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I was very impressed with SWAT 4. In the single player campaign, you play a SWAT team, and you 
 can switch between members of a 4 man group. Or you can maintain your character and give commands, 
 whatever floats your boat. The game starts off slow. The first mission, if I remember correctly, 
 has your team busting into a house to catch a violent sex predator. He's often the only suspect 
 in the house, although at times there's a 2nd (the game mixes bad guys up so there's some variety 
 if you replay levels) . There's also a bystander (granny) in the house who is non-compliant, and 
 you have to taze or spray her before she'll allow you to cuff her. As you progress through the 
 missions, they get incresingly hard, until your team is taking on heavily armed, body armer wearing 
 militia types. Multi player options include cooperative play of the single player maps, team playing 
 (SWAT guys vs. bad guys) , and dignitary escorting, which is a somewhat unique experience in which 
 one of the players controls a lightly armed civilian who the SWAT guys must help escape the scenario 
 while the bad guys must kill you.
  
  If you're looking for a "shooter" this is not for you. You can't just shoot anything that moves, 
 unless you want a really bad score. And like real life, there are no health pickups. If you get 
 hit by one fatal round, you're done. If you get hit in the leg, you'll limp & move a lot slower. 
 If you're not wearing a mask and your partner deploys gas, you'll be blinded for a while. If a 
 suspect is shooting at you, fire away. But if he drops his gun and you kill him, you're out points. 
 A variety of weapons are available, including less lethal weapons that are a blast to use on suspects, 
 and even victims and other police. The environments are excellent. Your team will go through and 
 old run down house, a tenement building, a high rise, a huge bank, and other places, all of which 
 look great, even today. 
  
  I only really have two complaints for this game. The first is repetition. There are only 10 or 
 so maps in the game, so once you've been through them the first time they're not as suspenseful, 
 although they're still fun to replay. The 2nd is the point system. The only way to score max points 
 is to apprehend the criminals, not kill them. That's okay in most of the easier levels where the 
 criminals aren't wearing masks and armor, and you can just spray/taze them and they're good to 
 go. But in later levels, they're heavily armed, wearing masks, and wearing armor. Just like in 
 real life, less lethal will do nothing but get you killed. It's virtually impossible to get through 
 the level without killing some people, or at least wounding them. So the only way to get max points 
 is to be completely suicidal. That takes away some of the realism that the game offers.
  
  Overall though, this game is an absolute blast to play. And last time I checked, in mid 2007, there 
 were still a pretty good number of people playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Okay so my friend and I got this game between us, looking for a fun game to play online together 
 for the xmas holidays. When we installed this game, we were impressed since this game some years 
 behind it, yet looks so good. The gameplay was also pretty cool, with loads of ways of completing 
 the mission. But... it soon became very repetetive.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Various options let you complete the mission in many different ways. But after all, it's just the 
 same procedure, in different levels. The fact that every time you play the level, enemies appear 
 in different places makes the game a little more interesting. But not much. The game is always 
 the same. Check with a gadget under the door, send your guys in, shout all the enemies inside, 
 arrest them. Go to the next room. The same. Finally, you finish the level. Next. The same.
  
  GRAPHICS: 
  Pretty good. Reminds me of F. E. A. R in a way.
  
  SOUND: 
  A lot of shouting 
 and really funny moments in which all the team is shouting the same thing at a guy. And then another 
 guy comes and they shout at him. Really funny.
  
  The GOOD:
  + Nice atmospheres in certain levels.
  + Good graphics (well... decent)
  
  THE BAD:
  - 
 Repetitive. (Extremely)
  - One mistake and you're done for.
  - Playing through LAN isnt very easy. You've got to play around with a couple of things on your 
 computer first. 
  
  BTW: Spell check wasnt working properly at the time i wrote this review so... sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livebyfaith85
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  I love the multiplayer mode. I play sometimes on the multiplayer (online) but not that much on 
 the single player mode. The game has a decent graphics. There are cheats that can be used for the 
 game but it requires the player to access the directory files and change the txd commands. The 
 single player mode is also fun to play. One thing that I don't like about the game is the weapons 
 selection. There is very limited amount of ammo and weapons that can be used in the game. Ofcourse 
 the reason for that is becuase the purpose of the game is to apprehend suspects not to kill them. 
 I felt that there were some features that lacked in the game. But overall it's not a bad game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtysoutherner
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Back when Swat 3 came out it was one of my favorite shooters ever. It was so different than most 
 other shooters. The fact that the suspects were in random places every time you played the mission 
 made the game always exciting and very replayable. Add to that the fact that the last thing you 
 want to do is actually shoot the enemy and you have a game unlike any other. After all this time 
 wishing for another SWAT game I finally have my wish granted and its everything I expected with 
 only a few shortcomings.
  
  One of the best things about the game is the fact that the suspects always spawn randomly on each 
 mission. That keeps the game fresh and suspenseful not knowing if someone will be around that next 
 corner. You can also create custom missions which gives you the option to add a ton of suspects 
 and civilians into a house and try to survive the mayham or put one single suspect in a apartment 
 building and search for him. Although there arent many missions, these things and a pretty fun 
 multiplayer give SWAT 4 some good replayability.
  
  The level design is great for the most part. Each level is very well designed and the mission structures 
 get more and more complicated throughout the game. The missions have you going from small houses 
 and apartment buildings to nightclubs and hospitals. I must say that the atmosphere in each is 
 near perfect. The level of realism and immersion is simply amazing. The amount of detail in each 
 level is spectacular. You will notice little things like phonebooks laying next to phones, fallen 
 over trash cans with chinese food laying on the floor next to them, and seemingly endless little 
 details packed into each level.
  
  There are some little things missing that you will notice. One of these missing small details is 
 blood on the bodys of fallen enemies. While blood will spray when you hit them, it wont stain on 
 their clothes. So when you take down a suspect you can walk over and see that he has no blood on 
 him which is noticable and out of place because of all the detail. Also, if you shoot a suspect 
 beside a wall a nice amount of blood will splatter on the wall but if you look away it will disappear 
 which takes away from the realistic detail.
  
  The AI can be unsteady at times. Blow the door open with your breaching shotgun and then step back 
 out of sight and just wait and you will most likely hear the suspects inside the room that the 
 door was just blown open of say something like "did you hear that" and then come slowly walking 
 out of the room. You can take the guy out then a few seconds later his buddy will also come strolling 
 out without a care in the world. In fact, it wouldnt be a bad stradegy to just shoot the door then 
 step back a few feet and wait. Most likely suspects inside will walk over to the door, open it, 
 and walk right on out. If you shoot the door of a room with suspects inside they should find cover 
 and aim at the door. The last thing they should do is casually walk over to the door and stroll 
 on out but thats exactly what they do most of the time. Sometimes they will do a smart thing and 
 actually lock the door when they hear you coming.
  
  Sometimes you will notice that the briefing you get before the mission conflicts with the AI. Like 
 for instance, a certain mission has you going to the scene of a gang shootout and you will enter 
 a room and find two rival gang members just standing a few feet apart from each other and fighting 
 together to try and take your team down. Another example is a group of men attack a VIP politician 
 and his bodyguards will sometimes be standing right next to the guys that are trying to kill them. 
 This is a small thing but its noticable.
  
  There is quite a bit of repetition in SWAT 4. You will notice that non SWAT team character models 
 look worse and the models themselvers are overused. Its not uncommon to spot the same girl in a 
 mission with different clothes on or even worse to come across the exact same model, clothes and 
 all. Also people you encounter say the exact same thing over and over. They even recorded the same 
 lines using different people which dont make much sense to me. 
  
  The animations of suspects are also are a little too repetitive which makes them easily predictable. 
 You will know if a suspect is going to run for it after the first few missions. A few more animations 
 would have gone a long way here. This game does have ragdoll and its pretty good at times and pretty 
 bad at times. Sometimes the bodies will fall in weird looking ways or get stuck on invisible items.
 
  
  Probably my biggest gripe with SWAT 4 is the team AI. It can be very unbalanced and in this game 
 you pay a big penalty for a mistake so not being able to rely fully on your team to protect themselves 
 takes away from the experience. The way they clear a room isnt efficient enough. They slowly enter 
 the room one after the other and not tight like they should. They must all have extremely weak 
 arms too because when you order them to throw grenades into a room they never throw them more than 
 a few feet. So, if there is a suspect on the other side of the room you have to throw the grenade 
 yourself or it wont even be close. You also have to make sure you hold their hand on some occations. 
 One example would be you order them to stack up on a door of a room filled with suspects and they 
 enter the room your getting ready to breach through another door and get themselves killed. Basically, 
 they will blindly enter rooms that havent been cleared yet to try to get to where you want them 
 to be without even thinking twice. These mission can take a while and need careful planning and 
 execution so for your teammates to pull some braindead move like that near the end of a long, greatly 
 executed mission will make you want to restart the mission only to kill your entire team.. or try 
 to before they take you down.
  
  The animations are very good for the most part. Sometimes the team stacking up on a door can get 
 a little tangled and the animation for cuffing someone can look weird when the cuffs are a few 
 inches away from the persons hands and they just appear where they should have been. But when the 
 animations look like they are supposed to, which is most of the time, they look great.
  
  Each mission has its own music and each one is great. The mood the music sets is perfect and it 
 always kicks in at the right time. When a grenade or gunshot goes off the music goes along with 
 the action and gets dynamic. The sound effects are mostly good as well. Gunshots sound good, the 
 voice acting is pretty good all around, and the extra sounds effects like suspects behind a door 
 ordering their hostages to "be quite and dont move" or crunching noises when you step on a group 
 of roaches add a lot to the immersion.
  
  Since the game is so solid in most areas the ugly spots are pretty glaring. Sometimes two of your 
 officers will be shot down by one suspect with a pistol and not even get a shot off, other times 
 they will shoot before they should and be deadly accurate. While its a good thing for your officers 
 to get starlted and shoot too quickly sometimes, its unacceptable for them to just stand there 
 and watch their partner be shot and then continue day dreaming until they also get shot by the 
 same suspect. This level of uneven team AI is very frustrating and can kill the realism. Strangely 
 enough though, the way the games scoring goes a down officer isnt worse than taking down a suspect 
 so its actually not too bad on your overall score to send your, sometimes braindead other times 
 elite, officers to their death instead of risking your own safety but it takes away from the experience 
 a lot.
  
  If your team AI would have been very good and the game would have been improved in other areas 
 then SWAT 4 could have reached a very high level of greatness. I highly recommend this game and 
 I am still playing and enjoying it but its hard not to think of how great this game could have 
 actually been. 
  
  Overall, SWAT 4 is a terrific shooter. Its gameplay creates a level of immersion and intense, suspenseful 
 action that most shooters only dream about. The fact that you can die from one well placed shot 
 makes it extremely intense entering the next area and not knowing if anyone will be there. Plus, 
 knowing that if you die the mission is over makes it very realistic and even more intense. There 
 is no switching to teammates when you die in this game. The levels are all great and very realistic, 
 the atmosphere is terrific throughout. With only a few very replayable missions and a enjoyable 
 multiplayer SWAT 4 is definetely worth the money. You wont find another shooter that is quite like 
 SWAT 4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer510
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  If you're just a person that likes to shoot people out of the blue this isn't a game for u. For 
 those who strategic this should be a good game for u. Making the quick missions are fast and its 
 actually sorta funny who u can chose to be a civilian (terrorist) or suspect (old woman) . I actually 
 haven't tried the multiplayer mode yet on this low graphic card computer but ive tried it on a 
 friends and i actually dont remember...... lol. But the only thing i didnt like about the game was 
 that in single player mode u werent able to make your team spread out and just search the building 
 (probably would get shot in 1-5 minutes anyway) . The music was alright scince it would only come 
 on at the beginning and when you'd breach a door. Other than that I really loved the game and couldnt 
 stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that has another way to score. SWAT 4 is a fully tactic shooter, when you have to 
 carefully choose your weapons and accessories to fight against each enemy. If you're playing online 
 and kill someone you get 1 point, but if you arrest you get 5, thats innovative and challenging. 
 You start to create tactics like using tasers, sprays or other weapons to confuse your enemy and 
 arrest him. It's easy to beat your friends in that way. A nice game for Internet or LAN. May get 
 boring in single player sometimes because characters move slowly and you have to do everything: 
 report dead officer, dead suspect, take suspect objects and many other things, but I recommend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalljoes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the only first-person cop game on the market so it's very hard to review it seeing as i 
 can't compare it with other like games but over all it is a very solid game with lots of action 
 but very very very dumb AI. The cops on your team members are very dumb they will just stand out 
 in the open and let the enemy kill them although single player is very intense there are only ten 
 missions there for this game is very short as for the multi-player i've not played it so i really 
 can tell you any thing. In all this is a good game at best that lacks in good AI and a long single 
 player career. In all i give this game a 4 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  OK&lt; so SWAT has an original style, but it has its issues... For one thing, the most annoying 
 issue is that the game freezes suddenly just when the enemy is about to shoot and makes it almost 
 impossible to shoot, so that's the main f***ing problem why I died so much in this game!! Other 
 issue is.... well, your squad. Bassically they get in your way a lot, get jammed one in each other 
 very much and all that stuff, so that's very annoying, plus other minor issues that don't really 
 matter. I personally enjoy the online more than the campaign because I haven't encountered these 
 glitches that I've mentioned in the online mode :) That's a good thing in my opinion, because online 
 modes usually have lag, freeze a lot and all that... All the other good stuff about SWAT 4 isn't 
 really that exciting but it's worth buying, or at least renting :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnumPI
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game if you're a tactician or like strategy. The only real problems with this game is 
 the control restrictions and STRICT rules. It ends up out of all of the guns you have the only 
 way to get a perfect score is by using the the less THAN lethal weapons. Injuring or a kiling a 
 suspect is deducted. As a police officer your only obligation is to allow the challenger the option 
 of surrender. If they choose to persist you can't rationaly blame an officer for defending him 
 or herself. Afterall, that's why police officers are given firearms. To protect themselves and 
 the lives of others that are put in danger. The challanger determines the outcome. The challenger 
 determines weather it's going to end peacefully or violently. It's like a tactical team but with 
 unrealistic guidlines and expectations. Using baracaded suspect tactics on determined active shooters. 
 That would never work. You don't ask twice. They either put the weapon down or they go down. It's 
 the officers discretion weather or not he or she wants to continue negotiating with or neutralize 
 the challanger. The safety is #1 innocents #2 fellow officers #3 yourself #4 Threats. So penalizing 
 a player for using lethal force when authorized is silly. You pretty much can't arm you NPCs with 
 lethal weapons because if they are threatened and they return fire you will penalized for it. They 
 clear rooms properly, they run in blindly. There is no option for a dynamic or casual entry. They 
 always charge in yelling. You can't send them into casually follow the falls and look around quietly. 
 It's always loud and obvious. So on many levels SWAT 3 has a much better tactical formation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  My friend and I started playing this game about a week ago and let me tell you, the co-op missions 
 are insane and challenging. I also played SWAT 3 and planing on buying the expansion due to the 
 greatness of this game. To sum the game up for buyers, Intense, Ratifying, and addicting The game 
 does take some time to get use to at first, but there are plenty of weapons to experiment with. 
 Also, games provided by gamespy make it easy to play on LAN, other games that use their own servers 
 are no well thought out, which is why I recommend this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 breaks the mold of a typical FPS games by giving the gamer, a solid tactical shooter that 
 keeps you on your toes at all time and makes the player feel like they are actually part of a real 
 SWAT team.
  
  Graphically the game is superb from the detail of your own player's jacket to to the levels themselves. 
 Considering that the game came out out in mid 2005, it holds up with most games that have preceded 
 it but like all games, its not perfect and my only gripe is that the faces of the AI could be a 
 little better and less generic looking.
  
  Sound-wise, the game is decent but could be a lot better and for me this is the part of the game 
 which needs the most work. The sound is not bad but the weapon fire is a little generic and the 
 atmosphere could be a little stronger but noises like Flashbangs sound good and also comments you 
 will hear from your team and the enemy are a nice touch.
  
  Gameplay wise, SWAT 4 is strong, with a nice simple control system that gives you plenty of freedom 
 on how you want to tackle a certain situation. The shooting is pretty good and the AI offers some 
 good challenges though sometimes I feel the enemy is a little jerky sometimes with its shooting 
 as it shoots sometimes before its gun is fully raised and still somehow hits you. Your team works 
 very well though sometimes can be a little slow off the mark and can pay the price for that in 
 the later levels.
  
  The game offers good replay value as all missions can be played with friends in CO-OP mode and 
 also every time you load up, people are in different places which makes sure the game does not 
 become too boring. However the single player is pretty short and there is no real storyline behind 
 it, which would of been nice but the stand alone missions are still very good to play over and 
 over again. Sadly online play though is hit and miss with the focus being on arresting not killing 
 and online I just don't think it works and some of the single player levels are not really ideally 
 designed for multiplayer and feel's added just for the sake of not having to create new levels.
 
  
  Overall despite a few minor flaws, SWAT 4 is one of the best FPS games on the market today and 
 is a must buy for any fan of the tactical shooting genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToughHorn
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is based on the various crime scenes that take place after every mission, in the missions 
 initiation you get to choose everythin your team carries... everything from primary weapons and 
 tactical gear to the type of cartridges used by your teammates. A basic principal that must be followed 
 in the order to infiltrate and execute your mission is to keep in mind that there must be no off 
 side cassualties... (dont shoot a guy if he aint asking for it) . In most situations you will have 
 to devide your team into separete cells of 3 men so as to cover more ground more efficiently . 
 Now for the list of good and bad aspects of the game : The Good
  1. The game describes the execution of real police tactics used in the field
  in infiltration 
 operations
  2. The interface and interatcing with the environment is extremely easy and efficient
  3. The Graphics 
 and the abbility to choose your gear and firearms
  4. The multiplayer mode of coarse The Slightly Bad
  1. Slow and stalling movement of character 
 which in a firefight shows only 30% of the actual movement allowed in real SWAT Uniform and gear... so 
 in other words you die 60% of the times
  2. Slow load when missions start... somethimes they can get up to 4 min
  3. Not knowing if the enemy 
 has any cevlar body armour on, or any other kind of body protection... or in another case not knowing 
 with what the enemy is armed posses a threat to mission succes at times, since not knowing wether 
 you should arm yourself with jacketed hollow points of full metal jacket rounds elliminates your 
 main objectives at times, afterall the main goal (other from the secondary objectives) is to make 
 the hostiles comply and surrender and secure the civilians
  
  There must be no question that the good overpowers the slightly bad in the game, so all i have to 
 say is that this game has proven to be very intense at times and very exighting at others . This 
 is a Great Game experiance for the Tacticaly minded player and stratagy orientated infiltrator 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesEvermore
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Well First Of All Swat 4 Is A Very Social Game, People Works Out A Plan And Then They Blow Up Doors, 
 So Teamwork Is The Thing In This Game..
  
  The First Hours Goes a Little Bit Slow Because It Is Very Many Commands End Stuff Like That. When 
 You Know All The Controls The Game Is Very Fun To Play, But If You Play It Very Much It Gets Very 
 Boring Very Fast (Suprise) :P .. The Controls Can Take A While To Learn. The Misson's Are Good 
 But It Is Damn Boring To Play Single Player On This Game.. This Is A Multiplayer Game And Like 
 I Was Saying It Is Teamwork That Is The Fun Part On The Game, You Go With Your Teammates And Workes 
 You Way Trough.. If You Just Rush In Alone Ain't The Smartest Think To Do :P .. Your Team In Singleplayer 
 Is Allright No Problem With That, They Take Commands From You.. But They Can Be A Bit Slow With 
 Things .. The Weapons Are Good. You Can Choice If You Want A Silence Gun, Electro Gun Or Paint-ball 
 Or Just Take A Gun That Makes Alot Of Noise xD. The Game Can Be A Little Bit Difficult If You Are 
 New In The Game, If You Have Playd It A While It Goes Smooth. To Go With Your Team Is The Best 
 Always And Cover You Friends Backs .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  There was always comments about SWAT &amp; Rainbow Six games. There are big differences between 
 this two games. The SWAT is a slow mode game, and is most based on tactics, but in the Rainbow Six 
 is come, kill and go. The fourth SWAT is very good game, your enemy&acute; s are smart, but not as they 
 could be. Only one thing has disappointed me, and that&acute; s the team. There are some times, when 
 your member se an enemy shooting at him, but he is just standing and looking at him. Sed. But if I 
 look a game from another direction, I can say, where the hell are cops when you need em.
  
  Graphic: Very good graphic and other objects. I wish that there were other new games like that, so 
 a loot of peoples could play them.
  
  Sound: Not a bed voices in game, but there is still not everything.
  
  Gameplay: Very good difficulties. Every 
 new mission is harder and harder.
  
  &acute;&acute; Copy, tangle in side&acute;&acute; SWAT 4-New tactics, new, better guns, worse enemies, are 
 you prepared for challenge? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  Swat 4 is possibly the best tactical shooter I've played.
  
  You start the game as a lowly sergeant sent to lead a squad hard as nails SWAT members who slowly 
 learn to respect you. The single player missions are interestingly done as each room is loaded 
 with detail since the game is based on room to room and patience instead of run n' gun. Your given 
 a complex but easy to use command interface in which you tell your surprisingly smart AI squadmates 
 to do something. That said the enemy AI is also pretty smart and very unpredicatable. The graphics 
 for the game are still superb. Still loaded with detail 3 years later. Each room is given loads 
 of detail from the table and chair to the coffee cup and magazine at the counter. Bullet shells 
 fly to the ground guns flash and lighting works well in the darker levels.
  
  What's interesting about this game and very unique is the fact your best incapitating or forcing 
 your suspects to surrender. Your given a surrender button in which you shout and your AI shouts 
 for suspects to surrender. Depending on how well armed and equipped or how high there morale is (Morale 
 factor is based on many things from how you entered the room, if you fired the gun, how many men 
 are shouting, if his comrades are dead, if he has been gassed, if he has been shot etc.) . It's 
 a really complex but satisfying system. Instead of dishing out loads of lethal bullets you can 
 use pepperballs to gas your opponents or tazer them to surrender themself. Beware sometimes they 
 may fake a surrender and run for it or start firing and killing you at a vulnerable place. The 
 sounds in the game are great. Gun's sound realistic and satisfying. The chaos that ensues in a 
 large gunfight with suspects with shouting and gun's discharging is climatic and gripping. Suspects 
 give clever comments when you arrest them your AI is smart enough to evauluate situtations and 
 give full reports. And the mission briefing sounds like a real police briefing.
  
  That said the equipment and aresnal at your disposal is interesting. Youre giving non lethal weapons 
 that shoot bean bags, blind your enemy , stun them momentarily, electrify, or gas your enemy. There 
 is no runnning and gunnign here. No burst into a room full of suspects and plan to get out alive. 
 You have to use optiwands and carefulyl plan your next move. From blocking doors to planting C4. 
 What's interesting is no mission is ever the same no matter how many times you play it on the same 
 map. The AI may move to different rooms so thinking you can be lazy and go into this room without 
 people is a bad and deadly mistake.
  
  The missions to say the least are great. The objectives are smart and they range from bomb diffusing 
 to hostage rescuing to just bringing order to chaos. There are some story behind the crimes and 
 they're somewhat linked. But most people may overlook that. You can also choose entry points to 
 the area but in multiplayer co-op that's determined by which team your on. The replay factor here 
 is that theres an accurate score counter that counts every shot you make every time you get hit 
 your friends get hit your enemy get hit. That gives you an overall rank and percantage of how well 
 you did. So if you Rambo and kill everyone that shoots you guess what you'll probably get 5% out 
 of 100.
  
  The game SHINES greatly at the multiplayer aspect. Team deathmatches or Barricaded suspects are 
 extremely tactical. Camping usually works only the first time otherwise the opponents will flush 
 you out with a grenade. You really have to leer around corners, jam doors, and stick with your 
 team. Co-op also is great and the objectives are similar to the single player counterpart. The hard 
 thing is that it's a bit difficult to formulate a plan as most people think differently. Usually 
 a teamspeak or ventrilo server with everyone carrying mics help. If you want to you can also use 
 text chat which'll take a while. You'll probably get angry at a teammate for opening the door when 
 your using an optiwand and extremely vulnerable but theres also a quick voice chat and command 
 menu (available to squad leaders only) that help a bit.
  
  All that said the game is superb the best thing to tactical gaming. It's graphics may not be current 
 gen but it's gameplay beats rainbow six and all those tom clancy games by a milestone which is 
 no surprise since Sierra is a genius at all genre's in gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoblinOnFire
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, Im a sucker for guys in flakvest, branding silenced Mp5's, sneakin' through corridors 
 and executing by-the-book manouvers to take down the baddy. SWAT 4 is just easy enought to get 
 started with enough thrill to make you want to try "just one more level" and just difficult enough 
 to keep you from getting cocky!
  Just like other games in the genre "REAL" FPS's, the "one hit one kill" is used here, thus making 
 the "run-and-gun" tactics of Doom 3 obsolete. Every mission starts with a full audio/text briefing. 
 you can choose weapons and equipment, and point of entry. you also get an audio of the 911 call, 
 which is pretty cool. After each mission you get a de-brief and you get scores for taking down 
 hostiles, rescuing hostages, securing weapons, keeping your teammates and yourself alive and unharmed. 
 One funny thing about the debrief is, if you get killed, you automatically fails the mission (of 
 course) but also you also get penalty points! If that isn't gravedancing, I don't know what is!
 
  You get penalty points for incapacitating or killing hostiles, instead of neutralizing them (Harsh 
 laungage and maze works wonders on most bad guys) . But when 5 Bogeys armed with machine guns, 
 refuse to "GET DOWN or "DROP YOUR WEAPON" you have to take them down. Penalty.
  From a gamers perspective, that can be quite frustrating. But, then you remember "this isn't Rainbow 
 Six" this is just the police packing extra heat. A few broken things in SWAT 4 keeps it from getting 
 10 out of 10.
  Graphics: When you arrest someone, you most tie their hands behind their backs, and the arms seems 
 like their gonna come off. Kindy glitchy.
  Sound: Hostages repeating themselves and several hostages giving the same respons, often overlapsing 
 eachother, ruins the mood. The same goes with communication with HQ; you are forced to give notice 
 whenever you shoot, kill, arrest someone, and every new message interupts and cuts short the previous 
 one, and also the respons, so this makes for a lot of stakatto conversation. But all in all, SWAT 
 4 is a game you can play over and over, just to try to do it a little better each time. the game 
 place your enemies randomly across the map each time you restart, and randomness is a good thing 
 in Goblin's book. I recommend this game to everyone! Good fun and great replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing I would change about SWAT 4 it is as fun on-line then it is when playing a career. 
 The game pace is probably the slowest I have ever experienced in a game but it is still fun. I 
 personally have a lot of fun in this game because it takes place in urban areas and is always in 
 relation to underground sort of crimes and what not. The scenarios are very interesting to me, 
 and that is what I like most about this game. Another thing I really like about this game is how 
 smooth it runs. This game is not picky with video cards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mustyness
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I Bought this game over ebay (the gold edition) and Im currently on the last level of the original 
 swat 4 and have yet to start the expansion. All I can say is this. Holy S@#%, this game is F%^&amp;*@# 
 hard. but also, this game is F@#$%^&amp; addicting. Seriously, I dare you to play a level and NOT 
 go back and play it again to try and get a better score. Unless its that damn diamond wholesalers 
 mission. seriously, that one just play blows. But yeah I love this game like a little brother, 
 ya know the kind that you wanna strangle but cant help but love.
  
  THIS GAME OWNS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game redefines the next generation of tactical teamplay shooter. Controlling team members 
 is easy and fast. Realism in an urban warfare was brought in this game. With a wide range of weapons 
 and accessories the game was never boring.
  
  Gameplay:
  Although real life SWAT is faster, this game fails to recreate that same atmosphere. Fight sequences 
 where a bit repetitive, the developers did not put any effort in action scenes, expect less bloodshed. 
 Graphics:
  The urban designs were my favorite, room by room was very detailed. Although there were no physics 
 in this 2005 game.
  
  Sound:
  Sound effects from screams and shout during gunfights to 911 dispatch calls, was the key attribute 
 that brought this game to life. Nothing new to sounds of gunshots.
  
  Value:
  Very short career mode. The multiplayer mode extended the lifespan of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  realistic, motivating and fun, swat 4 has everything. based on the real life stories of police 
 swat officers, swat four has gameplay that cries for attention. first, the guns. designed and modeled 
 after real weapons used by swat, the M4A1 is my personal favorite. second, the game. with great 
 graphics and great sound, swat four has every atvantage in the gaming world. third, the team. designed 
 to have your back and follow your orders, you have a team of 6 officers each with their own skills 
 and optional kit. fourth, the fandom. continuing the swat series. swat four brings back everything 
 you loved and remembered and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qmega36
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Starting with gameplay-
  Your the leader of a SWAT team, your mision is to neutralize suspects and save civilians. Additionaly 
 devlopers made some juicy stuff to make it interesting, like bomb disposal and other stuff. This 
 game forces player to think his next move, not running in a room guns blazing (well thats an option, 
 but in later missions you might get shot realy fast) Should you chose a sting granade that has 
 imediate effect, but short blowing distance or flash whos distance is long, or gas that can get 
 around corners and cower so you can smoke suspects out from room? or you can mirror under the door 
 to see what lies behind it. Theres so many posibilities that lets player to chose what he whant 
 to do with what he got.
  Graphics- Wery well done with them. You can see those little things that makes the game, like bottles, 
 cans, guns. Graphics are very well done.
  Sound-
  Hmm, in the heat of battle you realy dont hear the sound :)
  But its very well done, if u play 
 some time like me you can tell with what gun oponent is shooting from. Voices are done realy good. 
 you can feel the difrence betveen il Cower you and Go Go go or Lets move.
  Value
  well if you will buy the game you will get some cherable moments, and mutch fun, that will make 
 you smile all day.
  
  Multiplayer
  Games multiplayer is pefectly done. it has three difrent modes - BS ( Baricaded Suspects) where 
 theres no objectives. Kills are worth 1 point and arrests 5 so the team with the most points wins.
 
  RD ( Rapid Deployment) SWAT team must defuse 3 to 5 bombs randomly spread in the map and suspects 
 must protect the bombs from SWAT members.
  VIP escort
  SWAT team must escort VIP (randomly chosen SWAT team member) to the maps exit point.
  Suspects 
 must capture the VIP and hold him for 2 min and then asasinate him, meanwhile SWAT must free him 
 before 2 min are up.
  
  Cya in game if you see me then your lucky to met with the best in the job.
  {KL} Omega36 from 
 KahunaLand :)
  Have fun playing this game, and i bet you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroguns56
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The original SWAT game, released in 1995, was Daryl F. Gates' Police Quest: SWAT. Named after the 
 former Los Angeles Police Chief who formed the world's first SWAT team, the original SWAT and its 
 sequel were actually strategy games. It wasn't until SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle was released 
 in 1999 that the series transitioned into the first-person-shooter genre. Throughout the years, 
 each SWAT game has attempted to simulate what it's like to lead the world's most highly skilled 
 and trained police officers into dangerous confrontations. It's been more than five years since 
 the last SWAT, and the newest iteration of the series is the best one yet, offering an intelligent 
 and flexible interface, a varied and highly replayable campaign, as well as multiplayer modes that 
 include cooperative play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  SWAT4 offers a real-life simulation of the term Urban Warfare each room you enter must be carefully 
 examined and you must have you team mates with you to cover your ass.
  
  If you just burts into rooms shooting at everything and think your a one man army you will die 
 because in SWAT 4 you will only need to make one mistake and your a corpse. You enemies are randomly 
 placed so you will never know when and where they might pop up.
  
  Other is the strategy, you must decide what equipment to use based on what you know about the enemy 
 (are they wearing gas-masks for example, are they fanatic or part time-crooks, what do they have 
 for weapons, what you know about eventual civilians (can they can turn hostile or run into the 
 the crossfire in sheer terror) and even what environment you are in (can the bullets you use penetrate 
 walls or reinforced glass) , you must also decide if anything in the area can cause unwanted explosions 
 due to misguided shots and so on. You will have lots of preperations to make before you can go 
 into action, you might even want to study the areas blueprints and lay up a plan so you won't act 
 in darkness (so to speak) .
  
  This game is of massive gameplay based on quick reflexes, quick thinking, leadership and nerves 
 cold as ice. The sounds and graphics are awesome but still the game is too short but if you join 
 up online you will find hours of endless fun.
  
  This is definatly a game for you if you like slow-paced jumping to fast-paced thinking i seconds 
 and for once thinking like a real police man instead of the average superhero solider that runs 
 through a sea of bullets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualim88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  If there's a game you're looking for that 1) allows you to bark orders from the back, 2) requires 
 planning and quick thinking, 3) and adrenaline + realistic experiences, THIS is the game you should 
 try!
  
  The only thing i was that i thought could be improved was the officers' AI. Often when you need 
 to change instructions quickly while they're in the process of carrying out the last one, they 
 would stop, go back to their correct positions (like after entering a room to clear, then after 
 changing your order they'd walk back out and toss that grenade in) . Oh and the pathfinding could 
 have been better. There were several occasions that I found one or more of the officers stuck at 
 a corner or turn. In those situations I had to manually go and extract them.
  
  Other than that, I found SWAT 4 immensely enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is the most tactical game I have played. Ever. While it is so tactical it is also easy to 
 use and simple. With a click of a mouse button you can pop up a master command menu and order your 
 men to do a plethora of things such as breach, bang, and clear a room or Stack up on a door to 
 check the lock. Just the little things that are realistic make this game. Having to report and 
 secure evidence is another part that makes this game even more realistic. The A. I. is also realistic 
 and really feels like a person would act in the situations, whether they are innocent or an armed 
 terrorist. The A. I. particulary suprised me in some events when the terrorist would drop is gun 
 and then trick me and pick up or pull out a sidearm and shoot at my team and I! That is craziness 
 and A. I. power at it's best. The graphics and feel of the game are decent and again add to the 
 realistic factor. The physics can act weird sometimes, mainly when you shoot a badguy, and there 
 aren't that many weapons to choose from in loadout but these are just small impurities in SWAT 
 4. If you like tactical games and want a great gameplay experience, check out SWAT 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Swat 4 is a superb tactical team based First Person shooter game. The game has cool multiplayer 
 maps , single player and instant action campaigns. You are a Special Weapons and Tactics ( SWAT) 
 cop. You can start the game with carreer to earn points in each missions. You have to choose any 
 of the members as a leader , equip choiced weapons ( primary , seacondary , tactical weapons) for 
 yourself and your team. You can use lethal to non - lethal weapons. You can order your squad to 
 follow your orders. All you've to do is neutralise suspects , rescue civilians and even defuse bombs. But 
 its not shoot and run game , you've to use tactics , stealth to carry out your missions. The games 
 dark atmosphere , graphics / visuals is okay. AI is not so brilliant at times .Soundquality is 
 decent. You get cool gadgets , weapons to use in the game. The game has a cool LAN feature plus co 
 op mp modes .The gameplay is quite thrilling and interesting. You get limited ammo , health and 
 timer missions too. If you r not very careful , its mission failed then. Overall , nice game to be 
 enjoyed by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  This game provides a lot of tactics and shooting. The team counts five members and one or two snipers. 
 One of the good things in this game is that, you can manipulate with sniper team. You will play 
 as a leader, but you can control each team member for each task.
  Swat 4 provides several missions with different tasks. For each mission you must choose primary 
 and secondary weapon. Of course, there is some standard equipment: flash bangs, CS gas, grenades 
 etc. Terrorists and civilians are not so smart. You may found that, civilian whom you have ordered 
 to surrender, he don't want to do that. So you must shoot him in a leg and then he will be treated 
 like a wounded civilian. Because of that, and some other things, this game is not excellent.
  Graphic is good, even on the low level. Sound and effects quality are very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Special Weapons and Tactics units are the high end of the badass scale when it comes to the police 
 force. As the title of the group implies, they're the special forces of the police, deployed in 
 hostile situations where regular police tactics simply won't work. They're highly trained in close 
 combat and non-lethal submission of armed subjects. They have the weapons to kill, but prefer less 
 lethal tactics to avoid unnecessary death of suspects or civilians stuck in the middle. SWAT teams 
 often enter unfamiliar territory without confirmation of enemy numbers or armament, making for 
 extremely dangerous situations. Irrational's new addition to the venerable SWAT franchise does 
 a brilliant job of picking up on all of the things that make SWAT work so exciting from the outside 
 perspective. They've created some amazing levels that force team tactics along a super fun multiplayer 
 experience for a few reasons. Friendly AI can be a problem from time to time in the single player 
 game, but this is definitely one tactical shooter that I won't hesitate to recommend.
  
  Graphically, SWAT 4 is very good. It can almost hold its own with nearly any of the big shooters 
 out there at the moment, not because of any particularly great technical achievment (it doesn't 
 have that) , but because the art team and level designers put an excessive amount of detail into 
 all of the environments. Irrational was going for realistic lived in spaces and they did that perfectly. 
 These environments are filled with all sorts of odd items that you would expect to see in each 
 of these locations. They didn't stop with the stacked crates or simple cubicles here; these areas 
 were brought to life with extra bits of paper, trash, food, puddles, lamps, construction materials, 
 furniture... you name it. It may seem like stuff you've seen before, but you've never seen it such 
 a large variety of objects in such quantities.
  
  There are some less than spectacular things like clipping, mirrors that look more like monitors 
 showing a feed rather than a true reflection, enemy models really that aren't brilliant (big frog 
 hands as Tal says) , and animations that miss their targets, but overall, this is a great visual 
 look. Many of the environments are creepy and dark which help build tension as well. All these 
 things not only massage the eyes with kindness but also help create more exciting gameplay. When 
 you walk into a room that seems to have a real purpose (outside of providing an interesting game 
 environment) things get really tense. Cans and chairs begin to look like heads and bodies, office 
 cubicles are just tall enough so you can't see around them and create a ton of hidden nooks and 
 corners, and doorways sprout in all directions. Extra care has to be taken to cover all vulnerable 
 angles. Frankly, I can't imagine actually going into areas like this in real life with no more 
 information than a map scrawled on a napkin and a there are at least five heavily armed terrorists 
 inside without actually crapping myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Too many keys to click in order to accomplich anything.
  Graphics: Look Ma, its 2001 again. How come it aint 2006?
  Sound:  
 Expand the vocabulary and the quality of the music, please.
  Value: $10.00 or less
  
  I enjoyed the demo for Swat 4 and recently purchased the Gold edition of the game because of the 
 number of folks whi spoke so highly of ... FPS, Swat 4 ... Guess what, it isn't a FPS. If I wanted 
 to play with a group this might be an OK game. I play alone -- Far Cry, F. E. A. R., Doom, Unreal, 
 the list goes on. There have been a few games with a group of soldiers/good guys fighting a common 
 enemy and still maintaining the excitement and responsibility of a true FPS. Swat 4 isn't in the 
 same category of even bad FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  No doubt is SWAT 4 the best so far in the SWAT series but it takes huge steps for the franchise. 
 SWAT first started off as Police Quest, a text based adventure game made in 87. Now just look how 
 far the series has come. its simply amazing. You begin SWAT 4 as the Element leader of a 5 man 
 Police unit in LA. You take on various missions such as barricated suspects and hostage situations. 
 Each enviroment is very distinct in theme and layout, so you'll never get tired of busting bad 
 guys.
  First off the gameplay is much like many of todays tactical shooters but with a Police theme things 
 are a little different. Some of the standard commands are the same as in mant TS as an example 
 Bang and clear, and what not but there are many differences as well. Since you play as the Boys 
 In Blue the emphasis is on arresting suspects, not blasting a 9mm hole in their face. Even though 
 you have access to many well know assault rifles, hand guns, shotguns, and more there are also 
 alot of non-lethal weapons at your desposal as well. They include a pepper ball gun (aim for the 
 head) a bean bag shotgun, a can of mace, (good for multiplayer) and what Police sim would be complete 
 without a taser gun?
  The only problem is it must be reloaded after every shot, manually as well which can be a royal 
 pain in the ass. As for Multi player we have modes such as Barracated suspects, (which is basically 
 team deathmatch) , VIP escort, Co-Op, and more. As for the graphics, I must say this may very well 
 be the most beautiful PC game I have ever played. From The seedy underbelly streets of L. A. to 
 a beautiful sunset viewed while atop a roof, everything is just so well crafted and very nice to 
 look at. Though if you'd like to enjoy them be prepared to pay up, because SWAT 4 requires a pretty 
 high end system, but everyone seems to have one of those now a days, so I guess it dosen't matter 
 too much. Some really cool touches include how your vision is thrown off by a flashbang or mace 
 or even a bean bag. It looks really cool and kind of surreal even. The sound dosen't fall short 
 either with excellent quality voice acting and your typical Cop show high intensity music, which 
 really keeps you well immersed in the missions.
  No question this is one of my most favourite games and my #1 favourite Police sim. So if your a 
 cop buff, a long time series fan, a newcomer, or just really like tactical shooters, the definately 
 check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  This was my first game in SWAT series and my overall experience was a satisfactory. Great graphics, 
 intense close-quarter shoot-outs, objectives to try to take suspects alive rather than mindlessly 
 shooting them. I liked the gameplay and graphics (although, nothing super impressive) . There were 
 some weird quirks with hostages' voices when the same person would be saying something and screaming 
 at the top of his/her lungs at the same time. Was this a bug or just a poor design? In any case, 
 very annoying.
  The reason why I gave only 4 to the game's value is its length. I mean, the lack of it. The whole 
 game consists of about a dozen missions, very-very short. I nailed it in less than 10 hours. Also, 
 there are no in-game saves, only autosave between missions. Not a bad idea to develop superb skills, 
 but when you have to reload same one 5-6 times just because either you or a hostage gets shot in 
 the very last room, you get familiar (and sometimes start hating) that map like your own mother-in-law. 
 Unlike most of other games, there's no re-play value of SWAT 4: you finish it and lay on the top 
 of the shelf to collect dust.
  Oh yeah, multiplayer. Even though, I don't care much for it, I did try to join a server to try 
 out my newly-acquired hostage-releasing skills. Out of a couple of dozen available servers, only 
 several had users and they were (of course) filled. After trying for a while to join at least one 
 of them, I just gave up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  A lot of game seems to have it all, Storyline, game play and graphics. But they seem to miss something, 
 that which makes a gamer play on and glued to PC, Swat 4 lacks this
  
  Game play:
  You're the leader of a Swat Squad, You do a lot of missions ranging from nailing down suspects 
 and bad guys while rescuing hostages and securing evidence. Sounds good? Read on.
  You've lot of weapons, from the harmless paint ball pepper modified rifle to the m14 carbine, you 
 have flash, sting and gas grenades to bring suspects to their knees. An Optiwand, a State of the 
 Art 'Mirror under the Door'. You can give various commands to your team, from breaching doors to 
 using the Optiwand themselves; the command cam lets you see what your team sees, including snipers 
 and actually sniping through them.
  So what's wrong you say? Sure it all sounds good and that you'll spend hours playing this game, 
 but here's the catch, it gets boring. I mean the Tutorial was interesting enough that it got me 
 hooked, but after that levels are all the same, the game play is the same, and it seems just a 
 different copy from the level before it enemies behave the same even the squad members behave the 
 same. Multiplayer however what is makes Swat 4 Shine, but don't expect much from the single player.
 
  
  Performance:
  The game is fair, not too heavy but not too light on the system either, I didn't face a lot of 
 bugs during my game play, however I thought that the game could perform better, possibly future 
 patches should fix this.
  
  Sound: Superb, the team voices, 911 calls and mission briefing makes the game all the more realistic.
 
  
  Value:
  You best bet is to play the single player career to get started, then switch to multiplayer whenever 
 you feel ready.
  
  Bottom line:
  Swat 4 is a Multiplayer game; don't bother with the Career mode for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neighdawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. it is what fans of Swat 3 would expect. well, more than they would 
 expect. detail in animation and graphics are amazing. gameplay is mind-blowing. this game is smart, 
 and makes you think. It tests the speed of your reactions. both enemy AI and Officer Ai is superb.
 
  
  One feature this game has, that (what i think) , no other game has, is the ability to shout out 
 orders. You are given weapons, that may harm your opponents, yet that is not the aim of the game. 
 using this feature, you will see a suspect, and shout out an order for them to comply with. from 
 this point on, there are loads of options your opponents will be thinking. this first one is to 
 run away. they will try to escape and close the doors behind them. the other is to shoot back. 
 if they happen to shoot back, your mates will fire back at him. the other is to give up. they will 
 put their hands up and drop any weapons they are holding. if they are stubborn, they need a little 
 'kick in the pants'. this can be done in a lot of ways. you can taser them, you can pepper spray 
 them, you can shoot a paint-ball gun at them which the ammo is filler with gas that makes them 
 cough, and theres the old 'shoot him in the leg' option. Most of these will work against them, 
 but they still might be a bit more stubborn, thus the option to use lethal force is ok.
  
  Using lethal Force against a suspect will deduct points off your final score. you must at least 
 had asked them to comply more than once. this can be tricky when knowing someone is behind a door 
 with an m4 super90 shotgun.
  
  You are equipped with loads of perfect tools. like tasers, optiwands, door wedges, and different 
 types of stun grenades. you can use these or you can ask your mates to perform an operation. this 
 is easily and quickly accessed via a mini menu that pops up when hitting the right mouse-button. 
 there are loads of options too choose from, some of them being, to move somewhere, to cover an 
 area, to blowing a door open, to interrogating some one, and restraining them. its simple point 
 click, and select.
  
  To perform all these actions, Vivendi Universal has done a amazing job into putting effort to making 
 the animation of the characters. The amount of detail goes in so close, the characters feel real. 
 when it comes to doing actions from your mates, to being tasered , to screaming, to shooting, the 
 list goes on. Voice acting is pretty good, though not the best. the voices are well said though, 
 and makes you laugh. For example, when blowing a door open an operative called Jackson said, boo 
 yah!', and using a shotgun to blow a door open officer Reynolds said, Say goodbye to mister Door.' 
 KA-Boom!. in different levels they will talk a bout the environment, in one instance, you are in 
 a dark creepy place an officer says, 'this place reminds me of boot camp. and NOT, in a good way.' 
 or in another time you are in a room full of explosives, and an officer says, gees, enough explosives 
 here to send us to high heaven. 
  
  The Gun animations are top-notch. when you fire a gun in another game, the gun feels light and, 
 the rate of fire is equal (eg hold down the trigger for 3 seconds and you will shoot 6 rounds. hold 
 it down for 6 seconds you fire 12 rounds. this game however, the Gun feels as if you were holding 
 one. When you select an mp5, and use it lots, you get used to it. then in a different mission you 
 choose an M4, it feels heavy, and you really feel the difference. the rate of fire is uneven, it 
 does stay the same. this happens with real firearms.
  
  Sound is pretty good, as far as shooters go, the firearms sound good, the voices sound good, the 
 flashbangs and other grenades sound superb.
  there is some ambient music that fits in quite well with the game. like in this mission when you 
 have to look for a girl, you look in this persons house. it gets REALLY freaky and sounds like a 
 horror movie. and sometimes when you invading a place, the music is quiet, then when you chuck 
 in a grenade, the action starts and you have this music that makes you sound like you are in a 
 movie.
  
  Overall this game is great, and a lot of effort has been put in this game. Just minor put downs. 
 One thing i have not talked about is the multiplayer, but i haven't played it yet. It sounds to 
 be a great multi player game. there are several modes the player can choose from, one of the most 
 popular and one that most players like is the co-op mode, when you can work together as a team.
 
  
  anyway, i hope this review helped!
  .::NeIgHdAwG::. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 falls squarely in the realism camp of first-person shooters. The 14 single-player missions, 
 mostly set in tight, indoor spaces, place you as a member of an elite five-man police squad, taking 
 on high-risk warrant services, armed robberies gone bad and hostage rescues. Every mission has 
 a series of objectives which usually involve your team sweeping from room to room, neutralizing 
 threats and protecting innocents as you go. To achieve these objectives, you're able to give orders 
 to your team via an extremely elegant and effective command system. Place your crosshair on a door, 
 right-click the mouse, and you'll get a menu of options like move and clear or open, bang and breach. 
 Move your crosshair over a neutralized suspect, and you'll get a restrain option that commands 
 one of your teammates to cuff the perp. It's all extremely simple, and a tutorial mission is included 
 to help make sense of some of the more complex commands.
  
  SWAT 4 also includes a number of special weapons and gadgets to aid your team as you go from room 
 to room. The optiwand is one of the most important: a small video camera that you can snake under 
 doors to see who's lurking on the other side. Depending on what you find, you might want to throw 
 in a flashbang or gas grenade to momentarily incapacitate suspects. You'll find some doors are 
 locked, giving you the option to either pick the lock or blow it open with a breaching shotgun 
 or C4 charge. You can split your squad into two fireteams, and cameras mounted in each officer's 
 helmet allow you to see what's happening in another part of the map, or even issue orders from 
 afar. Ultimately, the mechanic that sets SWAT 4 apart from other modern tactical shooters is its 
 emphasis on tactics and procedure. Sure, you could shoot everything that moves, but a dead hostage 
 -- by your hand or a suspect's -- results in an instant failure. You're given a grade at the end 
 of each mission, and part of the job is yelling out for compliance, subduing suspects peacefully, 
 collecting their weapons and reporting back as you go. There's a non-lethal shotgun, a taser gun 
 (which is a riot to see in action) , pepper spray and even a paintball gun available to stun enemies 
 into submission. In many ways, it's a shooter that rewards you for not shooting, which adds tension 
 as you go from room to room: is that suspect going to put that weapon down, or is he going to raise 
 it and shoot? Deciding that moment when it's OK to fire is one of the things that gives SWAT 4 
 its unique charm. Sadly, SWAT 4 doesn't contain an overarching narrative that ties all the missions 
 together; it's more like a series of self-standing vignettes that move up in difficulty as you 
 go from one to the next. The missions aren't without their charm, however -- each feels like a 
 scene ripped from an action flick, whether it's a hostage situation at a dot-com, a robbery at 
 a diamond vault, or you need to nab a wanted bad guy at an underground casino. To add replayability 
 (and tension) to the missions, most of the bad guys respawn in random locations every time you 
 play a map, which means you never know who might be lurking on the other side of a door: could 
 be nobody, or could be three guys armed to the hilt. game like SWAT 4 could easily have collapsed 
 under the weight of poor AI, but Irrational did a great job of creating characters that act intelligently 
 without looking completely scripted. On the easier skill levels, enemies will usually surrender 
 without much of a fight, but as you crank up the difficulty, their morale gets higher and it becomes 
 a much bigger challenge to subdue them peacefully. Your teammates do an excellent job of snaking 
 their way through the claustrophobic levels; they occasionally do an awkward shuffle when one of 
 them needs to pick a lock or peek under a door, but it's pretty rare that they get lost or stuck.
 
  
  If there's a major complaint to be leveled at SWAT 4, it's that it looks pretty dated by today's 
 standards. In fact, it doesn't even look as good as Unreal Tournament 2004 and Battlefield Vietnam, 
 which were released this time a year ago. It's not that the game looks ugly, but there's clearly 
 some room for improvement with textures and model animations, and it's basically devoid of physics 
 effects which could have added an extra bit of excitement to the close-quarters combat. The bright 
 side is that the game ran extremely smooth on a variety of test machines, running from a 2.5 Ghz 
 P3 with a GeForce Ti 4600 to higher-end 3 Ghz machines. Still, we wonder if that'll be enough for 
 some players, especially when you consider that Counter-Strike: Source (SWAT 4's biggest competition) 
 is every bit as PC-friendly while looking far more impressive. Urban Warfare:
  
  If, for some reason, you don't want computer-controlled teammates on your side, SWAT 4 offers the 
 welcome (and all-too-rare) option of co-op play for all the single-player missions via both LAN 
 and Internet. In this mode, all the missions are unlocked from the get-go, and you can bring a 
 team of up to 5 buddies in to try and tackle the missions on your own. You'll quickly find that 
 it's a lot harder to coordinate human teammates than the computer -- everyone needs to know their 
 role and stick together, or else you'll be slaughtered when three guys try to squeeze through a 
 doorway at the same time -- but it's great fun nonetheless. The only missing ingredient is the 
 ability to fill out a squad with computer teammates: if you've only got two or three players available, 
 that's all you get to do the mission with.
  
  In addition co-op play, SWAT 4 offers a number of other team-based multiplayer modes. Barricade 
 is somewhat like team deathmatch, except you get extra points for arresting enemies instead of 
 simply killing them. Rapid Deployment is a bomb defusal mode, where the SWAT team has a set amount 
 of time to locate a series of suitcase bombs on the map and defuse them. Finally, in VIP, the SWAT 
 team needs to escort a teammate to the other side of the map, while the suspects need to capture 
 and hold him for two straight minutes. While none of these multiplayer modes are particularly groundbreaking, 
 they add enough to keep things interesting. The ability to arrest players for bonus points in Barricade 
 should have players loading up on tasers and gas grenades instead of leaning on the usual assault 
 rifles and shotguns. The capture-and-hold aspect of VIP adds a great twist to the familiar assassination 
 format, where neither team wants the VIP to get killed, and capturing the VIP can lead to two of 
 the most tense minutes you'll find in multiplayer games today. The maps generally borrow the single-player 
 levels and add a few modifications, offering enough routes from point A to point B to keep games 
 from getting bogged down at one or two choke points. The Final Word
  
  SWAT 4 is one of those great games you hope doesn't get overlooked. There's something compelling 
 about the room-to-room nature of the single-player missions that rarely gets old, even after you've 
 failed a particular mission a dozen times. Maybe it's the fact that you never know who might be 
 on the other side of the door every time you play, or maybe it's just that Irrational has put it 
 all together with an elegant control scheme and teammates who actually follow your orders effectively. 
 Whatever the reason, SWAT 4 is a game that fans of Counter-Strike and the Rainbow Six games won't 
 want to miss. SWAT fans in particular have waited a really long time since the last game in the 
 series was released in late 1999; turns out it was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinotenshi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. A true thinking man's or woman's shooter . I like how the game emphasis 
 not killing anyone including the suspects. The graphics are good but not great, same with the sound. 
 The gui is excellent. Your squadmates do a good job, and the command interface is very intuative 
 and useful. There does not appear to a quick save option, in all honesty i havent looked, and I 
 think it good the does not allow saves in missions. The difficulty of the maps can be adjucted, 
 but even on the easiest level, the game does punish you for studpidy, like running around blind 
 corners like rambo, as it should. A great game for those looking for a slower paced, tatical non 
 lethal shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happybob1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first play this game i was like, Wow! This truly one of the best games I have ever played. 
 This game is like Rainbow Sixes but with more of a realistic twist. Some good features:
  Realistic game play because the game focuses on arresting people and saving hostages. Also if you 
 get shot you will limp and walk slower. Pretty realistic recoil system. The developers also brought 
 in real guns and tactical weapons which added a very nice touch. Able to carry more than 3+ grenades (because 
 in games such as Counterstrike you get to only carry 1 or 2 of a kind. In Swat u can have 5 of 
 anything except the wand.) Enemies spawn in different points of the map each time you play for 
 a different experience and you wont feel like you are doing the same thing over and over and over. 
 Also this game is playable online which I found to be a fun because there are many more game play 
 options such as VIP. Also new weapons and armor.
  
  The game dosn't end when your team mate dies.
  
  Some Faults:
  MOVING MOVING MOVING.
  I 
 don't know if its just me but when your teammates see a enemy and they run after them it just looks 
 very unrealistic. Also when they open a door to throw a granade they first step 1 foot into the 
 door, then turn around and step back then rush back in the door. Also the AI isn't very intelligent 
 because they cant crouch, use any stealth, and apparently doesn't know when to open fire even when 
 a enemy shoots down two of his teammates. But over all i found this a GREAT game.
  
  But if you have a bad computer with low memory and a bad graphics card id steer away from this. 
 I have this on my laptop and my desktop. On the laptop it is very sluggish when you shoot or throw 
 a granade so it is hard to take down people or play online. But if you have a good desktop like 
 me then you wont have any problems what so ever.
  
  
  So if you have 20 dollars, BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: This game has so much replayability how could you not like it if your a fan of tactical 
 shooters? Your job is to save lives but if you just want to shoot and kill bad guys you can lower 
 the difficulty settings and go wild.
  The Bad: Some glitches/bugs but they will not ruin the overall experience of the game. The game 
 runs slow in certain areas when you have everything maxed.
  
  Gameplay:8.0
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:8.0
  Multiplayer:8.0
  
 
  Conclusion: This game will remain on my PC for quite a longtime because it is a great training/practice 
 tool for tactical shooters or any fps for that matter. Slow, steady, watch your angles and corners. 
 The best safety on a firearm is your brain.
  
  My Score:8.4 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Contrary to most shooters out there, swat 4 rewards you more if you arrest the bad guys instead 
 of killing them, that goes for multiplayer aswell as for single player.
  
  This game involves alot of reflexes, for example : You clear a room, find no one, and suddenly 
 a bad guy shows up... will he shoot at you? should you shoot at him? what are you going to do? 
 do decide, you only have about 1 second.
  
  The game can be intense sometimes, as you never know where the enemies are, and how cooperative 
 they are going to be.
  
  The A. I. in this game is excellent. Your teammates react appropriately to every situation, and 
 never frustrate you.
  The enemies are unpredictable, but not dumb.
  
  In the single-player campaign, enemies spawn at different locations every time you play the level, 
 which adds replayability.
  
  The multiaplyer in this game is pretty standart, but still fun, and you get access to weapons you 
 dont get to use in the campaign (i. e. Ak-47, colt Python...) .
  
  The weapons sound very realistic and powerful, though the voice acting sounds a little bit dull, 
 but in no way ruins the game.
  
  And to top it all off, the game's system requirements are very low.
  
  All in all, Swat 4 is 
 one of teh best tactical shooters available, with great graphics, godly gameplay and low system 
 requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a great tactical shooter. It is one of the games that makes me a fan of the genre. From 
 its great production values, to the immense detail put into the levels, to the great experience 
 the game gives me, all combines to make one hell of a game.
  
  The online menu is laggy at times but it isn't a huge problem. The offline menus were well done 
 and worked for the theme of the game. The manual was also well done. It went into detail about 
 the different weapons, tactics of the game, scoring among many other things. It basicly answers 
 pretty much any question you might have. I wish the discs came in an actual jewel case in the box 
 instead of the paper ones, but it isn't a big thing.
  
  The graphics are good but not spectacular. The actual models of characters, buildings, etc, are 
 kind of average. They didn't impress me a lot. That's not to say they are bad, they just don't 
 compare to many of the games out on the market right now. The little details are where the game 
 shines. Couches have holes and patches, and each room looks unique. There are pinball machines 
 of different games, cockroaches crawling on the floors, food on the tables, all of this added to 
 the atmosphere for me. The character models of the hostages and the perps were bland and didn't 
 look completely real. The damage from weapons was well done, as most things in the room such as 
 coffee makers and TVs can be affected by gunfire. For instance the coffee maker will shatter, while 
 the TV will not work and the glass will break. Some other problems I see with the graphics are 
 the lack of wounds on victims. If you shoot someone they won't bleed, and there is no blood spatter 
 on the surrounding area. I would of liked to see that included in a game in this day and age. As 
 is the only blood is on pre-rendered injured hostages lying on the floor.
  
  The sound was a mixed bag. The phrases used by the hostages and suspects quickly became overused 
 and annoying. The music on the other hand was mostly awesome. On the level with the undercover 
 cop for instance the music was so creepy I have problems playing it at times. The weapon noises 
 were acceptable with the exception of a couple I didn't like but overall forgettable.
  
  The gameplay is the heart of SWAT 4 for me. The game encourages subduing the suspects instead of 
 shooting them. You won't lose points for shooting them (unless there was no provocation) but you 
 get points for arresting them instead. This is also where one of the games problems comes in. It 
 is considered an unauthorized use of (deadly) force if you shoot a suspect without them posing 
 a threat to you. The game has to believe you were justified in your shooting. The problem is that 
 sometimes the suspect can raise their weapon at you but the game doesn't consider it a threat, 
 I sure as hell do and I usually put their ass down. This is not a huge problem and doesn't screw 
 me over often, but when it does I am angry. Another problem is sometimes your SWAT team mates won't 
 follow your orders. I will tell them to Fall In for instance but they sometimes just remain still 
 for the remainder of the mission. This leaves me without backup. The physics were pretty well done 
 for the most part. If you are shot in the leg, you move slower, and if you are shot in the arm 
 your aim suffers. One downside to the physics is that if you have been shot in both legs, both 
 arms, and taken a round to the helmet, it is still possible to function which I don't see as very 
 possible or realistic. That is a minor flaw in my opinion and isn't a big deal. Online play is 
 very well done. There is minimal lag and a slew of different modes to play in. While teamwork and 
 non lethal tactics are encouraged, they are not required to win. The randomization of enemy locations 
 on the single player missions makes them somewhat replayable but I still don't find myself playing 
 them often after beating the game except to better my score. The online play is what keeps me going. 
 I really liked the option to select from multiple primary weapons, secondary weapons, tactical 
 gear, armor, and ammo type. It allows for you to prepare for a wide range of situations and employ 
 different tactics when required.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed SWAT 4. There were minor issues with it but none make my experience with it 
 degraded. The single player missions keep things relatively fresh with random enemy and hostage 
 locations and the multiplayer is good enough to keep me coming back. The graphics weren't stellar 
 but were interesting in certain ways and ultimately held their own because of the good gameplay. 
 I recommend SWAT 4 to any fan of tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is an great FPS game depend on tactics and in this game really depend on tactics and thinking 
 before moving one step . . . (Story) obevious there no story in this game you just lead your SWAT 
 team in different operation , every operation in different place you will face the terrisom and 
 rescue the Hostages . . . (Gameplay) the best element in this game and it tough and challenging 
 you have a lot of orders you can give to your team which they are 4 divide to 2 teams blue team 
 and red team the orders a lot like (open &amp; clear - bang open &amp; clear or breach . . . etc) 
 you will feel really like a commander but also the challenging is you cany just shoot the enemy 
 you must try to arrested and you have rating at the end of every mission you must get over it depend 
 on the diffculty you play (i play noraml &amp; i must get over 50 % to succss in the mission ) 
 so you rating become better when you use tactics and kill a less terrorists and i didnt mention 
 that the weapons are look cool (Graphics) simply good &amp; beautiful graphics if you play with 
 medium quality (Online) if you want play in action way try the online play in this game its cool 
 and more actions with more weapons you can play as terrorist &amp; use theis weapons (AK - REVOLVER 
 - . . .etc) you a tactics and challenging game try SWAT 4 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comugrafica
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is one of the most challenging strategy-first person shooters Ive ever played. The main 
 goal being keeping the bad guys alive make this game a unique experience; the game replayability 
 is amazing, not only because the enemies appear in radical different positions, but because you 
 get to try different equipment configurations. In the weapons department the game does very well, 
 very realistic sounds provide with a unique combat experience. There are some problems however 
 regarding the speed in which the weapons swap, sometimes youre caught with no gun and with an 
 enemy right in front of you. I would like to see a more aggressive element; sometimes they just 
 stand and wait to get shot, even if theyre using non-lethal weapons. Overall, is a great game, 
 very challenging if you want to keep everyone alive. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharrieffx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Now, I must admit, SWAT 4 a great game. It's fun and challenging, but if your looking for realisticness 
 - hell naw. Let's start with the pros. SWAT 4 has great graphics, and moderate gameplay. It has 
 realistic weapons like an MP5, M4, Shotgun, and less lethal weapons like tazers, pepperball guns, 
 and beanbag shooters. Now, let's go onto the cons. Firstly, your teammates are retarded - I can 
 assure you that. The only thing they are good for is throwing grenades, in which the can't throw 
 too damn good. Instead of throwing it in the room, they throw it at the door and it bounces off 
 the door and lands where you are standing, and that wastes a perfectly good grenade. Secondly, 
 the teammates try to be like Rambo. If a suspect with an AK-47 runs from you then one of your teammates 
 will try and be cool and chase him when you don't want him too. And when you tell him to come back, 
 he will reply, I'm busy , or, Not now i'm doing something . And then the suspect will make a quick 
 turn and unload his whole clip into the officer and kill him. Also, the most unrealistic thing 
 ever about this game is the scoring system. You have to wait until the suspect shoots at you or 
 points his gun at you to kill him. By then you''ll be dead anyways because he'll shoot you. If 
 you just kill him you'll be charged with unauthorized use of deadly force . In real life if a SWAT 
 officer sees a suspect with a gun whether or not if the suspect points the gun at you, the SWAT 
 officer has to kill him! And the suspects aim is way too damn good. I was almost a mile away and 
 this suspect had a sawed-off shotgun and shot me right in the head. And I was really far away! 
 And on one level I had my officers breach a door with a suspect with a pistol and they did and 
 somehow the suspect killed all 4 of them! With a handgun! That's unheard of! Now, SWAT 4 is an 
 okay game I guess, but if you are looking for realisticness, then this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dxes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying, you dont wanna play this game after CS: S... you will just wanna 
 kill everyone :P
  
  So how is SWAT 4? its the first real tactics game ive played ever and its really simple to learn.
 
  
  You command a 5 man squad and have to go through some missions with psycho people and robbers and 
 everything!
  
  Theres a great bit of realism in the game, for example you die really easily as compared to other 
 FPS games and another notable example is, you cant kill or shoot anyone unless they shoot you first, 
 if you do, you will suffer a points penalty.
  
  The graphics are supposedly on the better side but nothing super good.
  
  The sound could have 
 been better, much better...
  
  The missions can be played as many times as you like with other customizable features and multiplayer 
 also is really fun so that contributes to its Value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat_tw124
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I can easily beat the single - player mode, then I decided to play multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 mode is very fun, not only do you get to join different games, but you can play with people from 
 all around the world. For an example: I joined a VIP game, there were only two people on terrorists, 
 and 3 on swat, so I joined terrorists, we were doing the greatest ever, the two i was playing with, 
 one was from the UK, another was from Greenland, and I was from the US, I had work that morning, 
 I joined that game at about 10pm on sunday night, I got off to take a shower in the morning, the 
 time I signed out of that game was 7am. The three of us killed the swat team every single game 
 we played, every time one of them would join us, we would still win, but it was a close game, so 
 we just kind of told them to get on the other side (and thats all i will say about that) . In conclusion, 
 this game is sweet for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  So, I've never played any SWAT games from earlier in the series, 4 is my first. A great game to 
 start of the series with, though. SWAT 4 is a game where you are the leader of a 5 man SWAT team, 
 and lead your team through various little missions, none of which really connect to form a story, 
 but each have a background on their own. Since this is a PC game, you might be wondering how well 
 you system will handle this game. Well, the PC I'm running it on now is pretty powerful, but won't 
 run it smoothly at absolute top specs, but will run very nicely at high res. My PC at home is practically 
 garbage. A Geforce 5500 and a 1.8ghz processor is what it's sporting, barely running half-life 
 2, and it barely runs SWAT 4. Hope that gives you some idea.
  
  The controls on SWAT 4 are somewhat simple, and at the same time, lacking. First off, the movement 
 is very slow. If you're stuck out in a hallway and launch into a firefight and have to reload, 
 you're not getting back through that doorway beside you. And, the more damage you take, the slower 
 you move, making it absolutely painful on missions say where you have a bomb timer ticking down 
 on you. The weapon changes are awfully slow, and selecting a weapon almost feels like punishment. 
 Weapons are assigned to the number keys, although it doesn't tell you which backup items are on 
 which keys, and there's no way to assign the weapon switch to the mouse scroll button or anything 
 like that.
  
  Aside from impressive graphics running at even medium res, the realism SWAT 4 brings to the table 
 is refreshing. Sure, the movement is rediculously slow, but there are a lot more things about this 
 game to make you really feel like a specially trained SWAT officer. First, when you start each 
 mission, you'll get a briefing and can sometimes even hear the 911 call. Then, you'll be able to 
 review the maps (some of which are drawn on napkins!) and choose your point of entry. Then, you'll 
 select your entire equipment arsenal and that of your team. The equipment in SWAT 4 consists of 
 quite a few different automatic rifles, a "less-than-lethal" shotgun, a semi-auto shotgun, a pump 
 action shotgun, a paintball gun that shoots OC gas (yes, it's as cool as it sounds!) , a taser, 
 a couple pistols, the typical compliance grenades, an electronic mirror for doors and corners, 
 a door stop, and a couple goodies for opening locks!
  
  While in the game, you'll run across even more civilians than suspects, some of which will cower 
 when you shout at them to get down, some will resist, in which case you can punch them, taser them, 
 gas them, and much more to get them to comply! Aside from them, the suspects, most of which will 
 shoot at you, might also get overwhelmed and give in and lie down, some will cower, then pull their 
 gun back up, tricking you, and all kinds of other cool stuff that adds to the realism.
  
  Controlling your team can be great, and garbage at the same time. You can issue commands to half 
 or all of your team for going to certain places, breeching and clearing rooms, with or without 
 grenades deploying, and just deploying grenades, tasering people, and tying people up. Unfortunately, 
 often times they like to not stick with you very well. Many times the entire team will stay guns 
 pointed at a harmless civilian who won't get down, while you're unknowingly moving ahead into an 
 ambush, and they're not there to get your back. Also, the command system suffers from a lack of 
 complexity. Say, for instance, one objective in every mission is tying everyone up. So, you might 
 miss a couple people on your initial runthrough the area, you should be able to tell your team 
 to search for unsecured civilians and suspects and restraing them. A big one is also when you have 
 to disarm bombs, they should be able to do some roaming on their own to search for bombs, but they 
 can't, due to lack of complexity in the system.
  
  The music can get annoying at times. Sure, it gets you pumped up whenever a bullet gets fired or 
 a grenade thrown or a suspect spotted, but two problems with that: 1, even when there's no danger, 
 if you just fire a flashbang to get compliance from a beligerant civilian, you have to listen to 
 this music for a minute, and 2, the music can make it really hard to hear what's going on in the 
 firefight. I know I can turn it down, but that's such a hastle.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer, since I'm really not much of a multiplayer style gamer, I prefer 
 to go it alone, but it looks pretty basic, and I don't think an ass load of people play on it, 
 so it probably kinda sucks.
  
  The life of this game, honestly, can be about a day. Basically, you got 14 missions, at about 15 
 minutes per mission on average, you'll probably get a life of about 3 1/2 hours out of SWAT 4 without 
 multiplayer. Any more questions, feel free to message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spirytus1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I stacked my red team up against the locked wooden door, I positioned myself behind my blue team 
 at an alternative entrance. Red were ready to go with C2 and bangers- with adrenaline pumping through 
 my body both teams blew the doors off and entered the room. Three armed men stood in the room, 
 dazed by the bangers. Commands were made to drop there weapons, one followed the command, another 
 ran the other stood still... and so on.
  
  This is a true tactical sim that offers first class realism. From choosing your weapons to the 
 method of entering rooms, this game is excellent. The AI is very good for some very complex scenarios. 
 The movement of your team and enemies is well orchestrated. The sniper view is easy to grasp, the 
 commands are varied but not confusing and the sound is fantastic.
  
  There are enough missions to keep you going, all very replayable as the computer sticks the bad 
 guys in different locations each time.
  
  Overall this has truly become one of the best games I have played. It beats Hit Man hands down. 
 Possibly only lacking a decent campaign mode that goes with your style of play.
  
  I've heard the multiplyer is brilliant although not tried it yet.
  
  This game will keep you 
 coming back for more.
  
  A very polished effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimotomike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  overall its a good game, the AI is good, and the maps are excellent. Your character is a bit stiff 
 and the body dynamics see robotic at times. controls are decent and the game is well sorted once 
 you get the key bindings set to your satisfaction. multi player/online play is good as well. the 
 maps and the IA are really what pull it all together. be sure to turn down the voice commands as 
 they become irritating and repetitive after a bit. a save option and an active switch between 1st 
 and 3rd person would have been nice but i guess you cant have it all, can you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick225
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is probably one of the greatest games I've ever played.
  The graphics are outstanding, even though I can't turn them all the way up.
  The sounds are realistic 
 and crisp. It really adds to the games immersion.
  One of the greatest things about SWAT 4 is the AI. Your squadmates are very smart, and they never 
 make dumb mistakes. When you order them to clear a room, they do it.
  It never seems like they don't know what they're doing. 
  The bad guys are also smart, they'll 
 take cover, but they'll surrender fairly easily if you catch them off guard.
  What I really love about this game is the immersion. The graphics, sounds, and AI make the SWAT 
 4 environment realistic. There is a seamless transition from walking down a empty hall, and opening 
 a door, then being shot at by 3 suspects. The command interface is easy to use, and you get a good 
 variety of weaponry.
  SWAT 4 is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Overall I really enjoyed SWAT 4 for it's experience. It is accurate with how Swat teams operate 
 except for a few things like helmet cams and stuff but it helps the game if anything.
  
  The game is very challenging even on the easy difficulty because it is hard to save everyone and 
 neutralize the enemies while still getting a good score. And sometimes you can be nearly completed 
 a level and you will die or a hostage will die, meaning you have to go through the level all over 
 again which can get frustrating.
  
  One bad thing about the game is that it gets extremely repetative. Even though each different enviroment 
 is extremely different from the other and very well detailed, you will get bored after a few missions 
 but will want to come back and play later. This will actually make the game last longer.
  
  There are a couple creepy/disturbed levels in the game which are very fun and get your adrenaline 
 going walking from room to room, which is a nice touch.
  
  There is also multiplayer where you can play co-op and deathmatch and it is supposed to be the 
 best part of the game but I havent really liked it much.
  
  Gameplay: Very diverse gameplay with many different ways of completing your objectives. Very fun 
 but after a while can get repetative. Also lots of attention to detail like you can shoot your 
 fellow squad mates but they will shoot back while yelling "what are you doing" ect. And sting grenades 
 and blast grenades can affect you if your to close.
  
  Graphics: With settings on high this game has top of the line next gen graphics. But if your computer 
 can't handle top settings like mine the graphics and textures will suffer a little bit but not 
 much.
  
  Sound: I thought the sound was very well done. The music that plays seems to fit the scenario your 
 in, you can hear the bad guys running from room to room when they are near you. You can hear gunfire 
 coming from the bad guys, and the gun and explosion sounds are well done. As well as your team 
 is always talkingto you and reporting what they do etc.
  
  Value: Value is so so, There are only 14 missions but they will take you a while because you wont 
 play many in a row and they are challenging. When it first came out $54 was to much. But now the 
 Gold Edition comes with Swat 4 and the expansion pack for $40 so the Gold Edition is worth it.
 
  
  Final Word: Fun game but gets repetative and you wont spend a lot of time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sondo214
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  What can I say about the best tactical first person shooter so far ? I've finished the game twice, 
 once in single player mode, and once in multiplayer mode, via LAN. The graphics are very impressive! 
 Sierra has done a great job with them. Also, the sound is very good, it keeps you on the edge. 
 The gameplay is very good, but occasionaly there are some glitches. A 'sprint' button could be 
 useful... Also , your team's AI is somewhat lacking... They die rather easy, and they shoot in 
 sight, so is a bit difficult to achieve a good score. I tried hard to find some other flaws, but 
 I couldn't ... It's really a game everyone should have (i now started playing the Stetchkov Syndicate) 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanedo
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I was in look of a good FPS when a friend told me of the SWAT series and recommended that i should 
 give SWAT4 a try, and i have never looked back since. This has turned out to be, probably, the 
 best First Person Shooter that I have played in a long time.
  
  To be fair it can be a little confusing at times, getting to grips with the Rules of Engagement 
 and making sure you report everything to base so i recommend playing the first few levels a couple 
 of times over, as believe me, they will get harder. The storyline for the missions are each immersive 
 in their own right and due to the size and complexity of some of the levels, you will be running 
 about from room to room looking for that one last suspect so as you can finish the level and see 
 what is next. It makes you never want to switch your computer off again.
  
  True enough, as is with most FPS games that have the player controlling a team, the AI can at times 
 be clumsy. However it couldn't be any simpler to control your team just point the cursor, select 
 an action and watch your team immediately comply. The AI can also be clumsy when you are attempting 
 to rescue civilians and they don't seem to want to be rescued, in one particular case i had to 
 chase one personally through three rooms before giving up and shooting him in the leg to make him 
 surrender.
  
  I would easily recommend this to anyone looking for a highly immersive gaming experience, and who 
 also wants to shoot some bad guys in the process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasertoffe
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with awsome gameplay. The game is at it best in multiplayer. 
  
  The game caters different gaming modes in multiplayer: Coop, Barricated Suspects, Rapid Deployment 
 and VIP. With must-have expansion you also get a kind of get the bag-mode.
  
  Coop is the normal SP missions in coop. This is probably the most revarding gamemode. If you have 
 the expansion there is a very good Voice over IP ingame. 
  
  Barricated is normal team deathmatch. This is rather good, but sometimes it tends to be people 
 running around spraying eachother with pepperspray. Also this community is not spared from the 
 old "NO CAMPING n00b" problem. In Deathmatch games tactical playing is usually not accepted.. you 
 simple have to run around and shoot. No holding positions and so on.. just run around. This makes 
 me pretty much count this gamemode out. But that's not as much the game's fault as the community. 
 If you're 14, and you nick looks like "h4xx0R&&//# ("%", and if you like to say "n00b I ownz you" 
 then this is your gamemode. But if you're into more tactical playing. Stay away.
  
  Rapid Deployment is awsome. You have to disarm 2-5 bombs if you play Swat and defend them if you're 
 suspects. Here the gameplay tends to be more tactical and you really have to strike as a team to 
 win. Awsome.
  
  In VIP teamplay is central. One person is VIP and the other teammates have to escort him out. Great 
 tactical and dynamic gameplay.
  
  Swat 4 is a great game. But the things that you get in the expansion should have been in the original. 
 It's rather buggy out of the box. And Coop really lacks alot of the thing that makes it stand out. 
 Such as assignable positiones in the entry team and context based menus for your position. Some 
 of this is taken care of in the expansion but it still just won't get to the same level of serious 
 gaming as Swat 3 did.
  
  Also, with the expansion the loading times is completely unacceptable. catastophical... 
  
 
  So... I do have alot of issues with this game. Especially after playing Swat 3. But Swat 4 is 
 still a great game, and if you find nice people to play with this is an awsome multiplayer game. 
 
  
  I really secommnd this game. I always have this installed. If you play a map there is always a 
 better way to do it, so there's a lot of replay value here. Me and my friends have played some 
 maps 40-50 times. Great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johny1
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  on the plus side: You can arrest your friends!! you can give them 50.000 volts shocks, and even 
 flash them (with a flashbang grenade) . 
  
  This is VERY fun, but it not as fast action as Battlefield 2, for instance. And some people will 
 want wider spaces (snipers and other campers are not really useful here) . But if you want Close 
 Quarter Battles, Swat4 is the king of the best right now. 
  
  The graphics are good, yet not too demanding on your hardware. Yes, it is a dark game, but most 
 guns come with a flashlight, so no worries there. 
  
  In the (multiplayer) game you can arrest th people you are playing against. How can i describe 
 the satisfaction that gives you...? It's bliss, pure and simple.
  
  Now, to fully enjoy this, do the single player missions first, practice your arrest skills (and 
 your shooting skills too, just in case) and then go on your rampage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is game where the player steps into the shoes of a SWAT officer as one of the police elite. 
 The game revolves around hostage situations and high-risk arrest warrant services.
  
  The game's presentation is definitely lacking. The box came with one manual and two paper sleeves 
 that contained two disks. In this day and age, and especially after paying 30 dollars for this 
 game, I was expecting a bit more than paper sleeves. Start-up times are a tad longer than your 
 ordinary computer game, and there were numerous logo movies and legal screens. The game's trailer 
 was rather disapointing, which featured only some SWAT officer running around and shooting at suspects. 
 Once you get past that, you reach a fairly cool-looking main menu screen which features several 
 police crusiers and a SWAT truck stationed beneath a bridge. The police officers are questioning 
 a witness, and the SWAT team awaits their briefing.
  
  SWAT 4 is very unique in the fact that you can't run and gun the entire level. One must follow 
 the rules of engagement (or ROE for people who like to abbreviate) . This means that when you make 
 entry, you must avoid shooting suspects on sight. Instead, you'll have to yell compliance and have 
 them drop their weapons and get on their knees so that you can arrest them and report them to your 
 sergeant via radio. This applies to civilians as well, as SWAT doctrine says that all must be detained 
 when entering a building. Guns are only used as a last resort for extremely uncooperative suspects.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, the game features excellent AI. Although it's not the best, and it has its own flaws, 
 the AI is fairly lifelike. Also, gameplay is fairly open-ended as one can chose certain tactics 
 to complete a mission. The possibilities are endless here. For instance, you can be a "brute-force" 
 sort of person, and employ heavy usage of guns, CS gas grenades and flashbangs, or be a non-lethal 
 sort of person and employ non-lethal weaponry.
  
  The game's interface is well designed on the lines of your average FPS, plus a bit more. The interface 
 gives you a lot of information, like the status of your teammates, how many weapons you have collected, 
 etc. There is also the awesome quick command feature, in which you can click somewhere and have 
 a menu of commands for your team and/or elements.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game can look rather nice with the level of detail and the personality given 
 to each and every level. Some of character models do look a little uninspired however, and look 
 somewhat generic. Most of the models appear to be varients of one another. For instance, you will 
 see the same woman in this game several times if you look closely. All of them are wearing the 
 same glasses and wearing different colors of the same skirt. Some of the models look rather blocky 
 and not as well detailed compared to the models and the textures for your SWAT officers. But still, 
 the graphics still all looks great and is functional enough for this game.
  
  Sound-wise, the voice acting is excellent, with people actually sounding like... well.. people. 
 For instance, when you enter a serial killer's house, you can hear a news report coming out of 
 a radio. A sobbing mother begs for her daughter's return, who coincidently, is being held hostage 
 at the same house you were ordered to storm into. All of the other sound effects sound great as 
 well, like how a flashbang explodes in a bang. Music is also good as well, with heavily synthesized 
 electronic music, as well as some heavy metal to emphasize the game's Hollywood-like nature. The 
 game's music waxes and wanes depending on what type of situation you are in. The only gripe I have 
 with the sound is how underpowered the weapons sound. Instead of sounding like military assualt 
 rifles and sub-machine guns, the guns sound more like paintball guns.
  
  As for the multiplayer, SWAT 4 features several gameplay modes. They fall into two categories: 
 adversial or co-op. The adversial mode in this game is divided further into several different gameplay 
 varients, but the gameplay is more or less the same: shoot the enemy. In co-op, up to five people 
 take on one of the single player levels. Both modes are a little shallow, but it's straight-forward 
 and very exciting to play.
  
  With random placement of suspects, good multiplayer, a quick mission maker, an SDK for the game, 
 the game is ripe with juicy replay value, even if you don't go online with your game. Overall, 
 SWAT 4 is an excellent shooter with good graphics, great sound, great replay, and most of all, 
 good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  The acclaimed SWAT series has given birth to it's greatest iteration (yet!) . This time around the 
 brilliant folks at the development house, Irrational Games, have taken the reigns. SWAT (or Special 
 Weapons And Tactics) is a team of heavily armed (which is an understatement) gunmen that specializes 
 in high-risk arrest warrants. In the game you assume the role of a SWAT element leader and must 
 lead your five-man team (which includes yourself) into situations that went extremely wrong.
  
  You have a vast arsenal of armaments at your disposal, which come in different classes. You 
 have a primary weapon slot and a secondary weapon slot, including a tactical slot that contains 
 useful tools such as gas grenades, flashbangs, door wedges (used to prevent a criminal from breaching 
 a certain door) , and other such useful stuff. The most interesting tool of all is the Optiwand. 
 A miniature camera attached to an extended telescope, which you can use to peek around corners 
 and under doors. All these tactical tools help you win each mission
  
  The most interesting twist to the gameplay element is that it is not all run-and-gun, you must 
 first try and arrest the criminals and if necessary shoot them (but not kill them) . Because of 
 this the game moves at a rather slow pace (which is the most necessary element in a tactical shooter) , 
 but it does that in such an addictive way that you're stoked to play more. There are a total of 
 14 single player levels and even though the number is pretty weak, the difficulty and re-playability 
 outweigh that one flaw. Tactical shooters rarely fair as well as SWAT 4.
  
  One of the most important element in a tactical shooter is the AI and SWAT 4 delivers it in spades. 
 Brilliant is the only word that can describe it. Turn your back on a stopped criminal for a split 
 second and he'll blow your head off. Hostages can sometimes get a little stubborn but a gas grenade 
 or a good whiff of a little pepper from your spray will set them straight. A brilliant interface 
 backed by a cohesive AI makes SWAT 4 easy to recommend to fans of tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  The fourth chapter of the Special Weapons and Tactics universe was my first SWAT game. It features 
 a long singleplayer campaign and some cool multiplayer modes.
  
  Youre a SWAT member. Your main objective is to secure all the hostages. It isnt as easy as it 
 sounds, because youll also have to deal against terrorists. Theyre all around the map, so it 
 takes some time to capture them all. Plus, each time you play a mission, the enemy positions are 
 different. In my opinion, more games should have this, because it boosts the replayability a lot.
 
  
  Before playing the career mode, you should pass the tutorial mission. You will be introduced to 
 the weapons and gadgets. Also, youll have to secure a hostage, and more. When youre done, its 
 time to move on to the career mode. You can do any mission you want by going to the mission list, 
 but career mode is more challenging  youll have to pass one mission to unlock the next one. Also, 
 youll have to get a required amount of points to unlock it, unless youre playing on the easiest 
 difficulty setting (requires 0 points) .
  
  The more points you get, the better you did your job. You see them after you pass a mission. Here 
 are some things that decrease the score: teammates death; enemys death (yes, you have to leave 
 everyone alive to get a good rating) ; civilians death / injury, and more. Its pretty hard to 
 pass a level without casualties, but its possible: you just have to do everything carefully: check 
 whats on the other side of the doors (with the Optical Wand tool) ; use smoke, sting, flash, etc. 
 Also, use teamwork: when there are too doors, send one team through one door, the other team through 
 the second door. You can order your teammates to do many things: open doors, deploy grenades, check 
 under doors, restrain NPCs, and more.
  
  You can customize your and your teams equipment. Some weapons are lethal some are LTL (less than 
 lethal) . There are sub-machine guns, shotguns, and more. You can carry one pistol (secondary weapon) 
 and one SMG/rifle/shotgun (primary weapon) . The rest are gadgets. You can carry up to 6 gadgets 
 at a time, so choose them wisely. For example, if youre not picking the Optical Want, you should 
 make it so someone else from the team has it, since its very useful.
  
  Some doors in the game are locked. If you're playing silently, use the lock-picks. It takes some 
 time to pick a lock, though, and you won't be able to do anything while picking it. If you wanna 
 do a rush, there are two things you can do. Number One - use the Breaching Shotgun. Aim at the 
 lock, POW, and the door opens. Careful, though, there may be armed guys on the other side! Number 
 Two: the C2 charge. Plant it, step away, and detonate it - without risking to be shot.
  
  There are no sniper rifles in the game. However, you can control a sniper outside. If he sees someone 
 in the building through the window, you get a message. Press the Sniper View key, to get to the 
 snipers view. Now you can aim the rifle and shoot. This makes it easier for you, since youre 
 not risking your life by going to the room by yourself. Also, make sure youre not pointing the 
 gun at a teammate or a civilian. This would result in a mission failure. Remember this  if you 
 shoot someone with the sniper, it affects YOUR rating.
  
  There are totally thirteen missions in the singleplayer campaign. You visit an Auto Imports Center, 
 a hospital, and more. Each mission is very fun. They're not very linear, too, since, as I said, 
 you'll have to walk around the whole map to find all the bad-guys and civilians.
  
  The multiplayer has several game modes. My favorite has to be CO-OP. Its like the singleplayer, 
 except that your teammates are not NPCs. There is also VIP Escort -- one of the players is a VIP, 
 and his teammates have to escort him without losing him. You get to visit the missions from the 
 singleplayer campaign, plus there are some multiplayer-only missions.
  
  The graphics in this game look pretty good. There are ragdoll physics, too. You can interact with 
 the environment  shoot flammable things, break glass, etc.
  
  SWAT is a great game. I highly recommend it to all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardykrugen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game keeps it open and allows the play to control his 5 man team (including self.) The gameplay 
 is great although the AI can be pretty shabby at times. On more than a few occasions I've had my 
 team mates throw sting grenades at my feet because they would run into each other instead of going 
 to the location I ordered. The scoring is hard with the rules of engagement and justifications 
 of deadly force. Don't just shoot every guy with a gun. The only way I got a perfect score on a 
 mission is when I went in with nothing but less than lethel ams. 
  The right clock ordering system for you AI Team members is fast and well done. It makes controling 
 your teams a breeze and allows for quick decisions with lots of options. 
  I would deffinitly recomend this game to anybody looking for a tactical simulation. Great buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Swat 4- I havent been able to play this game since i bought it because my 1.2 ghz computer was 
 too slow but since i got my new one its all good. Kick booty game challenging and maybe a bit frustrating 
 at times but has a great sense of accomplishment once you finish off one of the missions. Great 
 sound effects and ambience add a lot to the game. The enviroment graphics are incredibly detailed 
 with small touches on each of the levels adding further immersion in the game. there is quite a 
 bit of strategy to the game as well but usually i find it best just to load up everyone with pepper 
 ball guns or have one or two guys armed with them. It is a very short game however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstrike00
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  this game is a must have for anybody with a pc
  this game is a masterpiece with sierra puting a **** of
  effort in and getting a great result 
 out
  i play it mostly everyday and i dont think im ever gunna 
  get bored
  
  singleplayer is a solid game with a variety of missions and enough difficulty to keep you playing.
 
  most the fun comes in multiplayer who i ask can resist tasing some tking german or taking a headshot 
 with a pistol from long range jus to see the insults and cries for murcy flash up on the screen.
 
  
  cant wait for the expansion :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Solid graphics, fantastic game play compose the best game in the series. You take control of the 
 SWAT team and take part in a variety of missions which include hostage rescue . There are a lot 
 of new weapons and missions than the previous SWAT games and the tactics are improved. You have 
 to co- operate with your team (give it orders) to save hostages and rescue dangerous criminals. 
 Arrest them by throwing gas at them or better shoot them with plastic bullets so that they will 
 surrender. Choose what guns you and your team will have before each mission. Choose what you want 
 to use to open doors. Lock pick or blow it with a shotgun. 
  This game offers much time of fun and certainly deserves it's money. The best game in the shops 
 now. After you finish the games just like the other SWAT games create you own missions! It misses 
 0.2 points because it takes too much time for loading and lunching it. Also in some missions the 
 area is dark and you cannot see people and as a result be killed. It is a game all gamers MUST 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applerod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of tactical shooters, particularly of the squad-based variety. There aren't a huge 
 number of (recent) games that fall into that specific category, but SWAT 4 is the best one I've 
 played since the Rainbow Six series, (not including Lockdown, which is disappointing.)
  
  The gameplay is solid. This is my first time playing any of the SWAT games, but after going through 
 the Training level, and playing for awhile, I had the controls down. Probably the most difficult 
 thing I've learned how to do is how to split up your group into two teams, and do things like simultaneous 
 entries into the same room.
  Of course, it's one thing to learn the controls, but quite another to use them effectively. It 
 took me some time to slow down and lay off the itchy trigger finger. In this sense, the game is 
 very realistic. You can't just run-and-gun. The keyword is patience. You must also follow the rules 
 of engagement, which state that you are only authorized to use lethal force when you or your team's 
 life is in direct danger. You want to subdue as many suspects as possible non-lethally -- but the 
 game still strikes a good balance between strategy and action.
  
  Adding to the realism and strategy of the game is the equipment you have access to. There is a 
 lot of different equipment you can use, but no more than you need. You can choose from a number 
 of primary weapons, ranging from a Colt M4A1 Carbine assault rifle to a Pepper Ball gun. You have 
 5 slots for tactical equipment including flashbang, CS gas, and "stinger" grenades, pepper spray, 
 and so forth. You also have secondary weapons and breaching devices to choose from.
  Each of your teammates can be customized the same way according to the type of mission you're going 
 into, which, apart from being very cool :) , is critical in order to maximize your chances of success.
 
  
  The graphics aren't cutting-edge, but they're still pretty good. There's good attention to detail 
 payed here. It would have been nice if you could shoot out light bulbs, but this is a very minor 
 concern. 
  The level design also realistically depicts the type of building and situation you're going through. 
 The levels could be a tad bigger; but once again, this is minor. 
  
  The voice work is impressive. It sounds very natural; pretty much what you would expect SWAT members, 
 civilians, and other characters to sound like in the scenarios they are in. As you here the 911 
 dispatcher give you an overview, then get briefed on the specifics of the situation you're entering, 
 it sets up a nice, believable little story to add some context. The sound effects are solid, and 
 the music is well done and generally heightens the intensity of the gameplay.
  
  My main gripe is the lack of a save function. This can be frustrating for obvious reasons; but 
 like Gamespot says, the game has a high replay value, and I agree. This is because you can try 
 new equipment, different strategies, and hone your SWAT skills each time you play.
  One annoyance is the frequency with which your team members tell you to get out of the way if you 
 happen to be in their exact spot in formation. Maintaining proper formation is crucial, yes, but 
 stepping 6 inches to the left really has no impact on the gameplay 98% of the time. Even when I 
 was down to one teammate, he would still bother me about being in his spot. Easy solution is to 
 get in the habit of moving out of the way of all your teammates, but it still happens more often 
 than is necessary.
  Something that would have been helpful would be to have access to an in-game map, as you only get 
 to see one during briefing, and the map is small. The levels are small and intuitive enough that 
 this isn't really a big issue, though.
  
  Overall, I'm very pleased with SWAT 4. It's a different twist on the games I'm used to playing, 
 and is extremely realistic. I also got it for about 15$, which makes it a tremendous value. The 
 bottom line is that it's a lot of fun. I can't wait to get the expansion pack.
  
  (P. S. I haven't yet played multiplayer, or tried to create my own missions, so I can't comment 
 on those.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  However, if the developer can improve the quality of the sound and add some new actions, weapons 
 and tactics in the game, this will overall boost the gameplay!! Neutralizing bad guys can be fun 
 eventhough there are no hostages to rescue. In this game, the bad guys are using such lower standard 
 weapons compare to SWAT. Putting 'them' with machinery gun is a must in some places. Besides, I 
 can say mostly all the time the game was held inside a building or as indoor. I wonder there is 
 a time where the SWAT can chasing bad guys outside a building ( e. g bank ) or back-street. In this 
 game, I think the weather plays a fundamental part too. Raining heavily is one the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markman002
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Played SWAT series before and this is the best as far as realism and tactics go, but that may be 
 why it is so difficult. I am not an extreme gamer, and on the normal level I have to try each scenario 
 three or four times at the minimum.
  
  Does make it a great challenge to overcome. I would recommend this game only for people who don't 
 get frustrated easily or who don't mind using cheat codes.
  
  Gives you a great appreciation for what police have to go through when they have to try not to 
 kill anyone. Of course, I hope real officers are a little smarter and better shots. 
  
  My teams keep walking right into an ambush even when they use gas or flash bang. Overall, still 
 a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swhat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  Single player campaign is good, but it may become little bit boring. With friend this game is great. 
 And if you have headset with your friend it gets even better.
  AI teammates follow your orders quite well.
  
  Graphics are quite cool. There is nice lightning 
 effects and textures. Bad thing is that my computer can't run it on high quality. :P
  
  If you like slow tactic shooters, this is good game and if you hate them, this game may be really 
 boring. Well you can rush through the levels too, but your score will be minus something. :P
  I think this game is very challenging at the last missions. First missions are easy but then the 
 difficulty becomes higher. Well that's a good thing.
  
  More playing modes would be a good add to this game. Some "fun modes" where you can play with enemies 
 (and as the enemy) and so on.
  
  Here is all that I remember for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeman601
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Very good game with lot's of action and tactics. I'm a fan of first person realistic shooters, 
 such as Half-Life2, so SWAT4 suits me perfect;)
  What is more, multiplayer mod is also very good, as it is as realistic as it can be. So, everybody 
 should try playing SWAT4
  Very good game with lot's of action and tactics. I'm a fan of first person realistic shooters, 
 such as Half-Life2, so SWAT4 suits me perfect;)
  What is more, multiplayer mod is also very good, as it is as realistic as it can be. So, everybody 
 should try playing SWAT4
  Very good game with lot's of action and tactics. I'm a fan of first person realistic shooters, 
 such as Half-Life2, so SWAT4 suits me perfect;)
  What is more, multiplayer mod is also very good, as it is as realistic as it can be. So, everybody 
 should try playing SWAT4
  Very good game with lot's of action and tactics. I'm a fan of first person realistic shooters, 
 such as Half-Life2, so SWAT4 suits me perfect;)
  What is more, multiplayer mod is also very good, as it is as realistic as it can be. So, everybody 
 should try playing SWAT4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  When i heard about swat 4 i thought it was a crappy game like the other swat or police series. 
 When i was walking in the center i saw this game.
  I buy'd and in a few seconds i played i loved it.
  The graphics are realy cool and every level 
 is SO detailed.
  There is one level that calles VICTORY IMPORT AUTO CENTER
  and in that level you see everything detailed cars, thoilets, and even gastanks.
  It's all so 
 detailed...
  The multiplayer is also realy great this time.
  you can play as
  -CO-OP That's a normal mission but then your team mates are real people.
  - VIP ESCORT That means 
 there is one guy and that's the VIP you need to arrest him or shoot him
  -BARRICED SUSPECTS That the most one i play you have 2 teams on teams is the police and the other 
 one are the suspects. you shoot the police if you are the suspects and you shoot the suspects if 
 you are police. it's realy like a fire-fight. most of the times i realy say to myself go team red 
 move to the door :) because it feels like you realy are a cop. This game is realy cool.
  P. s my online name is
  Hyakkimaru {EFQ}
  This gae isn't that expencive last week i saw it was 
 like 20 box.
  and i bought it for like 40/50 box :)
  Well this is it maybe i see ya online adios amigo! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  It's really fun to shoot criminals in this game, being like a real SWAT Team member. Finally the 
 SWAT series have improved. Hopefully we'll see even better. It's not like any 1st person shooter, 
 in certain times you need to use your brains, like for example you need to open a door in a certain 
 ways, and also need to be really cautious. You can also play this game online, which really adds 
 some more value to this game. Storyline was way too short tough.
  Graphics were good, but they could still have done better job.
  Sounds were good, you could also 
 here BGM to build up some tense feeling.
  It's really fun game to play, and if you like 1st person shooters, this is one of them you should 
 check out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  if ur a cop who needs training, SWAT 4 is a great game to help an officer in action. however, it 
 is also a very fun game for gamers looking for a great FPS. the game shows potential. this is my 
 review.
  
  The Gameplay: ur team usually are well listeners. remember that they can't do everything. u might 
 think it's just shooting someone. well u would be wrong. u handcuff hostages. however u can't usually 
 immediately handcuff them. sometimes i had to get out the tazer and shock them before they would 
 agree to be handcuffed. sometimes the perps might not die. they could just be injured. remember 
 to report them for exraction from the area. so the gameplay is pretty challenging.
  
  The Graphics: The graphics in this game aren't top notch or stunning but they will amaze. If ur 
 computer is well designed, then it looks freakin' awesome. it will still look nice on a regular 
 but i thought it was lacking a few things.
  
  The Sound: There is no music in gameplay but the sounds are definitely satisfying while u play.
 
  
  The value is $50 but if the fun seems great to you then its worth a buy. however u mostly would 
 lend it to a friend for a while. Overall it's a nice package. 8.6. now u should know quite a bit 
 about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeafFreelancer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is the best swat game of all time hands down. It is very realistic and the graphics are awesome. 
 If you play on elite its extremely hard and you must do everything by the book and thats what I 
 love about this game. On line play is fun but I recommend system linking or lan games for more 
 enjoyment. Great weapons one of my favorites would have to be the bean bag shot gun extremely effective 
 and usually puts them down. Teamwork plays a key role in this game if you like to work alone then 
 this game probably isn't for you. This game is a must buy so GO BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Releasing itself onto store shelves on April 5th of 2005, Irrational Games continued their popular 
 series giving players even more depth in strategic tactical gameplay. Being the fourth game in 
 any series can bring along some pressure, but Irrational Games definitely stepped up to the challenge. 
 Giving the player the actual feel of squad based combat, dealing with tactical missions where your 
 main concern is to calm each situation with as few casualties as possible and above everything 
 else, protect the civilians.
  
  There isnt necessarily a store, but there are quite a few distinct missions where you must complete 
 a set of objectives to move on to your next mission. Each level/mission is unique and different 
 from the previous one having each one take place in a separate environment with separate objectives. 
 Some missions have your squad rescuing a kidnapped girl, or retaking control of an office building 
 or bank. With different objectives goals set for each different level, youll find yourself trying 
 to get as high of a score as you can for each mission, out of one hundred, and depending upon your 
 total, you might be eligible to move onto the next mission, but that also depends on your difficulty 
 level. At the beginning of every mission, youre given the situation, your objectives, an equipment 
 list you can choose from to equipment each of your men, and sometimes even a map layout of the 
 building. 
  
  Unlike other first person shooters, you wont or shouldnt be running around shooting everything 
 that moves because for one, you might hit a hostage, and two, youre supposed to take down your 
 enemy by way of non-lethal force if possible. Meaning that for the first few missions where its 
 imperative that you dont kill the suspects, you need to bring hollow bullets, stun guns, and tear 
 gas grenades equipped. And for the rest of the missions after that, where the suspects wear bulletproof 
 armor, youre still supposed to try and take them down without excessive use of force. Your points 
 at the end of the level depend on this. This is a different style of gameplay compared with other 
 first person shooters, but if youre a person who likes to take their time and plan out their strategy 
 with each level, then youll certainly enjoy this game.
  
  There is quite a bit of realism within the games campaign dealing with many core elements of gameplay. 
 The variety of weapons you have to choose from are very realistic and the equipment that you choose 
 between each level is also done nicely. The damage your character takes is something to be aware 
 of. If youre shot in the leg, youll notice that your character moves quite a bit slower than 
 your normal speed and there are no health packs to heal yourself up with. Take fine care of your 
 squad members, because once their down, they stay down and you may not notice it at first, but 
 the amount of men you have in your squad is not something to take lightly because you need everyone 
 you can get to ambush and take out different suspects in each area.
  
  The graphics in Swat 4 are a huge step up from the last installment in the series, but obviously 
 for the times, thats pretty much a must. When youre walking around with your other squad mates, 
 you can actually see what they have, by looking on their belts and whats strapped to their backs. 
 All their grenades are around their waist and their guns are either there also or strapped to them 
 somewhere. The level design is done quite well where each level is varied and different from the 
 rest and the interiors are both lit and cast in shadows to provide the player with different gameplay 
 throughout the games single player campaign. And a very nice feature to the game is how every 
 time you replay a mission, its going to be different. Every time you pick a mission, not only 
 the victims, but also the suspects are going to be placed in a different position for you and your 
 squad mates to find. This definitely adds quite a bit of replay value for sure. One drawback of 
 the graphics is the variety in different looking victims and suspects. For some reason, Irrational 
 Games decided not to make a lot of different non-player character meshes, so youre kind of stuck 
 seeing the same people over and over.
  
  The sound is decent enough but could have been better in the game. The sound effects are decent 
 enough, but the voices are extremely repetitive. Youre able to yell and shout at the suspects 
 to tell them to get down or drop their weapons, by after hearing those commands a bunch of times 
 over the first few missions, it gets a little old. The musical score that plays in the background 
 is good, and provides some extra added atmosphere to the different unique levels throughout the 
 games fourteen missions.
  
  The game comes with a multiplayer component where you can compete with your friends, but after 
 a patch put out by Irrational Games, many fans have been in dismay over the amount of advertising 
 within the games multiplayer and also single player components. At first, youll notice it a little 
 throughout the levels, but then youll come to see the amount of advertising there is. Instead 
 of having just one poster for one movie, youll find over thirty posters for the same movie all 
 within a short walking distance. This can be both a distraction to the player and also take away 
 from the immersion of the level because of the lack of variety.
  
  There is also a level editor that comes with the game and with the large fan community behind the 
 series, theres quite a few missions that are available to download whether theyre single player 
 or multiplayer and this adds quite a bit more to the game.
  
  Overall, any fan of the series will appreciate the time that Irrational Games took to make this 
 next installment and those who are playing this as their first Swat game can be assured that its 
 a unique style of game to enjoy. Theirs is quite a bit of replay value with the different positioning 
 of people throughout each level, the multiplayer component, and the fan made missions that you 
 can enjoy for hours on end. A worthy title for anyone looking for something fresh in the first 
 person shooter genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 comes with a bunch of new missions and features to keep you busy and excited!
  
  SWAT 4 hasn't a story, but it has a carreer to begin and become you and your squad big!!
  
 
  The gameplay is good in most parts but it has some glitches that you may notice! The aiming is 
 a little problem because you can't target very well and you may find yourself killed sometimes 
 because of that problem! The other parts of the gameplay are very good! Easy accesible weapons, gadgets 
 and team orders!
  
  In the sound part has been done an excellent job! You can hear every little object or footsteps 
 and you MUST listen carefully to advance through the mission! A 5.1 sound system is all you need 
 to enjoy it, as i am!
  
  The graphics are very good, but in some cases you'll notice little bugs! But in the most part the 
 game has amazing graphics! The smoke effects are something special and the gunfires also! An excellent 
 job has been done on the models! The humans are like real! With all the expressions on their faces 
 and their moves! The dynamic lighting adds great atmosphere to the game!
  
  If you are a fan of this genre, then SWAT 4 is for you!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  this is a great fps simply because its what iv been wating for in a game fro so long. games like 
 rainbow six almost fdid it, with the close combat teamwork yet it was never as intense as i liked, 
 this though, hits the spot.
  around every corner, on the other side of every door or wall is a potential threat or hostage, 
 ths game keeps you on your toes, every decision affects the mission in different ways, how you 
 go in, who you kill, which route you take etc. the ai is also pretty good, getting men reaching 
 for weapons at the last minute as you try to restrain them is heart thiumping.... you see a man 
 down the hall, shouts are coming from both you and your teamamates, do we shoot him or restrain 
 him, or is he a hostage? 
  thae graphics are good too, the shadows and lighting add effect as you need your torch on when 
 searching darkened buldings, peeking round corners and flash banging rooms. thats another thiung, 
 you have a wide variety of ways to clear rooms. you can go in on your own, all guns blazing or 
 you can use the optical wire... find your foes and sneak in picking them off. you can also throw 
 in gas, flash bangs or you van just get your men to run in, either way its a great experience and 
 the feeling of your men owning all the bad guys in the room is immense.
  also, every time you attempt a mission the hostagers and emeies are in different places, meaning 
 it is so unpredictable.
  
  this game is reall good fun.. i suggest you kick down your door and get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Swat series was always a big name in the industry with titlels such as swat 1and swat 3 the succesful. 
 And now irrational games bring us another squad based tactical shooter with some of the elements 
 seen in the previous games of swat and many new ones.
  
  In swat 4 you play the leader of the elite police team that many counts as the best there is. In 
 the game you will take command on 4 team members with soficticated AI and good dicipline. You can 
 give them any order and they will obey it, from move to some place and open the door and throw 
 flash.
  
  The enemy was also given good AI and they will react to your actions as well. 
  If they find themselves out numberd they will run or simply shoot at you. Here is were you can 
 choose how to take out the suspect: you can use a live ammo weapons like the m-4 and the 9mm mp's, 
 or choose to take him to custedy with non deadly weapons such as the taser gun the paper spray 
 or my favourite- the paper ball rifle which shoots peper balls at the enemy and take him out of 
 controll. Then you will arrest him and secure the room.
  
  All the maps in the single campaign as well in the multi are buildings with rooms and rooms you 
 need to clean, like in the real situation the swat team face each day.
  The various of weapons and equipment is very large and includes many kind of graneds and rifles. 
 The rifles in the game act like the real ones and sound like the real ones as well. Overall this 
 game is one of the most reallistic games availble in the market today so it won't attract all the 
 gamers populations.
  The sounds in the game adds high depth to the single campaign with its action like sounds and voices 
 of your teammates and others. All the weapons sound good and real, so clearly Irrational did well 
 in this area.
  
  The graphics are up to date and use fine texture and shadows, and the models seems good. But the 
 game is quite heavy and will not work on old computers.
  
  The multiplayer is also a big part of the game and adds many hours to the game life. There is a 
 baracide suspects situation that is much like team deatmatch, a cool vip mode- the swat team need 
 to ascourt a vip and the suspects need to capture him, and last but not list is the death match 
 with bombs in the map you need to defuse.
  
  Overall this game is very neat tactic game with action along the way that will keep you setisfay 
 for many many hours if you choose this game. I seriously recomanded swat 4 and think greatly about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keolic56
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 3 was one of the best tactical games of all time, but SWAT 4 takes the problems from SWAT 
 3 and takes the quality and gameplay up a bit. The game is a must play for all pc owners, as the 
 games is an authentic SWAT experience that is tense, creepy, and exciting. 
  
  SWAT 4 has various levels in career mode with sotry lines that have nothing in common with each 
 other. The situations vary from level to level, but the levels seem fresh and exciting each time. 
 You will have to rescue hostages disarm bombs, stop a gas station robbery and will have to investigate 
 a psycho's house.
  
  The game does a great job of making you fell like you are really there. The enviroments are very 
 realistic and make the level seem dark and dreary or evil and creepy. 
  
  The sound is a great and the gun's sound realistic and the voice overs are excellent and all the 
 swearing and screaming of the hostages make the game ultra realistic. 
  
  The graphics are just right they are not amazing but are not bad at the same time. You will need 
 to have a quite high end pc to run this game on high as the load times are long on a computer that 
 is just slightly above the minimum system requirements.
  
  The game does have some problems such as the game get's repetitve such as doing the same procedure 
 at every door. The game also has a quick mission creator wich lets you customize the number of 
 suspects and hostages and civillians on a map. The suspects spawn at different points every time 
 and that makes for lot's of replayability. Plus you can download mission packs, mods, maps.
  
  There is also amazing multiplayer games, which includes co-op and deathmatch.
  
  The game 
 is a must for just $19.99 at most stores this is truly a great deal for such a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireworld2406
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a great edition to the SWAT game series. The developers of SWAT 4 certainly didnt forget 
 detail. They have done a superb job in giving the feeling of a convenience store, hospital, or 
 restaurant. 
  The missions in SWAT 4 are more random, instead of following a storyline as in SWAT 3 to give the 
 more realistic SWAT experience. One moment you are ending a standoff inside a data-storage complex, 
 next moment you are rescuing an undercover officer whose cover who has been blown.
  Some problems with SWAT 4 is that the frame rate can be low at times and it can take some time 
 depending on how much RAM you have to load levels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The original SWAT game, released in 1995, was Daryl F. Gates' Police Quest: SWAT. Named after the 
 former Los Angeles Police Chief who formed the world's first SWAT team, the original SWAT and its 
 sequel were actually strategy games. It wasn't until SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle was released 
 in 1999 that the series transitioned into the first-person-shooter genre. Throughout the years, 
 each SWAT game has attempted to simulate what it's like to lead the world's most highly skilled 
 and trained police officers into dangerous confrontations. It's been more than five years since 
 the last SWAT, and the newest iteration of the series is the best one yet, offering an intelligent 
 and flexible interface, a varied and highly replayable campaign, as well as multiplayer modes that 
 include cooperative play.
  
  Your ultimate goal is to arrest suspects, not kill them.
  
  As with the real-life SWAT teams, your job as an element commander in SWAT 4 is to take your 
 five-man team into dangerous situations and defuse them. These situations range from a botched 
 jewelry heist to high-risk arrest warrants to a raid on an illegal casino. In almost every mission, 
 there are innocent civilians mixed in with the bad guys. Those of you who are Rainbow Six and Counter-Strike 
 veterans will need to cool it on your itchy trigger fingers. Even when you do run into armed criminals, 
 you don't have carte blanche to shoot them immediately. You have to follow the same strict rules 
 of engagement as a real police officer and do whatever you can to subdue and arrest suspects without 
 lethal force. Your guns are meant to be a last resort and should only be used if an armed suspect 
 is an immediate threat to your team or civilians. This is the primary detail that separates the 
 SWAT games from the military-style action games. The rules of engagement add a good deal of difficulty 
 to the game, and SWAT 4 pulls this off well. At the end of each mission you're graded on how well 
 you did, and more points are awarded for arresting as opposed to killing suspects. You are assessed 
 big point penalties for improper use of force, and for the most part, these penalties are levied 
 fairly and intuitively.
  
  The 14-mission campaign isn't linked in any way. There's no overarching storyline that connects 
 them all, so the campaign plays out just like a series of stand-alone missions. It starts you off 
 with a training level that does a good job of acquainting you with the basics of using your weapons 
 and commanding your teams. It's here that you're introduced to the game's interface. Your four 
 subordinates are divided into a pair of two-man groups: red and blue. You can issue orders to the 
 entire element or to each pair separately. Switching between the groups is done by tapping a key. 
 The commands you give are done in a context-sensitive manner and are based on what your crosshair 
 is pointing at. Point at a door and hold down the right mouse button, and you're able to access 
 a menu that gives you different options, such as "Open and Clear," which orders your men to open 
 the door and enter, or "Open, Bang, and Clear," which will order your men to open the door, toss 
 in a flashbang grenade, and then run into the room to clear it of threats. Point your crosshair 
 at a civilian and you can order your men to zip cuff him or her for safety. Aim at a locked door 
 and you can order your men to pick the lock or blow it open with a charge or breaching shotgun.
 
  
  The context-sensitive interface extends to a multipurpose use button as well. Point it at a suspect 
 or hostage, and the use button will cause you to yell at the person to put his hands up and surrender. 
 You'll be doing this a lot in SWAT 4, as you attempt to get suspects to respect your authority 
 before shooting them. Point your cursor at a dropped weapon and you can pick it up to secure it. 
 Aim at a cuffed criminal or civilian and your use key will radio a status report into command.
 
  
  There are also interface options that allow you to remotely command one of your squad elements. 
 For example, you can order red team to stack up at a door, and then leave them there while you 
 take blue team around the corner to a second door (which leads into the same room) . Even though 
 you're out of visual range of red team, you can bring up a picture-in-picture window of what red 
 team is seeing, and through that window you can order them to enter the door they're standing in 
 front of. This is a neat option that allows you to simultaneously enter a room that has two doors. 
 During a given mission there are also picture-in-picture windows you can open that give you a view 
 of what external snipers are seeing, and you can even control your snipers via those windows.
 
  
  It seems like a lot to take in, and certainly it takes a few mission runs before you become used 
 to all the options available to you. But once you've gotten a few missions under your belt, ordering 
 your squad elements and moving along with them becomes second nature. The structure of the campaign 
 seems to mimic this standard learning curve, as the first few missions are rather simple and easy, 
 but the difficulty ramps up considerably in the later missions, where you'll find complicated building 
 architecture and numerous heavily armed suspects.
  
  The briefing offers valuable information on each mission... because knowing is half the battle.
 
  
  Before going on each mission you can listen to a quick briefing, and this presentation is done 
 well. The premise of each mission is explained by a radio dispatcher, and further context is given 
 by the element commander. In certain missions you can even listen to a 911 call to glean more information. 
 It's important to study these briefings carefully as they can contain photographs of suspects and 
 hostages, as well as floor plans of the buildings you assault. Some missions have more available 
 information than others. In others, you only have a rough sketch of the building and no clear idea 
 about the number of suspects and hostages. Based on this information, though, you can choose a 
 weapon and equipment loadout for your team.
  
  SWAT 4 includes a good selection of assault rifles, submachine guns, shotguns, and nonlethal weapons 
 like Taser guns, pepper spray, and a paintball gun modified to shoot pepper balls. You can also 
 choose between ammo types like hollow-point bullets for more stopping power against unarmored suspects, 
 or full metal jacket for better penetration against body armor. The grenades and gadgets are probably 
 the most important selections. You'll need to carry in flashbang and tear gas grenades for assaulting 
 rooms, and you also have special gear like the Optiwand, which is a fiber-optic camera used for 
 peeking around corners and under doors. Door wedges allow you to seal off exits to keep suspects 
 from running away into rooms you've already cleared.
  
  Once you're actually in a mission, you'll find that the game rewards patient and deliberate play. 
 The nature of SWAT 4 as a realistic simulator is that it's very easy for you and your team to get 
 wiped out if you make any kind of mistake. Charging into rooms without first tossing in some kind 
 of grenade to incapacitate or distract suspects inside is a surefire recipe for disaster. As a 
 result, once you get the feel of the game, you'll find that the gameplay in SWAT 4 is fairly methodical, 
 punctuated by a few brief moments of intense action. Stick an Optiwand under a door to check for 
 occupants, open (or blow open) the door, toss in a grenade, then rush in and clear threats. Repeat 
 on the next door.
  
  The Optiwand can warn you of enemies lurking behind doors.
  
  What ends up complicating matters is the varied artificial intelligence of the enemies and hostages 
 you find. Some criminals will give up the moment you yell at them to drop their weapons. Others 
 won't surrender unless you incapacitate them with a flashbang or tear gas, or even a Taser gun 
 shock. Some immediately shoot back, while others will try to run away and escape into other rooms. 
 Bold suspects may even run into the room you're in and unexpectedly attack you. Hostages are equally 
 unpredictable in how they behave. Most hostages comply immediately, but some need to be hit with 
 a nonlethal weapon before they can be restrained.
  
  The fun in SWAT 4 comes in trying to sort out all the mess and bring order to the chaos while remaining 
 within a police officer's rules of engagement. Thankfully, the AI of your squadmates is generally 
 smart enough to handle most situations. They're usually good about engaging suspects and only shooting 
 them when appropriate. They're also extremely accurate when called upon to fire. Your squadmates 
 are even smart about moving up and down stairways and keeping their weapons pointed up or down 
 as appropriate. The main issue is that your AI teammates are sometimes slow on the trigger. Often 
 times, in an attempt to get armed suspects to surrender, they give enemies too much time to fire 
 back, and as a result, it is difficult to get through many of the later missions without sustaining 
 casualties. It can also be annoying in the cases where your squadmates get stuck on level geometry, 
 or are slow to comply with orders because they're too distracted with a suspect spotted through 
 an interior window.
  
  Despite the flaws, SWAT 4 is extremely unique in its gameplay style and premise, and it executes 
 cleanly for the most part. What's more, suspects and hostages spawn randomly in each level every 
 time you play, which adds a great deal of replayability to the game. No matter how many times you've 
 played a mission, you can never be too sure of the whereabouts of suspects, which makes for a consistently 
 intense experience. Replaying levels does make them easier over time, but that's not from memorizing 
 the locations of enemies, it's from gaining a better understanding of the building architecture, 
 which plays a huge role in the game. For further replayability, SWAT 4 even includes a mission-maker 
 interface that lets you customize any of the levels to include variable numbers and types of suspects 
 and hostages, as well as specific mission requirements, like sustaining zero casualties. These 
 missions are saved as pack files, which can be traded with your friends.
  
  Multiplayer modes also contribute to the great overall value of SWAT 4. While the game does include 
 team-based modes that are playable for up to 16 players online, the most attractive option is cooperative 
 mode for up to five players. You can play out any of the game's built-in missions or you can play 
 one of your custom-built missions in cooperative mode. Co-op SWAT 4 is extremely fun, and the interface 
 allows any player to issue orders. Direct your teammates to open a door, for example, and they'll 
 see a red arrow over the doorknob to indicate which door you're talking about. While the other 
 gameplay modes like VIP escort, team-based deathmatch, and a bomb-defusing game are fun in their 
 own right, SWAT 4's co-op mode is easily the best aspect of its multiplayer options, especially 
 considering the dearth of cooperative games available today.
  
  SWAT 4's graphics mirror its gameplay: it's great for the most part, but it has a few noticeable 
 flaws. The character models of your team are fantastic, and they animate beautifully when executing 
 scripted moves like breaching open a door and entering a room. They're modeled in such detail that 
 you can even see the number and type of grenades each of your teammates has left by glancing at 
 their utility belts. The models of the various hostages and suspects, however, don't look quite 
 as good. They're noticeably blockier, and their joints can look and bend a bit strangely while 
 you're cuffing them. The level architectures are very well detailed, and each building's layout 
 looks and feels believable, including the degree to which they're furnished. SWAT 4 also does a 
 good job with lighting, as you'll need to rely on your tactical light a lot in dark rooms and areas. 
 The biggest downside to the game's graphics is that the frame rate can be a big issue. SWAT 4 chugs 
 noticeably on machines with 512MB of RAM. Upgrading to 1GB can make most situations play out a 
 lot smoother, but in intense firefights with tear gas in the air and multiple suspects and squadmates 
 firing, the frame rate still takes a big nosedive.
  
  The level architecture in SWAT 4 is one of the best aspects of the game.
  
  SWAT 4's sound 
 effects are sharp and realistic, particularly the gun shots, which sound quite powerful. What you'll 
 hear most in the game is yelling, both from suspects and hostages, as well as from your own squad 
 who are screaming for everyone to lie down and surrender. There's a good deal of cussing in the 
 game, which reflects the intense, life-or-death scenarios you face. The whimpering from wounded 
 civilians and suspects can get annoying at times, but it can also be funny to hear the grumbling 
 complaints from cuffed criminals. There are other nice sound details in the game, such as the metal 
 detector in one level that goes off every time you walk through it. SWAT 4 doesn't include much 
 in the way of music, but you will hear fast-paced tunes spool up dynamically every time you enter 
 a confrontation or forcefully enter a room with a grenade blast.
  
  As a realistic police simulator, SWAT 4 definitely hits the mark. Though the frame rate gets chunky 
 at times, and there are a couple of irritating bugs and quirks, the AI delivers on most counts 
 in a game that is designed with great replayability. The cooperative mode is also extremely fun 
 and should make this game attractive for those looking for something to play together with friends 
 at a LAN party or online. If you enjoyed SWAT 3, or if you like tactical-style shooters and are 
 looking for something with a twist, you won't go wrong picking up a copy of SWAT 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Oh man, this game is awsome! In first look I didnt like it too much, but after some time, I learned 
 curves and all hints, it became the one of the enjoyable games in my collection. Now I am playing 
 this game, and I am stuck in A-Bomb nightclub section. Too much that f*#cker all around and I need 
 to get high points ..... so far not quiet sucsesful. 
  
  You are the SWAT Team Leader, from 4 people and you lead o this people otherwise to die there and 
 cock it up whole mission or complete the mission with good hit points. Very Immpresive, You can 
 do most of the things but same time you can order to the any team member to do that job. However 
 in some spesific tasks only equiped with proper tools according that or other task persons will 
 do that job. 
  
  Graohic of the game is look like just CS: source craphic, but with some signs of F. E. A. R. game. 
 Really enjoyable game as long as you have a minimum 5 year experience in SWAT team ... hahahaha!!
 
  To do all the best look for hints in the left bottom corner and center bottom sides of screen, 
 and you will get needed hints.
  
  Well, then Enjoy your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatekeeperlion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  All can say is WOW, this game ruled! The controls are intuitive after about 30 minutes, the computer 
 AI is smart and tricky, and the situations are total nail biters. The missions are hard enough 
 to be challenging, but not so hard as to make you quit or cheat to finish. You will replay some 
 of the missions many times but the "just one more...." attitude will hit you and you will forage 
 forward. The online elements is also well done and the ability to create your own situations is 
 great for replayablity. Strategy, action, and gloss all in one great package. BUY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  What a Buy! I just love this game and still can't stop playing it. The Multi-Player aspect of it 
 is not to bad but the Single Player Missions are real fun and challenging at times. 
  
  Basically Your the leader of an Elite S. W. A. T. Team sent it to finish off what the wussy Cops can't 
 handle. You have full control over your Team and you can break them into 2 when necessary. (Blue 
 & Red) Your missions include all sorts of objectives from neutralizing bad guys to rescuing the 
 hostages.
  
  You don't need to have the best top of the line computer to play and enjoy the game either. But 
 the game is a Beautiful one with everything turned up.
  I was playing this game on my old P3 w/ ATI 9800 GPU and that it looked awesome, Now I playing 
 on a AMD 4400x2 w/ ATI X1900XTX and its amazing.
  
  Keep in mind it is done under SIERRA which also did King's Quest and recently F. E. A. R. and many 
 many other great Titles. 
  
  So on that note, I say since you can't PC games, and You'd like a good FPS with great Single Player 
 and Multi-player, this is Your game. And since its only $19.99 You can't go wrong.
  
  ******** ATTENTION ********
  
  If You are looking to buy the game there is a Expansion available 
 as well and VU and SIERRA will be Packing them together in a Gold Edition scheduled to release 
 on April 4th for Only $29.99.
  Just thought I would mention it to save You $10 bucks :)
  
  Thanks for reading My Review on this Title, Please check out My others.
  
  Love You All
 
  -Crim
  
  Rated one of the TOP 500 Game Reviewers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Comparing this with the last SWAT game played The SWAT this is far better. But the graphics are 
 not up-to-date. The A. I. of the officers are not very good; Well one of the good things about this 
 game is that this has multi-player normal missions mode called co-op, where you and your friends 
 can play together the missions, but the maximum number of players are restricted to 4. The newest 
 expansion pack allows max players up-to 10. 
  
  There are not many tactical shooting games like this but when considering Counter Strike and this 
 has the same things in common. You can really feel that when you are playing the multi-player mode 
 of this. For me buying this game is not worth, I finished it only for the sake of finishing another 
 game. 
  
  The gameplay mostly the same you easily get bored with the game and your partners don't do anything 
 much, although they do anything you command them to do, they quickly die or get injured. Not recommending 
 this game @ all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  After playing counterstrike, american army, unreal, and halo, I played this game, and the trigger 
 happy reaction got me stuck on the first mission. All I can say is this game teaches you shooting 
 at everything is not right!!!
  
  I start to felt in love with this game online!! Offline AI usually clear the mission before I can 
 shoot anything, online however, put me into a spot where I have to cover my buddy's ass, which 
 I dont even know if his ass is worth covering. This game force you to cooperate instead on going 
 rambo like other game, and reduce to violence as much as possible.
  
  For people who play fast pace FPS like me who is going to try this game, dont trigger happy, and 
 headshot isnt cool in this game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEvil360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of action in it, I'm a big shooters fan, and this game is great. The Graphics 
 are great, the Gameplay is down right amazing, and overall, it's just a really good game. Get this 
 game because it's a game that you will play a lot. This game really does have everything that you 
 want in a SWAT game. The online play is very good too. There arenb't any **** on it, which is a 
 good thing. I need 100 words, so, here's my summary, again.
  
  This game has a lot of action in it, I'm a big shooters fan, and this game is great. The Graphics 
 are great, the Gameplay is down right amazing, and overall, it's just a really good game. Get this 
 game because it's a game that you will play a lot. This game really does have everything that you 
 want in a SWAT game. The online play is very good too. There arenb't any **** on it, which is a 
 good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  If you are dreaming of becoming a real SWAT officer - it is your chance!
  This game is full of realism, everything that you will do - will find its reaction in the mission. 
 The gameplay is all about controling a group of SWAT devided into two teams, you can control both 
 of them plus each member of the team!
  I won't be wasting time on describing the game itself because you can read it all in the review 
 on Gamespot. so I will move to the pluses and minuses of the game.
  The good in this game is: realism, easy control, you can choose any difficulty from master, where 
 you must capture all terrs alive plus recover the hostages and weapones of gang thugs.
  The bad: is that sometimes your team turning out to become too rude, they can kill the terrorist 
 without trying to capture them, plus a very difficult choise, sometimes you must save the hostage 
 without killing the terr who is trying to kill you!
  All I can say, if you like the realistic games - Here it is!
  But if you like shooters, turn 
 on the easiest mode, in it you have a permission for killing all thugs and PLAY!
  Tahir "Yazon" Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comentryme
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  okay. lets get straight into it
  SOLO: 8/10
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  excellent. not too above and beyond.
  PRO
  the swat player models look perfect, extremely detailed, 
 and dynamic too, you can check your AI's equipments by looking at their belts. the environments 
 look and feel as they should, gritty tenements, complex buildings, elaborate offices, it really 
 draws you in.
  CON
  the other models, suspects, and hostages, are pretty blocked out, still good looking, but noticeably 
 less than swat models.
  
  SOUND 7/10
  
  PRO
  excellent, good audio tracks.
  CON
  some cutting out, but thats it. Best sounds occur in firefights... which are often quick and decisive. 
 so you don't hear the best it has to offer a lot of times.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10 
  but can range from 1/10 to 10/10 simply because of the way you will adapt to the game. its not 
 an ordinary FPS, rather than blasting away, you seriously gotta hold the trigger, many missions 
 will fail you if you kill a civilian, or if you kill a suspect who is not life-threatening (to 
 you or anyone else) or kill a suspect who has given up. the difficulty ramps up at a ridiculous 
 pace, the first mission has 2 suspects, the second has 1, the third has well over 4, and the fourth 
 has around 15 ive not got past this one
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 7.5/10
  CO-OP: 10/10
  my favorite, its the same thing as the solo story, but you don't have to lead the AI, you can work 
 together with friends or strangers. ive beaten many missions like this, and still cant in story.
 
  
  VIP: ??/10
  one "swattie" as i call them, is the VIP, who must be protected. if suspects arrest him *yes, thats 
 possible* and hold him for 2 minutes, they win, however, ive never yet got the hang of it, so i 
 don't feel right voicing an opinion on it.
  
  Barricaded Suspects: 6/10
  its like deathmatch, Swat vs. Suspect, and is surprisingly fun, thanks to many different play styles 
 and teamwork...
  
  Rapid Deployment ??/10
  3-5 bombs are placed on the map, swatties must disarm them, while suspect team tries to stop them. 
 its actually fun, but im still learning this mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togu_cs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is 1 extremely cool game for all close quarter battle fanatics. Regardless of single player 
 or multiplayer mode, high teamwork and in door fighting tactics are required. It's not another 
 cs-like runaround bang bang game, in swat 4, you gotta go slow, plan your route well, learn how 
 to arrest your enemies instead of just bloodshed killing. The game could be better if there's an 
 option to cut out the wire, and fight with night vision goggles. That'll be so cool!
  
  I like the online playing mode very much. No monthly subscription **** at least. Loading is fast, 
 instructions are pretty straightforward. 
  
  Good Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzigxmisfits
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is visually impressive also the gameplay is very in-depth. Many controls. The only down 
 fall is teh lack of weapons. I hope Stechkov solves that problemo. I play it very often anyone 
 wants to lay along iwith me or my caln we are KonAir2 my names are ^KonAir2|JohnnyCash! or ^KonAir2|Alex!.
 
  Swat 4 is about the best first person shooter I have played to date. The sound is awesome, ambiance 
 is great. Listening for footsteps is vital. You'll end up dead if you just go guns a blazign. Tactics 
 work very well so enjoy if you purchase it. I say you should buy it if you want to play one of 
 the best (in my opinon) first person shooters out there/. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  SWAT4 is a very simple game, yet it has some base elements which display realistic moments whilst 
 playing the game.
  The overall feeling of the game is being a SWAT leader as follows, and while storming buildings 
 that have been captured by terrorists or by simple criminals, it definatly feels like you really 
 are.
  And the gameplay which offers quite impressive team commands, makes you feel total control over 
 your squad, and enlarges the opportunities that this game brings towards the player.
  
  And the graphics that are perfectly executed, and the level designs that deserve to be worshipped, 
 are another addittion to this title, which certainly brings the series to a whole new level and 
 excites the player.
  In addition, the character models are designed so that they look real, and speaking about the SWAT 
 models, they are just plain cool looking.
  And even though the graphics are so awesome, it won't be easy to enjoy them, since the game is 
 quite demanding on the hardware side, mostly on the videocard, but you can always lower the settings 
 cant you?
  
  Speaking of the value, there is a big chance of it being replayable, since the game spawns all 
 enemies in a random location, and the difficulty settings are also quite nifty, it's a total different 
 game when playing on hard instead of easy.
  The multiplayer also adds up value - playing with other players online is just solid fan and should 
 not be missed.
  
  So if you enjoyed any of the previous SWAT game, this should definatly be worth your time, and 
 even if you didnt, then it still should be worth your time, just because it's the best tactical 
 shooter you are to find.
  If you are looking for one that is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWH_SureFire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  The game lacks in things that could of been done. It could of beaten swat3 but it lacked in some 
 common sense stuff. Other then that its a well made game! The game is also a letdown from what 
 everyone thought it would be. Like most of us were made to belive we would be able to snipe people 
 with our own snipen rifles but this is not the case you have a second person in the window mirror 
 where you can look and shoot but you cant run around and use the rifle. So some stuff like that 
 was just sadly a big let down for us that love to snipe people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustadog1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  .... you wont be disapointed 
  
  i know this game has been out for a while now but im new to it and i am so shocked that such a 
 brilliant game didnt have much advertisement, mainly because it is far better than many games ive 
 seen advertised on tv,
  
  the only thing that is a disapointment through my eyes, is that i didnt pick it up sooner.
  
 
  the online game play is probs the best online shooter ever
  
  1 its free..... unlike ur mmorpg monthly paying crap
  
  2. its a friendly environment
  
  
 3. if u have only version 1.0 it doesnt matter because there are rooms for both plus v 1.1 doesnt 
 have alot of difference (but the update can be downloaded off here)
  
  4. no cheaters or hackers ( and if u are a cheater/hacker dont buy this game)
  
  if you consider 
 getting this game HAVE FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  OK, Swat 4 is a good tactical game where you don't need to kill the bad guys. It's better to restrain 
 them. swat 4 includes some very interesting missions. It has good weapons with realistic sound 
 and damage. A little boring is that you have to restrain every civilian and if they don't surrender 
 you must use a taser gun or a less lethal shotgun. It' good that you listen to the briefing so 
 that you know who are the suspect and who are victims. Mission include kidnap's, robbery's, murder's 
 and stuff of this nature. The game is interesting if you discount how quickly can you die if you 
 get shot. On the other hand it's very realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a squad-based first-person tactical shooter that realistically simulates the tactics 
 and equipment of SWAT teams as they engage in tense, high-risk missions. As an element leader of 
 SWAT, the player is responsible for leading two SWAT teams, each consisting of a pair of officers, 
 as they engage in hostage rescues, counter-terrorism raids, and high-risk arrests. Its good that 
 you have to make arrests and not just shoot people this is new game play that we or should I say 
 I want. It makes a refreshing difference the controls are a little bit hard to get to grips with 
 at first but after time become easy to the hands and brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Awesome equipment in this game because the game shows what SWAT actually uses in real life. Like 
 I never knew that they actually use a shotgun to breach the door and that you use the optiwand 
 to find suspects or civillans. Not to mention that the missions you have are pretty cool. That 
 one mission called "Fairfax Residence" (I think that's what it is called) I just never get enough 
 of that mission because the guy you have to neutralize is a psycho and he captures teen girls : ( 
 now when I heard that. I just couldn't get enough of torturing the psycho guy. Like using the teaser 
 gun at him repeateditly. Anyways the game is good, not to mention the AI is superb because the 
 guys will obey any orders. Like the open, gas and clear command. I love that command. I also like 
 if the civillan isn't obeying your command and that you have to teaser him to restrain him (Can't 
 get enough with the teaser) All overall the game is definite must buy for tactical shooters and 
 people that like maybe shooters. 
  
  Note: For those who say that this game has spyware and adaware and they said you need a patch. 
 Don't download the patch! The person just wants you to ruin your computer with viruses. That's 
 a warning. I haven't got spyware or adaware yet from the game and had it for 5 weeks with NO PATCHES! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 really takes the cake in todays games. After the disastours SWAT 2 I kno I didnt excpect 
 such a great looking game. The AI is smarter then you and are hard as heck to kill they'll run 
 from you pretend to drop there gun even shut the door in front of you. and because it take 5 shots 
 to kill you with there pistal your pretty screwed if your not on every second. It really shows 
 you what being a swat officer really is like. Finally you can be in there shoes. THere are a couple 
 downside though the walking 1 MPH gets a little frustrating if you trying to chase a suspect you 
 can do 2 things shoot him or try and chase him for 30 minutes until he shoots you and you die. 
 Also you have to tell your guys to follow you every 5 seconds or else the'll go and get some Pizza 
 or something. Talking about your men DO NOT TRY AND KILL THEM BECAUSE THEY WILL SHOOT AT YOU AND 
 KILL YOU. Overall this game is pretty sweet but is hard and frustrating due to the no save points 
 during a mission soo goo pick it up if you like that kind of stuff.
  
  SWAT 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 puts you in charge of a team of 5 (including yourself) elite cops. While at first glance 
 it looks like any other shooter, the gameplay is much more intense, methodical and overall rewarding. 
 The main difference between this game and countless others is the realism and the SWAT Rules of 
 Engagement. You see, contrary to what TV and cinema might have you believe, SWAT officers can't 
 just barge into a room and shoot everyone in it that doesn't look like a hostage and then go have 
 a beer. Officers cannot use lethal force unless it's obvious the suspect plans to. This leads to 
 tense situations when you can have your weapon trained on a bad guy yet be uncertain as to what 
 he's going to do and find yourself hoping he'll surrender. Add to this the fact that a burst of 
 bullets will kill and you've got a shooter unlike any other. Fortunately, you have various tools 
 to aid you like flashbangs, gas grenades, tasers and the indispensible optic cable for sliding 
 under doors. As mentioned before, you have to be precise and methodical in SWAT 4. Check a room 
 for baddies, bang/gas/enter as needed, secure suspects/civilians, repeat. This may sound boring 
 but keep in mind the average shooter is just enter, kill, repeat, no matter what graphics it's 
 wrapped up in. 
  The AI of your teammates is good. Occasionally a member will get confused and refuse to budge from 
 a room, but this doesn't happen often enough to detract from the experience. If anything, your 
 buddies are too lenient. In some situations you'll find your teammates give the perp too many chances 
 to surrender and get shot as a result. The enemy will usually get ventilated by a different officer, 
 but you lose points when an officer is down. Therefore you can play SWAT 4 by just handing out 
 orders as needed but it's much better to get engaged. 
  The sound in the game is excellent and immersive. For example when bursting into a room you've 
 just gassed, you'll hear coughing and swearing from the suspects, screaming from hostages and above 
 all that your squadmates yelling at everyone to put down their weapons. It's no wonder the mission 
 objectives always require you to "bring order to chaos."
  The control could be complicated, but thanks to some great design choices, it's intuitive and simple. 
 The orders you can give depend on where your cursor is pointing, so telling your team to storm 
 a room is as simple as pointing at the door and pressing a button or two. Likewise there's a magic 
 button that serves as both your "hands up" shout and a reporting mic back to HQ, which you must 
 keep up to date on all occurences lest you want to lose points at the end. 
  The score system is challenging enough, meaning that passing the mission and securing everyone 
 will probably let you move on but if you want higher scores you'll need to report to HQ regularly 
 and pacifiy rather than kill. Plus, if you think that replaying a level several times will allow 
 you to get 'into the groove' and proceed like clockwork, think again, because SWAT 4 randomizes 
 NPC placement, so you're never sure whether the religious fanatic that was in the bathroom will 
 be there the second time around. This is by far the best part about the game, as you can know the 
 level but still have to be alert and profesional. 
  
  Perhaps the main compliment to SWAT is that you'll start feeling like a proper officer and will 
 assess rooms by how tactically safe they are and be wary of any corner behind which danger may 
 be lurking. Any FPS fan looking for a change can't go wrong with SWAT 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NINsane69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The story mode will bore you because of it's repeditiveness though the online play is another story. 
 Take it from me, the graphics are beautiful, even on a basic PC. And controlling your squad is 
 a very gripping experience. Some things could be better, for instance, the AI is a bit retarded 
 and missions are sometimes way to tedious, but overall, a sweet game. The online play will knock 
 your socks off. I find myself constantly forgetting to eat because I'm so caught up in the phenominal 
 missions. This game is very LAN-worthy and i suggest having a couple of friends buy it also so 
 you can all stratigize on vent or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is the best First Person Shooter I have played since Battle Field 2. This game contains 
 a large amount of commands, realistic encounters with the environment (e. g. when a flash bang goes 
 boom, some containers will fall over and the contents inside will spill) , and seems like the suspects 
 and civlians actually have feelings. Being able to handcuff people instead of killing them. It 
 is quite cool because some civlians will refuse to get down when you well at them, and you may 
 have to shoot them with the pepper ball paint ball gun, or shoot them with the taser. The graphics 
 are top of the line, except when you put the fat people in zipcuffs sometimes their left arm will 
 go into there back, being half hidden half exsposed. This game is very good, and was worth the 
 $49.99 I spent for it. You can expect alot of swearing in this game though. Most of the suspects 
 will yell "S***!" when they see you, or yell "F*** you copper!" This game is very realistic for 
 the ragdolls, when you shoot a suspect, their bodies will not fall through the walls, they will 
 fall back into things and knock them down, or roll down stairs, and their guns will bounce around 
 when they drop them, and the fall of an edge or something. Your tea, is VERY smart, along with 
 the suspects, the civilians do tend to get stupid when the lead starts flying though, some will 
 scream when they see you, and the suspects will get a head start on the shooting. This game does 
 include the R. O. E. (Rules of Engagement) , so you will have to hold your fire on stubborn civilians 
 and will have to yell first, then shoot the suspects. Having the two snipers to back you up is 
 awesome, this is hole game is absolutely flawless to me. It does have multiple problems too. In 
 one level you bust some cults, and the civilians will actually help the suspects! And in one level 
 the news gives away your position, and the suspects get yet another head start to flex their trigger 
 fingers. This game has gone down in price since I bought it (Bought it two days after it came out 
 for $49.99) . This game leaves me with nothing else to say but, BUY IT!!! This game is also quite 
 easy to catch onto, the multiplayer is very good, the guns sound real, along with the explosions, 
 along with the blood, when you shoot someone, and they are close to a wall or something else, the 
 blood will splatter onto that object, and there will be a hole wherever you shot them. THIS GAME 
 ROCKS, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a hardcore tactical game, just the way I like it. You will not enjoy it if you expect 
 the usual from the "F5" or "F6" key though...
  
  In SWAT 4 you lead a team of 4 police men as you enter various locations to do the dirty work of 
 arresting armed and dangerous criminals. The early missions are what I suspect are the usual SWAT 
 situations where you have to arrest one or a few bad guys in their home. However, the dificulty 
 picks up quickly and some of the later missions are more like warzones than anything else. Whatever 
 happens however, you are supposed to keep your cool and offer everyone a chance to surrender. This 
 is in fact what makes SWAT so special.
  
  
  Compared to SWAT 3, a few things stand out. The AI of your teammates is much improved, so they 
 are now at least able to stack up at a door and flashbang the room without exposing themselves 
 too embarassingly. On the other hand a few nice touches of SWAT 3 are gone. Disarmed suspects no 
 longer pick up their weapons and turn on you if you turn your back at them. Missions are less varied 
 as well. Your fellow officers' inguries also never carry over to later missions, everyone is automagically 
 healed in time for the next mission.
  
  SWAT 4 introduces a substantial array of non-lethal weapons, but your teammates are hardly able 
 to use them to good effect, and they are unable to forcibly disarm uncooperative suspects on their 
 own.
  
  Now on to the good: the graphics are highly detailed; all of the 13-ish missions are littered with 
 everyday items, such as tools, cans, magazines, clothes etc. resulting in a highly realistic environment. 
 The audio is particularly impressive, from the gun sounds to the very high number of spoken lines 
 for the suspects that you arrest, it's excellent. New insults
  every time!
  
  Bottom line: if you're into tactical shooters, you'll have to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of SWAT 3 on it's days, becuase of the realism and AI and the whole 
 system with the team commands. When I first saw SWAT 4 I thought they were going to make some kind 
 of a american run & gun game with a couple of commands but I was all wrong. 
  
  This game is have to be the best tactical shooter out there, in terms of realism and what catches 
 me really bad is that the briefing is so excellent and that you can choose less-lethal weapons 
 which makes me cry some tears in happiness, finally is it possible to in fact catch the bad guys 
 without having that thought in the back of your head that you're gonna get so gunhappy that you'll 
 kill the suspects and the hostage becuase of some reason. 
  
  And with Less-Lethal weaponary , with the Taser pistol which is a electronic pistol that is designed 
 just to give unwilling suspects and civilians such a pain that they'll basicly surrender and some 
 Tear Gas it's often that you'll finish a mission without having anyone get hurt and that's rewarding 
 you greatly in terms of the ranking you'll get efter all missions and you'll feel proud of yourself 
 (yeah actually)
  
  The AI in the game is excellent and you'll have to act correctly to not injure yourself, your team, 
 any hostage, and try to stay away from killing the suspects if they're not pointing their weapons 
 at you or your team. This makes this game very stradegical, and from the information from the briefing 
 you'll have to pick weapons, type of ammo and other gear currectly for you and your team to most 
 succesfully finish the missions.
  
  And if you're having a couple of friends or having a couple of computers connected to a LAN there's 
 nothing cooler than to go co-op with your friends over it. Even tho there's no use of mic in this 
 game it uses really great system for playing co-op together over either Internet or LAN with a 
 big list of maps, gear, commands and such you'll have to work as a team in the best possible way 
 and communicate with the commands (it sounds very annoying but it isn't and it's very effective) 
 
  Or if you just want to take on your friends on some team deathmatch-like play instead you'll find 
 all the gear from the single player into the multiplayer which is a great idea and works very well, 
 you'll have to choose between gas-mask which protects you from CS Gas (Tear Gas Grenades) and other 
 gases but gives you a restricted line of sight and no protection against projectiles as the standard 
 helmet does but the helmet doesn't provide any gas-protection, so you're going to make a correct 
 choice even in the non-co-op modes in the multiplayer. 
  
  To end with, SWAT 4 is a game all fans of previous games gotta get or for those who just want a 
 correct, realistic tactical shooter and are looking for a great time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello_skoharry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  even though i have only played the demo and i have yet to play the full game i though swat 4 to 
 be very fun..... its basically has if you were in SWAT.... im asking for the full game for Christmas... the 
 thing i love the most about the game is the tactics... i love that beanbag shotgun you just go 
 in there and shoot the suspect with it and then command him yo drop the weapon and get on his knee's... then 
 you arrest him.... i also like arresting the civilians.... its funny when you shoot one of your team 
 mates with a gun that has bullets for ammo... cause they shoot you and somehow always end up killing 
 you... even with a beanbag shotgun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsoJani
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  This game has been made very well and one of the best things are, that you can play it again and 
 again... Plus the multi-player game is a lot of fun.
  
  In this game, guns do kill and you should only use it as last resort. Thats the way to do it :) 
 
  I think that this is the way were shooting games should head on. Meaning that games are too simple 
 and has unnecessary violence, but this kind of action is... good?
  
  Police games should be more and they should be more like this one! 
  "I'm loving it !" ;)
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilso326
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  Unlike other FPS games, Swat 4 doesn't have a lot of shooting to do. The exciting parts of Swat 
 4 are when you survive. Killing someone in Swat isn't hard, it usually takes less than 3 shots. 
 It doesn't take much skill to shoot at someone, but it takes skill to shoot him before he shoots 
 you, and make sure you only shoot at the right targets. There are a lot of civilians and hostages 
 running around, so you will usually bring a non-lethal weapon to bring down hostages who won't 
 calm down and so you won't kill a hostage while shooting at a suspect. Swat is fun to play, but 
 some missions are boring because you have to be so careful and you lose score for making tiny mistakes, 
 like forgetting to take a suspect's weapon, or for accidentaly shooting a hostage.
  
  The graphics in Swat aren't so great, the hostages and suspects look really cartoony and they have 
 really low-res textures. The swat guys look pretty good, but some of their body proportions are 
 wrong. The bullet impact effects are pretty lame, you just see a small flash when you hit concrete, 
 but when you hit a suspect or a hostage, you see a lot of blood squirting out, but it doesn't leave 
 a decal on them. The lighting effects are shadows are good though.
  
  The game's sound is okay, there isn't a lot of music, but fast paced beats start up when you clear 
 a room, but that's about all the music you hear. The swat operatives will yell at suspects to drop 
 their weapons, and hostages to get down, but it sounds really stupid sometimes because they are 
 all yelling at the same time and the sounds start overlapping and you can't make out what anybody 
 is saying. The weapon sounds are all quiet, almost as if they were all silenced, and they aren't 
 satisfying at all.
  
  There's a few other odd things that don't fit in, like the crazy rag doll physics (dead bodies 
 keep wiggling even when they're not being shot at or touched) , the way it takes so many shots to 
 take down a suspect and that they are usually still alive when they are taken down, and the way 
 the AI does stupid things like when the swat operatives all crowd around each other during a firefight 
 and try to make themselves easy targets for the bad guys, and when the suspects try to shoot you 
 through a door or other objects that can't be shot through.
  
  Swat 4 is a fun game to play, but there isn't as much shooting as there are in other tactical FPS 
 games, because there a less suspects and more hostages running around, and you have to identify 
 who is who and take down the right guys before they shoot you. That kind of action makes it fun, 
 but if you only like FPS games where you just shoot stuff like quake or halo, you probably won't 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmond13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  stunning graphics... and great sounds... keeps u excited... but i thought the gameplay to be a 
 little slow unlike real life.. cant wait for the expansion!!!
  
  VU has made the SWAT series more 'user friendly' i guess. When you play the game, you really feel 
 like you are a SWAT officer. Something many games of similar genres failed to achieve. SWAT4 did 
 it rather successfully. I was drawn to it when i was playing the demo.. Woah... i instantly went 
 "DAMN I MUST GET IT" and i bought my copy on the first day of launch.
  
  So now. For the expansion? New guns, skins. and maps. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing I would change about SWAT 4 it is as fun online then it is when playing a career. 
 The game pace is probably the slowest I have ever experienced in a game but it is still fun. What 
 I like most is how smooth it runs. This game is not picky with video cards. I have a Radeon 9250 
 PCI that is barely compatible with my motherboard and it still runs SWAT 4 nice and smooth with 
 low res. and high detail. I'd say it is one of the best looking games I have ever played, even 
 though I usually play on low detail I know how good it could look if I had a video card that had 
 better performance. It runs average with my system (2.2GHz CPU, 512MB RAM, Radeon 9250) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari_man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games of the year. the singleplayer action is great and you feel like 
 you are an officer. some down sides are: there are no vehicles but then again it is swat. the good 
 thing are how accurate they the weapons were compared to the ones in the real world and the details 
 of the environment but the shapes are kind of off but the graphics are still good. you get to command 
 your own squad. so this is one of the best games of this year and i would recommend this game to 
 anyone who doesn't mind swearing suspects. if you find this game hard then just keep playing one 
 level over and over again until you get the hang of it. once you fell ready begin to kick some 
 thief asses! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 is absolutely astonishing. For one thing, you don't need a flawless Pc to play it, so we 
 all know that's just great! For another, the game takes you behind the heads of swat soldiers in 
 a squad. Now yes, it is just another police game, but this is the SWAT, and this is A GAME. A good 
 game. The sound is flawless. It is so amazing. It sounds more realistic than anything I've ever 
 played. It sounds more real than real itself. The voiceacting is at it's best. I know it, it can't 
 get any better, trust me. The gun fire sounds so similar to real life firing. The graphics in the 
 game again, are near flawless. Everything from character models, to weapons and furniture, just 
 seems incredibly well done. I can't believe what I see, it even beats out Doom 3. The environments 
 look good, but they are a bit small, but that isn't too much to worry about in this game. The gameplay 
 is very smooth. It isn't happy town funny fun forever place, but it's still pretty cool. Your really 
 feel like you're in a SWAT team. You have limited ammo, and you bust into peoples' houses to solve 
 cases. Only execute resisting enemies, because again, you have limited ammo, and you could fail 
 the mission. The enemies are so brilliant. From classic killers, to grandmas hiding viruses in 
 test tubes. This game is for you, it's a tactical shooter not to miss. If you like Fps or TS, just 
 go grab this, your Pc will probably handle it as well!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 its a nice game.... its realy fun to play it
  because you realy think you are on swat..
  all that blowing stuff and the screaming and arrest 
 people is really cool
  and not all the time they are listeninng so its making the game more fun...
  but your swat team 
 some times making you want to kill them...
  some times they are just stending without doing any thing and then they die!!: (
  but overall 
 swat 4 is cool game and allso the mulyplayer is cool....
  when ther are the swat team and the terror team... its fun with the bombs that u can plant the bombs 
 and the watch that the swat wont defuse it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisKrishna
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Hey Focks,
  I got the SWAT 4 its spectacular i loved it. Okay the review.
  
  Gameplay is good in the game its just realistic as we are playing real SWAT missions. Gameplay 
 is better than of SWAT 3. In SWAT 3 the communicating with our team members is hard because we 
 have to press number key and soo miserable yuck : ( but in SWAT 4 makers changed ith and done to 
 the mouse duty and it really makes me good and a cheezy smile:) 
  Graphics is also good.... emmmm normal the frame rate and the Pixel Shader 2.0 runs so smooth frames 
 in my computer (I uses a GEforce FX 5600 series) . Anyways guns are so detailed even my favorite 
 Shotgun and M16 
  are detailed good. 
  Sound is medium yup I hate the the sound when everyone shouts "put ur weapons down" any way its 
 cool. 
  This game is not too good but no too bad its an editors choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraydiego
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Frist player good but really cool part is you can go online to replace all of your AI in first 
 player. But don't think the AI is worst even seen in game they smart but baby sitting them boring 
 you have to issue so many order but the good new is online so you can play with 4 player. So in 
 story mode you can pick your weapon and your AI parther weapon also grenade 3 type flashbang , 
 CS gas or what we call tear gas, and stinger a grenade that shoot rubber ball that hurt also door 
 wedge that stop door from opening and opiwand that show what behind it.
  
  now multiplayer 16 people can play. You can pick your gun and armor also grenade. In multiplayer 
 you can kill for 1 point or arrest for 5 point to arrest just stun them with grenade or less lethal 
 weapon like bean bag shotgun or paint ball gun. Now there 3 type of game on multiplayer: Barricaded 
 suspects, VIP escort, Rapid deployment. Now barricaded suspects is you get point by kill or arrest. 
 VIP escort is when SWAT team member is randomly pick to be VIP so for SWAT team to win is to bring 
 VIP to exit area in the level or if the other team kill VIP ,for the other team to win is to arrest 
 VIP for 2 min than kill him after 2 min are up or if SWAT team kill VIP. Rapid deployment is 3 
 or 5 bombs randomly placed on level. For SWAT team to win disable all bombs before timer run out 
 for the other team to win just stop SWAT from disable all bombs until timer runout. That all mode 
 for multiplayer.
  
  So that the game hope you like my review and please get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric-meech
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Its saturday night, you have nothing to do, you see your computer in the corner of your house, 
 Well your saturday wouldn't be that boring anymore because you just remembered that you have Swat 
 4 game on your hard drive. What I mean by that is Swat 4 is a great game to spend time on it. It 
 makes a dependance with this Intense Acion game. The graphics are great and you dont need a powerful 
 machine to run this game. It only takes a 500 mhz processor to run. What I like about this game 
 is that the criminals are never at the same place, so everytime you play a level, its alway like 
 the first time.
  
  I recommand it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of the most realistic games in the industry. People who like exciting FPS will 
 have to adjust to like this game: this is because you are not allowed to shoot poeple unless they 
 attack you first. The aim of this game is to carry out SWAT scenarios and arrest suspects, and 
 bring order to chaos. 
  
  One shot kills, mirrors under doors, material penetration, aits all there. You can order your team 
 members around and even take control of the SWAT snipers and shoot suspects before the entry team 
 goes in.
  
  The sound, gameplay and everything else is awesome (if you've played Half-Life 2 you'll know what 
 these graphics are like) . Definetely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageTrickster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  SWAT4 was a new one for me as I have never played a SWAT game before. I found it instanley refreshing 
 using the real gadgets to stealth your way into a capture of a bad guy.
  
  After completing your mission you are rated, which defines the dificulty as well - you cant kill 
 anyone to be able to keep a high score, let alone lose one of your 4 team members. 
  
  The game reminds me of Raven Shield, but you cant control your hole team in SWAT4 as in Raven Shield, 
 instead you boss them about telling them what to do.
  
  The visuals are nice and the sound is realistic.
  
  Recomended to any one whos looking for 
 a tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElipticalGauge
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  The SWAT series (especially SWAT 3) has set standards for Tactical First Person Shooters in its 
 time. With the release of SWAT 4, it has set some of the most highest standards in realistic tactical 
 gameplay.... or has it?
  
  SWAT 4, in my opinion, didn't match my view of when I first thought of the sequel after SWAT 3... I 
 was expecting more realistic, yet more fun, version of the game, but after playing it I was somewhat 
 disappointed. Graphics are great, and the sound samples are a bit crisp, but theres alot of "flash" 
 but not enough "bang" to it.
  
  The A. I. could use alot of an improvement, and the command/control interface could have sticked 
 with the classic SWAT 3 (numbers 1-9) configuration. I just get disappointed when the Officer A. I. 
 points his rifle and the suspect has his gun pointing back at him, he doesn't shoot back until 
 the suspect opens the first shot. If you were the officer, wouldn't you shoot back first if you 
 had a gun pointed to you?
  
  Graphics, at least, were the good part of the game. Very detailed, precise, and realistic. Animation 
 and movements were somewhat smooth, but overall good graphics.
  
  SWAT 3 was also good for the easy mods you can install and manage with it's MOD Manager, and also 
 the variety of weapons/maps it could handle. Call me picky if you think I am, but I thought the 
 configuration of weapons and gear could've been a bit more customizable (but then again we're not 
 talking about a NFS: Underground type of customization) .
  
  Sounds in this game were pretty crisp, but just doesn't sound right; a bit too much bass (and no 
 its not my computer config/speakers set at 100% full bass) . Most of the gunshots sound like grenade 
 explosion sample sounds played at 10x speed, and most of the flashbang/stinger grenades sound like 
 mini-nukes: could've done better in this department but it wasn't a major factor that influenced 
 the final judgment.
  
  Multiplayer was pretty decent, but in my opinion was short lived. The methods of hosting/joining 
 games were a major overhaul than SWAT 3's easy version. If you want to play a good 'ol CO-OP, expect 
 to get a bag of popcorn and wait through the loading/synchronizing/and joining the right gameroom.
 
  
  Overall, an "OK" game. For SWAT 3 veterans, you may find this a major change from where you're 
 coming from. For newbies, you may love it or you may hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 2, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I tried and tried but could not get used to trying to fit throuh a door or hallway
  with 4 other guys at the same time. Tried shooting them all and "lone wolfing" it but it didn't 
 work. I do have a suggestion though. How about a 
  squad based shooter that actually works together like a squad. To me a
  squad is merely a gesture 
 and a rather empty one at that. About the only plus that I can think of is having weapons and being 
 able to shoot them.
  Other than that, limber up those knees for the corridor crawl and have at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  Tactical shooters tend to be a big hit and miss. Some people love the idea of realism mixed in 
 with First Person Shooting, others however, don't. I'm actually in the middle. Games that are unrealistic 
 can be surprisingly fun, but sometimes, it's the simulators and real like games that you want to 
 try out and play. Swat 4 does just that. It's got to be the best tactical shooter ever made.
  
  Swat 4 has an excellent career mode, where you'll spend most of your time playing. It has 13 
 different levels that are in your ordinary every day locations. Night clubs, gas stations, fast 
 food restraunts, and homes. Yet the briefing gives you some fantastic and believable news about 
 whats going on in that location. The game itself isn't terribly long, but this is where the replay 
 value really kicks in. No matter what your doing in that level, all the suspects and civilians 
 will be in a different location. This is really nice and keeps you on the edge of your seat at 
 all times.
  
  In Swat 4 you have 5 other teamates with you at all times. Well unless they die that is. Anyway 
 though, these 5 other teamates are really smart and you can give them direct on commands to arrest 
 suspects, kill them, raid a room, or arrest a civilian. Of course, you dont' have to arrest any 
 suspect, you can just kill them, but then the overall ranking screen to pass will be lowered. It's 
 also worth noting that if a terrorist or suspect kills a hostage you automatically fail the level, 
 but you can keep on playing that level you want, which is really nice.
  
  The game itself has some twists and some of the places you visit, such as the cult apartment building, 
 is very well done and pretty creepy thanks to some great audio and superb voice acting that kicks 
 in at the right time. The audio is easily the highlight along with some of the best weapon sounds 
 I've ever heard in a shooter.
  
  The graphics are also really well done. The levels and surroundings look great along with some 
 spot on textures and character animations. This is one slick looking game.
  
  Since this is a tactical shooter, you won't get far being the one man army. This is a game about 
 cooperating and working together. You have to rely on your teamates and everyone could get killed 
 in about 2 shots. You also can't get hit that much because not only will you risk dying, but you 
 also can't move that fast. 
  
  You have to arrest pretty much every suspect, this can be very easy thanks to some upgrades and 
 changes from Swat 3. You no longer have to worry about the suspect getting away or turning against 
 you when you arrest them.
  
  The game really strikes it big with the equipment you have to use. You have to choose carefully 
 and choose for your whole team. Your arsenal is quite large, ranging from shotguns to pistols to 
 taser guns to tactical gernades and everything in between. Even some unforgetable machine gun weapon 
 sounds and recoil awaits. Every weapons is a joy to use and every weapon has perfect recoil on 
 it making short bursts almost necessary unless you like shooting the ceiling.
  
  Speaking of celieing, most of the levels you in is indoor, so having long range weapons isn't always 
 the best tactic, so thinking when choosing your gear is wise.
  
  In most of the levels you just arrest and secure the area down. There's no real story, just levels. 
 This is actually the only real shortcoming I can find. You don't do a whole lot other than this, 
 although you do have to disarm a bomb in one level and collect certain items in another level, 
 but that's just about it. But that's ok, because the shooting never gets dull and I sometimes just 
 fired off a few shots just to get a big smile from the sounds. The game really motivates you to 
 keep going and it's not hard to be engrossed by the game because the level structure is really 
 well done and so isn't the random suspect and civilian placement too.
  
  The game is just tons of fun, your enemies are really smart, and I can't think of one reason not 
 to play Swat 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cryptic_code
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 is a enjoyable FPS and is slower paced compared to such games as Counter-Strike. The game's 
 graphics are a bit dated (I think they use the unreal engine) but doesn't subtract from the overall 
 experience. The sound quality in this game is excellent! What I really like about this game is 
 the CO-OP mode which you can play with friends or other people on LAN or the internet. You can 
 play through all the single-player missions, but the only downside is no bots in CO-OP. So in conclusion 
 if you want to try something a little different from fast action shooters, give this game a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buyakia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  this game is great online with your friends especially but they NEED a mic system with it which 
 of course is coming in the furture expansion for this game. this game didnt take much skill because 
 you go so slow anyways but i guess that is the point of a slow paced tactical shooter lol. i LOVE 
 LOVE LOVE!!!!!!!! tactical games such as the bf series because if everyone works together it makes 
 you wanna die to play with the same people u are playing with at that moment over and over again. 
 and everyone should hate when people say o ill go off on my own so i can die and you guys get 1 
 less guy to have fun with because i would rather die by going in by myself. this game was great 
 but again it gets boring pretty quick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalv
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I never really excepted a good game. I was just in the mood for swat for sum odd reason and this 
 game is AMAZING, LOVE IT! 
  Pros:
  Very realistic gameplay
  Good sound
  Enemies are put randomly
  Realistic AI
  New read team and blue team
  
  Cons:
  Not enough 
 campaign missions
  some missions are WAY to long
  if killed have to start alllllll over again
  
  Buy this game, you will be suprised. This game 
 accualy involves thinking. Very realistic, you dont go to a room guns blazing, you basically lose 
 the game if you shoot and innocent person or even a suspect who isn't a threat. ( Some enemies 
 trick you ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4, offers a new challenge to Squad based FPS fans. Rarely is your objective to kill the bad 
 guys but rather to take them alive, this is completely different from any military game of the 
 same genre. While you can equip your team with lethal weapons you can also equip them with less 
 or non-lethal weapons, such as mace, shock balls, beanbag shotgun rounds, etc. 
  While this is all well and good the game does have what I see as flaws: it does not give you the 
 ability like in Rainbow six to plan out and coordinate your teams movements, the AI of your squad 
 mates is okay but I've seen smarter and finally it does not use the full arsenal available to real 
 swat teams. 
  
  On the positive side the game does have a easy to use command menu for issuing commands to your 
 teammates plus a in game camera which allows you to watch their progress should you decide to split 
 up. 
  The Missions are varied and enjoyable and the easy to use mission editor means if your really creative 
 you can create some nightmarish missions for your team to go on. And even if you're not creative 
 you can still have fun creating new missions. 
  
  In conclusion SWAT 4 is a very good, very fun game for anyone who is into Squad based shooters 
 but does like the micromanagement of Ghost Recon or Rainbow Six
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 is a very detailed tactical shooting game, having some of the real equipment such as the 
 Optiwand, Flashbang, Beanbag Shotgun this game provides FPS to develop more tactics for other games 
 such as Counter-Strike, Battlefield 2, maybe even Halo. This game gives various different commands 
 to order your squad around as your the squad leader. Though their are downsides to this game such 
 as graphics are dated, AI is not as clear and focused they would run around a little or not react 
 as clearly as they would in real life. The sound also is pretty mediocre not a whole lot but a 
 they should've tweaked it a bit more. Gameplay as I said can give more tactics on other FPS games. 
 This game will alomst improve your aiming/targetting skills and how well you can control your gun 
 (the gun goes out of control) .
  
  All in all if your an FPS fan this game is a deffinate for you, it will improve you tactical skills 
 in other games, provide you with more control, and have another game in your collection. If you 
 don't like these types of games that much you should wait atleast till the price is $40-$30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecreamisgood
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 shouldn't be known as a action game. It is more a tactical and teamwork kind of game. I 
 have to say it does look nice, but lacks some qualities of a FPS.
  
  The graphics are topnotch. The environment is very detailed and has everything you'd find in real 
 life. It's cool how you can shoot things off counters and how good the lighting is. The ragdoll 
 of a dead suspect is a bit funky, but their character models are great. You can see all their weapons 
 and grenades on there body when they walk around.
  
  Gameplay is a different matter, however. I found it frustrating that you can't pick off ammo from 
 bad guys or ask your team members for some. Also, it is annoying that you die so easily just because 
 you get caught trying to mirror a corner. You sometimes can't tell who is a hostage or suspect 
 so you can't automatically shoot the person or you get penalized. It is also wierd how the assault 
 rifles have auto fire but the some of the smg's only have burst fire. Although you do get hte most 
 essential squipment for a SWAT officer. Flashbangs, gas cans, doorwedges, optiwands, pepperspray, 
 and sometimes a sniper on the outside of the map.
  There are not much weapons, but the sound of them is great. The best ever is you get to customize 
 a map and the suspects are always placed randomly.
  
  You might not like SWAT 4 at first, especially if you play the hospital map because it is dark 
 and you got people popping out from behind beds, but you get the hang of it. SWAT 4 isn't a real 
 FPS, but if you like the average run and gun game, I often found it fun just not paying attention 
 to points and shoot everyone on the spot. Besides, I got tired of the suspects saying, "took you 
 long enough" after you restrain them with zipcuffs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  Its an amazing police simulation game, I mean I've REALLY enjoyed playing this game to the 
 wee hours of the morning!!
  It's really self explanatory, it's a 1st person shoot'em (more on the strategy side of things though) 
 where you take part in a SWAT team (you actually take part of the leading officer in the team) 
 where you have to answer to different emergency calls all over the city, from a small time arrest 
 at home to a full scale attack on a jewelry company.
  
  The team is actually made up of 5 members (including yourself) a blue team and a red team. You 
 can equip them with all kind of different weapons and SWAT gizmos, then you would be commanding 
 them into action.
  
  The level of control you have over you boys is just amazing, I mean it's a total fighting squad 
 experience where there would be watching each other's back (including yours) , covering doors, you'd 
 even have a sniper watching over you're guys.
  I'm not so sure I can elaborate more on the game but I sure hope I've encouraged you to go out 
 and buy the game, and yes I do mean NOW!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strayato
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game I was hooked for a while, the graphics and especially the realism of the game 
 really stand out. Someone could play a mission over and over without getting bored because the 
 enemies locations change slightly every time so every door you enter you must use caution which 
 adds a bit of suspence to the game, the sound is very good but occasionly it can get annoying from 
 the hostages, and its even more fun when you play the various modes online with real people or 
 a co-op match, VERY GOOD STUFF! I recommend this to who ever likes first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaibiboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  
 
  man itis too difficult to write a hundred words for a game. games r just for playing not for writing.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  fdh
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  hfdh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swat4fanatic200
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  Once I heard that Swat 4 was being cancelled becuase the company was being bought out , I was really 
 disappointed. But then I heard that VU Games and Irrational Games were taking up the task of developing 
 Swat 4 I knew that we could expect great things. The overall feel of the game is great. The only 
 complaint that I have is I dont like the way the command system works. At times you find yourself 
 stuggling to send commands to your team and then you have a guy that comes around the corner and 
 kills because you were too busy trying to send commands to your squad to shoot him. If you like 
 the Swat series I higly suggest that you give this game a try. The graphics are awesome. Compared 
 to the other three games in the series this by far is the greatest improvement. Swat 3 had more 
 of a cartoonish feel to it. Swat 4 gives you more of a lifelike feel. The environment is also awesome. 
 They did a great job on the detail of each level. Overall I highly suggest you give this game a 
 try. Even if you find yourself not liking at first it will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liel234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  me
  a very good game is ramining me far cry and good grafic wait good saund wait good game play waht 
 i can sey? very good game
  a very good game is ramining me far cry and good grafic wait good saund wait good game play waht 
 i can sea very good game is ramining me far cry and good grafic wait good saund wait good game 
 play waht i can sey? very good gamey? very good gamea very good game is ramining me far cry and 
 good grafic wait good saund wait good game play waht i can sey? very good gamea very good game 
 is ramining me far cry and good grafic wait good saund wait good game play waht i can sey? very 
 good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I am really impressed with this game. I wasn't impressed with the previous version. The graphics 
 are really good. The game doesn't have many bugs in it and it plays great. The interface is easy 
 to use. This is as close to the real thing as you can get. SWAT 4 is definately worth purchasing. 
 The multiplayer on it is really fun. It is more of a advanced game then a lot of games are. If 
 you just want to go a shoot everything in site then this game isn't for you. This is very realistic 
 and the equipment used is what a true swat team uses. You are in command of two teams, red and 
 blue. Each team consists of 2 members. As commader of the teams you can have them all with you 
 or split them up and order them remotely using a camera that they have in their helment. You can 
 easily give them commands and instruction on what to do. You even control a sniper that keeps you 
 apprised of where people are at. I was very impressed with how easy it was to learn and really 
 get into. Each time you play a mission it changes the location of civilians and perps so you never 
 have the same situation. The only problem I found is that it's limited to 13 career missions. I 
 really feel they need more career missions or an expansion pack to the game. This is overall one 
 of the best gaming experiences I have had in a while. The action is truly realist and you have 
 full control of your element. The user interface is very simple, but it does take a while to get 
 used to it. I would really take a look at this game if you enjoy FPS mixed with strategy. Keep 
 in mind that you aren't there to shoot everything however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkrock4207
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 29, 2005 2:07 am PT
Review:  Really fun! More fun than the 3rd, but at a price where the jerks at VU sell you out to in game 
 ads that track your computer, do you really think this game is worth getting? I don't!
  Also if you don't believe me, check out www. massiveincorporated. com 
  
  
  
  See all the 
 greedy jerkoff companies that have already joined? Well, the list keeps growing! Pretty soon, no 
 one will be safe. Companies like Sony, Ubisoft, Konami have joined and you can bet that there will 
 be others. Don't buy this game or games from any of the companies listed on the site and make sure 
 your friends don't either. That's the only way to be safe. If we boycott these (I wish I could 
 use really nasty words here) , they will eventually have to stop because there game sales will significantly 
 drop and hopefully stop. Thanks for reading this, unless of course you're one of those pedophile 
 spies. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fraggy
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 started out like it would be a great game. The missions where put together well and played 
 fairly well. The graphics were good. The sound and voice quality were good and believable. The 
 first few missions were challenging and fun to play, with the little annoyance of not being able 
 to save. Later on as the missions toward the end of the game got more difficult the annoyance of 
 not being able to save really became a frustration. You could play through a real tough mission 
 like the hospital or the hotel and get most of the way through and then WHAM! in one room most 
 of your guys are taken out or yourself and you start all over. Even if you finished them most likely 
 you did not have enough points to be successful as you took down too many bad guys without giving 
 them a chance to surrender. That was another frustrating item, you have a split second to decide 
 whether this guy will surrender or not when you tell him too and if you wait a second too long 
 he takes you out and you start over or if not you get an unauthorized take down or kill and lose 
 points. It is a no win situation. The game was good for me until it progressed to the later missions 
 then the flaws really stood out. Almost a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  A great police game, espeasally if you liked the others swat games. I don't think you will be disepointet 
 with this game, its the best swat game so far. The missions and internett playing are very fun, 
 and the value is not bad to. The graffic are very good, but its not the best I have seen. I think 
 this game was worth it money, if you are a shooting fan, action fan or like swat, then you will 
 love this. One thing that is bad about this game, is that it is 18 years (In my county though) , 
 and i can't really understand why.. its not so much blood.. but don't let that stop you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungHustla07
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 is a tactical-based shooter game that combines realism and gaming in the best way possible. 
 Swat 4 puts you in the shoes of a Swat Leader, who commands an elite group of highly-trained Swat 
 officers (called the element) in highly dangerous situations too dangerous for regular cops. Swat 
 4 is not your average 3rd person shooter, mainly because you just dont run and gun your way through 
 the level. Instead, Swat 4 treats you like what you are, a cop, and gives you the rules of engagement 
 where you could only shoot if you or a hostage are in danger. They reward you by points, and rank 
 your wins with how well you were as a police officer in the mission.
  
  The audio in Swat 4 packs an aggressive punch. You literally can sense the chaos and madness of 
 whats going on around you. The guns sounds all sound authentic and give you the sense of the firepower, 
 both you and the suspects have. Just by the gun sounds, you could tell if these baddies are your 
 average Joe criminal or Bin Laden Junkies. What I really like was the compliance yell. It was when 
 you, along with your officers, yell at a suspect to get their hands up, just like a real cop. It 
 really gives you sense of realism and takes you in-depth to how frustrating being a real cop can 
 get (more on that later) . There are also the usual comments, made by both suspects and civilians, 
 and not all of them are thankful towards your hard work (expect a lot of F-words flying at you) . 
 
  
  The visuals in Swat 4 are very good. The environments match the mood of the mission, and, again, 
 bring that sense of realism into play. The guns and objects in the game are pleasing to look at, 
 and can give the player an appreciation of their surroundings. However, the only flaw I sensed 
 was the character models. Although the civilians look different from one another, the Swat officers 
 and the majority of the suspects seem very similar, and only differ in small things (such as the 
 color of their armor or their suits) . Also, they could have made the map a little more detailed, 
 such as showing your location and making legends.
  
  Moving on to the most important part of the game, gameplay, Swat 4 can keep a player interested 
 for hours on end. Simply because of the replay value in Swat 4, where you continuously try to higher 
 your score by being a good SWAT officer. Also, adding to the replay value, the suspects and civilians 
 spawn in different places each time you load the map, so youll never have a key location for where 
 a suspect is. The game itself is loads of fun, and can prove to be rewarding and frustrating at 
 the same time. Arresting both civilians and suspects gives the player the sense of pride of doing 
 their job, but when a suspect doesnt comply, and runs for a door; it can get pretty frustrating. 
 Especially when there is a lone gunman who ran away from you, held up in a large building youve 
 just cleared, and its your job to look for him. This can be time consuming as well as frustrating, 
 but satisfaction is given when you know youve done your job right. The enemy A. I is excellent, 
 and at times, can be very challenging. They can run and hide, give up or just choose to shoot it 
 out, so it always keeps the player on their toes. What I was a little disappointed in was the team 
 A. I. Although through most of the game, I didnt have many problems with the element, they sometimes 
 wouldnt follow orders and just stand still. What I found most disappointing for the team A. I was 
 theyd be able to clear large rooms with ease, but would drop dead like flies when they were asked 
 to clear closet sized rooms with holed up suspects inside them. The multiplayer in Swat 4 is 
 very rich, and has a variety of different gameplay modes, including Co-op as well as deathmatch 
 type games. Swat 4s multiplayer mode is very fun to play, whether it be replaying a mission with 
 a buddy or going head to head with strangers. Also, co-op mode is easy to play, since orders are 
 clearly labeled (although voice chat is the best way to go) .
  
  All in all, Swat 4 is a shooter fans dream, because of the hours of entertainment it contains. 
 Swat 4 mixes the elements of action with patience, creating a totally new and original way of playing 
 a FPS. Also, the multiplayer and replay value in Swat 4 is golden, and it would be worth every 
 dollar you spend on it. It also is a good training manual for people who are aspiring to be police 
 officers, and can be a good qualification added to your resume
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymarc4871
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  With many great FPS games out there, this one surprisingly stands out by its realism and many other 
 features that it delivered to the gaming world. Its a team-work related game based on the Swat 
 team. In the campaign mode, you play as the commander of a five man team. You lead your men through 
 14 terrific missions in many different areas of the United States. Before each mission, You get 
 to choose the custom loadout for you as well as your 4 other teamates. In each mission, you have 
 to rescue hostages and try capturing any suspects and gather any weapons they were holding. After 
 each mission, you get graded judging by your unauthorized use of force and many other details about 
 how you played. This adds to the replayability of the game, if you decide to boost your score. 
 Another really enjoyable feature that adds to replayablility is everytime you spawn in a game, 
 you can find the civilians and suspects located in different areas. This also makes it more challenging 
 and unpredictable. In all the gameplay is well done, except for the inacurracy of the guns that 
 you get to choose from.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Swat 4 is a great game, based around 13 missions where you play the lead of a Swat team. Not having 
 played any of the previous games in the series I was unsure what to expect. However I found the 
 game fresh and innovative in both its style and game play. The graphics are outstanding  some 
 of the best I have seen and the sound is awesome, making it a thrilling and atmospheric game. It 
 can only be described as a cross between Splinter Cell & Counterstrike. The attention to detail 
 is truly amazing
  
  The missions are of varying lengths and generally quite hard. At the start of each mission you 
 get a briefing (which can be skipped) where a despatch officer tells you the scenario, you can 
 choose your weapons and team mates & view plans to the building you are about to breach.
  
  
  Team play is the name of the game here and your team mates have very good AI indeed. Once your 
 dead the mission is failed so its essential to send your team mates in first as there is no save 
 game facility. You have to think about each step and be careful not to kill civilians. In fact 
 there is very little shooting as it is more rewarding to subdue suspects with pepper spray or CS 
 gas and restrain them with zip cuffs rather than just to simply go in blasting, but this does not 
 detract from the game play.
  
  Simply this is a different kind of FPS and one worthwhile adding to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamen00
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, I haven't been able to put it down since I got it. The graphics for this 
 game are amazing, you are able to see the smallest details of the face and eyes. The gameplay is 
 just unbelievable, and the good thing is that you don't need to be an expert to get a kill on the 
 game. The game is realisitic... in this game you can't just walk through people if their standing 
 in your way, and there are hardly any glitches when you play online. The only bad part is that 
 the .45 gun is over powered... but their working on it. I recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameswatson
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 1, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The pre-mission interface is cryptic and limited. If you're starting up a Co-Op mission then expect 
 to be disappointed. Although the gameplay is good, the options for the missions are very poor. 
 Plus, controlling which missions you play, when you move to the next mission, etc. is unnecessarily 
 difficult. 
  
  Load times are incredibly long. Even on a RAID drive it still takes too long to load a mission. 
 You cringe if you don't complete the mission because you know it will take forever to load again.
 
  
  The weapons are extremely limited.
  
  The skins and options for the players are very limited (gone, in fact) .
  
  No more lightsticks, 
 the new Optiwand is terrible, few weapon choices, no skin choices, the player name on the back 
 of the armor is gone, the pre-mission chat interface is insufficient and the menu is unbelievably 
 confusing.
  
  The gameplay is fun, but the structure that supports it is so bad that you don't even consider 
 playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 30, 2005 4:08 am PT
Review:  If you havent heard of the SWAT series by now, you obviously dont own a PC. SWAT 3 was one of 
 the most impressive games of its time and I can still admit to bringing it out every few months 
 in recent years. The game was filled with so many well-designed and intense levels that the replay 
 was beyond most FPS games. SWAT 4 has a lot of those same elements, but lacks in design and AI, 
 elements that were polished in SWAT 3, but forgotten over the new graphics engine in SWAT 4. While 
 you may have read most critics praise this title, if you read their reviews closely youll notice 
 their complaints, yet they still give it a 9. Somehow, the graphics and multiplayer features have 
 changed everyones opinion about the undeniable problems that exist within this game.
  
  The game consists of a slew of mostly dull missions that require you to accomplish basic objectives 
 such as bring order to chaos or rescue all hostages. The missions in SWAT 3 were all very impressive 
 and well designed. SWAT 4 gives you several dull environments such as extremely beaten down houses (an 
 eerily pretty landscape, but used in over half the levels) or car garages. The only entertaining 
 levels are usually the disturbing ones that end up showing you more to the backstory of the level 
 than you would have expected. These moments are classic SWAT moments and what make the game so 
 unique. 
  
  After a few Rambo style approaches, youll quickly find out that the SWAT series is nothing like 
 Counterstrike or your usual tactical shooter. In SWAT 4, stealth will be your friend and each decision 
 you make will affect the next series of events. This may seem like something you can figure out 
 over time, but the developers have known us gamers since SWAT 3 and used the brilliant idea of 
 respawning all enemies in different areas on each load. This adds immensely to the replay and fun 
 factor of the game. Dont worry about not being Rambo, however. You have plenty of gear for being 
 stealthy enough to take down groups of enemies without killing any of them (the whole point of the 
 game) : flash grenade, sting grenade (rubber balls) , C4, breach shotgun, optical wand (look under 
 doors) , taser, pepper spray, pepper ball gun, and a bean bag shotgun to name a few. Obviously, 
 this time around they wanted to stress using less lethal force in order to take out the bad guys. 
 Their plan worked considering the fact that using any of the other guns (Assault rifle, SMG, etc) 
 will end up killing the bad guys and costing you the level. Each level is graded with a very specific 
 grading system that adds points up to a total score of 100. You will be deducted points for loss 
 of officers, not reporting downed suspects/officers, loss of hostages, using lethal force, etc. 
 To be able to even get an 80, youll have to hold back on releasing your assault rifle fury and 
 be on top of your game throughout the whole mission. You can take a few bullets, but much like 
 CS: Source, youll suddenly slow down and not be as quick with your reflexes as before. Your teammates 
 receive the same effects and it can be seen as they limp along with you towards your ultimate fate 
 of forgetting to check under the door. The difficulty is certainly worthy of your time, but perhaps 
 your patience will think otherwise. Whether or not you are up for the challenge of not shooting 
 the bad guys will decide if you can withstand and enjoy the beauty of SWAT 4.
  
  The AI is filled with bugs that will also test your patience. For the most part, the enemy AI is 
 quite impressive and at times annoyingly realistic. Some of the enemies will give up when you yell 
 at them, while others will simply run and hide and even block the door they hide behind. Like SWAT 
 3, the enemies will act like they are putting the gun down and trick you as they whip out a sawed 
 off shotgun from around their neck to take you down with. There is nothing more intense than breaking 
 into a room with your team and trying to get everyone (including hostages) to comply. This is also 
 where the games AI can fail you and ruin the moment entirely. As you find out early on in the 
 game, your team was actually recruited from a mental institution where they teach how to have horrible 
 reflexes. Your team is guaranteed about 40% of the time to be either slaughtered by enemies as 
 they enter a room, or become the slaughterers and take everyone out before you even get a chance 
 to taser and cuff the suspects. The mapping is a little off and your team will also scream at you 
 for being a few millimeters inside of their spot. You can lose team members completely sometimesnot 
 lose their lives, but be unable to even find where the officer is standing around doing nothing 
 in the building. This can become very frustrating and is far too noticeable of a bug for a final 
 release. We all live with it somehow, however.
  
  The sound effects and voice acting are definitely an improvement in SWAT 4. In previous SWAT games, 
 you would hear your teammates all screaming the exact same thing with the same voice repeatedly. 
 It was loud and fun, but not realistic. Now, team members have their own distinct voice and each 
 quote is used at the right time. The enemies have great voice acting making it feel like youve 
 really arrested a real criminal and adds to your feeling of accomplishment in the end. The sound 
 effects have greatly improved and Ive never heard such a wide use of them in a tactical shooter, 
 or any shooter for that matter. 
  
  SWAT 4 offers a wide variety of different modes to play in, a feature that has always been slightly 
 ignored in past versions. The multiplayer has been revamped the most and allows several different 
 modes to play in such as VIP Escort or Co-op. You can play on either side (swat or terrorists) , 
 which offers some variety to the multiplayer experience. Its certainly up there with Counterstrike 
 in fun factor and offers a nice alternative to those looking for more strategy. Also still included 
 are the career and quick mission modes that allow you to play through all the single player levels. 
 There is a level editor if you wish to take the time for that and even play it online with your 
 friends.
  
  Finally, the biggest change between SWAT 3 and 4 is the new graphics engine. You will notice that 
 SWAT 4 is up there with some of the best FPSs right now in the graphics department. Just take 
 a look at your teammates when you first start to play. You can see every detail about them and 
 their equipment. Every door, room, table, gun, floor, wall, etc. are all detailed so highly, you 
 might need to turn down your graphic settings. Some models are quite watered down for whatever 
 reasons they may have had (hostages and other NPCs) , but saving monkey looking hostages is still 
 rewarding in the end. On full graphics, however, SWAT 4 becomes highly realistic and most of the 
 complaints above simply disappear.
  
  While SWAT 4 lacks in squad AI, gameplay bugs, and a slew of horribly dull levels, it makes up 
 for it in the polished graphics and intense moments that the SWAT series always guarantees to deliver. 
 As a tactical FPS, SWAT 4 is a unique and well polished simulation that all gamers should give 
 a chance to see if they are able to take the dont shoot the bad guys challenge. Like always, 
 have someone nearby to grab or punch for the times when you a.) Forget to look under the door and 
 get shot immediately, and b.) Get so insanely frustrated with the AI/guns that you need someone 
 to kill. Dont worry, that someone will understand.
  
  7.9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a fun game. You get to respond to high risk police calls with a 5 man SWAT team. Everything 
 you'd expect from a police based game is in SWAT 4, from Less than Lethal weapons, to strange and 
 interesting suspects and locations.
  
  The graphics, sound, and controls are greatly improved from previous versions of the game, in my 
 opinion. When suspects do naughty things and need to be put down, they do so realistically with 
 dramatic ragdoll physics.
  
  You can customize your loadout in a variety of ways, with a primary slot for an SMG, AR, or shotgun, 
 a pistol slot for a sidearm (including taser, too fun) , a breaching mechanism (breaching shotgun 
 or C2 explosive) , and 4 tactical slots which you can use grenades or a specialized "optiwand" which 
 you can use to look under doors or around corners.
  
  For the most part, the game is alot of fun, and the police aspect of arresting instead of killing 
 (though sometimes there is no alternative) is very different than most FPS's. The teammates you 
 are given are very responsive, and pretty darn effective. The ordering system is fantastic as well, 
 you simply look towards something and commit them. For instance a weapon on the ground and the 
 command key will tell one of your guys to pick it up, at a suspect/civilian that is compliant and 
 they will cuff him, at the door and they can clear it with any combination of tactical aids (bangs, 
 gas, etc) .
  
  However... the game in my opinion does have some problems. The game seems a bit too realistic. 
 People that played the first "Rainbow 6" will know exactly what I'm talking about. In Rainbow 6, 
 you could spy a terrorist with his back turned to you 50 yards away, puffing on a cigarette. All 
 of a sudden he spots you in some mystical way, but it's already too late, because 1 microsecond 
 later, he has turned around completely, fired 1 shot directly at your head, and as your lifeless 
 body drops to the ground, he is already taking the next drag from his cigarette.
  
  SWAT 4 isn't quite this bad, but it is quite annoying. It would be easier if the rules of engagement 
 were a bit looser (more on that later) , but because you have to literally command a suspect to 
 get down and drop his weapons, he has the opportunity to either A. drop his gun, or B. hose you 
 down with machinegun fire. The problem is it is difficult to tell from his stance which he is going 
 to do. Rules of engagement for the game are rather strict as well, not allowing you to fire until 
 the suspect is pointing his weapon at you. Well you can imagine what happens next, you're dead, 
 because these guys, just like the Rainbow 6 terrorists, obviously are pro trainers at Al Qaeda's 
 terrorist camp firing range and can put a bullet through a rats you know what at 100 yards.
  
  But we're SWAT right? we have all that cool body armor RIGHT? Wrong. Terrorists slice through 
 your armor like butter. You may as well be in shorts and a T-shirt. In my opinion, you should be 
 able to realistically absorb a little more damage than what these guys can kill you with. At the 
 very least, the game designers should recognize a thing called fun factor, and allow you a little 
 grace damage before you die. Especially since there is no save.
  
  There are hit locations, but honestly one of them, your legs, slows you to a crawl and some of 
 these maps are BIG! Another, your arms, reduces your accuracy to complete crap (which is not stellar 
 to begin with) . Bottom line is, bad guys can acquire, fire and kill you within about .5 seconds. 
 Your nice big mushy crosshairs and huge jumpy weapon kick leave alot to be desired. It's like "bring 
 your kid to work day" in the combat zone.
  
  My next big problem with the game is rules of engagement. They are solely based upon individuals. 
 Innocent until proven guilty. While that may be the motto of our justice system, there are some 
 assumptions made on real battlefield and police situations. An example from the game:
  
  You are sent in to rescue some civilians from a diamond company. The "suspects" are armed with 
 gas masks, full matching body armor, assault rifles, and number about 20. It's a FUGGIN ARMY for 
 christ's sake. There are dead and dying civilians on the floor with gunshot wounds, and about 50% 
 of these guys aren't even trying to hear your commands to disarm themselves. They just open right 
 up on you.
  
  In real life, the ROE would be much different. Anyone wearing body armor and a gas mask would be 
 pushing up daisies the moment they were spotted. But in SWAT 4 you still have to stick to your 
 ridiculous ROE. To further the lameness, imagine this scenario, which has happened to me:
  
  You enter a room and there is a civilian on his knees and 2 bad guys. Bad guy 1 is crouched 
 in the corner. Bad guy 2 is next to him, and the civilian is nearby. You order them to drop their 
 weapons. Neither of them does right away, in fact, bad guy 2 starts to point his weapon at the 
 civvie. You hose him down killing bad guy 1 as well. You are now in violation of the ROE. Bad guy 
 1 was only hanging on to his weapon, therefore it was a bad kill.
  
  To hell with that! Well anyway, the LTL weapons make things a little easier, allowing you to open 
 fire with reckless abandon, since noone's going to die from it, you take the first shots. There 
 is something satisfying about bean-bagging someone in the nuts as well.
  
  I give SWAT 4 an 8 for gameplay, at it's core, it is a fun romp through the city of bad guys. By 
 the way, can you say Co-op?
  
  Graphics get a 9, they are suberb in every way shape and form.
  
  Sound gets a 9, also excellent.
 
  
  Value gets a 10. This game has a high replayability factor with custom missions and internet play.
 
  
  Reviewers tilt gets a 6, since the ROE really bugs me to the point of quitting out of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoeKob
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. The graphics aren't bad and the music is great, it fits well with the 
 game. There are certain parts where it really kicks up a notch when something suspensful takes 
 place. There are so many different things you can do and gatchets to use. The game has a lot of 
 variety and is pretty challenging making which makes it last. There were levels that I needed to 
 replay over and over again because I just could not beat them. You yell at a perp to surrender 
 but instead he shoots you. I'm not complaining about this part, I liked that bit added, it gives 
 the game its own piece of uniqueness. If your looking for a strategic shooter, pick this up. Every 
 time you replay a level, enemies spawn in different locations so you can't just run through it 
 which is a good twist as well. There are some cool levels such as disarming bombs and finding suitcases 
 and illegal weapons too which give it an extra tough. Fantastic game overall, I think everyone 
 should try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toocooldragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 27, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Say friend, bored with all the games you have? Not challenging enough? Not tactical enough. Well 
 introducing SWAT 4. designed with up to date graphics and revolutionary A. I. Swat 4 is the kind 
 of game for your whole family. The citizens need your help. Criminals are raging the streets. They're 
 nothing compared to your cooperative and none annoying squad mates. Use the tazer, blast them with 
 shotguns, or try to talk them out with the revolutionary F button. Yes the F button. Used to interact 
 with suspects in orderly quotes such as "Put your hands in the air" or "GOGOGO Room clear". Who 
 needs to sneak when you're swat? Just charge in, look around and take em out. Not to mention your 
 quick and simple user command to order your squad around to go in before you do. BANG BANG. oh.. 
 sucks to be them!!
  
  No. Seriously folks this game is very awesome, and whats cool is the map editor. loading times 
 is kinda so so. but not like its loading half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiang5chen15
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in almost every aspect. The one thing I really like is the Ai of the suspects. 
 One moment you were mirroring a door and suddenly you see the suspects walking towards the door 
 and open it and you are dead the next second ! The AI of your teammates sometimes is frustrating, 
 they open a room, throw a grenade and start rushing in. Then I saw an armed suspect ready to fire 
 and one teammate just rush towards him and get shot a few times without firing back ending up incapcitated. 
 The game somethimes gets frustrated when you cannot save in some very intense moments and you have 
 to start over after you die. The level just get harder and harder with more equpped villian and 
 more complicated structures and the procedures is still the same of course, breach bang and clear. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that, prior to Swat 4, I had never played any other game in the series. But on playing 
 this, I have now vowed to go and get every other swat game available. I am thoroughly impressed 
 with this game. It kept me on the edge all the way through and was deeply immersive and addictive. 
 And huge replayability value, which I think is most important in a game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Swat 4, instead of having a solid storyline behind it, chose to go down the path of having 
 mixture of different levels with no connection between each other. This fits the game well, as 
 I think it would have been hard to build an interesting storyline around the game. It doesnt matter 
 though, as I hardly paid attention to WHY I was going into these buildings and bringing order to 
 the chaos. It was such a fun experience, it simply didnt matter.
  The game kept me on the edge all the time through. A nice twist I found was that you have to try 
 to get the enemys to drop the weapons. A nice change from going in and shooting everything that 
 moves. If they comply and drop the weapons, you can go up to them and handcuff them (or get one 
 of your squad mates to do it for you) . If you just shoot without shouting to drop the weapons, 
 you get points taken off at the end of the mission. Something nice to think about that I enjoyed 
 doing.
  Now, bad points of gameplay... Argh, its so hard to tell the bad points of such a good game. But 
 it must be done.
  One bad thing was that you cant actually save during a mission. Just that tiny little problem can 
 actually cause much frustration. If you die, even if you are just about to complete the mission 
 - just cuffing up the last hostage - and someone kills you. You then need to start the entire mission 
 all over again. It was annoying, but as I mentioned before, the missions are very replayable, so 
 you still have fun playing through them again.
  I also found it frustrating to have to shepard both of my teams around at the same time. They can 
 get in your way sometimes. And the AI, although good, is not great, so sometimes it gets annoying 
 giving them commands and having them not follow quickly enough. There is a simple way to fix this 
 though. ONLY USE ONE TEAM! Dont bother using both teams. You dont really need two anyway, one is 
 just as reliable. It fixes the problems because they dont get in your way as much. And its much 
 less confusing with just one.
  
  Graphics (finally) :
  
  Not much to say except, very good! Bumpmapping is great. Models are mostly pretty good. Textures 
 are overall sharp and richly detailed. Lighting is purdy.
  I was very impressed with how detailed some of the rooms were. Although the objects in the rooms 
 are not effected by ragdoll physics, it looks awesome. Everything is put in very realistic places, 
 and my PC simply slowed down at some points because It was just overrun with objects. Its down 
 to the last tiny grain of rice scattered on the ground. Obviously a lot of thought was put into 
 each room. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Great. I could hear some lovely sound effects in the background of missions to add tension. It 
 sure works. Gun sounds are loud and realistic too. Voice acting is generally decent.
  
  ---
  
  Superb game overall. Put simply - buy it.... NOW!
  
  Best game experience ive had 
 for a while. Get this instead of that crap called "Doom 3 Resurrection of evil", or that other 
 excuse for a game "Brothers in arms". This one is going to stay on my shelf for a long long time 
 I think :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpsaply
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, very challenging situations. What's cool about the game, is that it has plenty 
 of replay value. To give you an example. I was called to a hostage situation at a night club. My 
 team and I went thru the back of the building and worked our way to the room with the dance floor. 
 We threw a flash bang into the room and started to tell people to drop the guns. I got shot in 
 the back. It ended the mission. The next time I played, we followed the same route and instead 
 of using a flash bang I threw in a sting grenade into the dance room. The problem I had this time 
 is that the room was empty. We had to work thru the whole building and all of the criminals were 
 this time spread all over the building. Some were holding hostages in the restrooms others were 
 on the roof and others in the Janitors and Managers office. This game is exciting and fun. "My 
 Ma ma always says, Great games is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you gonna get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  With the sudden rise of tactical action games coming into the video gaming field, many people are 
 becoming interested in these types of games. With the popularity of Rainbow Six rising, and even 
 other games that haven't been mentioned lately, like Full Spectrum Warrior, for example, it seems 
 everyone is trying to get their hands on the latest tactical action games. Now that Rainbow Six 
 and Full Spectrum Warrior have had their days of fame, another famous tactical action series has 
 come back, and it is none other than the SWAT series. Irrational Games now has come back up after 
 an absence from their SWAT series games, and has delivered their next installment, SWAT 4. Does 
 it provide a piquancy experience for tactical gamers, or is it a long-awaited let-down?
  
  For those who don't know about the SWAT series (and who doesn't?) , the SWAT series was made for 
 one simple reason - to put players in the eyes of a commander and have them have that 'feeling' 
 of what it's like to actually be in a SWAT team, and what the SWAT team has to go through to complete 
 their missions. That's simply the main reason why the series was started, and it's a rather good 
 reason to start a series like this. Now gamers can actually feel what it's like to be in a SWAT 
 team without actually having to join the SWAT.
  
  First off, let me get this out of the way - SWAT 4 isn't a typical run-n-gun shooting game. If 
 you try to run-n-gun in a mission during your play of SWAT 4, you will easily get killed, no doubt 
 about it. A couple of shots can easily kill you, so you need to be extremely careful and not to 
 make careless mistakes or use stupid run-n-gun strategies because that will get you killed. Try 
 staying away from these types of mistakes, and you should fair well. Sure, you're packed with all 
 these assault rifles and pistols, but you should only use lethal force as a last resort. That's 
 what the real SWAT team is supposed to do, so Irrational Games is keeping true to that experience.
 
  
  This time around, SWAT 4 doesn't have any sort of storyline. Basically, you're a nameless SWAT 
 team commander, who is sent to the fictional city of Fairview somewhere around Los Angeles. You 
 will be assigned to complete a set of missions that don't involve any type of plot or storyline, 
 so each mission will be different, and there won't be a storyline that's tied down with it. 
  
  SWAT 4 is obviously played from a first-person perspective. Again, you're the leader of the 
 SWAT team, and you are the commander of four other SWAT team members, who you will control throughout 
 the missions that are given. As for the missions themselves, they tend to be quite short. Usually 
 the missions consist of rescuing hostages or just simply arresting criminals. Not a lot of variety 
 with the missions, as you can see, but you can still get some fun out of SWAT 4 anyways, with it's 
 mission maker, which further extends the value of the single-player. You can create many possibilities, 
 like how many hostages you want to be put in the level, and the like. Nice feature that you should 
 try out to extend the longevity.
  
  So what has made the SWAT series so popular now? Simple - it's realism. As i stated before, the 
 real reason why the SWAT series was created was to make gamers have that sense of feeling of what 
 it's actually like to be in a SWAT team in real life, and how you must deal with the situations 
 provided for you. Compliance is still very much a part of the game, so you must yell out "Freeze, 
 Police!" before you can fire. As a SWAT member, you aren't supposed to shoot anything you see. 
 Tactics play a huge role, and you will find yourself taking cover behind objects if the criminal 
 refuses to follow your orders, so you need to be prepared because not everyone is afraid of the 
 SWAT. Not only that, but in-game, and you are ranked on how well you follow police procedure in 
 reporting downed hostages, downed SWAT officers and downed enemies as well as, of course, not firing 
 before being fired upon.
  
  SWAT 4 boasts a well-rounded arsenal of weapons that you can use for your pleasure. SWAT 4 includes 
 assault rifles, pistols, shotguns, and the like, but also includes other interesting weapons like 
 taser guns, which can help out a lot if in the case that you can use one. SWAT 4 also has it's 
 fair share of grenades that will also become quite useful within the game. You can use tear gas 
 or flashbangs for assaulting a room full of enemies as well. You are also equipped with a fiber-optic 
 camera which is an interesting little gadget that you might find useful. This little thing is used 
 to peek around corners and under doors to find out what's going on at the other side.
  
  I found that the A. I. in SWAT 4 is quite good, but I was feeling that it could have been better. 
 Your teammates A. I. is pretty good at handling some of the situations, but they do make some boneheaded 
 mistakes. Sometimes your teammates A. I. take quite a while to fire their gun when it's necessary, 
 which can give the enemy a quick second advantage to kill off the SWAT member. At other times your 
 teammates can get stuck at some areas, but somehow they can find their ways out of it. They do 
 use tactics to save their lives, but your basically on a tight leash saving their lives yourself 
 rather than saving their lives themselves, but seeing the SWAT team is mostly about teamwork, I 
 won't go into that. As for the enemy A. I., they are arguably better than your teammates A. I., but 
 of course, they do have their boneheaded demerits, like getting stuck somewhere around the area, 
 for example.
  
  SWAT 4's visual performance is quite well done. You don't need such a powerful PC machine to get 
 the most out of SWAT 4, and that's a very good plus for people with lower-ended PC's. Character 
 models for both your teammates and the enemies are pretty impressive. The environments throughout 
 the game are nicely done, but there are a few exposed glitches as well that aren't hard to spot. 
 But all-in-all, SWAT 4 does a rather sturdy job visually.
  
  The sound in SWAT 4 really sounds more 'harsh' than it does sound crisp. You fire a weapon - you 
 get a too loud of a sound that doesn't really seem all too realistic. Footsteps and everything 
 like that sound pretty true to real life counterparts, which is quite good. But before each mission, 
 you are treated to a mission briefing that tells you what's going on, and to make it more interesting, 
 you are treated to a recording of some sort. The recording (or voice-acting, perhaps) , kind of 
 goes around with the annoying circle, which means it's sometimes quite annoying to hear the recordings, 
 especially on some of the later mission briefings. But you always have the option to skip the mission 
 briefing and thus not hear the recording.
  
  Now this is where SWAT 4 excels at, it's multi-player component. SWAT 4 supports a total of up 
 to 16 players online, and besides the usual team-based modes and whatnot, the biggest and best 
 feature of SWAT 4 is it's cooperative play online, which can support up to 5 players working together 
 as a team to complete the missions found in the single-player mode. If the missions provided in 
 SWAT 4 aren't fun enough for you, you can even provide your team to play it out on your own level, 
 which is always fun to play.
  
  SWAT 4 also includes the regulars such as Team Death Match, Escort the VIP, and all that other 
 good stuff. Team Death Match speaks for itself, and so does the rest of the modes. If you get bored 
 of the co-op (and who will?) you can always test your skills with the other modes, which adds to 
 variety with the multi-player. It's really fun and easy to get into the multi-player modes, but 
 you really need to be quite skilled and you really need to know what your doing, or else you might 
 have some insults coming your way, but mostly every other game does the same thing, now does it?
 
  
  In the end, SWAT 4 provides plenty of hours of fun to those who can look past it's flaws. Some 
 of these flaws include some rather boneheaded A. I. moves, and the short missions that have been 
 packed within SWAT 4. As for SWAT 4 showing what it's like to be in a real SWAT team, it does it's 
 job with superb accuracy. The realism alone should be enough to drag you in to the gameplay of 
 SWAT 4. SWAT 4 really shines with it's multi-player modes that can be available to play online. 
 One of these modes that is easily the best mode out of all of SWAT 4 is it's 5 player co-op, which 
 will definitely be enjoyed to anyone who is remotely interested in the 5 player co-op. All told, 
 SWAT 4 provides a great experience and shouldn't be missed by anyone who is anxious to play another 
 tactical action game and can look past it's shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazy_Marine
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  This is the fourth installment in the beloved SWAT series, i've played em all the way back to the 
 first one, which was almost 10 years ago. SWAT has never been a huge success in terms of sales, 
 its only when SWAT 3 shifted to 3rd person perspective the franchise really came into the spotlight 
 (even so, it didn't sell big) . What made SWAT 3 special, is that it gave the player the ability 
 to be a squad leader and issue commands real-time to A. I squad mates using an innovative and easy 
 to access voice commands interface. The very same idea is implemented in SWAT 4 but with extra 
 new features.
  
  One of the main new ideas in SWAT 4 is "Remote control" of ur squad mates. Basically it means u 
 can laze out in a safe corner, sip on a can of soda and issue commands from a distance without 
 moving urself around and risking ur own life. Using the SQUAD camera (which appears in a seperate 
 screen on ur HUD) u can issue commands to ur squad mates and actually see through their eyes as 
 they move around. This feature is really usefull when u need to split ur squad, so u can just stick 
 with one team and use the cam to watch and order around the other team. In addition to that, there 
 is a cool "SNIPER CAM" feature, which allows u to gain control of Snipers located (At specific 
 points) outside the area. If a sniper spots a suspect, he calls u up on radio and informs you, 
 you can then simply access the sniper using SNIPER CAM and shoot the SOB. These new features not 
 only immerse you more by giving you the feeling of really being a squad leader, they also make 
 the gameplay more deep and fun.
  
  The Graphics in SWAT 4 are excellent, don't expect a Doom 3 or SOURCE, but it certainely is a good 
 lookin' game. The lighting is not real-time, but its well placed in every level, surfaces are well 
 bump mapped, gas and other particles effects run smooth without eating up ur frame rates and the 
 character models have enough polygons to make them look realistic enough, flash light is decent 
 but could've been better. My only complaint would be the lack of VSYNC, i just couldn't find the 
 option for it (i dont beileve it exists) this ofcourse causes video tearing which can be noticable 
 in some levels. 
  
  The sound in SWAT 4 is superb, it uses a dynamic music engine, whenever you make a breach entry 
 the music pounds fast and a techno-industrial track kicks in which adds to the chaos and pace of 
 the game. Soundeffects are excellent are very realistic, keep in mind that the SWAT series always 
 tried to be as realistic as possible, every sound is taken from real-life guns/grenades etc. The 
 best part of the sound design in the game, is all the screaming and yelling that takes place. When 
 you breach into a room full of suspects and/or hostages, your squadmates , you, the suspects , 
 hostages start yelling out their own lines, as you hear gunshots or grenades exploding. All of 
 these sound elements just create an immense environment of chaos and makes u feel like u really 
 are in a SWAT mission.
  
  Now to the negatives, the game does have a few problems, mostly minor but some frustrating. First, 
 The SQUAD A. I can be dumb sometimes, in which they'd report that a room is "CLEAR", BE WARNED they 
 are not always true, sometimes u'd walk in a room thinking ur trusty squad did their job and the 
 next thing u'd know is some terrorist popped out of a corner and sprayed ur skull with AK47 bullets. 
 Second, The PENALTIES are silly, what the heck are u supposed to do when 95% of the terrorists 
 dont give up no matter how many bangs u throw at their eyes, i kept getting average scores until 
 i gave up and started shooting every suspect i see on the head (Even injured ones) , i'd even execute 
 them after cuffing them sometimes out of frustration. Thirdly, the character animation is a bit 
 stiff, u'd wish with all the time they had they would have implemented smooth life-like animations 
 to the character models. Finally, NEED MORE MISSIONS, the game (Although extremely replayable) 
 needs more scenarios, there just arent enough. I finished them all in about 5 hours or so.
  
  Now to the other details that make the game good, i'd say its the level design, its just incredible, 
 the level of detail, thought and depth put into the levels really shows. One of my favourite levels, 
 if not my favourite is the Religious Group level, where u storm this apartment building belonging 
 to some new-found religious group, the part where all the luminous stars and planets were stuck 
 on the wall of the dark hallway was just creepy, and the best part was my squadmate read my mind 
 and said "this place's givin' me the creeps", that scene was a masterpiece itself.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, especially if u have a friend to play with you, Co-Op just never gets old.
 
  
  In conclusion, SWAT 4 takes all the elements that made SWAT 3 so good and adds a bunch of new innovative 
 features to it + a new engine and great level design. If you love being a squad leader with total 
 squad control and if you generally like tactical-shooters, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameAholic2004
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 14, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  No not at all.
  
  Swat 4 does not place you in a hectic alternate reality of some kind of
  corrupt gun blazing 
 police state.
  
  Swat 4 gives u what it says, SWAT, u go slow, u go dynamic, you are there
  to arrest and to protect 
 and serve in high risk situations.
  So how does swat 4 pullt it off,
  
  Lets start out what most people see first,
  The graphics look amazing. No its not doom 3 or hl 
 2 but the engine looks 
  good and well enough for a Tactical shooter, levels are littered with props,
  nice shiny big 
 objesct and smaller dusty well hidden away objects make the
  the scene of the crime look like it should.
  Did u ever play a tactical game like Rainbow 6 and 
 come to an area where it looks
  as if u Just missed the cleaning lady, well not here, unless u actuly did miss the cleaning lady.
 
  from old papers to cans of soda lying around u do feel as if u are where the game places you by 
 having things u would see there if u where.
  
  Now the graphics on the not surrondings way are just as well, humans look human, they move nicly, 
 altough after hl2 facial expressions are just not comming to it anymore, but who cares, give em 
 a skimask and dont bother looking ;) .
  
  Let me continu the gun smoke and flashes do look verry nice, and the fact that
  other efects 
 such as stingers , flashbangs and the likes have great FX realy ads to the feel of being there.
 
  
  What is to bad is water seems not to spash when i hit, and the bullet hole decals could have been 
 better.
  
  Gameplay wise it may not be rock solid, its simple yet going into a "zoom" instead of a scope or 
 barrel view does kinda upset me. but it sticks to Swat 3.
  To bad though. the edition of the sensitive retical of the quick button does less good then intended 
 sinds u will mostlikey stack up not open and clear.
  
  But what is cool is supdoing the suspects, tell them to get down, zap em , gas em or just knock 
 em about with the good old non lethal shotgun.
  
  Sounds is not something i go into greatly, but i must admit hearing a non existing gun fight two 
 story's below it kinda makes me sad, but overall shooting, yelling and even moaning of injured 
 men and woman makes u feel like your there.
  
  Its good value if u consider the co-op and Multiplayer games, i liket he co-op alot, one team each 
 teamspeak in the background and just get the server setting to be as deadly as possible.
  
  I recommand this game to anyone who has a hart of law enforment, tactical shoots, puppies, and 
 great titles for the PC. hard core shooters, only if ur willing to take it slow ......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zb2k
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 13, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game, and was waiting anxiously for it to intall. As the game finally was installed 
 and I found my self playing I went quickly from my hopes of a great FPS to the slums of dissapointment. 
 The campaign missions are dull with an average plot, as complicated and deep as a Steven Segeal 
 (sp?) plot.
  
  The game is at it's highpoints is when you're in a totally new enviroment where you need to apply 
 new tactics. For example a house with very narrow hallways to a much bigger indoor setting with 
 broad hallways. Unfortunately the game does not diversify its self enough and I often caugh my 
 self playing the same type level with a new Steven Segeal plot.
  
  The multiplayer is a been-there-done-that type of thing. It uses gameplay similar to Rainbow Six, 
 which is not a good thing. If I wanted to play Rainbow Six I would play Rainbow Six. And as far 
 as the copying the R6 gameplay, it really degrades it. Sure they have a few different guns to chose 
 from maybe, but it doesn't make a big difference in the long run. Sometimes they're moments of 
 tension, and the game is very enticing. But I chose the word "sometimes" carefully. 
  
  All in all, this game is like ripping up a bunch of games and putting them back together as one. 
 Maybe it could have worked with a few extra coats of paint, but the game just didn't pull through 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krosfyah1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Well there isn't really that much to say that hasn't already been said, so i will keep this short 
 and sweet.
  
  SWAT 4 is an absolutely fantastic game to play, let's not beat around the bush. As a hard core 
 SWAT 3 player, i am happy to say that it has managed to capture the feel of tension and "unknowing" 
 of what is around the next corner from that game. Additionally it actually heightens some of the 
 tension, when you for instance, breach and bang a room. The AI intelligence level has been upped, 
 and now we know that even if we bang and CS these guys, there is still a chance that - just like 
 in real life - they might not be 100% affected by the tactical aid. I guess that's why they are 
 tactical "aids" and not tactical "assurities" , which unlike SWAT 3, when you CS'ed someone, they 
 would be hacking and coughing as a guarantee.
  
  Here the suspect AI will run, move, and attempt to sneak up behind the element. You really must 
 be on your toes at all times.
  
  Co-op, even with it's shortcomings of no team/EL disinction, is an absolute joy to play. I played 
 last night with one clan member, one long term co-op player from another clan who used similar 
 tactics, and some random guy who just wandered in. After setting up who would play in what position, 
 who would breach, bang, mirror and who would be 1st/2nd/3rd on entry, we had a wonderful playing 
 experience in the Qwik Mart convenience store. Really, i think with a small amount of tightening 
 up, particularly if we find out how to enter our own audio files from the single player. We could 
 do with removing things like "roger" (we have a "copy that") and things like "take point/take rear 
 guard" (those should be assigned before going into the game) and adding mirror based commands ("one/multiple 
 suspects/hostages/civilians etc) . If we could tighten up the comms system, i would hazard that 
 really, you don't even need red/blue teams. You just each have your different, assigned role going 
 in before you play. As a 4 man Element, we had a fantastic experience last night, and only 2 of 
 us had ever played together before.... just goes to show, you do not need voice comms and to have 
 played with people who have played with you before - you just need some patient people who are 
 willing to work together and play seriously, and it can work very well like that.
  
  The maps are brilliant, no 2 ways about it. The attention to detail is great - again i wish there 
 was a little more interactivity in them - i agree with what was said about light switches, doors 
 to toilet stalls etc, and what's with the mirrors? It would have been nice to have had some interactivity. 
 Saying that, however, when a fire fight breaks out, and you can't see who is shooting at you, but 
 all you see if things flying off shelves near to your position as the sound of gun fire erupts 
 around you from somewhere, it is nothing short of exhilirating. The ballistics system in this regard 
 is a wonder to behold.
  
  What i don't like generally can be summed up in a few sentences thankfully (and yes there are things 
 i don't like )
  
  Enemy AI - it has been stated many many times - i just wish there was some continuity it. They 
 more often then not tend to be super crack shots - all of them. The worst thing is, in a game that 
 is defined and is a make or break - literally - on whether you have a suspect going gun up or gun 
 down, having a suspect moving around while flash banged, suddenly start shooting and killing you 
 with his gun still pointing down is something hard to forgive. 
  It hasn't happened much in retail, but it has happened, and is incredibly frustrating. Equally 
 so is what has been carried over from Swat 3 - namely the abililty for a suspect under the influence 
 of a tac aid to suddenly "snap out of it" and kill you with one crack shot to the head. Shouldn't 
 we see them slowly start to come out of their daze? Perhaps put a gun up and not fire, or fire 
 randomly? I hated in SWAT 3 that you could have all guns trained on someone as they coughed up 
 a lung, and suddenly with no warning whatsoever, they would instantly be gun up, shooting you with 
 a crack shot to the head, and you would be dead. It's one thing that i have experienced a few times 
 now and is equally frustrating. There is no "middle ground" between the suspects being incapacitated 
 to the point of not being able to shoot, and being their usual crack shots. 
  
  The only other issue i have is that suspects tend to shoot/not shoot on a proximity basis - namely, 
 if you yell to comly, and they don't, and then they run off, they generally won't fire. However, 
 if they run towards you, it's a guarantee they will fire. I have never been in a position yet, 
 when the enemy AI, after not comlying and running towards me, will not shoot. And the problem is 
 they can shoot you so quick, you might end up killing them before they are fully gun up. And it's 
 not always possible to get a taser out (or keep a LTL primary on some levels) to counter this. 
 This also sometimes happens with the officer AI - if a suspect gets too close to them, he becomes 
 a deadly killing machine and will take at least one of them out before the others decide to shoot 
 him, simply based on a proximity issue. I don't like this as it removes the randomness of the shoot/don't 
 shoot scenario and would hope this could be altered in some way. Sure you can say "ah it only affects 
 the game if you play by the scoring system" but the whole point is, the scoring system works well, 
 and i would like to play by it (especially going through on hard/elite modes) but such a system 
 almost makes it impossible to do so - because generally if someone runs at you with a gun, you 
 have to have split second reactions to shoot them before they kill you with one shot - it's just 
 not possible sometimes to play by the rules Irrational have given us. 
  
  I have also encountered the officer AI getting hung up a few times - once to the point where one 
 member of one team was stuck. Immediately i was one man down as he couldn't move. Meanwhile his 
 team mate became useless because whenever i gave him an order, he wouldn't perform it, because 
 he was waiting for his stuck team mate to appear. There is nothing like trying to run into a stuck 
 AI, cursing whatever invisible corner he is stuck on. to break the immersion of a game. Anyway, 
 that's been a rare occurance, so it's not much of an issue, thankfully. Most of the time the AI 
 behaves well, apart from being slow to shoot at times when a suspect is close (see above) .
  
  Anyway that's it. I think SWAT 4 is an excellent and well deserved sequel to a game that has 
 a very tight following. Irrational has done really well and i for one am thankful for the very 
 difficult job they have had - to get new fans to the series and keep the old ones happy. Sure it's 
 not without it's faults, but what game/product isn't? I think you guys have done a great job, and 
 i haven't even got around to seeing the other game modes yet. Trust me, coming off the comp at 
 1am this morning after running through that co-op game literally had me smiling from ear to ear, 
 and if that isn; t a good sign, i don't know what is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  It's been 6 years since SWAT 3 burst onto the scene, the first 3D shooter version of the venerable 
 SWAT PC game series. SWAT 3 was a huge success, and was a game I played for many years after it's 
 release. This new fourth iteration is, I'm glad to say, worth the wait.
  
  It features improved graphics, physics engine, and much improved AI. You get 13 missions, but unlike 
 SWAT 3 there is no arcing story that connects them. Each mission is a different SWAT scenario, 
 from an autoparts shop invaded as part of a botched car theft, to a serial killer's house, to a 
 professional robbery of a diamond wholesaler, to much much more. The levels are ingeniously designed, 
 lending themselves to different strategic options for your team. Play value is greatly increased 
 by the random placement of suspects and hostages, so that the level never plays the same way twice.
 
  
  Your element consists of 5 members, yourself and two teams of two. Commands like breaching a door 
 with explosives or mirroring under a door to see what lies behind it are given by either the old 
 SWAT 3 number key command list, or an elegant pop-up menu that becomes second nature after awhile.
 
  
  The single player is a great ride, but the game really shines in multiplayer. Along with a few 
 new adversarial play modes, there is also co-op play on any of the game's 13 single player missions. 
 In co-op, commands given create an arrow onscreen over the area in question, so if you issue a 
 command to breach a door, the arrow marks the one in question.
  
  Although the list of available weapons could be larger, loadouts for your element can be created 
 and saved for instant call-up later. Also, the load times between screens border on brutal, although 
 once you load a level you have it in its entirely, with no loading during play. 
  
  Even so, it's a terrific addition to the SWAT francise, one that will continue the tradition of 
 remaining on my HD for years to come. The atmosphere of the game is top-notch, with many jump-out-of-your-seat 
 moments. This one gets a GOTY vote for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sh4d0w212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  SWAT 4 has got to be one of the best tactical shooters out there right now. Ive played about half 
 way through and done online game modes in the beta test and in the retail version. All I have to 
 say is it is a blast to play, it is very realistic. Only a few things that bother me, in Rainbow 
 Six Raven shield your able to give an order on "Zulu" that pretty much means get ready and when 
 I say Zulu carry out that order. In SWAT 4 you have to go turn on one of the other teams view mode 
 and then push caps lock to make the screen bigger then issue the command. It would have been much 
 easier to give an order then go on my mark at a press of a button like Raven Shield. Some of the 
 sounds are a little weak such as the Colt 1911, you would think a .45 pistol would have a little 
 more forceful sound when it is fired. A portion of the coopertive multiplayer mode is a disapointment 
 for me. In SWAT 3 you and a friend could command an Element or play as a team member. In SWAT 4 
 you have no choice except to play as the team member, making missions pretty tough when you just 
 want to play with a friend and nobody else. Other then some of these let downs the game is pretty 
 good, don't miss this one if you enjoy CQB or a decent tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puppydog123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Does SWAT4 succeed in being a great tactical fps?. imo yes it does, because swat4 has good ai which 
 would mean an extra second hoping for the suspect to drop his weapon could mean life or death.
 
  
  Swat4 is thrilling from what I have played, as suspects will sometimes run away closing every door 
 they go through, making you have to search through where you've already been under the same caution 
 as when you cleared the rooms earlier.. Although I have noticed a few bugs which are a little frustrating 
 ie, somtimes suspects shoot whilst thier gun isn't being aimed at you, resulting in death.
  
  Now onto the scores!!
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - 
  Just what you expect from a tactical shooter, 
 tactics!! unless of course, your online with morons :P, Swat4 to me have proven good gameplay by 
 using slow with fast paced action which makes it exciting..
  
  Graphics - 9/10 -
  The reason I go for a 9/10 is of course, the levels have very nice architexture (spelling? :P) and 
 are very differnt from one another, characters models are fairly good but some have a line all 
 the way down from thier head to the pants which looks a tad ugly. Gun graphics are good but the 
 M4 looks kinda ugly imo.
  
  Sound - 10/10 -
  Sound is great, from trying to get people to comply to the weapons firing and the music, nothing 
 else i can say really but i havn't noticed any horrible sound clashes yet so imo, great sounds.
 
  
  Value - 10/10 -
  High value because, once Swat4 gets player made maps coming in it will last for along time, (just 
 look at swat3) and because of the exciting VIP mode aswell as obviously, more maps for all 4 multiplayer 
 modes should keep Swat4 alive for years to come.
  
  Tilt - 10/10 -
  What the heck is reviewers tilt anyway? :O
  well i give it a 10 outta 10 cause i think the games 
 great :o
  
  
  So my score for Swat4 is 9.6 :d
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  When someone says FPS, most people will think of Halo, Quake, Unreal Tournament, etc. People just 
 love high speed shoot-em-up games. This game is in a whole different category. By the time you 
 are even halfway through your first mission, you will notice that it is slow, but instead of it 
 being a hardcore shooter game, it is much more tactic oriented. For example, on the first mission 
 you will find yourself having to infiltrate a Chinese restaurant that yields an illegal gun specialist 
 that has been modifying guns for several wanted criminals in the area. Your job is to sneak in 
 and take out all of the bad guys without resorting to violence unless necessary.
  
  In this game, you can't just run into a room and get ready to shoot every person you see. Most 
 of the time, there will be good people in the room. Therefore, before going in it is always smart 
 to use an optic wand to check for any possible threats, throw a flash, gas or stinger grenade in, 
 and tell whoever you see to put their hands up. You are not authorized to shoot anyone until you 
 have told them to drop their weapon, and even if they resist, you can't actually kill them unless 
 they are a threat. This means, if they point a gun at you then you can shoot them, if they just 
 try to run away, you can't kill them. However, you can have one of your four teammates shoot them 
 with a non-lethal weapon, or shoot them in the foot. If you do wind up shooting them and they die, 
 you will be docked points. The points are what you need to beat a level, so doing so will most 
 likely result in you failing a mission.
  
  The gameplay in this game is superb. You really do feel like you are playing the role of a trained 
 SWAT team leader. The training (which you will most likely do before doing the career mode) is actually 
 very good. It teaches you all of the important things in the game including, how to throw grenades, 
 what guns to use for what situation, how to handcuff someone, how to command your group, etc. The 
 gameplay is smooth and very well polished. Movement is slow even when you are in run mode, but 
 what can you expect when there are several enemies in a building that would kill you at first sight.
 
  
  The graphics are incredible. The textures in the game are well made and really set the mood. Such 
 as the second mission. You are in a scary house with a serial killer, and the house just has this 
 scary vibe and really sends chills up your spine. The models in the game are pretty well done as 
 well, especially the SWAT team models. You can see their different weapons and equipment they have 
 equipped. The only problem I have is that no matter how good your computer is, you will experience 
 slowdown. It can become annoying at times, but it still doesn't change the fact that the graphics 
 are very well done.
  
  The sound is very good as well. The sounds of the guns and explosions were actually done from real 
 sounds of the explosives and guns themselves, since the SWAT team had a part in the development 
 of this game. The C4 breaching charges really make a big bang while the door has a huge chunk blown 
 off and the door gets kicked in. The guns are unique and loud. The voices, as well, are very well 
 done. The SWAT team members sound pretty tough, the civilians sound instilled with fear when you 
 point a gun at them, etc. The sounds are definately a plus to this game.
  
  For anyone who has always been into fast paced games and hated games such as Counter-Strike because 
 they are too slow, you owe it to yourself to try this game out. You really have to think in this 
 one, it takes strategy and planning. Personally, commanding two teams to open two doors and have 
 them getting in at the same time, and deciding whether or not to shoot an armed suspect within 
 seconds with the possible threat of dying within two shots, is truly heart pounding. Anyone who 
 gives it a shot and tries it out will be glad they did, as this game has a unique feel of strategy 
 that is backed up with strong gameplay and lots of good features with loads of fun to experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THELordGavin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  SWAT 4 is a great game and a new change of pace from the constant killing in other FPS. You command 
 a team of 4 SWAT members. You have a great range of lethal and non-lethal such as pepper balls 
 and the M4 colt carbine. The whole point is to take everyone alive at all costs. you are evaluated 
 on a point system. Sometimes the suspects just won't give up and you have to dispatch them one 
 way or the other. It is a game that makes you think before you shoot. If you enjoy FPS that concentrate 
 on killing then this might try your patience but it is worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam5150
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  Being one of the biggest fans out there of Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear, this game just simply blows 
 the Rainbow six series away. I never did get into Raven Shield because the gameplay was just so 
 repetitive. Swat 4 is basically the old Rogue Spear with better gameplay, easy to control AI teammates, 
 and all in all a much more fun game all together. I heard about Swat 4 not too long ago and after 
 playing Swat 3 when it came out, I didn't have good expectations for it. The demo didn't really 
 impress me at all but now that I have bought the full version because of hearing how good it was 
 from other's... I can see how Irrational improved the game from the demo version. 
  
  Swat 4 plays exactly like Raven Shield did, easy-to-assign commands to AI teammates except in Raven 
 Shield, your teammates were pretty much useless and just stood there looking at you with the backs 
 facing the enemy. Swat 4's AI is just unbelievable both from your squad mates and from the enemy 
 AI. I think the enemy AI has a little bit of the upperhand because once they start firing at you, 
 chanes are you or your teammates won't survive because they rarely ever miss. 
  
  The graphics in this game aren't the best i'll admit but that doesn't mean the game doesn't look 
 extremely well. I actually said "wow" outloud to myself after playing the first few career mission 
 because the locations looked like places in real life meaning that the graphics in this game really 
 made you feel like you swore you have seen the place before. Your squad and the enemy's look extremely 
 well polished when you look real close. The way your squad moves around with weapon in hand looks 
 just amazing. 
  
  I'm really just too excited to right a better review of this game. Basically Swat 4 is just amazing, 
 the gameplay is so flippin' addicting! I want to add that if some people here didn't already know, 
 you have an option of creating your own missions meaning you can add however many suspects or hostages 
 you want on the map and you can adjust the smartness of the enemy AI and how accurate of a shot 
 they will be. This just adds so much replayability into the game. Even without this, the game would 
 still have excellent replay value.
  
  I also want to point of that I haven't witness or seen any bugs in the game. The game has not crashed 
 once on me yet nor have I seen any annoying glitches that would take away someones attention from 
 the game. The only thing I would change in this game would maybe make the ragdoll's a tad bit heavier 
 so it doesn't look like they always spasm whenever they hit the canvas after you put em' down. 
 
  
  I seriously, without hesitating, highly recommend this game. Once again it is so ADDICTING! I'm 
 stuck on I believe the 4th mission because i want to get it a person 100/100. The enemies always 
 spawn differently on the map everytime you restart so you never know if someone's hiding behind 
 something that you checked previously before you started another game.
  
  Get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt sure when I bought this game that I was going to like it. First off from the demo I learned 
 that you couldnt just rush in and shoot the bad guys. Thats very true. Having played the full retail 
 game, Im starting to like that concept. It adds much more danger and more realism to each mission. 
 
  The down side..... some of the graphics and AI are not quite up to speed as they should be to accurately 
 decide what action you need to take.... Once in a while its not clear who is hostile and who is 
 friendly because thier animation isnt quite clear at displaying their actions. One example is with 
 one of the missions where A little old lady that is swating her fists at you. I had to really study 
 her to figure out she wasnt just shaking from nerves... Restraining wasnt coming up in the quick 
 menu as an option but more forcive actions were... So I ordered my men to taser the suspect. I 
 was then able to order them to restrain her. This seems a bit excessive.. From the graphics she 
 didnt look that threating. 
  You also have to contain the victoms on the scene. You end up restraining them as well. At least 
 this is all I could figure out so far. If im wrong then someone tell me.. but the mission wont 
 complete until i have restrained everyone. It just seems odd to handcuff a victom of a murdered 
 by handcuffing her adding more insult to her disposition. 
  Besides all of the above the game is very nice. Sounds and graphics are good, and the game play 
 flows nicely. I like the in game menu squad command system. 
  
  I recommend this game!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
