-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SWINE
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/swine/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 6.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 217 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fishtank Interactive
Developer: Stormregion
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 19, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the gameplay isn't quite as unusual as the premise, S. W. I. N. E. is a solid real-time strategy 
 game with plenty of humor, all wrapped up in a beautiful shell. 

 The box cover for Stormregion's S. W. I. N. E. will be enough to give you an immediate impression about 
 what to expect. There's a giant pig's face smoking a cigar and a line on the inside flap that reads 
 "when good meat goes bad," which says a lot about the whimsical nature of the game. S. W. I. N. E. 
 is actually a real-time tactical combat game that pits the war machines of the peaceful rabbits 
 against those of the militaristic pigs. While the gameplay isn't quite as unusual as the premise, 
 S. W. I. N. E. is a solid real-time strategy game with plenty of humor, all wrapped up in a beautiful 
 shell.           S. W. I. N. E. may have a silly premise, but it looks amazing.    

  The single-player mode of S. W. I. N. E. lets you play as either the rabbits or the pigs. It's recommended 
 that you play as the rabbits first because the pig campaign is more challenging and immediately 
 starts you off against the most powerful weaponry. The game offers clear objectives for each mission, 
 although the whole premise seems strangely similar to the early events of World War II. The pigs 
 aggressively attack the pacifist rabbits, who are unprepared to fight the more advanced weaponry 
 of the pigs. The rabbits and pigs even speak with French and German accents, respectively, though 
 these accents are so awful that it must have been a deliberate way of contributing to the ridiculous 
 nature of the game. Add to that the fact that the buildings look like early-20th-century European 
 architecture, and it's easy to draw a comparison between S. W. I. N. E. and WWII. Cutscenes attempt 
 to contribute to the storyline, but most of the time you'll see video sequences that don't make 
 much sense. They are amusing but are not really relevant to what's going on in the mission you 
 just played.   

  As a real-time strategy game, S. W. I. N. E. plays very similarly to the games in the MechCommander 
 series, or other sci-fi-themed tactical combat games such as Ground Control. There is no base building 
 or resource gathering -- instead you have a limited number of units in each mission. You're given 
 a few units at the beginning of a campaign and can upgrade or purchase new units using "strategy 
 points" awarded to you after every successful mission. You have an opportunity to buy new units 
 before missions, but there's no real point to this because you can purchase them during the actual 
 mission and have them delivered to any location. You'll quickly learn to use this latter option, 
 since you'll never know what to expect from a mission until you're in the thick of it. For example, 
 buying a minelayer on the fly after realizing you need to defend a location will make you glad 
 you saved your strategy points. Strategy points are also used by command vehicles to call in air 
 strikes. Using these powerful attacks as a last-ditch effort may mean the difference between success 
 and failure.           The tactical combat isn't too complicated, but it plays well.    

  You'll find that the rabbits and pigs have more in common than just bad voice acting. The two factions 
 are virtually identical in terms of their units. This makes the pig campaign somewhat disappointing; 
 playing as the opposing faction in other real-time strategy games is usually a welcome change of 
 pace due to the availability of different units and the possibility of different strategies. Beyond 
 that, the variety of units -- at least within each side -- is sufficiently good. You have light-caliber 
 machine guns, vehicles, various tanks, artillery, rocket launchers, and other specialty units to 
 play with. You not only have to keep track of your units' health, but also their ammo and fuel. 
 Running out of either of these in the middle of a battle isn't going to make your day. Fortunately, 
 you can purchase resource trucks to repair, refuel, and rearm your forces.   

  The artificial intelligence in S. W. I. N. E. makes for a good challenge throughout the single-player 
 game. The computer doesn't actively seek you out, but that doesn't mean it will act passively when 
 you encounter it. If you engage an enemy unit, any others in the vicinity will come to assist it 
 in attacking you. Losing units can be absolutely catastrophic during these missions, so you had 
 better scout an area thoroughly for hidden units or you'll have a group of enemy tanks attacking 
 your artillery from the flank. The interface and pathfinding in S. W. I. N. E. are good, so you'll 
 never have to worry about having to guide each and every unit through the rough terrain. There 
 are also behavior settings to have your units hold position, chase after enemies, or retreat out 
 of enemy firing range if engaged.    

 The most apparent weakness of the AI is that it won't go after priority units like artillery or 
 repair trucks. Instead, it will usually attack the closest unit. The computer also won't chase 
 after wounded units trying to flee. It's easy to just withdraw a damaged tank in the middle of 
 a fight, repair it, and throw it back into the fray. These two factors can make the gameplay grow 
 somewhat tedious as you find yourself doing the same thing over and over, capitalizing on the AI's 
 poor tactics. Basically all you need to do in most instances is deploy your artillery, plant your 
 main combat units in front to draw enemy fire, and you're all set. Sometimes you'll find that some 
 enemy units won't move to attack you if you're hitting them outside their range.           Both 
 the rabbits and the pigs have similar units.    

  Even if you do fall into a rut, at least you can spend that time admiring the graphics of S. W. I. N. E. 
 Simply put, it is one of the best-looking real-time strategy games to date. The environments and 
 textures are extremely detailed. Effects such as tumbleweeds rolling across the landscape and dust 
 kicking up from moving vehicles are a great touch. The units themselves are also very detailed 
 and nicely animated. You may get over the gorgeous graphics, but the animations will hold your 
 attention much longer. Vehicles move like they would in the real world -- they bounce over terrain 
 and recoil when firing, and smoke billows from their gun barrels after firing a salvo. Tanks and 
 other units with treads may be able to turn on a dime, but wheeled vehicles have to have some sort 
 of turning radius or be forced to pull a K turn. It can be amusing to see a wheeled unit trying 
 to move inside a tight group; it's reminiscent of the scene in  Austin Powers  when he tries to 
 turn in the tight corridor. The maps themselves are huge and usually have several paths you can 
 take to attack enemy defenses. Since the game uses a line-of-sight system for the fog of war, the 
 giant cliffs and forests provide plenty of places to hide and set up ambushes.   

  Others factors contribute to the appeal of S. W. I. N. E. Although the voice acting may be bad, the 
 rest of the sound isn't. Tanks and artillery sound as lethal as they should. Everything with an 
 engine makes noise, so you can track down fleeing enemies even if their tracks disappear. The music 
 is also enjoyable and fits the game nicely. Some missions also take place in different conditions, 
 such as rain or nighttime, to help change the mood of the game.           S. W. I. N. E. is a nice 
 change of pace from other RTS games out there.     

  Though the campaign missions are quite long and will keep you occupied for a while, you'll find 
 the replay value of S. W. I. N. E. is limited. All the missions are scripted, so after your first attempt, 
 you will always know where an enemy is hiding or where a patrol is headed. You can't really mix 
 up your forces either, because you're definitely going to need certain units most every time, especially 
 artillery to root out unreachable enemies. A skirmish mode is sorely missing from the game, so 
 you also can't try out some of the more advanced units until you get to the later levels of the 
 campaign. In addition, the program proved to be rather unstable on one of two test systems we tried 
 it on. To help its lasting value, S. W. I. N. E. does include a multiplayer component that offers four 
 different game modes: deathmatch, capture the flag, elimination, and countdown. You can try to 
 find players to compete against using the integrated GameSpy service, but a lot of the S. W. I. N. E. 
 servers are currently populated by Hungarian players, so you may encounter a language barrier trying 
 to find some suitable competition. Besides that, we experienced bad lag trying to play the game 
 online.   

  Though it isn't great in every respect, S. W. I. N. E. is a pleasant surprise for anyone who likes 
 real-time strategy games. Many of its competitors are cookie-cutter games that either have sci-fi 
 units or fantasy warriors and wizards. S. W. I. N. E. never attempts to take itself seriously, so it 
 can be more enjoyable fighting its pigs or its rabbits rather than having to defend against invading 
 aliens or the undead as per usual. S. W. I. N. E. is tailored for both RTS newcomers as well as experienced 
 players looking for something different. The famous saying "Don't judge a book by its cover" doesn't 
 apply here -- in this case, you can do just that. S. W. I. N. E. is ultimately a fun and challenging 
 game and can be recommended to anyone who enjoys the RTS genre but doesn't take it too seriously. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gpvs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Swine, yes the profound word for a pig, hog or boar and yes it could not be truer.
  
  In SWINE you will find two different campaign story lines, those of the aggressive pig and the 
 humble rabbit, but do not let the rabbit fool you, they are as aggressive as the pig could be, 
 I do not know the reason behind the ide of two animal races to represent human kinds inhospitable 
 lust for war and destroying those, who do not share the same ideologies in life, maybe the developers 
 was so inspired by a story of the Russian revolution called animal farm, what ever the reasoning 
 maybe, SWINE is one of the most tactical strategy game I have ever came across.
  
  The game strategy does not only lie in sneaking unseen through landscapes towards given objectives, 
 but the true strategic thinking entails, enemy hardware "tanks etc..", your hardware, and by the 
 way look after them as they must last you from stage 1 right through to the last, you may purchase 
 after each completed battle a new piece, but be careful not spend that hard earned cash on equipment 
 that you truly do not require to complete the next map.
  
  Map sizes plays an important role in completing the mission successful as fuel plays an essential 
 role, yes you have to fuel all your vehicles by fuel trailers and be warn there are a couple of 
 gasoline gushers in the arsenal, if this is not enough the developer also limited ammo per give 
 piece of hardware, those days of spray and prey is over select attacking hardware very carefully 
 as to save as much ammunition as possible, ammo can be purchased in the form of an ammo trailer 
 to top-up those who requires ammo, vehicles will also require repairs and this can be obtained 
 by reparation trailers. All trailers can be bought at the start up of each and every map or by 
 purchasing them form the in-game purchase function, be warned that you will be required to have 
 cash in hand to complete a purchase. If you should decide to purchase a trailer be sure to obtain 
 a tow truck as well, as towing trucks are the only vehicle capable of physically towing trailers.
 
  
  Hardware "vehicles" can be upgraded on purchase or after each and every map, this is if you have 
 cash in hand, study the opponents equipment as they are provided upfront and from there decide 
 what type of equipment upgrades are to be equipped per vehicle.
  
  The graphics are excellent.
  
  This game is highly recommended to those seeking an extra challenge 
 for their strategic skills but be warned it is not easy, but the best of all it is free, to obtain 
 a copy visit www. gamershell. com.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpinguin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  it is a smpler time when animals instead of people waged war on an unprecisdented scale when planes 
 were carrots and when the peacfull rabbits where atttacked by the vicious pigs. it is a smpler time 
 when animals instead of people waged war on an unprecisdented scale when planes were carrots and 
 when the peacfull rabbits where atttacked by the vicious pigs. it is a smpler time when animals 
 instead of people waged war on an unprecisdented scale when planes were carrots and when the peacfull 
 rabbits where atttacked by the vicious pigs. it is a smpler time when animals instead of people 
 waged war on an unprecisdented scale when planes were carrots and when the peacfull rabbits where 
 atttacked by the vicious pigs. it is a smpler time when animals instead of people waged war on an 
 unprecisdented scale when planes were carrots and when the peacfull rabbits where atttacked by 
 the vicious pigs. it is a smpler time when animals instead of people waged war on an unprecisdented 
 scale when planes were carrots and when the peacfull rabbits where atttacked by the vicious pigs. it 
 is a smpler time when animals instead of people waged war on an unprecisdented scale when planes 
 were carrots and when the peacfull rabbits where atttacked by the vicious pigs. it is a smpler time 
 when animals instead of people waged war on an unprecisdented scale when planes were carrots and 
 when the peacfull rabbits where atttacked by the vicious pigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Im extremely picky what grafix and eye candy is concerned, my reviews are very unpopular for the 
 most part because I say whats on my mind, this game is amazing I did not know about it in 2001 
 when it came out and downloaded it in mid 2007, first yes sure this game has no depth witch means 
 you dont have to build factories harvest wood or resources, it is a very SIMPLE modern war strategy 
 game, definitely has by miles better grafix and animations then every and all major RTS (supreme 
 commander, aoe3, ) . at max settings and 1600x1200 it runs like nothing I seen before = very well 
 optimized code for this quality, now like I said the STRENGTH on this game besides the grafix its 
 simplicity, this do not mean that there is a lack of vehicles or variations in the battle quite 
 the opposite  it means you dont have to build stupid things (like every other RTS on the face 
 of the planet) but simply purchase them before round or if you dont lose them in battle they will 
 improve with there experience, I played with it hours and hours and count wait to continue the 
 next day  long time I had not such experience with a video game although I get nearly anything 
 that comes out and this one is even free since 2005, sad that game makers forgot how to make great 
 games like this and bore us to death with far to complex and ugly games for the past few years 
 when they where able to do such quality in 2001, honestly this game is worth far more then expensive 
 brand new games like the major disappointments AOE3 or supreme commander with both I had to force 
 my self to even give it a chance longer then an hour in hope they get maybe better, SWINE is a 
 true and rare masterpiece.. and for all those who say it has no story .. HUH? what kinda story line 
 do you want for a war game ? one side attacked the other because of the resources of the land, 
 they at war.. what more do you need? If you want to watch a movie rent a dvd, this is a game. perfect 
 and simple ! in fact its about same game play then still in beta World in Conflict with far better 
 grafix and game play and bigger vareity of objects and vehicles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_schiffer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Humorous real-time strategy games are few and far between, but Stormregion goes all out with S. W. I. N. E. 
 Battles occur in places like Pigsburgh and Rabbipolis, at one point the rabbits have to liberate 
 their hareport so they can receive airdrops, and, if a pig kills a rabbit in a particularly messy 
 way, it might say something like, Who wants a 100-piece rabbit jigsaw puzzle? In fact, rabbits 
 and pigs are the biggest trash-talking creatures around, and they spend as much time taunting and 
 insulting each other as they do fighting. But it works to good effect, and S. W. I. N. E. has a lot 
 of charm.
  
  Unfortunately, Stormregion didnt take the premise as far as they could have. Once you take control 
 of the rabbits or pigs and start fighting battles, you find that the animals use a variety of tanks 
 and vehicles for their fighting needs, and that their mission objectives are things like capturing 
 oil derricks or defending water holes or ransacking cities. That is, aside from the comments made 
 by the pigs and rabbits during gameplay, S. W. I. N. E. isnt much different from dozens of other real-time 
 strategy games on the market. I think Stormregion would have been better off if they had used units 
 that actually look like rabbits and pigs instead of anonymous tanks (how about a rabbit infantry 
 unit with a carrot-tipped spear?) and if the territory in the game had been something like a farm 
 instead of the standard real-time strategy locales.
  
  On a brighter note, the graphics for S. W. I. N. E. are pretty good. Stormregion did an excellent job 
 with the mission maps. The maps are structured well, there is nice variety to the terrain, and 
 there is lots of good eyecandy sprinkled about, from different looking buildings and houses in 
 the cities, to odd looking skeletons in the deserts, to funny billboards making fun of the pigs 
 General Iron Tusk in one of the later missions. Plus, the units are modeled well, and even though 
 theyre all tank-like vehicles, they look different enough so theyre easy to tell apart. And Stormregion 
 put in a lot of nice details with the units. Vehicles look more battle worn as they gain experience, 
 when a unit is killed a ghost image of the driver appears over it, and sometimes a rocket launcher 
 shoots a carrot instead of a rocket (but it does the same damage) . Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, 
 even with the attention to detail, and even with polygon counts around 100,000, the 3D engine ran 
 well on my machine, even though its under the recommended system requirements.
  
  Lastly, Stormregion did a nice job with the sounds, and they paid as much attention to detail here 
 as they did with the graphics. So, for example, when you select a unit, the acknowledgement you 
 hear is random based on things like the time of day, the health of the unit, and even the terrain 
 for the map. Plus, there is a large variety of taunts and jibes that the rabbits and pigs say to 
 each other, and the voice acting is surprisingly good (and it might interest you to know that rabbits 
 speak with a French accent while pigs speak with something resembling a Russian accent) . There 
 is even some nice, upbeat music included with the game, but it is only heard between missions, 
 not during them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziplong
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Far from the best game I've played, it's still pretty good. Good graphics, weaponry, and it doesn't 
 take too much out of your memory (hard drive space maybe, but even this game is worth about a gig) . 
 I would recommend this to any one on a tight budget. Any other person though, I'd suggest something 
 like Age of Empires, or something like that. The biggest problem with it is that when you want 
 a character or tank to move into a certain position, it won't move there, but instead move the 
 selected spot else where, though not too far away, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 4, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  I forgot I played this game. I tried it out because it was looked like C&amp; C. But it isn't worth 
 trying out when its lacking everything C&amp; C and better RTS games have. The graphics were great 
 for when it came out, looking almost as good as C&amp; C Generals (well not quite) .
  
  The missions are boring and no storyline to force yourself to finish the game... I wish this game 
 had more to it, its looks pretty cool, until you play it however. Not very memorable, I almost 
 forgot I had this hah hah ho. They call it Swine because it has pigs in it? hah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwcjackal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  What can i say , its just a great game. It s C&C meets watership down. And the best part is its 
 FREE . and thats a real suerpise seeing the qualerty of the work thats been put into this game 
 , to be honest if this was for sale id buy it. the only down side to this really is you cant build 
 anything , you just pick your units and away you go , and the next round you add more units to 
 what ever you haver left. I Just wish that more game devs would put as much care into there games 
 as they did for this one. If you have not tryed this game then download it and give it a go , like 
 i said its free so you have nothing to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  SWINE is an unexpected find. The full game was recently release as a free download and it's more 
 than worth your time to get it. The game's sound and graphics are great for the period and good 
 for today, the game play is fun although at times it's a little off balance.
  
  It's simple tactical combat, Rabbits vs. Pigs. Whatever is left of your army is used as the basis 
 of your army for the next game.
  
  The only real detractions from the game is that the AI's pathfinding is pretty bad. Frequently 
 units will decide they are blocked and try and take the long way around, usually through enemy 
 territory. This ends up getting them killed.
  
  Or two units will head right for each other and rather both veer to their own right or left, they'll 
 enter into complex maneuvers of backing up and turning and generally just get in each other's way.
 
  
  The other issue is some levels can be a little annoying as enemies appear off the boarder, are 
 invisible, but will continue to attack you. It's rare and you can get around it, but it's a knock 
 against it.
  
  Minor points aside, its a fun way to spends a weekend or two. When you consider the quality of 
 the game and the fact that it's free, there's no reason not to download it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmcvkycb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  You would first think that a war game with pigs vs rabbits would be dodgy, but this has kept me 
 playing for quite a while. After 2 hours of play, I already love it, the graphics are as good as 
 GTA SA (just in animated form) and the sounds are great. For the price I got it for (75p) this 
 was a bargain, and when I discovered you could get a free download of it on gamespot, I thought 
 even better. So baring in mind you can get this game for free, go for it, and you will not be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  S. W. I. N. E is a real halarious RTS i mean sure there great but its really halirious i could just 
 laugh and laugh and man ive always wanted to buy this great game because it has great units and 
 quite alot and the best is build, recruite, command, attack and conquer game and dont forget Halrious 
 
  
  I have the full version i download it from gamespot here and i was so excited when i was going 
 to install it since i nearly pee on my oants i mean you should really play this game its real great 
 game it has great grapics and gameplay and lots of cool units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cro-azy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I've always wanted to try this game, and when it made shareware finally got my chance. 
  Great move for the development team (or whoever made this into act) by making it free, cuz' all 
 the people have forgotten about it already.
  
  The graphics ARE a little bit overrun by time, and we can't deny that. Blast effects are okay and 
 you shouldn't bee too picky about it when you know that it has been 5 years since coming out.
 
  3D models are solid (as the rest of the game)
  
  Storyline is really twisted, in a positive way. 
  Innovativeness, all I can say.
  
  CONCLUSION: 
 Very sympathic game, French Rabbits and German pigs, where do you can see that? :) ) )
  A perfect chance to try this (full!) game was worth of the downloading, at least in my case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allendar
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I can't really tell many possetive aspects about this game. It's really a kind of freeware fan-made 
 looking game. The gameplay shows a bit of RTS happyness but the graphics are really old static, 
 the sounds are bad quallity. I don't really have a feeling for this game, altough it can fill in 
 some time if you are bored and like dull rabbits and pigs making not-so-funny jokes..
  
  For those that don't want to have so hard-to-play RTS's, then this game can satisfy their needs, 
 I would say. The game is way to easy, It's almost like you can't lose. I would not advise to download/buy 
 it. Maybe it was good game from the time where it came from, but not anymore.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
