-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sword of the Stars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/swordofthestars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sleek, streamlined space strategy.
 surprising amount of depth with little micromanagement.
 cinematic space battles between fleets of warships.
 cool 3D interface and art style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat can kill the pace of the game at times.
 not possible to exit out of combat early.
 some stability issues, as game can lock up at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 394 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lighthouse Interactive
Developer: Kerberos
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Aug 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite some flaws with the combat, Sword of the Stars distills the complex space strategy formula 
 to a slick, streamlined, and enjoyable package. 

  It's sometimes good to get back to the basics. That seems to have been the philosophy at Kerberos 
 Productions with Sword of the Stars, a slightly flawed though highly likable space strategy game 
 that trashes much of the micromanagement seen in the genre and distills the core gameplay down 
 to a highly sleek and streamlined form. The result is a strategy game with little fat, which makes 
 it all the easier to focus on your goal of conquering the galaxy.  

          Sword of the Stars is a fresh take on the age-old formula of galactic conquest.     

 
  Sword of the Stars is an interesting take on the traditional space strategy game. Your goal is 
 to explore the galaxy, expand on new worlds, exploit them to build a larger economy to support 
 scientific research and huge navies, and then use those navies to exterminate the enemy. The game 
 features four playable alien races, each of which has a fundamentally different approach to the 
 game. For instance, humans can zip quickly between stars using special space lanes, while the insectlike 
 hivers must slowly fly to different stars, but once there, they can build interdimensional gateways 
 that let the civilization instantaneously travel to any other gateway. This can affect your strategy, 
 as you might be able to exploit your knowledge of the human space lanes to blockade key planets 
 to contain them or use the dimensional gate system to rush reinforcements around the galaxy.  

 
  There are some old-school elements in Sword of the Stars, which goes to show you than even old 
 ideas still have merit. For instance, the economic system doesn't burden your construction of various 
 buildings on planets or require you to carefully eek every dime out of your budget. Instead, the 
 game uses a slider system that's similar to the one seen in 1993's Master of Orion, or even 1992's 
 Spaceward Ho. You'll use a handful of sliders to determine how much you want to spend on research, 
 terraforming, infrastructure development, and shipbuilding. Planets are rated by size (which determines 
 the population they can support) , as well as the amount of resources on them. The game then calculates 
 the math behind the scenes, and you're presented with only the important information you need to 
 know, such as how many turns it will take to complete a dreadnought under construction.  

  The rest of the game is laid out in a very logical manner. The more planets that you settle, the 
 larger your economy, which means you can dump more into researching the fairly sizable tech tree. 
 New technologies unlock more powerful weapons, larger ship classes, and different components that 
 can be designed into your ships. Once you've designed a ship class, the shipyards can then crank 
 them out. There's very much a rock-paper-scissors balancing with the technologies, and the artificial 
 intelligence is good at the tougher difficulty levels of countering whatever tactic you've devised. 
 For instance, if you find yourself relying heavily on massed missile attacks, don't be surprised 
 if the enemy suddenly shows up with point defenses that nullify most of your missiles. At which 
 point it's back to the drawing board to come up with a new design. And Sword of the Stars has a 
 cool feature that slightly randomizes the tech tree each game, so you're not quite sure which technologies 
 you'll have at your disposal.  

          The game eschews complex micromanagement in favor of simplifying the gameplay to only the 
 key points.     

  The sheer number of different ship designs translates into a lot of depth to the game, but Sword 
 of the Stars offers even more depth when it comes to fleet composition. One good aspect about the 
 game is that it's not possible to come up with a jack-of-all-trades ship design. Instead, you need 
 to build a mix of different vessels. You might have your primary front-line warships, but you'll 
 need tanker support to help move them over vast distances, as well as command ships to allow for 
 larger numbers of vessels in battle, assault ships to land troops on planets, and more. Fleet management 
 itself is a bit cumbersome but otherwise nicely thought out. You can quickly organize your dozens 
 of vessels into fleets.  

  Combat is both the strong and weak point of the game. Battles take place in real time, and it's 
 very hands off for the most part. You can issue your fleet a basic command, such as standard attack, 
 standoff attack, or close-range attack, and the ships will carry out the orders. Being able to 
 sit back and watch the ensuing battle can be both exhilarating and frustrating, as you might sometimes 
 wish for more control, but the system is designed to make it feel like you're a real commander. 
 At some point, real commanders can no longer influence events and must hope that their strategies 
 work out.  

  Unfortunately, combat has other, larger issues that hobble the game. You have the option of playing 
 each battle or having the computer automatically generate the results, but it's far too easy to 
 accidentally end up watching battles that you don't need to watch. Each battle can take up to several 
 minutes to resolve, so the pace of the game can quickly slow to a crawl. Far too often, there's 
 nothing happening onscreen for a minute or two, and there's no way to speed up the action. Or, 
 a planet might come under attack from a mysterious threat. If you're lucky, it's a real threat 
 such as slavers, but if you're unlucky, you have to sit through dreaded meteor storms. These are 
 dreaded not so much because they're particularly dangerous, but more because they're incredibly 
 boring, as you have to sit and watch giant space rocks slowly being blown apart. There's no way 
 to exit out of these combat situations early and let the computer resolve them, though this is 
 promised in an upcoming patch. Hopefully, the patch might address some stability issues that we 
 saw, as well, particularly with the game locking up on numerous occasions.  

  Epic turn-based strategy games tend to be best played in single-player due to the huge time constraints 
 involved, though Sword of the Stars does offer multiplayer support for up to eight players. Be 
 prepared to invest a large amount of time in multiplayer, though, as even with time limits on turns, 
 a game can take a formidable amount of time to resolve. The good news is that the AI can take over 
 for you if you drop out, and you can give it basic orders, such as to expand your empire, while 
 you're away. Still, the pace of the game is such that only the most diehard will likely participate. 

          Research and ship design play a huge role in the game, as you've got to constantly keep 
 adapting to new threats.     

  Sword of the Stars has a very unconventional look to it that works in its favor. The art design 
 is a mix of 3D elements and old-fashioned line art, and while it might strike some as incongruous, 
 we found it stylish and an interesting change of pace from the predominately CG look of most games. 
 The galactic map is presented in a nifty 3D form that can be rotated and zoomed in and out of at 
 will. It's a slick piece of work, and one that's reminiscent of 1995's Ascendancy. On the other 
 hand, the audio effects are rather weak, as they're mainly limited to the whoosh of missile launches 
 or the little plink of lasers firing.  

  Admittedly, we don't get to see many space strategy games these days, but regardless, Sword of 
 the Stars feels like a breath of fresh air in a genre that has been veering toward complexity for 
 far too long. The game has its quirks, but if you can get over them, you'll find a rather deep 
 and enjoyable game about galactic genocide.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lhetre
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:44 am PT
Review:  This turn-based game is as shallow as it can be : no economic model, an ultra-basic diplomacy, 
 no colony development whatsoever, and real time combats you'll have to pause every second. It was 
 probably developed with multi-player in mind, and maybe those who ignore single player and concentrate 
 on combat will be able to appreciate it. Maybe.
  The graphics interface is quite neat, everything is just at the right place, and as you have only 
 a few screens to worry about, you'll never be lost. Moving a fleet, though, asks for a mouse click 
 too much, and because this is the main activity through the game, it becomes quickly annoying. 
 The ships are well drawn and pleasant to look at, unfortunately if you look close at a ship the 
 rest of the combat is out of sight. Enemy ship are generally invisible if you zoom out enough to 
 have a comprehensive point of view. The best way to organise your forces is the "tactical screen", 
 which is formed of two-dimensional triangles and circles. The combat interface is ridden with a 
 major drawback : the camera is a drag. When it is fixed on one of your ships you can't see the 
 rest, when it is free you need to use the arrows, the mouse wheel is useless (true ! in a 2006 
 game!) and it takes an eternity to follow the action.
  Research is streamlined and resembles vaguely the Ascendancy one, with a vertical turning tree. 
 Unluckily you have to double-click on each item to read its purpose. The double-click makes the 
 screen zoom in and show a text. If you want to choose another item you have first to zoom back 
 and then zoom in to another item, which is just a huge waste of time.
  The four races have a different way of travelling through stars and that's just it. Don't look 
 for diplomacy, there isn't any. Well you can give your credits to another player. 
  Be careful, stars in this game mean "brilliant planets" : every star is one and solitary planet.
 
  
  I'm a huge fun of turn-based games, this isn't one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battle_Buster
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about Sword of the Stars when a demo was thrown on fileplanet. I played it for a 
 while, thought its fine and un-installed it.
  A couple of months later, i was looking for something to do and went back to this demo, and found 
 the depth that this can go into. So i decided to buy it.
  Overall, Sword of the Stars has high quality graphics (unique in their own way, not ultra realistic 
 but not bad either) , great gameplay and will give you hours upon hours of fun.
  If your a fan of turn based strategy, with a RTS element (like Total War, most 4X games) you'll 
 love this game, but if not, you better try out the demo previously.
  The AI is quite good. On easy, it is just that - easy. On Medium, it offers up a challenge but 
 can sometimes be too good for you, but most of the time, if you work hard, you can win. And then 
 there's hard. This gives the AI a slight bonus, and you'll have to work very hard to be able to 
 beat this level. The game is great fun in singleplayer, but its multiplayer where it comes out 
 to shine. With up to 8 players per game, with each game involving up to 350 stars in a pttern you 
 see fitting, it can create some great games. 
  Each race in the game (4 of them, Humans, Tarka, Liir and Hivers) are each very unique. They each 
 have completely different designs for their ships, societies and even each race uses different 
 drives to fly them through the stars. The game is well balanced, but sometimes the Hivers can be 
 slightly overpowered.
  The research tree is one of the best parts of the game. It has over 150 components that can allow 
 you to upgrade your ships, planets and everything in between. It also has a random element to it, 
 there is only a chance you will get tech, so every game can play out different, and require a new 
 strategy depending on your technology.
  Diplomacy is rather basic, and could be better, but if you really love this game enough to want 
 more, you can always buy the expansion, Born of Blood, which offers a slew of extra features.
 
  As you can see, i could go on about this game for a long time. While it will last for a long time, 
 is great fun and hard work, it can take vast amounts of time to finish a battle (especially large 
 ones) and it does have a slightly steep learning curve.
  Overall, I think its a great game, that any strategy gamer should try, and if your not sure, try 
 the demo, but remember, the actual game is so much bigger than the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lucasso
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for 1 quid at HMV, and have not regretted it. It streamlines the planetary colonizing 
 to a point where there is no micromanagement but still you still retain the joy of colonization.
 
  The real time battles can be spectacular especially with the huge dreadnoughts. the real time 
 battles, if sometimes a little quirky (such as the inability to pause them) are what Galactic Civilizations 
 aspires to grow into.
  The randomizing tech tree is a brilliant idea and makes skirmishing always remain fresh. 
  The 
 civilizations in the game all have their unique points, whilst being balanced (though the Hiver 
 seem a bit overpowered) .
  If you're looking for something to spend your evenings with that isn't too hardcore or demanding 
 (theres no campaign unfortunately, though there are scenario missions) , then this couldn't be a 
 better choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalacticOrigins
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game. It is a little more complicated than the old MOO, but has that same feel. 
 The tech tree is diverse, and the players empire will have access to different techs in different 
 games. Just enough to make each game different.
  The first order of business is to expand the empire. You want good, cheap to colonize worlds. After 
 colonizing a world, the new colony will cost upkeep until it grows. Larger worlds are getter than 
 smaller worlds, and worlds with many resources are also preferred. Do not colonize too many expensive 
 worlds right away, as it will kill your income and thus mess up your research. Therefore, use strategy 
 to choose worlds to colonize. Send out Tankers with Colonizer ships together.
  The AI is quite good. Even at the Easy difficulty they can put up a decent sized fight. Stay away 
 from Huge galaxies until you get the hang of it.
  Some battles can be a little repetitive but that is a very minor thing. Also, the random attacks 
 can, at first, be a concern but then they are easier to deal with when you get mid-game tech.
 
  For your fleets, you will need Cruisers. At least one Command ship, 2 Barrage torpedo ships, several 
 beam attack Heavy ships, and maybe a few all-Missile cruisers are a good fleet. Missiles are great 
 early on but later on you need less missiles. The reason is that all your missiles hit one target 
 and overkill it, and everyone gets better missile defense later in the game. Still, they are must 
 have for killing defense satellites.
  Diplomacy is not involved but has enough to get the job done. This is a fight to stay alive and 
 not be exterminated, so do not expect many enemies to be nice. Therefore, dont be nice back 
 to them.
  This game has all of the element of the best space 4X games of the past, and the graphics are outstanding 
 (better than any other space game to date) . When you move ships, you go straight to a World, not 
 stopping in between, so you do not get bogged down moving endless units across a single-space map 
 as is found in other such games (GalCiv) . It is a little involved and sometimes lengthy, but then, 
 that is what we want. This is a great game and should be on every True Strategy gamers hard drive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikNieves
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  This is a great game if u like massive amounts of space ship, plasma fire, technology conquering 
 the galaxy with overwhelming numbers and ofcourse explosion after explosion of enemies ships and 
 debris.
  i my self love everything with space and the idea of flying thru it in a space ship...
  so for 
 me it was a reasonable success at the beginning but the more i played and the more technologies 
 i discovered and customized my vessels with every weapon of choice it became a large succes with 
 my especially the customizing bit and the challenge of naming every class different instead of 
 the very original names armor, tanker etc. i always seem to think up something new which is fun 
 and fills up the play time :) .
  Then there is the command vessels that allow u to chose where your ships start in the battle front 
 aft left right u get the point ... in the end up to 66 points which is 54 for 3 DN and 2 CR which 
 is 12 total to make 66 or about 30 DE's i think i never am the swarm type my self so fairly large 
 fleets sometimes but i like big and dmg... :D that way i could annihilate all enemy resistance 
 and destroy whole worlds to the end of conquering the galaxy which in turn is everyones secret 
 deepest desire ^^ (well at least mine and well my friends)
  so i rate this a game for lots of single player fun for the reason the ai always uses different 
 ship load out which makes it hard to adapt to his style for he doesnt really have one.. which is 
 sometimes annoying...
  at about the end of your research u gain the ability to enhance all your income and industrial 
 output thru ai efficiently which sounds nice but it has a chance of backfiring which creates a 
 new enemies with all your technology and the wits of well i dunno who but he is damn witty... the 
 ai rebellion isnt fun especially when all your force are at the front and not in the back where 
 the rebellion begins... so if u retreat to save aft city u lose forward and if u spread to thin 
 u lose all so mostly u come into a pincer situation which is fun but most of all hard to get out 
 off seeing ai's are efficient &gt;.&lt; so large fleets emerge at your footstep and u take that 
 one down with some casualties but when repairing he comes back and again and again etc till u are 
 totally singled out or u ofcourse have enough planet to create a counter attack :D
  or create ai Virus which helps a load around 10 ships per battle go down.
  but to make a end 
 of this long story of SotS, THIS GAME ROCKS!!!
  
  Sincerely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgof
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I can see what people are talking about in the positive reviews of this game but, for me, the problems 
 are much too major. If there is a battle you have the option of hitting auto and it's done. So 
 why bother doing the battles manually ? When you do there is the wait-time for the battle to load 
 - which becomes very tedious. Also, it is not clear if one can make much of a difference and most 
 battles take almost 30 seconds to really get going. The whole thing just started to feel tedious 
 as though I was doing work rather than having fun. So instead of hitting end of turn I shut the 
 thing down and banished it from my hard-drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringeck
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I'm not someone who reviews games a lot, but this little gem saved the 4x genre for me. After being 
 gravely disappointed by Master of Orion 3 and finding both Space Empires V and Galactic Civilizations 
 II rather schematic, unimaginative and dull - why is is that nobody seems to be able to make micromanagement 
 interesting after Imperialism I ? - SotS combination of turn-based strategy and realtime tactical 
 combat plus its avoidance of the errors made by the aformentioned titles in terms of planetary 
 management by abstracting it heavily hit the spot just right.
  
  The game has received a rather lukewarm reviewer score for some reason, which makes little sense 
 when compared to the glowing reviews the above-mentioned titles got. I can only presume that the 
 reviewers did not appreciate the TBS/RTS combination. As a pure strategy game, SotS does not rise 
 that much above the rest, although the empire management, research and fleet movement and ship 
 design is intuitive and well handled. Neither does the RTS space combat element stand out on its 
 own. The combination, however, works like a charm and while the release, which lacked an autocombat 
 key for some encounters, could sometimes overwhelm you, the developers fixed this quickly - Kerberos' 
 reminds me of Paradox Entertainment in their dedication to good product follow-up practices, and 
 that is high praise indeed. SotS also stands out in that its MP possibilities, due to the TBS/RTS 
 combo, are nearly limitless. This is more than enough to make you forgive the graphics, who, although 
 they are not actually bad, can look a bit out-of-date in 2007. What could be improved upon is the 
 diplomacy, which of course matters mainly in singleplayer. While the first encounters can be tense 
 and interesting, as two explorer fleets glare at one another and the player considers whether a 
 quick strike at the enemy to hurt him early on is preferrable to waiting it out (since your first 
 encounter with an alien race is what activates the speech translator techs, you can do precious 
 little in terms of communicating beyond not firing or firing) , the three options of war, non-aggression 
 pacts and alliances are perhaps to simplistic. I eagerly await the expansion, which seems to include 
 more diplomatic features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 27, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying something nice... I found the interface easy to use, the graphics are nice 
 and modern, the game play is OK. I'm a creative guy, I like to be able to do things my way... what 
 put me off was the total lack of ship variety in Sword of the Stars . Not being able to build ships 
 the way I envision simply turned me off to Sword of the Stars.
  
  The combat system in Sword of the Starsis extremely simplified, requiring no strategy at all. This 
 too is a turn off.
  
  I'd rather play Galactic Civilizations II than Sword of the Stars, GalCivII is a much better 4x 
 game. In particular now with the new 'Dark Avatar' addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander515
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all I must say that I am a die-hard fan of the 4x space empire-building genre. I've collected 
 and played many of them ever since the days of Master of Orion. Now, this IS because I love the 
 idea of such games, firstly... secondly because I'm always curious about what each person's particular 
 take on the old idea is gonna be. Each one is always different. That being said, no one 4x game 
 is ever perfect, and no two ever truly the same. Some are deep and complex, while others are simple 
 and fairly straightforwards. Sword of the Stars (SotS) is one of those games that presents a simple 
 and straightforwards interface and design, yet hides a level of depth and complexity beneath it 
 all. The colony management is simple, reminiscent of the original MOO, with slider bars to distribute 
 industrial capacity between colony building and shipbuilding. Queuing up starships is similarly 
 straightforwards, and research is carried out by manipulating yet another slider bar that manages 
 your entire economy, dividing income between science and savings. New techs are selected via a 
 fairly easy to read tech tree that gives you a fairly good idea of what you'll be getting. The 
 game's four races are somewhat cookie-cutter, but distinctive enough to lend the necessary diversity 
 to the game. Ship design is a simple matter of selecting the desired hull and weapons configurations 
 you want. Underneath the simplicity of the gameplay, however, is a layered and detailed system. 
 First of all, the basic four races all play very differently, since their methods of propulsion 
 are all unique. This is quite different from most other 4x games, where everyone roams the galaxy 
 the same way. Each race also specializes in certain technologies, and their ships have different 
 strengths and weaknesses as well. The game randomly generates a unique tech tree for each new game 
 you play, which is interesting... although it might be nice to have a full-tech option available 
 for those of us who happen to be techno-addicts. Although ship design is simple and rather fun, 
 SotS handles it much differently. First of all, there are only three hull sizes, and each ship 
 is composed of three individual modules, instead of the 'filling an empty hull with components' 
 method most other games employ. Since one module is an engine module, and the number and functions 
 of other modules is quite extensive, this means that you must create a large number of different 
 designs in order to meet all your empire's needs. A single fleet will require command ships, tankers, 
 point-defense vessels, close-combat ships, and long-range torpedo carriers. There are some weaknesses 
 to Sword of the Stars, though. The diplomacy system is rather weak, with only a few choices for 
 communicating with the rival empires. Its often hard to notice approaching enemy fleets, and its 
 quite easy to get into an unwanted war without having the chance to negotiate first. The number 
 and types of ships you end up having to design and build, combined with the limitations of the 
 colony list and the 3-D layout of the galaxy map, make managing and moving fleets cumbersome. Even 
 more cumbersome is the fact that you cannot upgrade older ship classes when a new design is created, 
 forcing you to completely scrap obselete ships and rebuild your battle groups from scratch each 
 time you upgrade your designs. While space combat and research are rather enjoyable, the game as 
 a whole seems to revolve around the race to acquire dreadnaughts before anyone else does, making 
 destroyers and cruisers almost totally obselete at that stage. There are some problems with the 
 space combat as well. Enemy ships are hard to see, given the limited sensor range of your ships, 
 leaving you scrambling to locate the source of enemy long-range attacks. Your own ships tend to 
 suffer from poor pathing in battle, often taking inordinate amounts of time to respond to move 
 orders, thus taking inordinate amounts of damage in the process. Although command ships let you 
 organize fleets into initial battle formations, these tend to fall apart quickly after combat begins, 
 and the inability to put ships back into formation means that most fights degenerate into slugfests. 
 Given the sluggishness and fragility of most ships, the limited range of weapons, the lack of formation, 
 and the lack of an in-battle pause, there's very little room for tactics of any kind. The good 
 news is that there are a number of options for auto-resolving battles. The game setup itself is 
 fairly good, with a wide range of options for the galaxy size and shape, the number of players, 
 your starting treasury, and even the economic and research efficiency of the various empires. There's 
 even the option to turn random events, like slavers and meteor showers, on or off, which can help 
 give you some practice with the combat system, though they tend to slow the pace of the game. More 
 good news is that the developers seem very good at listening to player feedback, as the game has 
 already been patched twice, adding some much-needed fixes and updates to the game, so it's fair 
 to assume that more improvements will be forthcoming in the future. Sword of the Stars, like all 
 4x games, has its strengths and weaknesses. Overall, it's a simply-designed, surprisingly deep, 
 and enjoyable game that has alot going for it, especially if you're the kind of player who enjoys 
 space exploration and empire-building without a lot of interface wrangling and micro-management. 
 It's easy to get into, and the wide range of options and the surprising distinctiveness of the 
 four playable races give it alot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmh1924
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game has an element of fun, but it seems that it is simply built around the premise of combat. 
 Even the combat scenes are overly simplified, It would have been a lot better if you could choose 
 the weapon you want to fire, the game fires all the weapons at the same time. Empire control is 
 almost non existent. The research tree is probaly the most interesting aspect of the game. You 
 get a new research tree with each new game that you start and most of the optional items in the 
 tree are different with each tree. Graphics are ok. Sounds get annoying after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lppppp
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play the game I must admit I felt that it had a lot of potential. I enjoyed 
 the difference between the races and thought the straightforward game-play mechanics to be refreshing. 
 Sadly the more I played the more a deep sense of disappointment grew. What bothered me the most 
 about the game is the interface. Maybe my expectations are too high with streamlined games like 
 Civ4 but I felt the interface in SOTS to require too much clicking. The in-game art is also over-simplistic 
 to the extreme; to me the art in the game seems like it was rushed. In fact it's a feeling I get 
 from this game overall. It seems to have been rushed. I don't recommend the game to anyone but 
 the most hardcore fans of the 4x games, and even those would be better served playing GalCiv2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DusTech
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This title is far different from every Turn Based Strategy game I ever played. The game hasn't 
 any type of micromanaging and this is the fun part for those who don't want to spent their time 
 on planet optimizing... The game offer only four spiecies to play, but every of them is well designed 
 and unique. 4 races 4 game-styles.
  The game concentrate itself on battles, logistic and fleet building.
  Even the r&amp; d is limited 
 to warfaring and economy powerups.
  I played it, I finished it and... I enjoyed it!
  
  three things are down in this title:
  
  1 maybe it is too easy, AI is not comparable to Galactic 
 Civ II and it doesn't stand a chance against a human player.
  
  2 some battles where are involved many ships had dropped my FPS to 10-15,
  and it is strange 
 for a turn strategy game! 3 I had some strange bugs on sound... even with the 1.1 patch.
  
  At the end, the game deserve to be played, the genre fans will not be deluded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Typical TBS which is similar to the Master of Orion series which is similar to the Galactic Civilization 
 series.... well you get the picture. SoTS does a few things different by removing alot of micromanagement 
 which will please some people, but turn other hardcore strategists off. Overall, SoTS isn't really 
 a bad game, my only real concern is that once you get deeper into the game and things start to 
 happen the game can take a seriously annoying amount of time to load each turn which can make it 
 boring and annoying, definately alot of patience is needed here.
  
  Worth trying the game out first before considering purchasing, maybe some patches might fix the 
 annoying load times then the game would be far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psymon138
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you are a fanatic for the huge swathes of information and page upon page of spreadsheets 
 that you get from Space Empires and similar games, don't buy this. Its really not your thing. Also, 
 if you like micro-management, stay away.
  
  This game is very simplistic for a 4X. You don't get a huge amount of information every turn, you 
 get a concise summary of what happened in the previous turn. eg. You built ships here, you were 
 attacked here, you explored this system, you completed this project etc. The resourcing and research 
 system are equally simplistic. You don't mine for resources, your planets produce money based on 
 their population, industrial output and the system's resource value. Research is controlled by 
 a slider, push it to one side all your money goes into savings, push it to the other side and all 
 your money goes into research. The tech tree contains a fair amount of base techs, but lots are 
 random, they might be there in your next game they might not. This stops there being a sort of 
 'Ultimate ship' or tech path that everyone follows.
  
  Combat has a fairly simplistic interface, your ships can do a few things, Close to Attack, Stand 
 off at maximum range, General (read: do nothing) , Break off to the back of the reinforcement line, 
 or run like hell out into space. Combat is mostly handled by the AI, you can tell your ships where 
 to shoot and move, though this doesn't necessarily equate to them doing it, particularly when on 
 Close to Attack orders. Also, there are no health bars, you have to judge the damage by how much 
 weapon scarring and fire there is on your ships. Its like your an actual fleet commander, you don't 
 have a nice little bar telling you how long until your ship explodes. All in all this game is very 
 good, unless you like vast confusing amounts of information. Give it some time and its got a surprising 
 amount of depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfspirit72
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Sword of the stars is an interesting game. It is fun to an extent, but has some serious flaws. 
 This leads to quickly getting boring. For starters, the combat is 3D, but with ships that act like 
 2D. They never roll over to shoot at object higher or lower then them, and have no control to rise 
 or drop. This makes it like you enter into a 3D world, but only move one way threw it. And the 
 load time for the combat! WOW. I have a P4 running @ 3gs with over a g of sys mem &amp; good vid. 
 Over 3 minutes to load on of my more advanced combats! Somethings up with that! Ok, that was the 
 combat. Now there is very little interaction with the other races. This really sucks as you begin 
 totally at war with anyone you encounter. There is no decent trade except for treasury funds or 
 research points. Some resources in games like this make it much more interesting. And with an entire 
 galaxy to explore, this leaves a HUGE potental for great sources of energy, resources, and other 
 types of cool trade objects. So this game is very fun, but it will get boring. Now since companies 
 are designing a game for maximum profit, they should at least attempt to create a game that users 
 will keep on playing. I'm thinking that the designers had much more in mind for this one, but corporate 
 push ended some of the more advanced options. So what they get is one that amuses for a couple 
 of days, then since you've done everything in the first day, you lose interest in. I would hope 
 the creators make a MAJOR overhaul patch for this game that will introduce a much more rich environment 
 to be in. It would be MUCH more refreshing than simply using this edition for starters, then trying 
 to make a sequel. An overhaul patch would revive this game and perhaps create a huge following 
 that may last like other Multiplayer turn based games. This game truly could be one of the very 
 greatest! How about planet improvements?!? Whats here is great, it just wants for so much more. 
 The idea and concepts involved in this are so good, but look people, its an entire GALAXY! Now 
 I'm not saying this game is not worth buying. I have very much enjoyed the short time it took me 
 to play each of the (few) races. Thank you.
  S. H. Alsante 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangent
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  In case you didn't know
  
  4X stands for the goals of :
  
  eXplore eXpand eXploit eXterminate The genre pretty much defines the games premise. There is a 
 lot to be said about this game, but I'll just write quickly the neatest concepts this game brought 
 to the gamers world.
  
  The first thing I liked most about this was the differences in the races. Unlike in most games, 
 the races actually differ with realistic feeling differences. For instance, some races can traverse 
 among the planet systems swiftly, like the Humans for instance can use Nodes to traverse from one 
 planet to another, however if they dont have a Node to a particular star, they have to fly the 
 long way. Another race may take a long time to travel to another star system, however they can 
 set up Warp Gates to allow travel to be nearly instantaneous. Another thing I liked is that there 
 is that there is an extensive research tree, and that each item that can be researched may or may 
 not even show up as an available-to-research item in the next game (each game you are given random 
 items to research, such as one game you may be able to design torpedoes, or dynamic shielding, 
 and the next game you may not be able to design any shields at all) . Also, when you are researching 
 something, you aren't given a difinate idea when the item will be researched, only an ideal time 
 (such as they say an item may be researched in 3 turns, but could be finished early (turn2) or 
 later (turn4 or turn5) than scheduled.
  
  I'd have to say there are only a few negative aspects to this. The largest problem for me was the 
 lack of music... there are only a few songs, and they get very very repetitive in this game, the 
 same with most 4x games, or games you would spend more than an hour at a time on. The sound effects 
 are not quite great either, however since the concept of Sound in Space isn't a really plausible 
 idea either, the sounds are still kind of chinsey. The other aspect that was hard for me to grasp 
 at first was the battle system. While it is real time... the controls are hard to get at first, 
 and the HUD is a bit confusing until you get the hang of it.
  
  All in all, if you're a fan of space 4x games (Master of Orion, etc) , or even the Civilization 
 series, I would definitely recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nadlad
Rating: 1.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  So i played game but did i really play a game?
  No that cant be a game... so game has no concept at all, no graphic maybe better then gameboy, 
 u cant make a tactic because the ship design changes constantly, no control in the battlefield. 
 Now i have to install and play NEXUS to get a clear head. In battlefield u have to use TAB key 
 to jump to an other ship to get clear sight because naturaly as u get far from the objects its 
 getting smaller so u cannot select that tiny defence platforms but they can hit u very easily. 
 If u want to plat a space strategy game dont waste your money and play NEXUS. It is not a superb 
 game but bettter. Sorry for my bold research but its true... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaOStreet
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  The Problem is that every game plays more or less the same, no matter what race or settings you 
 choose, the tech tree is just boring and who cares about the little varity? All ships for all races 
 are the same, always! Just the look changes... Oh and its just about Combat and amount of planets, 
 more planets more ships, more ships win.. .thats more or less the only thing that matters...
  
  So the first few games may be nice, but after thats its just plain boring all the time! So 
 better dont buy! You should instead play it by some friends who got it and thats it!
  You will not miss it...
  
  Brought to you by NinjaOStreet, the serious and incognito Reviewer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 2.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful. The star map is terrible to navigate. The 3D idea has been shown again and 
 again to just make things confusing. Until we have 3D computer monitors, let's stick with 2D, okay? 
 Also, you have no idea what the various ship types really do, or how you should arrange your fleet, 
 so you have to rely on trial and error. But, the combat sequences are so slow... and the ships 
 move so slow, you really have no idea if the orders you give are being carried out. Do you have 
 to select your ship first? Do you have to select a target? Why are all the buttons labeled with 
 combinations of periods and parenthesis? Are they battle orders or microphone input output labels?
 
  
  Finally, you never know who or where or why you're fighting. The ships and planets on the main 
 map are so small, that most of the time, you don't know they're there until there is a battle. 
 It's easy to lose track of even your own ships in the maze of star lanes. Sigh, another $40 wasted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodai
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  As the header states this is a great multiplayer 4X'er. If you're looking for the depth and detail 
 that games such as Space Empire or Gal Civ II offer then avoid this, because you will be let down. 
 If you want to enjoy the basics of all the major 4X type games with 2 or more players then this 
 game does it without needing 3rd party software and servers ala Space Empires IV email type play. 
 That being said, there are some issues with the network code dropping sync in combat. There is 
 a patch that claims to fix these errors but it only works for the store purchased copy. This game 
 has a large percentage of online sales and the patch will not work for them. That being the case, 
 this company should have considered its patch model based on its sales model. Still, the game works 
 fine right off the download for the majority of its players and the combat sync doesnt seem to 
 affect game play. The only other technical issue is with design. Given its turn based play, there 
 is no reason the players should not be able to play in a window or be able to drop to the desktop 
 with out a looming crash. Whether or not this can and will be corrected via a future patch is unknown. 
 So those are the down points. Outside of that, the game is well worth the price. It's compact and 
 should play very well on most notebooks. The combat (after the tech tree has grown a bit) look 
 wonderful and very smooth on even lower end systems. Unlike most 4X games, you can pinpoint your 
 attacks to anywhere you want on the enemy ship. This can really add to how effective you are in 
 combat. Also the computer AI is worth using in this to avoid time consuming combat if you know 
 you will end up winning anyway. Most games seem to have a worthless player AI for this and will 
 end up losing a nice portion of a superior fleet due to stupid plays. Having a random tech tree 
 each game is quite refreshing. It helps keep the game for going stagnant by keeping the players 
 from never quite knowing what the others might have. Its simple interface makes multiplay much 
 faster. I've seen reviews that talk about how bad the interface is, but it's not. It's just simple, 
 again for multiplayer reasons since that is the main reason to get this game. It also lends itself 
 well to those who are new to 4x games and find out the hard way you cant just jump straight into 
 one and play. The tutorial is very good at teaching the basics to new players and old 4X'ers should 
 play it just to learn the in's and outs of the interface. Getting hundreds of moves in this game 
 in a few hours is quite easy and common. Other 4X that have multiplayer (only a few of them and 
 even fewer still available) might take days through an email play system. The sound is pretty basic. 
 It's enough to keep you in the game, but you will do better to have your own music that fits the 
 mood. This seems to be the one thing the developers didnt really focus on in design. It's not 
 bad, but very basic. Lots of constant repeating tunes and voices. Again, this game is a great 4X 
 multipler game. Most reviews seem to see it as a single player game and trash it for not having 
 the range of detail they want. If you're looking for co-op or head to head in 4X then this is a 
 great game for the price. Like I said earlier, its getting harder to find some of the older 4X'ers 
 and even harder to find the few that allow multiplay. On top of that they can be cumbersome for 
 new players to the genre to start off with. This game is great at helping new players and still 
 keeping old 4X'ers happy with a streamlined multiplay setup that's very easy to get going with. 
 Try it for what it was designed for and I bet you'll really enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitobah
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I've read many of the other user reviews and I wonder one of two thing, did they play the game 
 (or only the demo) and do they understand what space-empire sims are supposed to be?
  
  To start off, Sword of the Stars is a fast-paced, simplistic 4X game with turn-based and real-time 
 components. The game's strategic map (consisting of stars, planets, node-lanes (human only) and 
 fleets) is turned based, giving you time to plan your moves and, like chess, bottle your opponent 
 in for the kill. The game's tactical ship-to-ship battles are pausable real-time. The real joy 
 of the real-time battles is how important ship facing is (guns are visibly mounted on different 
 parts of the ship) and the ability to target ANY part of the opponent's ship to concentrate fire 
 (this is done seamlessly by having the place you right click to have your ships attack be the actual 
 location on an enemy ship where fire is concentrated) . The battles are quick, and varying numbers 
 of ships can be fielded depending on the level of the Fleet Command ships in your formations (these 
 ships allow for formation building, and choosing which ships are brought to a battle) . Physics 
 plays a part in battles, as ships fall prey to inertia (except the Liir) and can't stop "on a dime", 
 leading to some planning on the part of the player to get good intercept positions. Weapons include 
 all sorts of great things, normal stuff like lasers, missiles, torpedos, and more exotic fare like 
 capital ship beams, lightening guns (think Ion destroyers from Homeworld) , bio weapons, and the 
 siege driver, a giant spinal mounted gun that fires HUGE chunks of asteroids at planets) .
  
  Some people complain that there are only 4 races. These four races couldn't be more different 
 and unlike Galactic Civilizations II or MOO II, these races all have very different modes of travel 
 and aesthetic feel (not just a different ship skin or race picture) . The voices overs are all different, 
 the tech tree (which is incidentally random) have different leanings based on race (for instance, 
 humans are more likely to get higher level lasers and beams and the Liir are more likely to get 
 high level bio tech) . The most noticable difference is travel methods, and descriptions of the 
 travel modes can be found on the website (www. swordofthestars. com) or in many reviews. To be fair, 
 the game does have some undesirable elements. The first is a relative lack of feedback given to 
 the player. It is difficult to know what types of weapons are better at certain things or what 
 ship defenses protect against what weapons. This can be remedied by checking the SOTS forums or 
 wiki, but nothing in game will make that very clear. Experimentation is really key, which is luckily 
 helped by the quick speeds ships can be built and deployed in battle. Also, the game is HEAVILY 
 battle oriented. There is little/no diplomacy and you can't win the game diplomatically. It's not 
 called "Council meeting of the Stars." This isn't so much a shortfall as it is a difference of 
 focus. Players wanting a rich diplomatic model with interspace trade, Galactic Councils, and different 
 levels of alliance and cooperation should look to Gal Civ II or the upcoming Space Empires V (although 
 Space Empires IV had a similarly bad diplomatic model) . Its all about blowing stuff up with several 
 different types of flashy and impressive weapons (wait till you see a Cruiser laden with Emitters 
 and Heavy Emitters firing upon a group of Destroyers... it will make you cry) . I'm a 4X veteren 
 and I really like the game. It may not be the most polished (although I like the anime style art 
 and the sorta cheesy voices for the races) , but it entertains. There were some problems with the 
 D2D version, but I believe these have been sorted out by now (be sure to troll the SOTS forums 
 to make sure) . I got mine from Gamers Gate, but I believe North Americans are now being forced 
 to use D2D for online distribution. It should be in select stores as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analogmix
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok I thought I would try it so I went out and bought it. Ok first the main interface looks like 
 it was designed by a 6th grader. The story line is non exsistant. Only 4 races in the galaxy? This 
 game falls short of the other space strategy games Like Galatic Civ II, or even the older MOO. 
 Ever since MOO came all these companies have tried to come out with games that are similar. Most 
 all have fallen short. This game could have been good if it had a story line, a better graphic 
 interface, more races, and just better graphics! I would not waste your money on this one. It sucks!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kknd22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Did you play MOO 1-3 for their economy and the ablity to control every last building on a planet? 
 then dont buy this.
  Did you Play MOO 1-3 for the joy of ship design and combat? BUY THIS GAME.
  as other games in 
 this genra have gotten bogged down in burocratic levels of detail and control of your empire (and 
 requireing you to delve that deep to have a fighting chance) SotS's design team set back and asked 
 itself : "Why do people play this kind of game?"
  War is not the anser, war is the question, HELL YES! is the anser.
  fleet to fleet engagements, 
 thats what people played them for. so SotS's team focused on the Space Admeral aspect of the genra.
 
  They also asked about the 2 other complaints of players. "why is the tech tree alwase the same?" 
 and "why does everyone use the same FTL drive?"
  
  so here we have a simple economy you can get to do what you want with ease, an enjoyable (dispite 
 a few issues) combat system in which you can design your own ships. to top all this off, the tech 
 tree is slightly random each game, and each race has its own unique FTL drive. this makes each 
 race play diffrently, and makes fighting the Liir totaly diffrent from fighting the Humans.
  
  Side Breakdown:
  Humans- FTL via warp lanes, very fast, but has choke points.
  Tarka- FTL 
 with the simple warp drive (think MOO) , middle ground on speed and acessablity.
  Hiver- FTL Via Teleporter gates, Slow to put in place (no ftl out to a place the first time) but 
 IMMENSE speed in transet.
  Liir- FTL warp with a twist, faster when further from stars/less stars. (you get close to places 
 FAST, but must spend 1-2 turns getting the last part of the way)
  
  Balence in this has impressed me, each side can match techs with the others, and each FTL method 
 has its own ups and downs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  The problem with Sword of the Stars arent the funky graphics, or the poor planet management, 
 or the cheesy tech tree. It's the horrible combat.
  
  The combat is real time, had it been turn based, (Like in Space Empires 4) , most of the problems 
 it has could have been avoided.
  
  All the ship abilities you can 'use', you don't need to use. Ships will use them on their own and 
 just as effectively. When there are more than 5 ships on each side, controlling them becomes a 
 nightmare. Yes you can change the starting positions, but once the battle starts, it's virtually 
 impossible to effectively control your fleet.
  
  But it gets so much worse when inevitably the game turns into a massive zerg where the AI attacks 
 your 50+ ships with their 50+ ships. Due to the poor implementation of the combat there is nothing 
 useful you can do in such battles but watch.
  
  Due to the limited control of your planets, every single game comes down to the same thing; capture 
 more planets than the AI, build more ships than the AI. Managing planets better and building better 
 ships is simply not an option in SotS - thats not to say that it cannot be done, but it is impractical 
 unlike in other 4X games, such as Space Empires 4, and Gal Civ 2.
  
  In closing, this game does not feel like a 4X due to the extremely simplistic empire management 
 and combat that comes down to numbers. That doesn't mean that it's a 'bad' game. If you're looking 
 for a simple fast paced space strategy game where you get to watch lots of ships blow up, you're 
 in luck. If you want deep strategy, empire management, tactical combat, wait a few weeks for Space 
 Empires 5 or pick up Gal Civ 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris1975
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  If you are like me, when you first play this game, you might be a little put off. Some of the voice 
 acting is laughable (like the human scientist) , the graphics aren't exactly cutting edge, and planetary 
 management is very abstracted as a collection of sliders representing where your planet's resources 
 are spent. Play Sword of the more then a couple of hours though, and then it begins to shine. The 
 gameplay is the best thing about this game. I haven't experienced the thrill of pitting my massive 
 fleets against an enemy to expand an empire since Masters of Orion 3, and while not quite as complex 
 of a game as that was, SotS does capture the core gameplay that MOO3 had. The 3D tech tree, which 
 in fact resembles a forest of tech icons and lines connecting them surrounding you, is well conceived. 
 The game randomly including certain techs each time you start a new session, which helps keep the 
 game fresh.
  
  The strategic map is a nice, 3D map of galaxies that represents most of the information you would 
 need with an attractive interface. Planetary management is a bit oversimplified for my tastes. 
 I would like to have seen actual building construction on the planets similar to GalCiv, but the 
 developers were seeking to simplify the 4x genre, so the absensce of it is understandable. What 
 is not understandable, however is the inability to set ships to continuous build on your planets, 
 and the inability to vector built ships to another planet automatically. With enormous number of 
 ships you can build, it would be helpful if you could vector them to just a few rally points for 
 easier fleet management and building. The Tactical Map is similarly informative, but this is where 
 I have one big complaint. Their is a lack of control options when it comes to moving you fleet. 
 While you can create a formation in a fleet management screen, ships often fall out of formation 
 when they get too close to each other. There are no preset formations, such as in the Total War 
 series, and for some reason, once you obtain dreadnought ships, your defending fleet doesnt start 
 in a position the puts it between the invaders and the planets, which makes no sense to me. Fortunately, 
 Kerberos Productions is very responsive to player feedback on their forums, and will soon release 
 a patch with an enormous list of bug fixes and convenience updates. The game customization features 
 are substantial, allowing you to pick from several different types of galaxies with over 300 systems, 
 and allowing you to seed these systems with up to 8 empires for you to compete with. Unfortunately, 
 there are only 4 races, but each has its own unique designs, travel technology and bonuses. There 
 are several other customization features that I wont get into. Graphically, SotS isn't cutting 
 edge, but still remains attractive, and the attention to detail is nice. Look into the windows 
 of your human cruiser class ship, and you will actually see crew members. Tanker ships will have 
 'flammable' stickers on them, dreadnought class ships are an impressive sight to behold. In conclusion, 
 if you loved Masters of Orion 3, then SotS is a must have, especially considering the lack of good 
 4x space games with tactical combat since the abysmal release of Moo4. More importantly, SotS has 
 proven that the 4x genre is not dead, and Kerberos Productions will build upon its debut release 
 to create the rightful successor to Masters of Orion 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpremus
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game from a co-worker. So I bought it and tested it out and it blows. First 
 only 4 races in a universe? 2nd, lots of researching before you can do anything, which I am starting 
 to find out about space strategy is boring. Although you can fight, it isn't fun until you get 
 some stuff. 3rd, why can't you explore in this game? isn't space about exploring. I find myself 
 just goint to a system or planet and kill and blow up a few creatures and either beat them or beat 
 me. I really thought it would have some type of storyline with it but it doesn't. I always feel 
 that if space games don't have some type of storyline that they feel like a blackhole.
  
  Conclusion: this game is a blackhole. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
