-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sword of the New World: Granado Espada
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/swordofthenewworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting story and setting.
 Character costumes are actually pretty good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of grinding away at repetitive battles.
 Monotonous quests and too much use of the same monsters.
 Few choices when creating characters.
 Odd, annoying music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 7.0, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 384 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: K2 Network
Developer: IMC Games
Genre: Historic Online...
Date:     Jul 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tedious quests and little payoff make this Korean massively multiplayer online game a real grind. 
 

  One thing's for sure -- Sword of the New World: Granado Espada won't waste anybody's time. This new 
 massively multiplayer online game from Korean developer K2 Network is all about grinding away at 
 killing monsters and gaining levels from the very moment that it begins. Despite interesting design 
 twists and an offbeat storyline blending swords and sorcery with the colonization of a fantasy-tinged 
 new world, the game collapses under the sheer weight of its monotonous gameplay.  

  Story and setting are arguably the most intriguing lures, and certainly what makes the game stand 
 out the most from the MMO crowd in the beginning (that and the innovative pricing model that scraps 
 monthly subscriptions for a Free2Play system bolstered with cash shops for in-game items) . The 
 plot mashes together a number of historical themes to create a unique whole featuring elements 
 of the age of discovery, medieval fantasy, and foppish Victoriana. Added elements like a budding 
 civil war between Royalist and Republican factions and a religious feud between the mainstream 
 church and the new faith of Solioto even establish something of a real-world political backdrop. 
 Still, K2 doesn't make the most out of this setting. The politics aren't pronounced enough to have 
 much of an impact on your actions, and might as well not really even be there in the first 20 levels 
 or so. Also, window-dressing NPCs and weird translation issues make your dealings with people a 
 bit surreal. Typos are common, as are NPCs who respond to conversation attempts with apropos-of-nothing 
 retorts like "Sounds good!" or pure nonsense such as "These good chances are not always like this!" 

           Even with cool spellcasting special effects crackling all over the place, good luck taking 
 your eyes off of the Victorian fetishwear outfits.      

  K2 also doesn't do much with character design, despite intriguing ideas. Although the game is built 
 off the neat notion of creating a noble family and adventuring through the new lands of Granado 
 Espada in teams of three, there isn't any depth when it comes to the creation of the individual 
 characters. There are only five different stock-standard classes offered at the beginning (although 
 bonus classes are available with boxed versions of the game, and additional ones become available 
 upon the completion of quests) . You've got a warrior, a wizard, a sort-of wizard called an elementalist, 
 and a scout representing the D&amp; D crowd, along with a musketeer to add a pinch of "age of discovery" 
 atmosphere. Few options are available to customize your selections aside from a handful of costumes. 
 There are no ways to alter faces, hair color, body frame, or anything else until you get into the 
 game and start collecting new armor, weapons, and other accoutrements, although the addition of 
 new combat stances unique to each class helps.  

  Quests are equally simple-minded. The first dozen or more hours of play is a grindfest in which 
 incessant monster-killing is solely spiced up by the odd delivery or pick-up assignment (which 
 typically involves wandering around aimlessly and killing monsters anyhow, given that key quest 
 locations sometimes aren't marked on the map or represented in the game world) . The amount of time 
 you have to devote to mindless slaughter is somewhat incredible. One of the first big quests involves 
 acquiring trophies by exterminating three different types of monsters prowling around an old monastery. 
 That sort of assignment is par for the course in the early stages of MMOs, of course, but the numbers 
 involved here are just staggering: you have to slay between 150 and 200 of each creature. Add in 
 a slow respawn rate, and regularly cooling your heels for a minute or more after getting overwhelmed 
 by swarms of ghouls and other critters, and you've got a quest that takes upwards of three hours 
 to complete. This seems pretty representative of Sword of the New World as a whole. All of the 
 jobs seen up to about level 20 require a mind-numbing amount of killing, involving hundreds and 
 hundreds of endlessly respawning beasties.  

  Other problems afflict this eternal combat. Battles typically involve so many monsters that you 
 need to team up with others to survive, even though the three-person team idea would seem to have 
 been introduced here for the sole purpose of giving players the ability to go solo. The monster 
 menagerie reuses the same creatures with only slight modifications to make them look a little different. 
 So even though you do get to kill bizarre beasties like demonic roosters and hunchbacked gnomes 
 called vedonabahs, you're generally wading through packs of three or four monster types in each 
 map. A lot are just slight variations on fantasy stereotypes with odd new names. What appear to 
 be skeleton warriors, for instance, are called zealots, while giant spiders are known as zebra-eaters. 

  These battles with interminable numbers of monster clones also run on rails, giving the action 
 an assembly-line feel. Unless you intervene, your characters automatically attack enemies that 
 get too close or that stand in the way of quest destinations. You can actually leave the room for 
 stretches and let the game play itself, especially during the monster-massacring quests. And just 
 getting to the average quest location is a challenge all on its own. Soldiers and waypoints provide 
 instant teleportation for a nominal fee, but even when you take advantage of this transit system, 
 you still have to wade through a few lengthy maps packed with respawning monsters on the way to 
 each quest.  

  Getting killed is a regular fact of life in Sword of the New World. It's also a major pain, because 
 you respawn in the exact same location where you were killed, only with your hit points halved. 
 So you can expect to pop back to life in the midst of the murderous horde of monsters that just 
 offed you a moment ago, and with far fewer hit points available to withstand round two. Often, 
 you're in even worse shape because your three characters were killed at different times, meaning 
 that they respawn one-by-one as cannon fodder. This means that getting killed once pretty much 
 guarantees getting killed at least three or four times. About the only way to deal with this is 
 to hope that the first couple of slain enemies drop health-boosting mangoes right away, giving 
 your solo adventurer a chance at surviving long enough for his or her buddies to join up again. 
 A better idea, though, is running like hell as soon as one character wakes up and praying that 
 the others survive to follow you to a relatively safe spot, like a corridor populated with only 
 a dozen or so baddies.  

  Combat rewards don't give you any incentive to endure such frustrations. Enemies frequently drop 
 those health mangoes, but little in the way of cool swords, guns, or magical artifacts. You have 
 to expect the award of nifty gear to be spread out well in an MMO, but K2 gives you almost nothing 
 of note through the opening 20 levels or so, aside from the occasional mediocre sword or mage's 
 staff. Additionally, the icons representing all these items aren't very distinct, so it's hard 
 to tell what you should stop and pick up without hovering the cursor over them for the tool-tips. 
 Incidentally, the same issue occurs in the interface after you've added items to your inventory; 
 tiny, nearly identical icons are used for many different types of gear. This makes sorting through 
 your options when kitting out your adventurers an awfully tedious chore. Incidentally, you do have 
 the option to go in and buy some better loot using real money in the game's shop, and these items 
 there are a bit of an improvement over the standard loot. It's just highly questionable as to whether 
 they're good enough to warrant the added cost.  

  Art design is Sword of the New World's one standout attribute, and you can't even applaud it without 
 some reservations. Everything is extremely fancy. You wander through Renaissance-era towns, accept 
 quests in ornate Edwardian drawing rooms, delve into tiled-floor dungeons, and slaughter monsters 
 in lush, green forests. Granado Espada seems more like a vacation resort than an uncivilized New 
 World waiting to be explored, although the picturesque settings don't mesh with the notion that 
 you're involved in the settling of a new frontier. If anything, most of the towns here look so 
 old and prosperous that you might think that they've been established for centuries.  

           Shriek in terror before the onslaught of the devil chickens!      

  Elaborate, foppish 
 costuming adds to the rich atmosphere. Character outfits for men tend to feature lacey coats with 
 tails, and outfits for women boast plunging necklines and high-cut hemlines. So the guys generally 
 look a lot like metrosexual butlers, and the gals resemble riverboat prostitutes. The kink factor 
 is so pronounced that female attire resembles fetishwear. One opening outfit choice is nothing 
 more than a schoolgirl uniform. Another frilly number is cut so low in front and so high down below 
 that the wearer is constantly on the verge of popping out of it and flashing crotch shots whenever 
 you zoom in for a combat close-up. Bouncing breast animation adds to the tease, and there is so 
 much running from one place to another in the game that you constantly recreate the finest moments 
 from  Baywatch . Toss in poses during battle that come straight out of  Charlie's Angels  and you 
 can readily see that K2 has aimed this one at the geek-boy crowd.  

  Sound effects are all over the place. Combat is accentuated by the usual metallic ringing of swords 
 against armor and the whoosh of magical spells, although everything sounds tinny. Furthermore, 
 there are no voice samples aside from quickie click-on comments like "Is this the right way?," 
 which only serve to let you know that there are people in those odd outfits. Music is just as bizarre 
 as the costuming. One moment you're in a town listening to an ornate aria or a classical piano 
 piece; the next you're doing battle to a disco score that transports you to Dance Central in Stuttgart. 
 You never know what you're going to get when you enter a new area. A dungeon could feature chamber 
 music, offbeat choral odes in a foreign language, jaunty notes reminiscent of the techno-jazz in 
 the original Sonic the Hedgehog, or all three mixed together. The one positive about these dramatic 
 changes in musical tone is that they mix things up quite a bit. The big negative, however, is that 
 all of the featured pieces are amazingly obnoxious and repetitive. This game is in desperate need 
 of more subtle tunes.  

  It's hard to imagine anyone choosing to endure this sort of monotonous gameplay for very long. 
 The price may be right, and there is certainly something hypnotic in the combination of the non-stop 
 killing and way-out music, but you'll still soon wake up to the reality that Sword of the New World 
 is an endless onslaught of hacking-and-slashing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rakibrox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I do know why this game got a 6.8! This game is not perfect. Not everything is good about it. The 
 only real problem is that the history is out of place. When was there ever a dragon in the middle 
 of a bridge! Forget that. The game is still AWESOME. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Cant get any better than this. Graphics are awesome. Extremely realistic. I have never a free game 
 with the graphics as this. I love this game.
  
  Game Play:
  
  One word... great. I cant even number all of the weapons in this game. Here are the basics. Guns, 
 Bows, and Sword. Each of them are put into many different types. Like dagger or crossbow. Seriously 
 you have to play this game
  
  What do you have to lose? It's completely free. No money what so ever. If you want to enhance your 
 game play a little more all you have to do is give in a little money. I don't really use my money. 
 I happy with where I am. Revolutionary game.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abc_ellis
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Yes worth playing if your mentally unstable and craving cocaine.
  Well.. after being peer pressured into playing the game, i started it up the game was certainly 
 pretty for about twenty minutes. Then i came to the revelation that the people who voted this for 
 2006 best mmo then i forgot to say that every damn character looks the DAMN same whilst when you 
 get up to level 20 and you still wear the same frigging armor. Seriously though if you think of 
 playing this game you will gate yourself for wasting that time. And of course don't let me forget 
 the fighting in the game literally is unrewarding and retardly repetitive as you can 'patrol' as 
 you CTRL+SPACE+CLICK where you want to stand and atk, woah sounds fun doesn't it. I am pretty sure 
 an illiterate, crippled blind and deaf person can clearly understand how painful this game is to 
 listen, look and PLAY, please do not play this game, if you do not agree with this review then 
 you must also have the above listed problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahnoob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  It was fun and very new at first but after playing a little while longer just made me realize that 
 the game is pretty boring. I had already stopped playing mmorpg but the multi character control 
 attracted me to play the game. Later I was really fascinated by how we can recruit NPCs in the 
 game. Besides that, I also liked the different costumes for the different characters and also the 
 weapons that shines when enhancement reaches 5 or above. 
  
  After playing longer I started realizing that it is just the same as any other mmos only much worse. 
 The auto attack makes playing the game very boring. Other than that, most players are either afk 
 leveling or botting. Making the game absolutely boring and annoying. 
  
  So here is my conclusion:
  Pros: Music sounds nice, Costumes are cool, Multi Character Control, 
 Recruitable NPCs
  
  Cons: Leveling is too easy and boring, Quests are also boring and they are all the same, very very 
 repetitive battles, BOTS, and again leveling is too easy and boring
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Sword of the New World is a Korean mmo. You start off by making a family and then making characters 
 to fill up your family. You can 3 people on your team. You basically go around and do quest and 
 level up your characters. You can get a few new character classes along the way and unlock new 
 outfits for your character and looks. After that you are out in a world that takes place in like 
 the 17th century.
  
  The graphics look really good, and the environments and character models look really good. The 
 enemies in the game do not look bad, but some thing in this game could of looked a lot better.
 
  
  The sound is good sounding, and the music has a nice tone to it.
  
  this mmorpg is free, but you can buy things online to unlock new areas and items, stuff like that.
 
  
  If you want a good free mmo rpg, then you should give Sword of the New
  World a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  So, yeah... I can't disagree with any of what is said in the "official" review as it is fairly 
 spot-on.
  
  Now, even though it has been some months since I looked in on SotNW, but a quick check of their 
 website shows the newest event listed is... their one month anniversary? Wow... way to go on keeping 
 things up to date.
  
  The game WAS very full of beautiful imagery and it was nice to see a different environment than 
 the traditional fantasy genre. The music was atrocious and repetitive, a very poor combination. 
 The effects, both graphical and sound, were rather nice and I sometimes found myself using different 
 abilities just to see what they would look or sound like rather than really paying attention to 
 their effectiveness in combat.
  
  The grind... is among the worst I have seen in any game, let alone an MMO where you pretty much 
 expect it. Mobs respawn at a ridiculous rate and are really only difficult due to numbers rather 
 than being particularly challenging on their own. There are times, as mentioned in the GS review, 
 where you can find a nice spot and just mop up the endless respawns at a fairly constant rate without 
 having to do ANYTHING. I remember finding an out of the way corner and just coming over to the 
 computer occasionally to gather any loot that happened to have not despawned since the last time 
 I checked in, playing with my daughter the rest of the time while I "auto-levelled".
  
  Something that wasn't mentioned, though it is a trend of such games, the "free" play is a complete 
 disappointment. The level cap lands just before everything, from gear to new abilities to quests, 
 really seem to start getting interesting. So, for me, it was fun to see something new... then the 
 grinding and other negatives got annoying... then there is a light at the end of the tunnel as 
 things start to look neat again... but then the cap stops me half-way through the tunnel.
  
  I'll close with what I most liked... family. Your characters, from the ones that you generate 
 yourself to the rather unique ones that you find on "cards" in-game, are all members of your noble 
 family and this concept grows along with the individual characters in it. Having a ready stable 
 of characters to fill out your three-person mini-party without having to rely on other players 
 is nice, especially for someone like me who is generally anti-social in MMOs.
  
  With such a distinct environment and great visual style, it is a shame that it is such a brainless 
 game of meatgrinding. There is so much more potential than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WASDPwned
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Sword of the New World: Granado Espada (simply referred to GE from this moment onward) is a Korean 
 based MMORPG. It puts itself somewhere in-between the Baroque period and Insanity, in which assuming 
 that our ancestors centuries ago could launch fireballs from their hands and turn invisible all 
 the while rapidly firing flintlock muskets faster then you can softly mention to them the fact 
 they are breaking the laws of physics.
  
  That being said, the setting is the pinnacle of gaming technology and covers unforeseen ground 
 not visualized by the constant hammering of the Space Marine forces or the coalition of Woodland 
 Elves. Set in a pseudo piracy with a hint of medieval and the harsh tang of Victorian world, GE 
 plants you in a world riddled in political wars and dragons without stopping to throw in half a 
 billion skeletons, dinosaurs and all kinds of generic giant insects to let you know if this is 
 what really went on in the new world we wouldn't actually be here as all our ancestors would have 
 been too busy grinding up character levels and player-killing their rivals to colonize the western 
 world. While pulling out every corner of the elements and stuffing them within a 10 minute walk 
 of each other, GE brings back a few friends we haven't seen in a few years like beautiful deserted 
 temple surrounded by waterfalls and lush foliage and other such marvels that are far too beautiful 
 to actually exist in the real world and constantly makes me wonder why it's possible to make something 
 so historically accurate yet simply beautiful in a fictional video game world yet nothing like 
 this could have possibly been seen on this planet during any real time. The Character Models and 
 designs are simply amazing and the amount of charm and detail the characters pump out at you is 
 only brought on more by how much you want to blast the tailor in the face each time he says something 
 is simply fabulous while wearing fluffy pink clothes.
  
  The beautiful scenery is only brought closer to you by the usually ear pleasing music. With that 
 being said if you aren't a fan of any amount of techno, trance, or classical music you're much 
 better off playing with your dwarven rogue while blasting Black Sabbath in the background and pretending 
 the game is more hardcore then it actually could ever be. With that out of the way, the music fits 
 the game perfectly and only complimenting the visuals as they walk hand in hand to meet up with 
 their best of friends: Game play.
  
  Immediately GE decides to make sure you know it's different by letting you create three different 
 characters to control all at the same time, each one playing completely differently. You start 
 off with five classes to mold into your new family such as the Flintlock wielding Musketeer who 
 for some reason can't use swords, the Fighter who uses a large amount of things that stab, block, 
 and shoot in frightenly interesting ways, and the generic Healer spiced with knives or spell casters 
 that either turn invisible and call thunderstorms to envelope you in searing hot magma. Before 
 you have a chance to cry out foul for small class selections one of the starting NPCs slaps you 
 across the face and gives you a card for a new character to create being a hybrid gunslinger fighter 
 with thick armor, and it comes to your attention that almost every non-player shop owner you can 
 meet can be recruited on your team and serves a special purpose whether it be building cannons, 
 firing cannons, or being a chef that launches fireballs and sword slashes or in other words being 
 everything humanly possible that has become known as awesome. There are over 50 unique player characters 
 to choose from and each one has a different specialty or use combining with the fact you can have 
 up to three characters controlled at once and providing you the option to create any team to fight 
 in your own unique style of killing lots of people or killing lots of people in fun and interestingly 
 new ways.
  
  GE spends no time in letting you know it's a MMORPG with an insane amount of skeleton dragon bug 
 killing and any other time obtaining the tools necessary to kill even more skeleton bug dragons 
 faster. One of the early missions treats you to something GE hides in it's closet and only lets 
 it's true best friends see: mission maps. These modes usually revolve around defend variable spots 
 or variable towers for variable amounts of time but are surprisingly fun in letting you fight for 
 your life surviving against increasingly harder waves of enemies much like something seen out of 
 custom games found on Starcraft or Warcraft and are a nice way to break away from killing two hundred 
 dragon bug skeletons. 
  
  The max character level is 120, one through one hundred being simple while everything past that 
 being called Veteran or even further, Expert. While the numeric levels provide you with changes 
 to health or attack power, Veteran and Expert levels grant you a stat point to further increase 
 your characters abilities. While character stat points are low, it keeps it simple and means that 
 one point into strength gives you roughly a ten percent higher focus on dealing copious amounts 
 of pain. There are two levels your character expands on one being your base level while the other 
 is your stance level granting you stat bonuses and stronger skills depending on what stance you 
 are in and caps out at level twenty-five. The jump from 100 to Veteran is going from an EXP bar 
 of 100% to 0.0000%, each kill usually giving you .0002% and raising the chances you put your keyboard 
 through a wall by 99.9999%. While Veteran is only seen as one level, every ten percent is one level 
 in numeric status which doesn't yield anything but you getting less experience from monsters and 
 doesn't pay off at all until the leap to Expert. The game is a copious grind but this doesn't upset 
 the fact that this is what the game was made for and if you don't like it you might a well not 
 be playing MMORPGs in the first place. GE wears it's MMORPG badge proudly and doesn't let anyone 
 else bully it around the school yard for doing what the genre tries so hard to sugar coat and feed 
 you in a different format whether it's clicking on goblins to die or clicking on rocks to mine. 
 However if the grind ever gets too horrible you're liable to set your family in a field and press 
 the space bar letting them kill everything they see but eliminating your options to use skills 
 or pick up items that drop and completely level up slowly while not playing the game. Many shun 
 this however I welcome it for unlike most other gamers I actually have things I want to do in life 
 and come back to kill people later. This is only helped by the fact that almost 95% of the high 
 end gear is completely buy able from other players and the fact that you aren't completely forced 
 to raid unless you are a perfectionist.
  
  Raiding is one of the highlights of the game, although it can be a hindrance to the typical fully 
 PVE player. While there is one non-baron server free from player-killing, those who play on Baron 
 servers must not only make it inside the warp gate in the 5 minute window during set time points 
 each day, but then will have to fight other players to control the area and kill the boss itself. 
 These usually take less then an hour to complete, most of the time being the 30 minute waiting 
 point before the boss will spawn giving each squad a chance to fight and control the area which 
 can be summarized as boring if there is no other clan to fight and you're into that sort of thing.
 
  
  For those not interested in killing woodland creatures there's a large amount of other players 
 to kill and douche baggery to be done. After family level six or roughly when all your characters 
 are level fifty, you're open to kill or be killed by any other family. This system known as Baron 
 allows you to kill other players every time you want while turning you into a giant red target 
 for the entire time you aren't killing monsters to work off the points you gained killing other 
 players. Low level barons will just randomly drop one item from their bag while higher level barons 
 will drop multiple equipped items on death. There are also large scale wars between clans of opposing 
 political factions to capture colonies on a specific day of the week I'm always working on with 
 each colony giving a small percent higher health which stacks amazingly in larger clans making 
 them become unfair dicks about killing you constantly when they have twice your health for just 
 happening to be in the club.
  
  In everything if you're looking for something completely different besides the setting you kill 
 mythical creatures on Granado Espada offers large scale player against player wars, raids, player 
 killing, and just about every other thing other major MMORPGs have without all the fluff of mining 
 for ore or knitting sweaters. While specific character customization is low or at least at the 
 start, the game makes up for it with insane amounts of ways to be killing people and ultimately 
 sticking to what MMORPGs should do best.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaar_Asri
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is fast pace and action packed, however that is about all the game is about. Character 
 options are very limited even more so after the Manifest Destiny expansion. It has the longest 
 dullest grind of any online game I have every played. The combat is spectacular yes, however the 
 same attack 100 times before your eyes gets pretty dull. The game is lacking the Online world feel. 
 There is no where to park your character. There are no housing locations. There are clothing items, 
 however they are extremely expensive. Some of the best clothing options the game designers sell 
 in their market place. Most will cost around 10-20 dollars for a costume! The game needs help, 
 the theme is great, the graphics are great, however it needs to be turned into a online world before 
 all the players get tired of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny18yang
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  The review for this game is so biased its not even funny. if you are afraid of a lil "grinding" 
 then dont play mmorpg. and the reviewer must of not like techno/tranc music. most of all he is 
 99% a WoW player. unlike WoW, most other mmo takes skills to play.
  
  A new update was just released, lot of new areas to goto. and some newskills was added. there is 
 no level cap and there are plenty of areas for a player to explore... (you gotta lvl a bit first) . 
 Not gonna lie, but some time it does feel like you are grinding it abit, but that just makes your 
 pvp experience feel a lot more fruitful, because you feel like you earned the lvls.
  
  This game contains alot of different abilities. Even though the classes are repetitive and you 
 cant change any facial features ... yet... I would much rather play this game then to pay $15 a 
 month for another game. If you don't have much time to waste on mmo, and would rather play at your 
 own pace then this game is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooper102
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  PvP has level limits like most of the other games and that makes game unrealistic.
  Leveling is quite fast as long as you stay atk.
  You have a lot of different weapons for same 
 levels and with different bonuses.
  Clans have very little functions and most of them are carebears.
  A lot of all kinds of events 
 for any level.
  Monsters are unrealistic.
  A lot of Quests with a great story and big rewards.
  Bad translation on quests but you can still 
 understand everything.
  There's no public chat which makes selling harder, there's no private chat if you don't add player 
 on your friend list.
  Voyaging is easy and cheap in all ways, you can save positions to return on the same spot later.
 
  Very little stuff to buy on Item Mall which can help you level fast which makes game better for 
 players which don't use IM.
  
  It's free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monke86
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Sword of the new world is a new type of MMO, with the added twist of some what being in control 
 of 3 characters at once. The game is free to play, and for a free game the ghraphics are steller. 
 it has a pretty well made soundtrack that is more entertaining than some repetative music of most 
 mmo's. As for chracter creations, the characters you make are well made, and it adds a sense of 
 you making your own story make the team you chose sort of a family theme. however when compaired 
 to some other games out there its seems like the flaws it has are more of a stand out. 
  
  
  Gameplay 6/10:
  Now this game is a point and click type of game meaning that youll be clicking 
 in the direction that you want your group to go, or clicking on what you want to focus your groups 
 attention to. Now for anyone that has not play a click to move game, or someone new to MMO's in 
 general, this can be frustrating to get the hang of. combat itself is kinda dull for the beginning, 
 you can pretty much tell your team to walk to a location and hold a position, and they will pretty 
 much auto attack everything to death. now when leading the team, you can tell the other 2 team 
 mebers to use there skills, other than that they will pretty much auto attack, and auto heal if 
 they are capable of it.
  Another twist to the group is changing stances, every stance has a stat bonus the more you level 
 that stance, and you get a different stance at certain character levels, the problem is theres 
 not to many different stances to play around with, and some stances are the exact same as another 
 stance. And a very bad flaw is say you wann change a stance, well in some cases youll have to change 
 weapons in mid combat to do so, now that may sound easy, but theres the problem of sometimes it 
 wont regester you switching weapons. so say you wanna change to a healer stance from a dagger stance, 
 youll open up the armor menu and inventory and dump your dagger in your inventory, since the character 
 that heals needs to have nothing equid as a weapon to heal, but when you do so the dagger will still 
 be equiped. Sometimes youll have to do it 3 or 4 times. its notacable lag sometimes when you wanna 
 click on a item and nothing happens.
  
  Questing 4/10:
  Sword of the new moon has a horrid questing system but i have seen far worse. the quest are the 
 same basic kill X monster Y times, or bring X item to Y town. however reading the quest as its 
 being given to you is a big must. The reason being is if you just run through the quest givers 
 coments fast and dont read them, and open up the quest log youll get little to no info, other than 
 what to kill. the log lacks the detail of "go kill the monster here", or"to get to that area go 
 this way", theres little info on that if ever, and youd think if you went back to the person who 
 gave it to you, he reinform you on were to go, to bad thats not always the case. Most of the time 
 they will say "hurry up and go kill so and so already."
  Another bad part of the questing system is the items you get from it. now sometimes youl get a 
 car or a boss voucher item, and then thell just be sitting pretty in your inventory cause it failed 
 to mention what to do with the item, which happens often.
  Now the final reason why questing wasnt so great was the fact that most quest make it fell like 
 a whole lotta grind. Most games will tell you go kill Xmonster 10 times, or 20. Sword of the new 
 world will make it 150 or 200, that combined with sometimes not knowing where to go is not desirable, 
 and killing 200 boars/snakes/random beast gets repetative fast. most quest will just make it seem 
 like your better going to a igh level place and holding position there and auto killing everything 
 thing whle you watch tv.
  Now the redeming part of the quest system are some of the boss fights, where the quest is to beat 
 up the quest giver in a 1v3 fight (he will be the 1, you the 3) the fights the selves are pretty 
 entertaning, and its a fun quest to beat down the guy who told you to go 3 floors down a dungon 
 to get some water.
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  For a free to play game the graphics are outstanding, better than some pay to play games. The characters 
 are detailed, the monsters are well defined, the moves are noticable and fun to watch sometimes. 
 Even the basic user interface is well made. the costumes, weapons, areas, towns are all so well 
 made, and it shows that this is the are hey put some effort in greatly. If nothing else the game 
 deserves a nod for great graphics.
  
  Music 9/10:
  Another great area of the game. Each area has unique music. The only real shame is there is not 
 more soundtracks when your killing 500 monster out in the area. Unlike some games with one song 
 per area, youll get 3-5 or more songs per area, which helps alot when your out for a long haul. 
 The great thing is everysong is not dull or drumed down, its all different kinds of unique music. 
 This is a great area for the game.
  
  Community 6/10:
  Now with the low score its deceving. Im not saying tha the people that play are horrible (everyonce 
 and a while they are, but thats in all games) , its realy the lack of communication that people 
 do. theres no real effort to communicate, and most clans (which are the guilds/teamates of this 
 game) recruit at level 50, which is a downer for most new people, but this is attributed to most 
 US servers being low populated. Other than that you have your basic Bots that all MMO's. Hoever 
 a HUGE plus, no vis (vis is the money system in sword of the new world) seller spaming towns or 
 whispering to people to buy it. If the population were stimlated more, this could easy help compensate 
 for some flaws.
  
  Overall 7/10:
  Good graphics and sound highlight a bit abover average MMO. Had they worked on the Quest system 
 and made it feel like less of a grindfest, the game would have been fantastic, and a true top MMO. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artemishiu
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  All in all, the game is pretty good. Sure, it will get repetitive at times but doesn't every other 
 MMORPG? The graphics are good but might skip if you don't have a high end rig. The music is very 
 unpredictable but you can always mute it and have something else playing in the background. I like 
 how they give you the windowed option because the full screen version is always hard to minimize 
 so you can take a break without logging out and do other things. Yes, you can leave the room and 
 the game would play itself and your characters will be pretty safe but people with little time 
 like myself don't mind it as much because that means we can do some other things and not have to 
 worry too much and log out. The only major complaints I have are the skipping, repetitiveness of 
 missions, and the fact that this game does seem to be targeted to geek boys. I am at times considered 
 one myself, loosely because I have as much of a life as any other people and enjoy basketball. 
 The game almost supports the stereotype that geeks are smart but not enough to be nerds, play lots 
 of RPGs, and are slightly perverted. I would recommend this game to those that don't mind repetitiveness 
 that much and enjoys fantasy and RPGs. It is free too so no worries on the financial front so you 
 can just delete it if you don't like it. But please delete your account too because available Family 
 Names are in short supply. I myself had to use some weird names that would be hard for a language 
 genius to pronounce. Thank you and I hope my review was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitamaru-homia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Its pretty good for a point to click, i usually wont touch a point and click game. But the skills 
 are easy to use and its a very tactical game. Music is way awesome. I brining something new: being 
 able to control 3 characters at one time. Making a Character Combination very tricky. 
  
  The basic classes are Musketter (Being able to shoot fast with pistols, dual pistols faster but with 
 lower
  hit rates or Can use rifles to shoot from long range and VERY powerful but have long delays) Wizard (Doesn't 
 use elemenental attacks but are very strong in PVP) , Elemental (Always have advantage over all types 
 of monster, best to use in PVE; monster battles. Leveling up all your skills equally is great so you're 
 never at a disadvantage when you dont have spell to counter) , Scout (They can use daggers and Heal 
 your party members. They are really good at offensive in the higher levels 40+, bassically a cleric 
 class) . Warrior character (They can use katanas and other sword like weaponry. In the higher levels 
 50+ they can dual wield a Sword and Pistol!) . It gives a good set of classes.
  
  Its a bit hard, the quests are the best i've seen in a mmorpg. Such as going to a single player 
 deugon to fight GAIGANTIC MONSTERS. Sometimes you'll to party up for these duegons. Its pretty 
 grindy when you get to level 21. if you have Musketteer, Musketter, and Scout its bit easier but 
 you waste alot fo money on bullets that way. Overall it's a great game. Gamespot was wrong about 
 this cool cat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Packfan104L4
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Now first of all, I can tell the fanboys would bash me if I didn't say that I DID actually play 
 this game for more than an hour. I got my 3 initial characters up to level 33 or so before I finally 
 said screw it. I was a loyal player of the international version (essentially the same thing, without 
 the crappy K2 service) through open beta.
  
  There really is no depth to this game. The hardest part is sitting back and hitting the space bar 
 to set your characters to patrol mode which is essentially a you-see-it-you-kill-it mode. After 
 the simple inital quests, there are few and far between to even consider. It basically gets to 
 the point where you're saying to yourself Why do I want to watch my characters kill the same thing 
 over and over to do another pointless quest .
  
  Also, if you're looking for PvP play, this game provides it in a very frustrating form. Basically 
 you can just go around killing other families off for no reason and your name turns red. Big whoop. 
 No benefits except that you might get a bad unique item. Whoopee!!!
  
  If there was an actual community to the game or the grinding wasn't so bad, this game MIGHT be 
 a blip on the radar. As of right now, it's scraping the bottom of a trash can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graavigala
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  game has great music and it plays well on older comps, can control up to 3 characters at one time 
 (making killing easier) these are the good things.
  bad things are everything else, korean grind fest at its best. kill million mobs get one level 
 and ding! you are at level2, do the same thing except this time kill 10million to get another level. 
 from start to end same crap.
  good thing in killing althou was that you can go to auto kill, just leave the game to play itself, 
 one healer to make sure no one dies (remember the 3 party members thing) and 2 to kill, after one 
 hour you got yourself level upped character. easy as that but boring as hell. skip this game and 
 go to life sucking WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Here's my review.
  
  PLOT: The plot and the entire universe is great. It's based on America when it was first discovered 
 except adding in magic and fantasy elements. Still, it's original... and that's a good thing... isn't 
 it? +3 points
  
  GAMEPLAY: You gotta be kidding me? The gameplay is so bad. Not only did I have a frustrating time 
 every time I had to rotate my camera, but the bad reaction time of pressing buttons got really 
 annoying. Really, really annoying. Gameplay adds nothing new except for the MCC. But your to busy 
 preoccupied with other issues to actually care about it, so minimal points.
  +.5
  
  SOUND: At first it was nice... but then it got really annoying.
  +0
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics 
 are simply... superb. But then Koreans made it, and they rock at graphics (well most of them) . +2
 
  
  OVERALL: 5.5
  
  Download it off the internet and play it if you got nothing better to do, but don't buy the copy 
 you can buy... you'll just waste money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I know this site can be tough but that score was out of line, not when they gave that horrible 
 trainwreck of an MMORPG, Vanguard a seven something... please.
  This game at least works. On top of it, its offering something that is a bit different then the 
 usual dwarfs and elves killing rats and pigs in a big empty wasteland of generic fantasy world 
 7524.
  The game has some interesting PvP features, its easy to learn... all in all not bad.
  Gameplay is a bit weird at first for the MMO player as its a squad management system. It feels 
 more like an RTS at times IMHO.
  Anyway, I'm not going to spend much time on this as this site has pretty much trashed it for whatever 
 reasons, its free to play, the only thing you have to lose is a bit of time. No harm no foul. More 
 then you can say for half the traditional pay to play, grinding on empty servers, on 10 whatever 
 until your eyes bleed so you eventually join a raid. You want to see a piece of poop game, go drop 
 40 or 50 bucks and 14.99 a month on Vanguard saga of -doesn'tworkatall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elsantos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  One can pick apart any game. Things you like things you do not. Yes there is always room for improvement 
 but over all it plays well, has plenty of action. The three member team thing does give a lot of 
 choices as to attack and defend posibilities. A lot of grinding but then Lineage is even worse. 
 Quests reward better in wow. But again, the game has many good aspects. One of the most for me 
 is the team/rpg concept. I would rate it in the 90 to even 95 range. Play it past the first couple 
 of days and try using all stances and skills for all three char. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_H
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  I have started to play internet MMO's only recently , so i got my hands on the best of free MMOS 
 to try out my PC and my internet connection. So far the best i got was this game. So i decided 
 to write a review and to share my thoughts about this game. I have read all of the previous reviews 
 here including the one from gamespot and i must say i was a bit confused. Many of them were quite 
 conflicting. After playing the game for a wile I found out the reason for it.
  
  First what is good:
  The graphics are great one of the best that I have seen on a free MMO.
 
  The colors some times are a bit too bright but still its very pleasing to the eye.
  A little low on character customization but on the other hand since you control three characters 
 its almost impossible to find another three just like yours.
  Lots of items makes for a good RPG.
  Moving from one area to another u will encounter a short 
 loading screen but the are too short to annoy. Previous movement issues from map to map have been 
 fixed by adding teleports and movement assist solider who teleport you inside an area.
  When hunting monsters you have to get from 50 to as many as 300 of them, and previous grind with 
 this has been fixed by increasing monster spawn rate.
  Controls are pretty simple, although one has to get used to controlling three characters instead 
 of the usual one!
  The three charecter innovation allow u to be a lone wolf because you can have three different classes 
 to help one another. Or you can team up with friends to form a small army.
  Many other things have been fixed that were mentioned as bad in previous reviews.
  For example 
 i would say that the massive grinding to get your level up by killing monsters is almost eliminated 
 in this game by adding a new thing that i have never seen before - XP cards. You get them by either 
 finishing quests or hinting monsters for rewards. One could say that this is still a grind, but 
 if you add the fact that characters can kill monsters all bu themselves u can go eat something 
 or watch a show on telly while they hunt for monsters then there is almost no grind here.
  The quests are pretty interesting though sometimes may seem a little similar to one another.
 
  Costumes and weapons are pretty and i mean pretty, colorful and beautifully constructed. Though 
 sometimes fell to be a little too appealing for the male players, but female players should find 
 something eye catching too .
  The finding a location problems are solved by including maps in quest descriptions.
  And for 
 the end of good things when u move through the maps it really feels like moving through a battle 
 field, other players are battling monsters everywhere you looks others are running to reach their 
 quest destinations this game really feels like a massive battle ground of people against monsters.
 
  
  Ok, now the bad:
  What i did not like was the inventory, the items shown are a little too small and no filtering 
 options exist.
  there is no options for modifying our characters after creating apart from what u buy or collect. 
 sometimes the cities feel a bit too crowded, and my internet connection struggles to keep up.
 
  Also an annoying screen bumping effect is displayed each time a monster falls to the ground.
 
  And a couple of other small thing that are almost unnoticeable unless one examines the game like 
 i do.
  
  So thats about it. if u want a game that is simply fun interesting and beautifull to look at this 
 is a free mmo for YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I am a late comer, so Granado Espada is my first online game. And I really enjoy playing it a lot. 
 The graphic is superb. The three player mode is quite an innovation and makes this game no too 
 difficult for newbie like me even thought the combat is quite intense. Monsters regenerate real 
 fast, so gaining experience at the beginning of the game is quite easy. What I like most about 
 the game is the small quests which help increase your family reputation. Interaction between players 
 in the game community, however, is minimal despite the factions and colony war which were added 
 into the game. The downside of the game is that there are only five types of professions to choose 
 from: Fighter, Musketeer, Scout, Wizard and Warlock. I would hope to see more classes in the future 
 patches. Nonetheless, this is offset by the NPC cards you can get after completing the quests. 
 My most favorite is of course the kick boxer from Siam, IRAWAN. Best of all this game is free to 
 play. You only have to pay if you need the cash items which can help you gain more experience or 
 get some NPC cards which are not available in the game. Without the small bugs, I would give this 
 game a 10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Despairity6s
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Thats the feeling I got during the meat and potatoes of this title. While the presentation is phenomenal 
 and the character models are well done there seems to be something missing. Combat in this title 
 seemed very little beyond grabbing a spot where something spawns and making a sammich while your 
 3 members grind for you. While this makes grinding a little less tedious, you're hardly playing 
 the game. You might as well pay the little kid down the street to grind and level for you while 
 you supervise. This type of automated functionality is crazy. In most MMOs running a program to 
 do this for you would result in bans but it seems encouraged here.
  
  Running around town can get difficult with only a mere hundred people around since each one is 
 controlling 3 characters at once which makes rendering an extreme chore even for decent rigs. Clicking 
 on NPCs can also take its toll as it only takes 2 other players around him/her to make it difficult 
 with 6 toons surrounding him. A better approach would have been a more traditional RPG approach 
 of a designated leader avatar instead of your own mini platoon. The lack of customization leads 
 to a detached feeling from your Hero # 39573, you look like everyone else and the only real discernible 
 traits you have are the names above your characters. You don't know your self created characters 
 you don't connect with them nor do you even really care about them. Controlling them is closer 
 to an RTS in style which gives them a disposable feel that shouldn't be in a MMO. Even with this 
 title being free there are much better free alternatives out there and you'll save yourself the 
 trouble of downloading 3 gigs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvfosurvialhor
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  HUGE DISGRACE TO ALL MMORPG. At first i thought the game would be amazing since this game was unbelievable 
 to the koreans i would think same for us. After gaining level 20 which was extremely to fast you 
 would have to pay from there. With no Characters customization and cunfussing controls it was a 
 huge disappointment with every aspect of the game. One of the worst this year.. you would think 
 3 players would be amazing helping every which way... i was wrong they helped too much! gathering 
 xp was to easy to fast and not enough fun. You will become bored within 20 mins. Please don't waste 
 your time even playing it. The only reason I give it a 3.0 is for graphics which were quite well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games (MMORPG for short) are a huge business nowadays. 
 The genre has been rapidly increasing over the years. Every company wants to get in on the trend, 
 especially when you hear about Blizzards World of Warcraft hitting over nine million subscribers 
 (thats a lot of money) , and it doesnt seem to be stopping there.
  
  Sword of the New World was actually released last year in its native country of South Korea, under 
 the name of Granado Espada. Beneath the countless barrages of Korean MMORPGs, Granado Espada managed 
 to pick up some trophies at the Korean Game Awards, including best game. K2 Network is hoping the 
 uniqueness of Sword of the New World will bring them success in the European market. Did someone 
 just say a unique MMORPG on the market? Holy cow!
  
  The South Korean version of the game was actually free to play, and to some extend it is over here 
 as well. Users interested may download the client and play the game up to level 20 with some restrictions 
 included. After that you may upgrade to the premium account, which is a monthly subscription of 
 $8.95 per month (about &pound;4.50 at current exchange rates) . There might be some confusion as 
 recently the Korean version has released an English beta of Granado Espada. K2 Network has said 
 that Sword of the New World will be going in a different direction than to Granado Espada and will 
 be worth the monthly fee. This means plenty of new things in updates to come that wont be in Granado 
 Espada, woo! We like new things.
  
  While playing the game you can see that Hakkyu Kim, the guy who created Ragnarok, another highly 
 popular MMORPG, was trying to make Sword of the New World different. One of the first things youll 
 notice is the Multiple Character Control (MCC) system, a fancy word meaning that you can actually 
 play as three characters at a time, instead of the usual one. This is something that hasnt been 
 tried before and the game is heavily built around this. The player doesnt have to make a team 
 of three, but playing as one character is pretty much impossible as there are so many enemies youll 
 just end up getting pummelled all the time.
  
  First thing you must do in Sword of the New World is create a family name. This is the surname 
 for your characters, as when you actually get down to creating your family, you give them their 
 first name along with their class and gender. Logging into the game sticks you straight in your 
 family barracks; this is your home for the characters you create. You can generate more than three 
 characters, so you dont have to worry about missing out on the other character classes. There 
 are five character classes available to you. These consist of Fighter (the general melee attacker) , 
 Wizard (highly powerful magic user) , Musketeer (gun user) , Scout (healer and buffer) and lastly 
 the Elementalist (magic users of elements) . One of the reasons why the MCC system stands out is 
 because you can chuck whatever classes together. You no longer have to go on a hunt (which in some 
 MMO games can feel like a quest on its own) to find that missing class to add to your party, just 
 stick that class in your trio and you are on your way.
  
  The UK server I adventured on was rather quiet; its probably because the game wasnt out in stores 
 when I was playing it. People I did see didnt seem to want to talk, so wanting someone to help 
 is pretty hard to get. Its not like people arent interested because there are plenty of people 
 speaking on the official/fan websites (great places to get help on missions, damn that rebel mission!) . 
 Theyre probably all playing on the USA server at the moment.
  
  Disappointingly the game doesnt really offer that much of customization when creating characters, 
 in fact it is really restricted. Either sex is selectable in all five classes, but thats about 
 all you are going to get in physical appearance of the human body. No face, legs, arms or body 
 modifications here, sorry guys, this means no super sized breasts you all dreamed about. The game 
 does allow you to fit the characters with stylish clothes, giving you a decent selection for the 
 fresh hero/heroine. The game emphasises on this a lot because it prefers to flash off your clothes 
 rather than armour. Armour isnt shown at all on your characters, which is somewhat disheartening 
 because everyone likes to flash off their new item, particularly when its a rare one. Instead 
 youll just have to go to some of the clothes shop in town and buy new styles of clothes that become 
 available to you as you gain stronger. But dont fret as weapons and other items are still visible.
 
  
  The handling of three characters is easy to get to grips with. This is mainly due to you actually 
 only moving one of them, called the leader, and the rest simply follow. Players can select the 
 leader on the fly by clicking on their details at the bottom of the screen. Character movement 
 isnt controlled by direction keys, its all point and click based, click an area and watch your 
 team run to the place you pointed at. Since you only take control as one, the rest are controlled 
 by AI, which works surprisingly well. If you just leave the AI as it is, they will attack whatever 
 you click on. There are plenty of settings to tell the AI what to do, you can let them attack everything 
 in its path, pick up everything, even have the Scout focused on healing while you go around kicking 
 arse and taking names. The controls have shortcuts for pretty much everything, so if youve got 
 a good memory, you can just have the AI do different spells by pressing the hotkey for it, it saves 
 you the hassle of having to keep swapping leaders every time you want to cast something. At first 
 it can seem a little complex as there is a row of keys for each character, but like most things, 
 after time you get use to it and it becomes second nature.
  
  One thing I had a problem with while starting the game was the way the training was handled for 
 first time players. You start on a ship and talk to a character that teaches you basic movement 
 controls. After promoting some standard pirate stereotype (got to love rum eh?) you are sent to 
 the starter town and have to go around talking to all the characters to learn about the different 
 controls. It took a long time to get all the info I needed from the tutorial guys and even then 
 I still wasnt sure about some of the things. Later on I found that reading the help section in 
 the game was much quicker and easier than doing it the games way.
  
  Setting wise, Sword of the New World enters the user in a historic time period, 17th century exploration, 
 hence the New World in the title. The land you explore looks beautiful, crisp and colourful. It 
 may not be flashing off some new fancy Direct X 10 effects but it does manage to be nice because 
 of the art style. It has this lovely olden times vibe going for it.
  
  The story starts you off as a family arriving at Granado Espada (thats the newly discovered land) 
 with a given task of helping to solve some of the tension that is happening in the country. This 
 translates into killing monsters, oh yes, lots and lots of monsters, and rebellious humans with 
 intent on causing mayhem. To help take down these monsters each class has a vast selection of stances. 
 Stances are categories on how your character fights. Things like Duel wielding, Hack and Slash, 
 Psychokinesis and Assassin are just some. Each stance has its own unique move list, so theres 
 plenty to learn and master. The user interface is clear on what moves you have and a simple click 
 is all it needs to use them.
  
  Fighting monsters probably take up half of the missions available to you. You get a lot of find 
 and kill so many types of X monsters missions from random people, mainly nothing to do with the 
 story; they are there just to get some extra experience and bonus items. Its not just finding 
 5 or 6 though, monsters arent anything rare in this game because these guys want you to find 150 
 or 200 monsters and slaughter them too. It will take some effort, but its not like you fight them 
 one at a time. The game is full with critters, so youll always find yourself swamped with 4 or 
 5 of the gits. Battles are over pretty fast because of the MCC. Three characters can hammer a monster 
 in seconds, so fights dont really often last any more than a second of two. It is very fast paced 
 for a MMO title. If you happen to die then there isnt any penalty as such for failing to protect 
 yourself (and all your fellow countrymen too!) . Just wait a minute or so for your character to 
 be resurrect with half of its health points returned, or get your scout to learn resurrection, 
 a faster and easier way instead.
  
  Another section that is highly popular with MMORPG gamers is Player vs. Player, or PvP as its 
 more knowingly called. Some servers in Sword of the New World allow you to randomly attack other 
 players, but if killed you do face a penalty of losing experience. If youre scared of that, you 
 may request a battle with a family that can take place in the arena. Battles here dont come with 
 any fees for losing the fight. If larger scale is your thing then clans and even religions (always 
 a reason to fight!) may scrap with each other. If you arent the killing kind then there are other 
 activities for you. Subscribers can use the market seller to flog their findings so other people 
 can bid on it. This is a good way to make some money if you can get hold of good items, or if so 
 be it creating your own with recipes you come across. Job titles dont exist in Sword of the New 
 World so crafting feels like a small side quest, rather than something you have to work long and 
 hard to become an expert at.
  
  If you arent already busy playing a MMO, or are interested in Sword of the New World, then it 
 is recommended to go and try the free download first. The game isnt trying to get new people in 
 to the genre; its just supplying something different to existing MMO players. The world is lush 
 and the music is pleasurable. The soundtrack is really well produced, maybe one of the best in 
 the genre going at the moment, youll find yourself humming along to some of the themes.
  
  If you can handle the countless enemies and get over the little niggles that the game has, you 
 will find an amusing and different experience that could be worth your time and maybe even your 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughbaldwin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Most MMORPGs are all the same. You play as a single player, run around , and level up without any 
 decent purpose. Sword of the New World changes all that by adding in some different variants to 
 the formula. For example, you control three characters at once. You come to the new world as a 
 family and you try to make a name for yourself. Of course you can acquire abilities and techniques 
 to develop your character. But the developing of your character isn't boring. The action is fast 
 paced and you level fairly quickly compared to say Final Fantasy XI. This is definitely a game 
 worth trying, and I wouldn't mind spending a few bucks a month to play. -Zech- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tron563
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  OK TO SAID THIS THAT I HAVE TRY THE SEA VERSION OF GRANADO ESPADA AND NOW I HAVE ALREADY PLAY THE 
 SOTNW GRAPHIC AND THE GAMEPLAY IS THE SAME AS IN SEA VERSION AND IT IS STILL THE BEST GAME BUT 
 BAD THING IS THAT AFTER YOUR MAXIMUM CAP OF F2P LVL 20 U NEED TO PAY FOR 9 $ SOMETHING FOR A MONTH 
 WELL I PREFER TO PLAY IN SEA VERSION AT SINGAPORE CAUSE THEIR P2P PAYMENT IS CHEAPER THAN SOTNW 
 IT COST EACH YEAR FOR 40$ CANT IMAGINE ITS QUITE CHEAP THAN SOTNW AND THE GAME HAS A GOOD AFK LVLING 
 THATS VERY GOOD FOR THOSE WHO IS LAZY TO TRAIN BUT CAUSE MORE LAG AND THIS IS ALL WHAT I HAVE TO 
 SAID IS THAT THIS KOREAN MMORPG GRANADO ESPADA IS THE SPECIAL CHOICE U HAVE TO PLAY .^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Usagio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the most gorgeous graphics and unique music in the MMO-RPG genre at the moment. 
 Best things about it are the Multi-Character Control (MCC) allowing to play 3 characters at a time. 
 AFK farming is also feasible as the basic MCC AI can handle character control while camping a spot, 
 for example while you are sleeping or out shopping. This makes it ideal for the average working 
 people who can't devote much time to games but would still like to see their levels increasing.
 
  
  Other good things include the occasional GM-run events, and economical subscription cost (game 
 client is free) . If you liked games such as Ragnarok and similarly styled games, this would be 
 a good upgrade on those.
  
  There is still room for improvement as it has only recently gone live. For example it could use 
 further corrections to various grammar and translations, and there is probably still room for the 
 community to grow and mature. Problem is that a Western audience is likely not as attracted to 
 this game as its original audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdo_ols
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Ive spent quite some time playing Sword of the New World (SotNW) , and I must say I love it! Ive 
 tried tons of different MMORPGs, but in the end they all seem to boil down to one thing: level 
 grinding. Im not a very big fan of this, and so I lose my patience very quickly with these games..
 
  
  This game however, has a lot innovative aspects. Most noticeably is the Multi Character Control 
 (MCC) . This lets you create and control three characters. At first I thought it would be something 
 like Guild Wars, AI controlled character that simply follow you around. When I tried the game for 
 the first time I was pleasantly surprised. You create three characters that you have full control 
 over. The AI is very simple. They will attack what you attack, or you can put them in Defend Mode 
 which causes them to attack whatever is closest..
  
  The graphics in this game are wonderful. Im not at all surprised it has won awards for its stunning 
 graphics. The detail of your characters and all the NPCs walking around is amazing. Its the same 
 with the surroundings and various creatures and monsters. I am particularly amazed with the detail 
 on the buildings in the cities..
  
  But there are some negative sides to game as well. Although the sound is very good, the music is 
 not always the best. Of course it depends on what kind of music you like. In this game they chose 
 to go with techno/trance music. The music can help set the mood, particularly in combination with 
 the fast paced combat, but if youre like me and use headphones the music can get quite repetitive 
 and tedious after a while. I have found an easy solution though. I turn of the music in-game, and 
 play my own music. But not all the music is of the techno sort. They have some beautiful classic-inspired 
 pieces as well.
  
  The character creation process is not the best Ive seen in an MMO either. It is very simple. Its 
 almost as simple as it can get. You can choose class (fighter, musketeer, wizard, scout and elementalist) , 
 gender and costume. There is no customization of physical appearances like hair, face, height etc. 
 However, with the combination of what you can choose plus the fact you create three characters, 
 its very unlikely youll meet anyone with the exact same party. Then there are UPCs (unique player 
 characters) . These are character you can obtain by doing various quests, and can then add to your 
 party (assuming you have enough space in your quarters) . The UPC helps make your party feel more 
 unique.
  
  The gameplay is the best Ive seen in any MMORPG. It might get a bit tedious after a while, but 
 I just take a break from playing for a day or so, and then the game feels like new. This is astounding, 
 because when I get bored with something, I usually stay bored. The combat is fast paced, and the 
 quests are versatile enough to not get too repetitive. There are some quests that are repeated 
 to flesh out the storyline, but I think it works. Leveling is also very fast, although it doesnt 
 seem that way. I would say its fast compared to other Korean MMOs like Lineage 2, where it took 
 me a week to reach level 20, whereas in SotNW it took me a couple of days. This may be because 
 Im not a very fast leveler, and I tend to dawdle with other things.
  
  So in conclusion, this is a wonderful game with a few flaws, but nothing that interrupts the gameplay. 
 I feel this review cannot do the game justice, because it must be experienced. I hope my review 
 has piqued your curiosity. Remember, the game is free to download, and free to play until level 
 20. Go ahead and play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacee
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has excellent graphics and music however we all know that graphics and music do not make 
 a game fun. The most annoying thing about this game is click and then you walk click walk click 
 walk click walk.. its enough to drive you crazy! When you click to walk EVERY WHERE! It really 
 becomes annoying. O I want to turn away form the monsters that can kill me, Il just turnnope not 
 hear, you have to position the curser just right and then click so your facing the right direction. 
 This wastes valuable time. The dialog system is not as good as FF11 or WOW. Click on the person 
 then choose how to talk, then type, then send, instead of just typing what you want to say and 
 pushing return. It make talking a lot more of a pain. I think they increased the challenge of the 
 game to accommodate a 3 person group. So its not really a big deal to have 3 people. I do like 
 the idea though. It would be nice if say wow let you have more people under your control to go 
 through instances instead of looking for people all the time. To look around in this game you are 
 FORCED! to use your mouse. What is so bad about that? It slows down your progress. If you want 
 to turn to look at something you have to click and drag the screen over. So annoying. In wow they 
 let you push one button to look in any direction, much better and quicker because your not clicking 
 and dragging the screen. Final fantasy 11 and wow are better because the game controls are more 
 user friendly. The story is not all that great. The music is really good but it can get quite repetitive. 
 If they could let you program your keyboard for your controls, then this game would be excellent. 
 Too bad we cant do that. In wow you can program all the controls the way you wont, thus giving 
 you complete control, making it really fun. Thats one of the many reasons people love WOW. Its 
 all about game play and control of your character. If a game is hard to control it take away form 
 the fun and less people will play it.
  So should you get this game? Id say if you must play it, first get the free trial before you pay 
 money for it. Over all if you dont mind clicking and dragging even in battles then this game is 
 good. I however dont like clicking and dragging as you know by now. The beauty of a game is to 
 see that beauty with ease. Pushing over to see to the right or left or up gives you the feeling 
 that your really in a fantasy world. Clicking and dragging to turn to look or to just look with 
 out turning is like going form a color TV to a black and white. If you dont mind it its worth 
 trying at least once. God Bless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sg7770
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I am just getting started but the game play is intreguing. If you are looking for a run and round 
 and kill stuff games with a weak or used story line - this is not it. The graphics alone are very 
 impressive and the interface is fairly easy to use. I am still trying to get into the depth of 
 the story line and surrounding factions a politics of the era, but again, this is no Frozen Throne 
 re-done. Now do not get me wrong, there are still a ton of update and fixes needed to enhance game 
 play and PvP interaction, but the game has been out for a few weeks and is a great first start. 
 If you are looking for something that looks and sounds awesome in a classical anime style and is 
 not a respin of an old idea... then you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaineklown
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I am enjoying playing this game very much. I really like the having the control of three characters 
 it saves a lot of time trying to find a group. There are many many enemys and the respawn rate 
 is very high which makes the drop rate of items very high so money is not hard to come by. I definitely 
 like the design and the stlye of the game, it is a nice change of pace from wow. I really enjoy 
 the stance system, the different verity of moves helps the game feel new and gives a nice change 
 of pace every once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  I've had my eye on Granado Espada ever since I learned of the Korean official site for the game. 
 It looked amazing, and I was taken in right away by the character art and their in-game counterparts. 
 Lucky me, I got access to the press VIP beta.
  
  Before making your characters, you have to pick a family name. This is basically all of your characters' 
 surname, since you will have the chance to create a large number of them.
  
  I found out that I had already six characters made in my account, three level 40 and three level 
 24, but still plenty of room to make some more. They looked gorgeous and extremely detailed. And 
 so does the family room where they all hang out in, waiting to be picked for an adventure. The 
 game offers five character classes: Musketeer, Fighter, Scout, Wizard and Elementalist. When you 
 create a character, you pick the class, gender and select one from an array of outfits that are 
 absolutely breathtaking in their 17th century Baroque fashion style.
  
  As you select a character, he or she will move up to the front and wait for your orders. My instant 
 reaction was to just run out with a group of three.
  
  Everyone who will talk to you will have a marker above their heads, and all those who will give 
 you a mission have an exclamation mark like in WoW, but others will also offer quests. NPCs will 
 also automatically transport you to the respective dungeon to complete a mission, while other quests 
 are done in the different zones, usually by doing deliveries or killing certain types of monsters 
 a number of times. Based on the questing I've done, you can get money, experience cards and character 
 cards as a reward. Experience cards allow you to attribute those experience points to a particular 
 character. Character cards apparently let you unlock new characters to play as, but I haven't found 
 out how to activate them.
  
  I scrambled around lost for a while, then finally found an exit to the next zone. I picked up a 
 quest and off I went, killing the strangest plants, crocodiles standing on their back legs and 
 other colorful and exotic beasts.
  
  Aside from weapons, equipment isn't visible on your character at all. Apparently, the only piece 
 of armor that will be visible are hats, so now the whole wardrobe selection at the character creation 
 process makes sense. Characters have special active and passive abilities to customize their combat, 
 and you can also direct them to attack everything in sight, stand their ground and defend, and 
 summon them if they get too far behind.
  
  Dying means your character will lay there until a timer has ran out, and then come back to life 
 at about half health.
  
  The world map actually tells you what levels each zone are appropriate for, and when you zone over 
 there's a message stating it too, so you can be sure you won't be getting into trouble by going 
 into areas that aren't suited for your character.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, it can get a little complicated controlling your party of three, but 
 after a while, all you need to do is watch and do a few mouse clicks here and there.
  
  Stunning graphics and great soundtrack aside, what I really like about SotNW is that if I'm a healer 
 or magic user, I don't need to depend on others to protect me, and if I'm a fighting class I don't 
 have to find a healer to keep me alive. I don't need to wait to find a group to go kill things 
 anymore: I am the group. I can run out there with my own party and adventure on my own, three characters 
 at a time. It's perfect for me!
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=sotnwgranadoespada 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Up untill lvl 20 the game is free so they spent extra time on the quests and the content making 
 it atractive and fun. This is a typical Korean game though there is a huge grind factor. But the 
 funny quests and interestying play style made me keep lying. Afterall it was free. So I hit lvl 
 19 and I start off in the lvl 20-35 town and start reading the quests. I have been speaking english 
 for 26 years now and the words were english but they wern't english sentences. (If you play for 
 free there is a lvl 20 cap for your characters)
  
  Suddenly when I moved from one town to the next in the Post lvl 20 area the content sinks to an 
 abysmal level. Rather than having 5 quests available there was only 1 quest every 5 lvls now much 
 less content and it was poorly written.
  
  I went out into the hunting areas thinking maybe there would be quest givers out there where the 
 buffalo and skeletons roam. (thats right they mixed buffalo and skeletons in the same zone) Nope 
 there were no NPCs in this zone.
  
  2k Networks needs to spend another 6 months working on the english translations of their texts 
 Its obvious they spent time on the lvl 1-20 content hoping that people would sighn up for the game. 
 Only to find that after lvl 20 the content becomes un-readable.
  
  The good old bait and switch, It never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeteyPablo10001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game brings something new to the table, off the bat when you start you create a character 
 and spent 15 minutes doing a tutorial then when you get IN the game you create another two characters 
 to join you. So you have a total of 3 characters that you can control at any point. The charater 
 classes range from your typical swordsman, mage, etc. But there is also Musketeer which is like 
 your ranger that attacks using guns, elementalist, scout which can be an assassin or healer. This 
 game is more of european oriented than asain. The cloths r of that 17th century era. The NPC have 
 their own personality. Now onto combat, when you roam into the land there are litterly monsters 
 everywhere! Grinding Galor baby! You can command ur team to either ( this is pretty cool) go into 
 assualt mode which u click onto the ground and any enemy between you and the point you clicked 
 automaticaly enages in. Or there is defend mode, where your team stops and any enemy around is 
 killed. Items droped can be normally picked up by lefting clicking or u can click ctrl+shift and 
 left click anywhere, anything around where you clicked is automatically picked up or in between 
 like assult mode. The graphics are beautiful. If you have he right hardware that is, shadowing 
 is very nicely done and anture looks very very nice. Monster deatail is well. . .pretty rushed 
 but still detailed. You can go from 1 to 15 in 3hours or more. Now onto socializing. You have the 
 option to join someone else but you dont really need to makes lvling faster but if your new ask 
 around. This is still new game so people arent friendly yet lol. PvP takes place in the town only. 
 One of the bad points. Once the eprson agrees you two are then teleported to a PvP zone which isnt 
 anything mind blowing. Its a small area which pitches you two head on so no running around like 
 ehadless chickens here! The level cap here goes to 120+ which is pretty fair since you control 
 three charaters. This game also includes a cash item shop. HATE THIS THINGS there are so amny of 
 them around as if they want more money ppfftt. There is 2 NPCS for this one to order and to pick 
 up the item. . . ? Wtf? Exactly my thoughts, but thats why you dont ever see no cash item shops 
 in free games. I say this is a great game jsut pick it up and play, its a good break from WoW and 
 is also free which you can afford. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykarr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  The play style is unique and easy to get used to. Simply put, this game is very fun to play and 
 beautiful to look at. The quests are easy enough and the game design makes it nearly impossible 
 to die unless you are entering areas that are simply way above your level. And when death does 
 come, you aren't severly penalized. There is about a minute wait and your fallen characters will 
 resume the fight in the order of death.
  I was hesitant to purchase at first but gave it a chance and am very glad I did. Reading a lot 
 of pre-release views from Beta testers kind of put me off but I figured what the heck, early release, 
 typical but with a 19.99 price tag, I just had to give it a shot. It has a strong anime feel too 
 it and the music is definitly something you have to get used to, thats not saying it's bad, just 
 something you have to get used to. Gameplay is great and due to respawn rates, (very fast) you 
 really don't need to worry about getting ganked by other players farming. In fact, some area's 
 you just have to try and move along and ignore the mobs (at the cost of some XP) . Traveling is 
 very fair and the system works well. I really enjoy the fact that after I return to the game, I 
 can re-enter a previous location without having to endure a long and already completed journey.
 
  All in all, this game is fun to play and if you can afford the 19.99, it's well worth the price 
 and the retail version has it's perks. A lot of the bad reviews come from gamers who bought the 
 pre-release and those straight off the Beta. Yes the game was released to soon and as with most 
 MMO's, they have a slow start especially when the game gets pushed out the door to fast while still 
 in translation. It may not replace any of the hard hitters out there but it will satisfy your needs 
 for something totally different. While I enjoy my WoW, I always thought it would be cool if I could 
 gather the characters I created and put them in my own raid party and go into an instance. Well 
 now I can, SOTNW satisfies that hunger. Your fellow companions are very well suited for any tasks 
 at hand and there is no need to micromanage them. It is very easy to jump from one to the other 
 but on the same note, you can totally rely on them as well as their skills without having to babysit.
 
  Despite the negaitive previews, I purchased to make my own opinion and am very happy that I did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xninja4000
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I was drawn to the game because of the multi character combat system. You get to control up to 
 3 characters at a time wich adds a nice layer of depth to the combat. The combat is fun, but can 
 be confusing at times. The one thing that really annoyed me though was that your party attacks 
 mobs automatically. If a monster spawns close to you, your party automatically attacks. The classes 
 are pretty fun though. You have the basics of any MMO. Fighter, Scout (healer) , Muskateer (ranged 
 with guns) , Wizard, and Elementalist. The one thing that really let me down about the game was 
 the character creation. You do not get to customize ANYTHING but your costume. So, all male fighters 
 look EXACTLY THE SAME. So everywhere you go, you see a clone of yourself in a different costume. 
 I thought it was very annoying. The music is... strange in combat. Some nice techno/electronic music 
 for your killing pleasure. But the music in the towns was very good for the time period. The graphics 
 are amazing. Everywhere you go there is rich detail from the buildings in the town own to the weapons 
 and costumes. The NPC's look very unique. It's just a shame you cant change your apperance. The 
 game was pretty enjoyable once I got over the setbacks, but I dont see myself playing longterm. 
 My advice is try it for free before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  While I was resting and relaxing after spending a good weekend in Guild Wars for the 2nd annual 
 Dragon Festival Event, I came upon this game known as Sword of the New World: Granado Espada. It's 
 your typical grinder MMO mixed in with the flavoring that comes with Asian imports of this kind. 
 What seems to seperate this from many other Asian-oriented MMO's so far is the unique system of 
 building your characters.
  
  The first noticeable thing about this game is the character creation system. Unlike many MMO's 
 where you can create and use only one character (per account) at a time, in SNW: GE, you get to 
 create a family of characters. Initially, you can create a family of four among a five classes. 
 As you progress through the game, you can buy additional character slots using the in-game currency. 
 You'll also get UPC cards that you can use to fill in any bought open slots so that you can have 
 your own version of that UPC and use his/her unique abilities. The other nice thing about this 
 game's character creation system is the costumes. Although the costume you choose when you create 
 the character is the one you'll pretty much see throughout the whole game, the costumes are well 
 designed to go with the game's colonial-era time setting. The only real customization here comes 
 with the abilitiy to buy different hats and other costumes as your family members get to the higher 
 levels.
  
  Speaking of which, each family member not created using a UPC card can be of one of five classes -- fighter, 
 gun-toting musketeer, wizard, elementalist, and scout. Each of these classes and UPC's have a set 
 of stances which you can choose depending on your play style and how you want to build that family 
 member. For example, you can have a fighter use a sword and shield, or a single sword; your musketeer 
 can use a rifle or even a pair of pistols; or your scout can either use daggers for attacking or 
 trade offense for much needed healing and other things consistent with his/her Medic stance. Depending 
 on where you bought or downloaded your copy of the game, and you're willing to pay the subscription 
 price of $8.95/month, you'll can get a UPC card to start with as soon as you have your starting 
 group of 3 family members from the five classes.
  
  The graphics are incredibly amazing for an Asian import of this kind, which goes real well with 
 a colonial-era fantasy timeline. There'll be many kinds of monsters to fight, and a myriad of lanscapes 
 to see. As mentioned earlier, the costumes are well designed, as they tend to give the male characters 
 plenty of noble.. or un-noble personality, and the women... well, let's just say the pixels can make 
 a male gamer's mouth water.
  
  The music are also pretty consistent with the time setting, although the combat BGM's are more 
 of your typical Asian game combat music. Nonetheless, they are pretty good, though most will probably 
 turn them off after hearing them so many times. The sound effects are nice, and the few voice actings 
 are pretty decent for its kind.
  
  There are a few notable shortfalls in this game besides it being another grinder MMO and one that 
 requires a subscription to get access to everything in the game, even take your family members 
 beyond lvl 20. The most notable shortfall is the lack of customization. You can't change the hair 
 and facial appearance of your non-UPC family members, nor can you see them wear the main armor 
 you equip on them as you're stuck with the costumes they're wearing. The other shortfall is that, 
 as of now, there isn't any real good way to access and use the game's Cash Item shop, and that 
 one appears to require the use of real currency to get special in-game currency to utilize such 
 a shop. There are a few translation issues too, but none too significant so far.
  
  Technically, the game seems to run pretty well even at the minimum requirements, although there 
 are no options for playing the game in full screen mode at this time. There's also been some few 
 bugs and glitches that haven't been noted that much, but pretty negligible at this time, so the 
 developers seem to have ironed the game out pretty well.
  
  Other than that, SNW: GE looks to be a good mix of your favorite grinder MMO's with a nice party 
 control system that's almost consistent with Guild Wars. With a retail price of $19.95 plus the 
 aforementioned $8.95 premium monthly subscription, it's a real bargain. Thus, it is worth a try 
 if you want to try it out for free with limited access; but for its premium prices, it's a really 
 nice game to try between your favorite MMO game sessions.
  
  In-game: Astrala Family (Cesario Server) ; Delarnisse Family (Orpesia Server) ; Rubyhearte Family 
 (Vespanola Server) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipercomplete
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  i always loved mmos, dark age of camelot was my first, i have all the expansions. then i played 
 WoW, and hated it. then i tried guildwars and it was pretty good. then i tried evequest and kinda 
 played it a bit. then i got lord of the rings online, and played it almost as much as i played 
 doac. now i play this. this is the only game i like as much as doac. it has a large world, great 
 gameplay, and godd custimization too. too many mmos have benn WoW copies, but not any more. this 
 game seperates itself, controlling 3 customized characters in some pretty big battles is a huge 
 test of skill, and the game pulls it off quite well. i believe this game will come to be at least 
 best mmo of the year, and definatley a canidate for best game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggystyle12601
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Sword of the new world is one of the best mmorpg games I have seen thus far. The game fetures many 
 new additons to traditional mmo's and it also comes with some kick ass graphics. The game starts 
 out kind of slow talking to all the boring towns ppl and what not, but once your done with all 
 the riff raff witch takes about 20 mins or so then it's time to get down and dirty. The best part 
 about this game is you can walk around with up to three players at a time making more than one 
 person level up. This makes for some exciting game play. You can also control only one player at 
 a time and leave the other two trailing behind a little if you want your one person to go get urrrr 
 dunnn!!! Everything about this game is pretty cool, and it's very easy to get into over and over 
 again if your big fan of rpg's. The only thing about this game is that it takes a lot of pc buffness. 
 So no **** laptops or desktops for that matter. I got a amd 4200, 2gb of ram and a 8800 gtx oc. 
 and it still has it's ruff spotts here and there. Then again i have everything set all the way 
 up.... so cool. But yeah, if you love it this one is deffinitely one to try, You can get the client 
 at swordoftheworld. com You can play it for free, but you can only get up to level 20 on free play 
 and you can't trade with anyone. But it's worth paying the 8 bucks a month so get it... got it... good!!! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
