-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sword of the Stars: Born of Blood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/swordofthestarsbornofblood/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Zuul is a unique new alien race that sounds awesome.
 New technologies, weapons, and toys to play with.
 Challenging and rewarding space strategy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Almost brutally difficult at times.
 Huge scale of the game can be daunting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lighthouse Interactive
Developer: Kerberos
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 5, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Born of Blood is a very good, though brutally challenging, expansion to the turn-based space strategy 
 game Sword of the Stars. 

  Sword of the Stars: Born of Blood is an expansion pack to last year's stylish turn-based space 
 strategy game, Sword of the Stars. Like most expansions, it adds a fair amount of new content to 
 its predecessor. There's a new, playable alien race (boosting the total to five) ; a slew of cool 
 new gameplay features; and loads of improvements. However, it's also like a graduate-level course 
 in the original game because Born of Blood feels like it was made for diehard Sword of the Stars 
 fans ready for a new level of difficulty.  

  The key new addition in Born of Blood is the Zuul, an alien race that features some excellent voice 
 work that stands out from the rest of the races. Their voices are deep, gravelly, and delectably 
 evil, which matches their nature. In keeping with the trend in Sword of the Stars, the Zuul play 
 quite differently from any other race. Their fleets use tunnel drives to carve unstable paths to 
 different worlds. The Zuul are also masters at reverse engineering alien technologies and mating 
 them to their ships. On the flip side, they must keep conquering as they slowly drain their planets 
 of resources and leave behind empty husks. However, their ships are a lot more durable than other 
 races, making them a difficult foe in battle. The Zuul are a fun race to play, and their addition 
 adds some welcome variety to the game, as the pickings seemed a bit slim with just four races. 

           Hard to believe, but the galactic maps can be a lot larger than this.      

  Along with the Zuul, Born of Blood introduces a slew of new features and enhancements to the 
 core game. The diplomacy system has been beefed up, so it's possible to make demands of another 
 race or designate a target world so that your allied races will know to attack it. There's a new 
 intergalactic trade system built around freighters, and wherever there are trade routes, there's 
 the opportunity for merchant raiding, so you may want to provide escorts for convoys. The weapons 
 tree has also been bulked up a bit with the addition of new toys, such as armor-piercing rounds 
 and boarding pods, along with new ship parts that allow you to create whole new classes of starship. 
 Combat itself is a lot more rewarding because of the enhanced explosions and visual effects; when 
 a ship explodes in this game, it can do so in a supernova-like blast that damages nearby ships. 

  Still, even with all these new toys, Born of Blood is tougher than Sword of the Stars. The new 
 alien menaces that roam about the galaxy are what make Born of Blood so brutal. In Sword of the 
 Stars, you occasionally encountered a dangerous alien derelict or asteroid monitor around an unexplored 
 planet and thought that was about it. But with Born of Blood, you'll carve out a nice interstellar 
 empire for yourself and think you're in a good position when some truly nasty things suddenly appear 
 to upset the galactic balance of power. For example, you may encounter the Locusts, a devastating 
 alien menace that will wipe out the mightiest fleet in seconds and then completely strip a planet 
 of its resources, rendering it all but worthless to you. Trying to come up with a counter for the 
 Locusts is extremely vexing because almost all technologies are useless in the face of their threat, 
 and they're just one of the new menaces that can ruin your day. At the same time, these alien menaces 
 do a lot to help keep you on your toes, as well as wreak havoc on the mid-to-late stages of a game. 
 Previously, all factions would colonize all available worlds and begin the slow, grinding war of 
 attrition. But now with alien menaces, whole worlds can get taken out of play in a matter of a 
 few turns.  

           Get ready for a Darwinian battle for survival.      

  Succeeding in Born of Blood is not easy because there are threats everywhere, from rival alien 
 races to random alien menaces. It makes for a thoroughly challenging game, one that might daunt 
 newcomers, though Born of Blood seems geared toward veteran players. One thing that hasn't changed 
 in the expansion is the huge scale of the game. At the default galactic sizes, Born of Blood is 
 a big game that will have you managing dozens upon dozens of colony worlds and fleets. And while 
 the gameplay isn't as micromanagement-heavy as standard space strategy games, there's still a lot 
 of information to crunch through each turn. If you want a more manageable game, it's much easier 
 to scale the size of the galaxy down at the beginning.  

  There's enough content in the expansion to give you room to explore new possibilities, and the 
 surprises alone should help shake up any established strategies that you may have developed. Born 
 of Blood adds some refreshing improvements to what was already an engaging space strategy game, 
 though you should make sure you're up for the challenge before diving in.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zornundo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I have recently begun playing this game again after having it sit on my bookshelf for almost a 
 year. I was quite suprised that an expansion was released so I purchased and downloaded the expansion 
 and have spent many, many hours having lots of fun with this game. 
  
  It's your standard explore, colonize, research, and then blow the heck out of your opponent type 
 of game. There are a couple of different races to play, each with their own unique form of travel 
 throughout space. This adds different twists and challenges to your game. I started off as the 
 Human and have since branched off to the Tarkas. I think I will do the Zuul (the new race introduced 
 in the expansion) next. 
  
  The technologies don't really differ from race to race, though. One interesting thing to note about 
 the technologies, though, is that not all of them will be available to you in the game. This can 
 be very frustrating, though you can develop technologies from the shattered hulks of your enemies, 
 given you have the right ship available. So you can pick up missing tech. I had one seriously frustrating 
 game where I did not have point defense in my tech tree and the computer decided to outfit all 
 the enemy ships with missiles. Very deadly to me. I did eventually pick up the point defense and 
 it made a big difference.
  
  There are interesting random encounters that can occur if you choose to enable them. Mining and 
 colony traps that can cripple or destroy your fleets when you try to mine or colonize a system. 
 There is even a system-killer ship that will target your systems and destroy them entirely if you 
 cannot destroy. There are others, too. This adds an extreme curveball to the game. Not only will 
 you find yourself in a multi-front war, but then the random stuff will occur and you will find 
 yourself totally unprepared.
  
  I haven't played a multiplayer game, so I cannot comment on it, but the single player game is very 
 enjoyable. Pretty soon in the game you will find yourself expanding up against the computer opponents 
 and then all heck will break loose. It becomes a slog whereby you try to outbuild or outresearch 
 your opponent and just hope that your strategy or tech will be enough to power you through. It 
 can get to a tipping point, though, especially when you can research AI. Get that far, and you 
 will know what I mean. Huge advantages after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  He wrote I want to have fun in my space exploration and conquer games. I want it to LOOK GOOD. 
 I want multiplayer. So you have to ask yourself, why does GalCiv II, a game that looks like it 
 stepped out of 1989 and is about as fun to play as running your knuckles on a cheese grater, get 
 all these glowing reviews? Simple, its press and its marketing. Gal Civ II, while OK is not as 
 much fun as this game and for sure it is not as good looking. You have to have both, and if you 
 hate setting tax levels and the stupid tech system in Gal Civ, then SOTS is for you. Devin_C review 
 here summed it up best i agree, the battles in Gal Civ2 are just crap, even if u set options &gt; 
 full battles, i want to COMMAND my ships in a battle not just watchin them
  teh difficulty is difficult but gets easier when u have played the game in a wile and its easy 
 to learn
  
  Best game for RTS and TBS fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaramirF
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The expansion for sword of the stars adds a lot of improvements to the game including AI tweaks (more 
 challenging) , new research content and weapons plus a new race with specific sounds. The first thing 
 you'll notice about this game compared to others is the 3D research interface in which youll be 
 spending a lot of time. The research is divided into different trees that connect at some point 
 with each other. The colonizing part of the game is quite simple and after u conquered a new planet 
 all you need to do is build some infrastructure and terraform it. The ship design window is where 
 you will be planing your ultimate masterpiece in terms of war. The hull size (destroyer, cruiser 
 or dreadnought) and the weapons will be available if you research them. The only bad part in this 
 game would be the timed combat and the fact that the ships don't always listen to your commands. Control 
 could be a little annoying but eventually it has the same outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  I want to have fun in my space exploration and conquer games. I want it to LOOK GOOD. I want multiplayer. 
 So you have to ask yourself, why does GalCiv II, a game that looks like it stepped out of 1989 
 and is about as fun to play as running your knuckles on a cheese grater, get all these glowing 
 reviews? Simple, its press and its marketing. Gal Civ II, while OK is not as much fun as this game 
 and for sure it is not as good looking. You have to have both, and if you hate setting tax levels 
 and the stupid tech system in Gal Civ, then SOTS is for you. Devin_C review here summed it up best 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunofVich
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Sword of the Stars is a 4x game that features 5 (including Born of Blood Expansion) very unique 
 races, SolForce (Humans) Tarka (Reptiles) , Hiver (Insects) , Liir (Fish/Dolphins) and with BoB the 
 Zuul (Kangaroos of doom) . Each race has its own unique look to each of the ships and how they transverse 
 the galaxy is different as well. Humans use node drives which makes ships travel down routes that 
 are connected to each star. And the Tarka use the traditional scifi method, warp. The game is turned 
 based with RTS elements in combat. There are 3 classes of ship, Destroyer, Cruiser, and Dreadnought. 
 Each ship has 3 sections, Command section, Mission Section and Engine section. Each can give more 
 weapon hardpoints or do something special like ferry troops to a planet or bring mining equipment. 
 Another thing about ship combat is that the game does not already know the damage the ship will 
 do before it has fired its weapons. For example in Master of Orion 3 if you had damage count on 
 the amount of damage done would sometimes be displayed before your ships fire. Not so here the 
 ships have turrets (which you can visibly see swiveling to aim at a target) which aim and shoot. 
 If the bullet hits the ship then its damaged if the bullet misses then it has missed.
  
  I have had this game for 2 weeks now and still have not been able to win. Even with the game set 
 on easy. Although it is not the AI players that are besting me it is the menaces. Every once is 
 a while in the game an even will happen. Such as asterioids that need to be shot down to protect 
 a colony or even more sinister Locusts. These add to the games overall difficulty because you are 
 already battling the Computer players or other people (more on that later) when this sphere of 
 death come rolling into your domain.
  
  Also putting the game on easy does not mean the AI will not build monster large fleets. No matter 
 what be prepared for a long drawn out confrontation if you see a fleet heading to one of your planets 
 sometimes its just one scout ship. Sometimes its a Hiver invasion fleet of about 250 ships.
  
  Although I have not played multi player it sounds very different then what has been done in 
 previous 4x games. When you start you may be playing with 2 other people. if one person quits then 
 the AI takes over if some one joins then he takes over an AI position. You can also set the AI 
 policy to either expand the empire or maintain it and protect. So when you leave the AI will follow 
 this policy. At first I thought, Jeez I can't believe I spent 50 dollars on a game that is impossible 
 to win at. But I can't seem to put it down. Next I will try a custom game with no random events 
 and hope that the locust will not come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devin_C
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  New technologies, a new race, new map types, new options, oh my. An expansion that says alot about 
 the developers, as many community suggestions were worked in, as well.
  
  The difficulty rating of Just Right is mainly due to the fact that EVERYTHING is customizable. 
 I'm a big fan of options, and its nice to be able to tilt things in one way or another, or disable 
 something you don't like at all (such as the challenging random encounters, although if you play 
 without these, you're missing out on a very dynamic aspect of the game, although I will warn you 
 right now, they are VERY unforgiving... not for the easily frustrated) . It would be nice to have 
 a random tech tree on/off switch, but there's already mods for that which are 100% fully compatible 
 with multiplayer and cause no issues, so I guess it can be forgiven.
  
  The new technologies are quite fun and aren't just a bunch of upgrades that renders obsolete the 
 old stuff. One of the most important in there, is the new trade options. The trade routes add in 
 a nice extra for those who thought the empire-running of the game was too simplified. They're also 
 very useful for those situations in which you find yourself short of worlds and thus not making 
 as much of an income as you'd like - now you can suppliment your income with trade routes. The 
 graphics recieved a nice little boost. The ship explosions look more impressive now, and ships 
 with volatile cargoes (tankers, refineries and extended range ships which carry loads of fuel) 
 will explode in rather impressive blasts that can harm nearby vessels. The new race has some excellent 
 voice acting and imagery. Part of what makes SotS great is the work that goes into the background 
 of the races, giving us 5 very well defined races, instead of the usual generic package of a dozen 
 or so with tiny differences. The Zuul fit their image as very dark and evil beings, very obvious 
 from their choice of flags and even the way their worlds look on the Tactical screen.
  
  Multiplayer (in my opinion) remains as one of SotS's greatest strengths, and is made more diverse 
 and dynamic with all the new options the expansion brings to the table. The Zuul are forced to 
 be very expanionistic and aggressive, and are well equipped for the task, but their presence gives 
 the other races a fairly impressive ship section of their own. The wealth of tactical options in 
 SotS, increased with Born of Blood, allows for many situations to unfold in battles, as ship design 
 after ship design is countered, updated, and countered again in massive battles that can fill space 
 with ordinance.
  
  If you already own SotS and enjoy it, there's no reason not to get BoB. It just gives you more. 
 And if you don't own SotS yet, but have enjoyed 4X games in the past, be sure to at least check 
 out the demo to get a small feel for what the game is like. An excellent 4X game that doesn't bog 
 you down in the end game, dealing with hundreds of colonies, and featuring excellent tactical combat, 
 including multi-fleet encounters between multiple players or AI. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
