-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Syberia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/syberia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.3, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,144 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Microids
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 1, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Syberia proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that the adventure game genre is still full of life.

 If you've heard that adventure games are dead, you've heard wrong. Sure, this once-dominant game 
 genre is now just a shadow of its former self, but it's a genre that nevertheless manages to produce 
 one or two really impressive games each year. This year, adventure game fans get treated to Syberia, 
 a product of the fertile imagination of comic book author and illustrator Benot Sokal, the man 
 behind the 1999 adventure game Amerzone. Aside from a few little rough spots, Syberia is an adventure-game 
 tour de force, with an engrossing story, a truly imaginative gameworld, and stunning visuals.  
          A Voralberg toy offers some vital clues.    

 Syberia's opening scene lets you know you're in for a gaming experience that's out of the ordinary. 
 On the quaint, aged streets of a tiny town in the French Alps called Valadilene, an eerie funeral 
 procession makes its way through the rain toward the local cemetery. A metallic clockwork drummer 
 jerkily clomps along the slick paving stones, followed by an ornate horse-drawn carriage bearing 
 a coffin. Slowly following the carriage comes a handful of life-size metal automatons wearing top 
 hats and holding umbrellas. They continue their solemn, silent march through the cemetery gates 
 as a lone young woman watches.   

  This woman turns out to be your alter ego in the game, Kate Walker. Kate is an associate with the 
 New York law firm of Marson and Lormont, and she's been sent all the way to Valadilene to secure 
 a major business deal. Valadilene's one claim to fame is that it's served for centuries as the 
 home of the Voralberg family, makers of exquisite clockwork toys, puppets, and automatons. While 
 these marvelous mechanical creations have been sought by collectors and even emperors for centuries, 
 the days of the Voralberg toys are seemingly numbered.   

  Syberia plays out in the present day, and as such, electronic toys and video games are all the 
 rage, and there's little demand for mechanical contrivances, however ornate and imaginative. Young 
 people have been emigrating from Valadilene in growing numbers, seeking their fortunes elsewhere 
 since there's no longer much work to be had at the Voralberg factory.   

  As a matter of fact, Kate has arrived to facilitate the buyout of Voralberg Manufacturing by a 
 massive and modern multinational competitor, the Universal Toy Company. While the sole remaining 
 member of the Voralberg clan, the elderly Anna Voralberg, had already agreed to the takeover, things 
 quickly go awry when Kate learns that the funeral procession she just witnessed was for Anna. However, 
 Kate soon learns that there might be an heir, and a most unexpected one at that. Thus begins the 
 real adventure of Syberia, as Kate travels to far-flung locales across Europe and Asia in search 
 of this heir and the clues to his mysterious life.   

  Syberia features animated characters moving against largely static yet gorgeous 2D backgrounds. 
 You control Kate by simply moving the cursor and clicking once to make her walk to a location or 
 twice to make her run. The cursor is context-sensitive, changing shape to let you know when you 
 can investigate, manipulate, or pick up an item, or when you can speak with another character. 
 This system and the inventory screens are largely intuitive and easy to use. Everything is just 
 a point and a click away.           One of Syberia's many beautiful nature scenes.    

 When Kate encounters people during her journeys, she'll typically exchange a bit of dialogue with 
 the other character. If the other character is more than just window dressing, so to speak, you'll 
 get to instruct Kate to ask the character questions. Again, this is simply done -- just click on 
 one of a few possible topic choices listed on a notepad to hear what the character has to tell 
 Kate.   

  Overall, the dialogue tends to sound pretty convincing, despite the occasional poor translation, 
 like "hangover" instead of "holdover." At times, you'll hear some silly or clichd lines, 
 to be sure, but the dialogue is certainly an enormous leap in quality over the barely coherent 
 nonsense that we've seen in many other adventure games.   

  You'll encounter some truly unusual characters throughout Syberia, like the crazed administrator 
 of an abandoned Soviet industrial town who obsesses over an elderly opera soprano who once visited 
 the town during its heyday. On one hand, some of Syberia's lesser characters seem more like caricatures 
 than real people, and the fact that the voice-overs rarely rise above mediocrity doesn't help. 
 On the other hand, the main characters receive much better treatment. Anna Voralberg's interesting 
 life is fleshed out through a diary, a series of voice recordings, and flashbacks. You learn about 
 Kate and her journey of self-discovery through other onscreen characters' reactions to her and 
 from her cell phone conversations -- some of which are very strained -- with her fiance, boss, 
 mother, and friend back in New York. These calls help ground Kate in reality while setting up an 
 even greater contrast between her everyday life and the dreamlike settings and surreal predicaments 
 she finds herself in. Despite its uneven character development and occasional clumsy plot twists, 
 Syberia's melancholy story feels unusually rich, a true cut above the stories in most other games 
 of this sort.             Colorful documents offer vital background information while adding 
 to the ambience.    

 As for the gameplay, Syberia is rather like the Voralberg family's toys -- something of a pleasant 
 holdover from a bygone age. Syberia, like most recent adventure games, is essentially an interactive 
 picture book in which you need to solve puzzles or dilemmas before turning to the next chapter. 
 The game offers a casual pace that will, depending on your disposition, either put you off or offer 
 a bit of gaming that's relaxing yet extremely engaging. There are already plenty of games that 
 require you to constantly run, shoot, fly, drive, or otherwise interact incessantly. It's nice 
 to be able to stop and smell the virtual roses once in a while.   

  For all that it does well, Syberia does include some of the potentially annoying elements that 
 have come, for better or worse, to define the adventure genre. The first time Kate explores an 
 area, it's a welcome thing to watch her slowly meander down a street, as it gives you time to savor 
 the scene. At times, particularly in the somewhat tedious second act of the game, you'll have to 
 make her walk through the same areas numerous times, which can grow old in a hurry. (Kate's surname, 
 "Walker," is certainly apropos.)   

  On the other hand, Syberia sometimes displays a wry sense of humor about adventure-game clichs. 
 You'll come upon a massive hedgerow maze stretching off into the distance, a sight sure to make 
 you want to reach for the "quit" button to avoid having to struggle through such a potentially 
 tiresome task. But you quickly learn that most of the maze is gated shut, and the object that you 
 need there is very easily found.   

  However, you'll sometimes need to look really closely at your surroundings if you want to find 
 necessary objects and clues. Considering Syberia's visual beauty, that's not a completely terrible 
 thing, and the game generally doesn't require nearly the level of pixel hunting you find in lesser 
 adventure games.   

  The challenges you'll face tend to revolve around simple and logical object manipulation or interactions 
 with other characters. Early in the game, for instance, you'll need to figure out how to work a 
 sort of automaton doorman. Fiddling with its mechanical levers gives you the impression that this 
 device is supposed to look at whatever you put in its hand. This suggests a calling card or a certain 
 document in Kate's possession that might do just as well.   

  Other challenges you'll need to overcome before progressing to new areas simply involve some gaming 
 common sense. When you first spot new characters, for instance, you should talk with them for clues 
 or assistance. If you get some important news about Kate's assignment early on, call her boss back 
 in New York using her cell phone. It's all fairly straightforward stuff, and the puzzles don't 
 tend to be too tough overall. Rather, they offer just enough challenge keep you interested.    
        Magnificent architecture abounds.    

 Most importantly, Syberia's puzzles generally seem plausible, at least in the context of the game's 
 dreamlike gameworld. They often shed light on its characters or the workings of the Voralberg toys, 
 instead of just offering the totally arbitrary or silly challenges found in some adventure games. 
 Just as importantly, the order and manner in which you complete many puzzles sometimes makes the 
 game seem rather less linear than it actually is. It's certainly nice to feel like you're exploring 
 a world rather than being led through it on a leash.   

  And what a world it is. Visually, Syberia is always engaging and often enchanting, with many backdrops 
 and cutscenes that demonstrate nothing less than sheer artistry. Syberia is one of those rare games 
 that moves beyond entertainment and begins to encroach upon the realm of fine art. That's not to 
 say it's burdened by the stuffy atmosphere of some hushed museum (though part of the game actually 
 plays out in a museumlike university) . Rather, Syberia's world is captivating to look at and explore, 
 with a unique and unforgettable visual style. Around every corner, there's a gorgeous scene to 
 relish or an almost otherworldly flight of fancy offered by the animated Voralberg toys and automatons. 
   

  Indeed, it's the game's unique ambience that truly sets it apart. Valadilene and the Voralberg 
 factory, for instance, seem like remnants of a nearly forgotten era, a little world where time 
 stopped around the turn of the 20th century. A towering wrought-iron and glass railway station, 
 for instance, calls to mind the proud stations of the Victorian era in Britain, while the Voralberg 
 factory is a wonderland of fanciful industrial-age machinery driven by steam and gears. Outdoors, 
 you're treated to equally beautiful scenes of high mountain trails with crystal-clear icy waters 
 and stone bridges arching over small canals. All these scenes are further invigorated by just the 
 right amount of background animation, like soaring birds, as well as simple but effective sound 
 effects and an evocative musical score with themes that suit the locales.   

  Syberia's beautiful and wonderfully imaginative world alone is enough to make the game worth your 
 while, but when you also factor in the game's moving story, memorable characters, and enjoyable 
 puzzles, you get a superb gaming experience. Syberia proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that the 
 adventure game genre is still full of life.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hostX9
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The game has a true masterpiece story. It's all about those automotons and mysterious Hans Voralberg 
 who develops those and other winding (technology) machines. All form simple mechanisms to those 
 sophisticated ones, like the locomotive, factory conveyor belt etc. All the places has it's charm, 
 they impress someone to his deepest heart.
  All characters in the game are really interesting. Sometimes it's a bit funny because almost all 
 of them have stereotype personalities. But the most interesting is the main character because unlike 
 in other adventure game it change it's opinion about it's work and other things trough the flow 
 of the game.
  
  Good:
  + Great story
  + Awesome environment
  + Good graphic
  + Simple menus and gameplay
  + Logical riddles
  
  Bad:
  - Too much running around
  - 
 The move form one place to another could be faster then only a running character
  - Too short
  
  My tip: All those who like games like "Broken Sword" series or "Beneath a Steel 
 Sky" should give this one a try ^.^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertykeys
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Syberia is an adventure game made for people who love puzzling games that require thinking and 
 logic. The story is pretty good, the puzzles are alright, the graphics are average, there's great 
 sound, and it's generally a fun game.
  
  Syberia has a story that starts out slow, but eventually becomes very interesting. You start the 
 game as Kate, a lawyer, who is in a little french villiage on business. While trying to finish 
 her business and return home, she is sucked into a plot that is actually pretty well thought out.
 
  
  The puzzles in the game are not the toughest or most complex I've ever seen, but they are organic. 
 For example, you won't randomly find some crazy chinese puzzle box in the middle of an old european 
 factory. All of the puzzles fit in with the story really well and actually use common sense. Some 
 puzzle games I've played have impossible puzzles stuck randomly in the story and the game suffers 
 because of that. Syberia had done the best job I've seen in creating puzzles that make sense. 
 
  
  The story is told with Kate talking to people and with cutscenes. The graphics are pretty old since 
 the game was made back in 2002, but they're okay. The only glitch I found was that if you minimize 
 the game while playing it and then restore it, parts of the screen go black and some of Kate's 
 mouth disappears. Eventually the glitch corrects itself. No big deal, but something to comment 
 upon.
  
  The sound is much better than the graphics are and the voice acting is really good. Even when people 
 call on the phone, the game stays interesting since the characters seem so real simply by hearing 
 their voices.
  
  Syberia is an interesting and fun game that has average graphics, great sound, and a good story 
 with organic puzzles. Any fan of adventure or puzzle games would enjoy this game. I would not recommend 
 this game for people who hate dialogue or have to have action sequences to keep them intersted. 
 Syberia is altogether fun and interesting once you get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Syberia can be considered a masterpiece collection to fellow adventure gamers given its slick production 
 values including great-looking graphics and a stunning soundtrack, not forgetting its appealing 
 storyline which is a must-have feature for the classic adventure genre. Also, the female lead here 
 is a cool chick to look at.
  
  The gameplay resembles the style of The Longest Journey which should be in the comfort zone of 
 experienced adventure gamers. But Syberia is a wholly unique experience given its quaint set design 
 and memorably haunting story. Well, if you find yourself trapped in a deserted Russian town and 
 having to solve puzzles given by clockwork automatons to get the hell out of there, you know you're 
 in for a serious adventure, and an eerie one indeed. Cos the town is full of intricately animated 
 details from subtle automaton loop movements to the occasional swaying flowers by the sidewalk 
 to background water ripples by the lake. The details are just amazing!
  
  But again, when you have such a detailed backdrop to awe us players, you would expect to watch 
 your character travel along these places over and over. Yes, solving puzzles in Syberia does force 
 you to walk back and forth between stretches of the same locations but I believe the veteran adventure 
 gamer would already be prepared for that. And if you can look past that, it's still an adventure 
 classic.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roboms
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Syberia is a beautiful piece of art. The backdrops, cities, building and basic designs of all the 
 visuals are intriguing and pleasing to the eye. However the fact that this is a game is kind of 
 a joke.
  
  This game has all the elements required of a great adventure game. Story, Visuals, Originality, 
 even the voice acting it above average. However all of these elements seem to collapse on top of 
 each other without the proper foundation of gameplay. There is almost no difficulty at all throughout 
 the entire game. Imagine some of the great point and click adventure games out there but with all 
 the room for errors removed. You really can't make a mistake in this game. There are no commands, 
 no options, there is simply one thing to do, and that is click. Only the important things are clickable 
 also, you can't even attempt to fiddle with something unimportant to the completion of the game 
 because its simply not an option. This makes the game extremely easy and short. Basically you can 
 complete this game fairly easily and quickly if you follow one simple rule: If you can click on 
 something, click on it. There are inventory items, but still these are obvious where and when to 
 use and offer minor interaction. If you are attempting to use the wrong item in the wrong place 
 it won't even allow you to click, it will just show an x over the icon. Throughout each main area 
 of the game you maybe have 10-15 things to try items on max, so even if you somehow don't realize 
 the right combination you can just try each item on everything and see results quickly. You can't 
 use items on other items in your inventory or put something where it doesn't belong. Everything 
 you can pick up you just pick up, you can't even look at it first. 
  
  Now, besides the lack of difficulty there is one other major flaw in this game, and that is the 
 speed. Every single character and action takes what seems like a lifetime. Something as simple 
 as turning around is regrettable because of how long it takes. When you come to stairs you will 
 find yourself giving a sigh as you watch her slowly run to the start of the steps, stop, reposition 
 herself, and then slowly walk up the stairs. Also characters seem to have to turn 360 degrees to 
 talk to you most of the time with the way the game is set up, and this 360 degree turn takes longer 
 than you could imagine. I'm serious too, if this game had a decent speed to character movement 
 I guarantee it would be at least 2 hours shorter. 
  
  I know I've mostly talked about the bad, but really I feel like the good is obvious, and can be 
 seen in most other reviews. All in all the game is decent. I didn't get bored enough that I quit 
 early, I actually completed it, although it was quite short and easy as I have said. If you're 
 looking for a good story that you can glide through with little resistance, this is your game. 
 If you are looking for a challenge or anything that really feels like I game, then you should probably 
 find something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Oh, what fun, to wander aimlessly from one hand-drawn static picture to another back-and-forth, 
 back-and-forth searching for a hotspot to click on (what irony in the protagonist's name, Kate 
 WALKER - get it? - she's named after what she does all game long) . Oh, the thrill of listening 
 to the wooden, flaccid characters explaining their uninteresting, empty lives to the equally insipid 
 heroine. A storyline as bland as an unspiced meatball, and "puzzles" that involve no application 
 of problem-solving or thought; Syberia was a cripplingly painful nail into MY coffin as an old-school 
 fan of this beloved genre. "Benoit Sokal" as the game's opening sequence proudly proclaims it to 
 be the creation of, whoever on Earth he might be, is clearly a pretentious fool of the worst kind 
 to produce such rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Playing as Kate Walker, an associate with the New York law firm of Marson and Lormont. She has 
 been sent to finish a major business deal involving the Voralberg family who make mechanical toys, 
 puppets, and automatons. The game controls are smooth and easy to use requiring only a mouse to 
 point and click with and make this game a exciting and easy game experience. You enter a beautifully 
 detailed world that lets you make discoveries that always stick with storyline. The game has a 
 captivating story making this a wonderful game to play time after time, and like a good movie or 
 book, one that you'll remember for a long time to come.
  
  I really enjoyed the puzzles and characters of the game. The puzzles were thought provoking without 
 being too hard and the characters were interesting and fun to talk with. All being said and done, 
 I give this game an A+ and have to say it one of the best games I've ever played and leaves you 
 wanting more of the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nueveymedia
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Desafortunadamente, Syberia desperdicia una buena historia. Las pruebas por superar parecen diseadas 
 por un pincipiante, ya que nunca se est realmente seguro de cul es el siguiente paso a dar, y 
 muchas de las pruebas son demasiado fciles pero totalmente carentes de sentido. Por ejemplo, es 
 difcil de imaginar la razn por la cual un tren no puede arrancar hasta que se consigan los tres 
 objetos de valor, que los mencionan en el diario de Anna. Est bien que haya que conseguirlos, 
 pero en ninguna parte exste una motivacin diferente a la de hacer que el bendito tren se mueva. 
 Personalmente prefiero ampliamente la experienca de Lucas Arts en este tipo de juegos, pues Grim 
 Fandango y Monkey Island son realmente buenos y retan la nteligencia.
  El arte de los escenarios es excelente, pero los movimientos de los personajes dejan mucho que 
 desear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this adventure game despite it's repetitive nature.
  The character you are playing as, Kate Walker is one who you grow to sympathize with. Her boss 
 is an ass, her boyfriend is a needy twit, and her best friend is an envious beatch. Oh I almost 
 forgot to mention her annoying mother. All these people will be calling Kate on her cell phone 
 during the game. 
  Kate is a lawyer who is in charge of closing the buy out deal for the Voralberg company. She is 
 sent to a small village in France called Valadilene to have Anna Voralberg the owner of this company 
 sign it over. However this is easier said than done. Through a series of untimely events Kate must 
 now embark on an adventure in order to complete her task. On her way she encounters many eccentric 
 characters.
  This game is your average point and click third person adventure. The puzzles are a bit tricky 
 only because you have to perform them in certain steps. Kate must talk with the same characters 
 more than once in order to unlock dialogue questions which help her perform her tasks. So you are 
 constantly going back to one character more than once which can get a bit repetitive. 
  I was dissapointed in the lack of locations. Kate only visits about four or five places in the 
 entire game. But the locations you do visit are very well done.
  The ending leaves you wanting more. It was so abrupt that if there wasn't a Syberia 2 it would 
 have been a let down. 
  The story is very well done and interesting. It really keeps you immersed in the game. This is 
 one adventure game and lead character that is up there with April Ryan and the Longest Journey. 
 Definitley a must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeric-Ho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Great game! great story and great characters! if you are a fan of the point & click adventure games 
 like Broken Sword then this is the game for you! the puzzles are at a great difficulty aswell, 
 not too hard that you give up and not too easy, they just make you think enough to solve them, 
 very good! playing the 2nd game now! =) so i will write a review about that when i have finished, 
 although i have noticed the puzzles to be abit harder already on the the 2nd game, i hope this 
 does not spoil it for me!
  
  Considering the game is now 5 years old it still looks great, the only thing that got abit repetative 
 was the fact that every new are you arrived at on the train you had to wind up the train, this 
 almost every time leading onto something else that goes wrong, this happens alot throughout the 
 game, but not enough to make you get bored or want to stop playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Did your grandparents ever show you an old wind-up toy with metal spring coils and tiny gears that 
 your parent's used to play with? Mine did. It was a little man that would jump up and down in the 
 seat of his car while the car itself drove across the floor. I had completely forgotten about it 
 too, until I played Syberia.
  
  The game takes place in a little village called Valadilene in the French Alps. You play the role 
 of Kate Walker, a New York city lawyer who has come to close the buyout deal on an old toy factory 
 that catered to children and nobility alike back it its heyday. However, your stay gets extended 
 by the unexpected death of the owner just before you arrive. This is followed by the surprise revelation 
 that there was a long lost heir to the toy factory's founding family who may still be alive. This 
 sets you off on a surreal adventure across eastern Europe on the trail of the mysterious Hans Voralberg 
 and the legacy of his family.
  
  What I found most compelling about this game was that while it introduced some truly whimsical 
 notions with all the wind-up automatons and mechanical wonders, it maintained a level of believability 
 that made me wonder how much of it could actually be done, and wish that it had been. In addition 
 to this, Hans Voralberg's goal to find living woolly mammoths creates a dream within the dream 
 sensation that just adds to the magic.
  
  There is a heavy sense of history to all the places you explore throughout your adventure, at times 
 it feels like you yourself are only playing a minor role in their continuing stories. This is complimented 
 by a feeling of isolation; not one that adds a scare factor - with the possible exception of the 
 Soviet factory - but more of a sense of disconnection from the real world.
  
  All of the areas are beautifully rendered in pre-drawn backgrounds, the detail for which are truly 
 astounding at times with the supplementation of dynamic water effects and other animations. The 
 village of Valadilene really looks the part with traditional European architecture surrounded by 
 majestic pine forests. The Barrockstadt University grounds has fortress-like battlements for the 
 campus buildings and delicate glass domes for the lush rainforest aviary. The abandoned Soviet 
 industrial town is dark, sooty, and intimidating. They all feel just right and you'll likely spend 
 as much time admiring the visuals as you will following the plot.
  
  The voice acting is very well done, each is appropriate for his or her character and they speak 
 in hushed, often carefree tones and their dialogue conveys a general lack of concern for the world 
 outside their purview. The music ranges from calm and serene to strong and foreboding, though is 
 used sparingly throughout the game - often adding to the feeling of isolation.
  
  The gameplay itself is the standard fare for point and click adventures. Explore your surroundings, 
 pick up key items, and use them at the appropriate time. The game keeps it interesting though with 
 its clever puzzles. One of the only real downsides is that too often you'll have to go from one 
 end of an area to the other over and over to complete a puzzle, which gets annoying quickly.
  
  All in all, Syberia will serve as a warm treat to your imagination and perhaps even instil 
 some of the mystery Europe used to hold for the rest of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I have mixed reactions about this game. Here's why:
  
  Pros:
  - Brilliant story!
  - Beautiful environments, very detailed
  - Definetly not too short...
  - Pretty cutscenes
 
  - Great characters and voice acting
  
  Cons:
  - Very hard to figure out what to do from time to time. Making the gameplay very boring, when I 
 had to run back and forth all the time. :/
  - Very slow gameplay
  
  This game forced me (not literally of course...) to use a walkthrough, as it was very hard to figure 
 out what to do from time to time. Definitely not a good choice if you're not that experienced with 
 adventure games. The game is also very slow paced. I can recommend this game if you are a hardcore 
 adventure gamer, who cares more about story than gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eponique
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I mean... where can I start? This game was nearly perfect.
  
  You start out, as a lawyer, called Kate Walker, who has come over to Vandeline (how do you spell 
 it?) to take over a toy factory. This toy factory use to be the thing of the town. The city is 
 FULL of automatons, it's what made the city so thriving.
  
  But, eventually, the kids grew older, and they seeked oppurtunity outside the city. And this what 
 made the city go dead, no more children. The owner of the Toy Factory, Anna Something, has just 
 died. Though she left a note.
  
  The graphics of this game were awesome! Even for 2007 standards. The puzzles in this game are complicated, 
 in a good way, though I hate how if you miss the tiniest thing, you won't be able to progress. 
 Overall this game was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Adventure game that never like before! Great adventure and the most great adevnture game for all 
 times! I play it 2 times, first on my own and after 2 years with my girl-friend and was like first 
 time, sensational with more human interest about the story and great experience for players. Is 
 a game who play without violence and is very good this thing if you are boring to kill and kill 
 monsters. Syberia is a captivating game with puzzle very good thinking and the atmosphere of the 
 game who goes you to something exotic, agreeable, amusing and attractive, so catchy game and and 
 I loved it.
  Graphics is excellent with some 3D and more 2D backgrounds combination. You can control Kate with 
 mouse, point and a click always want to make something. You can drink or eat and play in the same 
 time, most to dialog of the game, very cool thing :)
  I like very much and DON'T SKIP AND MISS this game even you don't like adevnture-game ! Play it 
 and will not be disappointed! Is a experience you never forget a grandissimo emotional game ! Best 
 game adventure ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Well, Syberia, from Microids, has pretty much what you'd expect from an adventure game: grapchis 
 are excellent, sound is thrilling, sountracks are minimum but appropriate and set the mood of the 
 game very well. The protagonist is a female  character, whose real, 
 normal life gets turned upside down when something goes horribly wrong... and these are just what 
 a good adventure needs... But even though Syberia can be touted as one of the best adv. games anyone's 
 ever played, it does have a few issues. The game involves a lot of running around, and unlike the 
 lost journey, Syberia doesn't allow you to use the ESCAPE key to skip frames. Also, when you reload 
 a game and want to finish quests or whatever along the way, those things won't be available when 
 specific conditions for those items have been met. The game is really frustrating this way. Syberia 
 doesn't have too many missions, no matter how long they might be, so it feels that the game ends 
 a little too soon. If you're willing to force yourself to look beyond these factors, Syberia is 
 a good game, one that will not leave you disappointed. The game doesn't have much replay value; 
 it's a one-time gig, but you can still try it out for yourself if you wish... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I was blown by the fantastic graphic work of this game. I have hardly seen such cool looking game 
 in terms of its artistic value. The main designer of this game, no doubt, has a passion for designing 
 retro machines -- and I think you won't find many artists who can do this job like he did. Syberia's 
 cold world is full of beautifully designed automaton right from the beginning and these automaton 
 stays at the heart of the game. The puzzles of the game is comparatively easy and in fact they 
 are not abundant. The biggest minus point of this game is its weak story line. I am not convinced 
 why a New York based lawyer would suddenly start frantically looking for the creator of the automaton 
 and then why would she abandon everything to accompany that man to an unknown place called Syberia. 
 Sure there's a mystery-drive; but the mystery is not mystery enough.
  The game also feels short; if you deduct the cut-scenes -- the game can be very short. If it was 
 not for the wonderful graphics, I am sure this game would not have been such a hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodastir
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  At the outset, Syberia gives you that impatient can't wait to explore and find the odd feeling 
 - what adventure gamers once experienced many times per year. Soon, however, we are let in on the 
 secret; this game is 70% visual awe and 30% real adventure, with 10% overtime in extra visual polish. 
 I respect 110% games, they are few and far between.
  
  My only wish is that Syberia had reversed their percentages. We would have been just fine with 
 only 50% of that graphic depth! Add the remainder in expanding the locales and perhaps a few non-linear 
 scenarios/puzzles, and something very special could have been in the making. As a player, I loved 
 Oscar, my trusty sidekick, and even grew closer to him as the game progressed. This story branch 
 was also under-explored. This sort of short-selling permeates most of the game, as if the visual 
 beauty was supposed to be the star, implicitly.
  
  I still give the game a high score - it is impossible to do otherwise. My main wish is that the 
 developers expand their grand story, characters, and locales all the way down to the deltas next 
 time. And give us access to some real secret areas... surprise us!
  
  And a zip mode between area would be nice, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgelfand
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  When I was first given Syberia, my first thought was, great, another time waster. I had just hoped 
 it would keep me occupied between released dates. Weeks passed, and so did the release date. I 
 was still playing Syberia. It is just that good of a game. I was shocked by the graphics, three 
 years later. This game has some stupendous artistic achievement going on, and the cinematics were 
 masterfully done. The story, which I found somewhat confusing at first, centres around the adventures 
 of Kate Walker, a lawyer from a large New York law firm. She has come to the small village of Valadilene 
 to wrap up a corporate take over. That is where the story begins. I find that initially, the game 
 is quite confusing. I ran about for hours looking for specific clues, and once I found them, I 
 thought that it was either I who had been foolish, or perhaps the game. Either way, Syberia is 
 a classic in my opinion. Fully deserving a spot amongst the greatest games of all time. Kate Walker 
 is an ideal female heroine, she is a fully believable character, though some of the time spent 
 dwelling on her degrading social life does get tedious, though helps develop her as a character. 
 As well as that, the VO work in this game is excellent, with a few bad accents every now and then. 
 It has a great story, graphics, and a dozen other things going for it. Too bad the sequel stank... 
 I would give this ten, but I think 9.9 looks nicer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Syberia's opening scene set you up by letting you know that there are strange things 
 going to happen. It starts off on the quaint, aged streets of a tiny town in the French Alps called 
 Valadilene, an eerie funeral cortege makes its way through the rain toward the local cemetery. 
 Slowly following the carriage are a handful of life-size metal automatons wearing top hats and 
 carrying umbrellas. They continue their solemn, silent march through the cemetery gates. The Character 
 you play is Kate Walker she is a associate with a New York law firm, and she's been sent all the 
 way to Valadilene to secure a major business deal. That busness deal is with the Voralberg family, 
 makers of clockwork toys and automatons. Though now the factory days now seem numbered. Then you 
 can't find Anna Voralberg and then you find out that she had died so you have to find her brother 
 Hans Voralberg to sigh the papers in order to have the factory sold. Once you find him he gets 
 you to find some mammoth stuff because he thinks they still exists. The Puzzles in the game are 
 quite challenging and may talk a while to complete and you need to ask people diffrent things to 
 get around and such and be sure to talk to them about everything in your diologe option box. The 
 reason being is that things are usually triggered after you talk about that certain topic with 
 the person or Aromiton you are talking to. The controls for the Xbox Version is strate forward, 
 you use your anolog sticks to move Kate around and use the the other buttons for talking and interacting 
 with items. Voice acting is well done but some of the diologe could of used a little more work 
 and creativity.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are abolutly breathtaking. It's a very nice blend of 2-D background 
 and with the 3-D foreground. Even the cut scenes are very well done and it feels like you are watching 
 a movie. The only problem is when the human caracters movie they seem a bit stiff to me.
  
  Sound: Great sound, it really gets you emotionally involved in the game and sometimes gives you 
 the creeps in sertain areas, I have forgot what areas because it's been a while since I played 
 this game.
  
  Value: There is great replay value to this game because of it's intresting story and memorable 
 characters. All in all this is a great game both the Xbox and PC versions and I would Highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who like Aventure games. Heck even if you don't often play adventure games 
 just play it because it has a great story. And for thoughs who can't figger out the puzzles but 
 sorry I guess your just to stupid to figger them out.
  I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: messtimeteacher
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  There's nothing wrong with non-violent games. There's nothing wrong with easy games. But the two 
 combined can tend to be a bit boring.
  
  The puzzles in the Syberia game are too easy. There is no way you can match objects the wrong way. 
 Never make weird combinations that don't answer the question. Everything makes sense. Immediately. 
 The clues you get in the game are therefore a bit nonsense. They don't add to the story and seem 
 a bit awkward sometimes.
  
  The story is a bit straightforward, and during the game I dod not get a feeling of excitement of 
 what was going to be next / behind that door.
  
  There's good points with Syberia, sure. The graphics are great. A bit grey maybe, but detailed. 
 The sound fits in perfect. And it's a non-violent game. I've been amused playing it, but it was 
 not much of a story to me, and the puzzles were not challenging. But not bad, not bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SultanBadza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I ever played. I like Syberia a lot. I played this game long time 
 ago, but Syberia 2 reminded my of missions and puzzles in first part of this game. It's great game. 
 Graphic is very good... Gameplay too. Well, everything is quite fine. Best thing in this game is 
 that you have to find man who left his neighbourhood, family and friends when he was child, and 
 you have to find him... and when you find him he is an old man.
  Story of this game is good, and it was a desease for me to finish it, I couldn't manage to leave 
 it before I finish it all and before I see the last movie. Puzzles are fine, sometime hard, but 
 fine. The game isn't that hard. My opinion for this game is: It's totally awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Said in few and dry words, this game has great and original storyline and graphics, an excellent 
 adventure game to be played.
  But, it is something else with this game. To those who are searching for immediate action and to 
 drill a hole in someone's head I would say that this is not their game.
  
  If you are not fond of discovering, reading, blowing the dust fold objects, finding clues of a 
 lost world, this is not your game. This game reminds me of myself finding, in the loft of the old 
 house of my grandma, an old and dusty suitcase full of old letters and a lot of strange wood made 
 objects used in the last century by the carpenters. I tried many days to match the stories and 
 imagine the characters from the letters and tried to figure out what was the meaning of those strange 
 carpentry objects.
  
  Because this is what you have to do in this game. You are in an old town in French Alps and you 
 have to blow the dust and the rust from an old automatons factory, from an old story of a lost 
 world needed to be told. The magic of discovery will make you to not want to rush into further 
 actions in the game but to enjoy every single bit of every scene from the game.
  Mostly, beside the story and the graphics of the game, I have enjoyed, in game, the rust of the 
 old automatons and the lights. The rust seems to be everywhere in the game as well as the lights, 
 superbly done, both being used to emphasize the mistery of the game and the intimacy of the story.
 
  
  Also, I have enjoyed every single piece of machinery and every single automaton in the game. They 
 are everywhere in the game, lost witnesses from another world. A world driven by magic, emotions, 
 life, a warm world without cold computers and ultimate electronic gadgets (ironic, isn't it?) . 
 This is not just an adventure computer game, this game is a story about emotions and melancholy 
 of the world as it was many years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7aTyC
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  Absolutely the Best Adventure/quest i've ever played ! I will always remember this game, it's suck 
 a sweety ! If you are and adventure lover this game is just for you, it will be so pity if you missed 
 it ! it's not late to try it. I just can't tell you realy how great is that game. THe only thing 
 that is not perfect are the Graphics. But they are Great too ! Everything else is PERFECT. The story 
 line is Realy Amazing... you will spend a HOURS of playing this game and you will not get bored. This 
 game is so smart... even my dad play it. Just amazing like a movie but it is a game !
  So if you don't have it I STRONGLY reccomend you to buy it !
  You will not go wrong ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  I think this was the first adventure game i ever played and the first that touched me. It is a 
 very beautiful story with lots of details almost credible, with well designed and performance characters 
 , graphics that could take your breath away and sounds perfect matched with the atmosphere. The 
 story is about finding the unknown, and of your self, fear of the unknown, and your self. It is 
 a game that proves that there is always something much bigger, much important then what you already 
 know and think and it's about mystery - that men will always be fascinating about the unknown, 
 always wants to learn and discover. This game also proves that there are still men with genial 
 and brightened brains that can still make and invent beautiful things - thanks Microids. What can 
 i say? I was very impressed by this game, and i couldn't find anything that bothered me during 
 playing this game, everything went smoothly, no bugs no crashes no nothing like that.
  
  This is a great game not just for playing it but also for a collection.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  It isn't pure coincidence that such a lot of people think that good of this game...
  
  The game itself has proved to be everything you kind of imagine when you see the trailers, and 
 even the game pictures you can find around. It has a good storyline, nice cut-scenes, and nice 
 images in the game , all together, a nicely put together game, which is totally approved by most 
 of the people who have played it. Of course there are some downs to it as well. The game-play is 
 a little slow at times, which kind of made me nervous at times, at times also the main character 
 will do stuff you did not figure out she could do, and well, are inherent to playing the game on. 
 Usually this is a good thing in a adventure game, but sometimes you really do not expect a reaction 
 of her. But then, the music, at least for someone who is a big classical music fan as myself, is 
 a great work of art, committed to give the game its final touch. Even so, it is one of the best 
 adventure games I have played. The ways the story twists is really well put together. Thumbs up 
 for this one! It is this Canadians Masterpiece, no doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumanrbr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while a computer game comes along that knocks the socks off even the most seasoned 
 reviewer. Perhaps the last source from which one would expect such a blockbuster would be a comic 
 book writer. Yet Beno&iuml; t Sokal, the graphic novelist who gave us Amerzone back in 1999, has 
 accomplished just that feat under the guidance of Micro&iuml; ds with the recently issued title 
 Syberia. While the location Amerzone is referenced several times in Syberia, this new release utilizes 
 a third-person rather than a first-person perspective, has more character interaction, and is a 
 much more polished effort.
  
  The story in Syberia is unbelievably fascinating. At the very beginning, you witness a funeral 
 procession made up of wind-up toys outside the small French village Valadil&egrave; ne, immediately 
 stimulating your curiosity. It turns out the person who died is Anna Voralberg, the proprietor 
 of an unusual toy factory specializing in mechanical automatons. You play the role of Kate Walker, 
 a young American lawyer who arrives on the scene from New York to seal the sale of that toy company 
 to a major American multinational corporation. You quickly discover that the elder brother of the 
 deceased, Hans Voralberg, is not dead as suspected, but very much alive and heir to the business. 
 So, you must try to find him to complete your assignment. The storyline is original, easily as 
 absorbing as best-selling novels, and full of unexpected twists that will keep you wondering what 
 will happen next.
  
  The female lead character, Walker, undergoes significant transformation in the course of this quest. 
 Initially, she is obsessed simply with her immediate assignment, which is getting a signature on 
 the certificate of sale. Constantly nagged through her mobile phone by her repulsive and self-centered 
 boyfriend and her nasty and demanding boss, she nonetheless slowly begins to question the vacuous, 
 fast-paced lifestyle she used to live. She gradually starts to trust her own initiative and judgment 
 rather than relying on those who previously directed her life. This self-awareness about her own 
 values leads to a shocking decision by Walker at the very end of the game. It's rare that any recreational 
 title charts such subtle and yet dramatic changes over time in a central character.
  
  The other human characters in the story are not just NPC placeholders, but deep and captivating 
 individuals that evoke either sympathy or pity on your part. For example, even though you do not 
 actually meet Hans Voralberg until near the end of the story, you learn about his brain damaged 
 childlike state stemming from an accident in his youth, his genius at mechanical creation and his 
 love of mammoths. Everyone with whom you interact, from three supercilious university administrators, 
 to a passionate factory director, to a still talented but forgotten former singer, has something 
 dysfunctional about them. To tell the truth, this makes the adventure far more interesting than 
 if everyone were normal.
  
  Even the automatons are utterly absorbing. In the early stages of the gameplay, automatons of all 
 sizes and shapes abound. The one who you learn the most about is the rigidly rule-oriented and 
 obsequious Oscar, who accompanies you on many of your travels after you give him a pair of new 
 feet. When it's attacked and its hands are stolen, you have grown to know him so well that you 
 feel a sense of genuine concern for the mechanical creation. In the last setting, an automaton 
 appropriately named James has all the characteristics of a stiff upper-lipped British butler. Interestingly, 
 the secret source of the automatons' non-stop energy is never revealed.
  
  The locations are always riveting. Beginning in France and then moving on to Germany and Russia, 
 the physical and cultural environments change realistically as you progress. More specifically, 
 the search for Hans Voralberg takes you from Valadil&egrave; ne to the university town of Barrockstadt, 
 then to the industrial city of Komkolzgrad, and finally to a relaxing spa in Aralbad. Each of the 
 settings is crumbling and in a state of total disrepair, preventing you from ever having a sense 
 of comfort. There's an overall surrealistic quality to these physical locales, as nothing seems 
 quite right, taking you away from a sense of contemporary reality.
  
  The puzzles in Syberia are fun, but definitely not the most outstanding component of the game. 
 You have to pay close attention to conversations you hear and objects you see, which often are 
 needed in settings far from where you find them, and you sometimes have to retrace your steps to 
 resolve an enigma. All of the challenges do fit directly into the plot, rather than being artificially 
 grafted into the adventure, and there's no obscure hunt-for-the-pixel action to be seen. You frequently 
 are required to get mechanical devices functioning properly, usually by finding keys. When you 
 locate voice cylinders, you learn critical parts of the background story. So while always presenting 
 interesting challenges, the puzzles are not particularly memorable.
  
  Yet this is no lighthearted play experience. From the moment you begin, you experience the melancholy 
 emotions of depression, despair, dreariness, loss, regret, sadness and sorrow. Irreparable decay 
 is everywhere, and rarely do you encounter any sign of hope or potential for improvement. You hear 
 a lot about past glories, when for example the toy factory ran smoothly, the university thrived, 
 the industrial center hummed with efficiency, and the seaside resort was the vacation spot for 
 celebrities, but you never get an actual glimpse of any of these happier days. I have not played 
 such a downcast adventure since Morpheus from Piranha Interactive.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are unbelievably gorgeous, with the background scenery the real highlight. 
 While each graphic element does not exceed the sky high state-of-the-art, reflected by the DVD-enhanced 
 visuals in Dreamcatcher's Lightbringer and Schizm, the overall artistic impact is overwhelming, 
 with every aesthetic choice approaching perfection. The color scheme is full of subtle pastel shadings 
 that stimulate an acute sense of curiosity. Some of the most amazing panoramas occur during transportation, 
 as you move from place to place; the blimp ride is particularly sumptuous. The architecture of 
 each locale is inspired and perfectly representative of the actual time and place. When viewed 
 at a distance, the characters have more convincing appearances and movement than figures in most 
 computer releases do at close range. The cinematic changes in viewing perspective during gameplay 
 are as professional as in any well-produced movie.
  
  Special visual effects abound, including the excellent rendition of water - whether in a stream 
 or a fountain - and the frequent appearance of flying birds. The cutscenes are an absolute highlight, 
 so it's nice that you can view the ones you have seen over and over again if you wish. The third-person 
 perspective offers a far wider view of the action than a first-person title ever could, and so 
 is an excellent design choice on the part of the developers. Syberia utilizes to its best advantage 
 an 800x600 graphics resolution, 32-bit color and anti-aliasing. If you own a slower computer, you 
 may reduce the level of detail or the color depth.
  
  Interface: The interface in Syberia is both elegant and functional, a real treat to look at and 
 use. Rarely have I seen game menus receive the same lavish attention as the rest of an offering, 
 but such is the case here. As is traditional in adventure-puzzle releases, you control everything 
 with the mouse. The cursor clearly transforms to show what you can do at any point in time. When 
 you pick up an object, it will briefly appear in the upper right of your screen before going into 
 your inventory. Right-clicking the mouse accesses the inventory, and a notebook opens with question 
 options when you talk with other characters. It's also a snap to read through the many documents 
 you collect. The load-and-save system is also beautifully and flexibly implemented.
  
  Gameplay: Syberia captured me from beginning to end. At night, when I thought back about the day's 
 events, I could focus on nothing else. There's no time pressure or meaningless mazes to distract 
 you from the central pleasure of the gameplay. As you progress through the journey, you share the 
 sense of self-discovery Walker does as she learns from her experiences. Although the adventure 
 is relatively linear, you never feel constrained in your exploration. There are, of course, parts 
 that prove a little cumbersome, such as boarding the train and keeping it running. However, unlike 
 Amerzone, which was a bit short, the more substantial material in Syberia is just the right length. 
 While the surprise ending may not satisfy everyone, it's certainly thought-provoking.
  
  The oft-cited similarities to Funcom's The Longest Journey are overstated. Yes, both are adventures 
 have spunky female heroines (April Ryan and Walker) and a third-person perspective, but beyond 
 that, the two offerings have distinct tones and different objectives. Frankly, I find playing Syberia 
 to be the far more intellectually and emotionally absorbing experience.
  
  Multiplayer: Syberia does not have a multiplayer component.
  
  Sound FX: The audio in Syberia 
 is almost as wonderful as the visuals. There are tons of fascinating ambient environmental noises, 
 such as birds chirping and the wind blowing, and you hear varying sounds as you walk over different 
 surfaces. The vocal effects are superb, with the voice acting giving a ring of both authenticity 
 and passion to the characters. A couple of small qualifications are that some of the conversations 
 are drawn out, and some of the idioms and common sayings are not perfectly reproduced in English 
 when translated from the French.
  
  Musical Score: The music is intermittent, but absolutely enthralling. The pensive, exploratory 
 and mournful atmosphere of the full orchestral soundtrack perfectly suits the story and contributes 
 greatly to the way in which this title totally envelops you. The music enters the picture at just 
 the right moments, gradually rising in power and heightening the suspense in the transition among 
 different dramatic elements. The only problems are that, at the default volume, the score sometimes 
 overwhelms the vocal effects, and there's a touch of repetitiveness. But the score is so magnificent 
 that you don't mind hearing its thematic tones many times over.
  
  Intelligence &amp; Difficulty: Like most adventure titles, Syberia offers no selection of difficulty 
 levels. This is, however, not a glaring omission because the puzzles are not overwhelmingly hard 
 to solve. Persistence and patience are what you need most to succeed, for no brain-melting abstract 
 logic puzzles are to be found. With this pattern in mind, novices and seasoned aficionados alike 
 will find fulfillment in this offering, with neither feeling frustrated or inappropriately challenged.
 
  
  Overall: Syberia is, without question, the best adventure games I've ever played. The near-perfectly 
 crafted combination of story, gameplay, graphics and audio makes it utterly enchanting. Both the 
 personality of the characters and the look of the physical environments draw you inexorably into 
 the spirit of the adventure. The logic of the mechanical automatons provides a consistently intriguing 
 counterpoint to the blatant irrationality of many of the humans. The mix you encounter of handicap 
 and genius, madness and passion, and inspiration and decay is downright haunting. Days after finishing 
 the story, I still cannot get it out of my head. Even if you are not a fan of computerized adventures, 
 I strongly recommend that you give this release a try, and if you do, you may begin to realize 
 how much you've been missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufoking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  How many years since we play the last adventure game "7 quest" ? Its a far story or memory to be 
 picked up. Indeed, after we touch the world of 3d graphic, just like those from 1st person or 3rd 
 person adventure game, we almost forget about the 2d :) But what makes me pick this up again? Once 
 you have touched Syberia, you will never forget about the fine art . Every single place in the 
 game is a wonderful picture, just like the drawing paint nailed on your wall (except that you never 
 have drawing in your house) . Im not quite interesting for this type of adventure, even since i 
 start to play pc game. But the gameplay in Siberia is totally friendly to me, at least. It just 
 like im watching a beautiful movie, walking through the wonderful scene, step by step. I wonder 
 that kids nowadays will accept Syberia or not, as there are many options when we come to the types 
 of game. Anyway, thanks to Syberia credits, you have made our world just preatier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  This game is slow. I mean: slooow! I certainly do not expect a fast pace from an adventure game, 
 but this one is literally lethargic. You'll have to walk A LOT, without the possibility to skip 
 tons of useless locations which dwells between the starting and the ending point of your path. 
 You may have the bright idea to make Kate run... well, she runs like... a monkey and not fast. 
 Oh, and when you stumble on a stairway? She seems crippled. She is extremely cautious like she's 
 walking through a minefiled... This stuff is irritating, mostly because you need to move from various 
 locations more than one time. A crooked way to dilute the game longevity.
  
  Another thing you may dislike is that you'll have to read a lot. Don't get me wrong: I don't dislike 
 reading, but the papers you'll get in the game are the most boring $hit ever.
  
  The characters are all hideous and irritating, no one is funny, everyone tries to hinder you, and 
 everybody will piss you off very soon: guaranteed. I personally wanted this game to magically turn 
 itself into a 3D shooter just to drill some hole in the head of everyone I met.
  
  Dialogs: boring at best, annoying mostly; absolutely futile and sterile, not the faintest clue 
 of irony and, which is worst, long and filled with endless prosy chattering. Oh, don't forget the 
 damn portable phone which unexpectedly breaks your balls every now and then. And on the other end 
 there's always a random horrible trite person. Kate herself is very uninteresting, ordinary and 
 whiney.
  
  The style of the architectures and the design of the things immediately made me wanna puke. Really 
 not my cup of tea. This obviously devalue every location. This reflects only my particular taste. 
 Most of you will find the graphics of this game stunning, and qualitatively this is quite right.
 
  
  Music: quite repetitive, nothing exceptional.
  
  Puzzles: logical, but tedious (not difficult) . Most of the time you have to deal with strange machineries 
 and use the right item with them, or to please some character giving him what he wants. You don't 
 have the chance to combine your inventory items.
  
  The story: I really don't get/like it. To me it's dull. The authors had the velleity to present 
 some metaphoric situations that could have been safely avoided. The ending is nonsense and could 
 be only explained in 2 ways: 1st, programmers had enough and decided to cut the story; 2nd, they 
 wanted the ending to be ambiguous enough to allow a sequel. Nevertheless, it remains senseless 
 in both ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I have been aching to play Syberia the day I heard of it, and now that I finally did, I am a bit 
 amazed and equally disappointed.
  
  ~ Story
  
  The story of adventure games, aside from the puzzles, is really the heart of the game. Fortunately, 
 the story in Syberia, although far from perfect, is quite interesting an mysterious, and moreover, 
 believable. You're not saving the world from a disaster, or escaping bikers, and whatnot. Instead, 
 you are a lawyer who came to town to sign the contract and purchase a toys company.
  
  Unfortunately, the owner just died, and there has been some complication with the processing of 
 the paperwork because there apparantly is an heir by the name of Hans. More unfortunate is the 
 fact that Hans has been in exile for so long and no one knows where - and it is your job to find 
 out where he is dwelling and get him to sign the paper.
  
  What makes the story majestic and dreamy is the fact that Hans, although a bit "touched in the 
 head", is a henius engineer, and his many toy contraptions are quite fun to work with and make 
 them function. Typically, almost all of the puzzles involve some sort of figuring out how to make 
 one of Hans's contraptions to work. This makes you more intruiged about Hans and his past, and 
 thankfully his story is told through nice animated scenes as well as a lot of text to read through.
 
  
  Unfortunately though, the game seriously lacks any sort of humour. The story is a piece of tragedy 
 after another, and everything is almost too depressing for an adventure game. Even the side stories, 
 played out through the phone calls you get from your mom and boyfriend back home, are melancholic, 
 although they try to serve a purpose by making the main character more human and believable since 
 the main story does not affect her in any possible way.
  
  What is most unfortunate about the story however, is that the ending leaves a lot to be desired 
 for. If you thought that the endings of the Soul Reaver games choked you, you'd be killing yourself 
 with this ending. Absolutely no payoff (except that you know there is a sequel) , it is almost too 
 predictable, and the grand finale is not so grand at all - you will be amazed by how stiff the 
 final twists and conversations are, especially with all the previous hours of buildup.
  
  ~ Gameplay
  
  Just like any other adventure game, you control the main character with the mouse 
 and guide her around the scenery and examine various objects.
  
  What makes the gameplay good is that the puzzles are not arbitrary, for the most part, and they 
 almost always make some sense or have some direct connection with the story or something around 
 you. You would not suddenly find yourself in a lava room where you have to turn off the valves 
 by throwing bananas at a monkey head somewhere. The puzzles here are logical and make sense - basically, 
 most of the time you would have to get a toy working.
  
  Puzzles are made somewhat easier by the fact that the game lets you know which items work and which 
 doesn't by changing the shape of the cursor. This saves you from randomly selecting all items in 
 your inventory to try out with no avail. However, some of the later puzzles really need some attention, 
 since the clues could be hidden in casual conversations or some drawings on pieces of paper you 
 were reading off another clue from.
  
  The most tedious thing about the puzzles however is that the concept of having to wind the train 
 every time it stops becomes silly. It almost wants you to kill yourself.
  
  ~ Graphics and Sound
  
  If you have seen the screenshots you would notice that the backgrounds 
 are all drawn and painted. The attention to detail is amazing, every scene you get into is an artwork 
 marvel. This is the best and worst thing about the graphics - there are just too many scenes and 
 pointlessly running slowly through all of them back and forth is frustrating. Also, most of the 
 items you get are not highlighted in any way shape or form, you would be doing some guesswork on 
 whether things on the floor are there for decoration or for picking up. 
  
  Soundwise, the game lacks a continous musical score, but whatever music it has is well done and 
 adds to the sadness of the game. The voice overs however are not perfect, only the main character 
 is marginally convincing and the rest are just too cheesy.
  
  Overall, the game is a good aventure and the story makes you going. However, the weirdness of it, 
 its lack of humour, and the seriously underpopulated locales may turn off many players. Still, 
 it is a good recommendation, but it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Syberia has not brought anything new to the genre but it respects it and that would do for me. It 
 has a solid story line, well structured characters and the visuals fulfill they're purpose. Its not 
 the best adventure there is but it's really worth playing because it will bring you in a world 
 of adventure that will keep you glued to you're seat from the first scene to the ending credits
 
  The scenery makes the atmosphere in this game a little dark but that's not a bad thing. The automatons 
 you will meet on you're journey are all remarkable and they all play a role in this puzzle game.
 
  The puzzles aren't that hard and they would pose no problem for a initiated adventurer.
  The hole story is great and it really makes you fell like a child that has started a journey to 
 find the forbidden city, based on facts that seem imaginary and make you think that you're on the 
 wrong path, at the wrong time.
  But everything's well when it ends wel.
  This adventure is definitely worth playing and i can even say that it's a must for adventure fans.
 
  The dialogues cover all that is important, not entering that zone were they become a cliche or 
 are meant just to give the game a longer play time.
  You could say that Syberia take's you on a road trip to find something unbelievable, to find yourself, to 
 help a friend and to give you an experience of a life time, if you look trough the eyes of the young 
 and quite attractive lead character of the game.
  Microids did a great job with this one leaving it in the hands of Benot Sokal, witch made it a 
 treat for the eyes. So as i said, a good story, great visual, nice characters. What can you ask more?
 
  Oh, yeah!
  Something innovating. Well that's the one thing that separates the great from the good games. As 
 i said: This is a very good game, not great, but it's definitely worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioannicodim11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  For an adventure game this is marble of its type, a true example to follow. It remembered me of 
 old Indiana Jones series. It has an extraordinary dialogue, and if you watch it closely there is 
 a refined humor and at some point ironic.
  The story about automatons is historically correct, they really existed in the Middle Age. Although 
 the story is novel material and it has a SF flavour.
  For me this game was truly an adventure in my mind and it was just like a long movie at the cinema.
 
  I strongly recommend this game to anyone! They won't regret it! I guarantee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flusternucker
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 25, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The scenery is beautiful, the puzzles interesting yes I know. But it's incredibly boring. You spend 
 so long just walking back and forth through the scenery. Then you have to sit and listen while 
 characters drone on and on - just to get a few snippets of useful info. I keep trying to give this 
 game a second chance. But every time I do I realize why I stopped playing it.
  
  Maybe I haven't gone far enough into the story. People say it takes a while to get immersed in 
 the plotline. But I just can't invest any more time in this yawner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Syberia is an adventure game that gives the player a unique and intriguing story while enveloping 
 you in a beautiful canvas of imagery. It is a game that makes you think, while you admire intricate 
 details of the game.
  
  Syberia puts you in the shoes of Kate Walker, a junior member of a law firm that is trying to close 
 a deal on a toy factory. While in Valadilene, France, she finds out that not only is the owner 
 of the toy factory dead, but that a long forgotten relative may be out there to claim the factory. 
 So you have to journey across Europe to find out if the heir exists, while analyzing your decision 
 in life and on the case.
  
  The first item that you notice upon loading up the game is the visual quality and style of the 
 game. Even though the game runs at a fixed resolution, it looks amazing. From the menus for the 
 game to the last minute detail in the game, it shows polish and an attention to detail that most 
 games just overlook. Screens that are there just for transition have little nuisances that make 
 you stop and look just for the beauty of them. Graphics are normally not an adventure games strong 
 point, but here, you can tell that Microids enjoys the world that they have created. The character 
 models are solid and diverse. Special note should be taken with Kate Walker as we have a heroine 
 that is intelligent and not designed with young teens in mind. It is a refreshing change from the 
 bigger chest is better design philosophy that a lot of developers have used as of late. 
  
  Story is where it is at when it comes to an adventure game. If you cant tell a good story when 
 it comes to adventure games, you will mocked and ridiculed on the Internet until the end of the 
 world. Luckily, Syberia does have a strong, character driven story. The conflict between the world 
 that she is falling into vs. the world she is from is well defined. It is almost like she has reached 
 a mid-life crisis of sorts as she tries to appease her boss while she forms a bond with the automatons 
 that she meets. The dialogue is fresh and flows quite nicely, while conveying emotion. 
  
  The puzzles that you encounter in the game are not too difficult and wont stump hardened adventure 
 game veterans. The puzzles range from the straight-forward, to the obscure and weird. You should 
 not be stumped on most of them for too long, but a few will just drive you nuts due to the illogical 
 nature of the solution A good example is that you need honey to make a special drink, but all you 
 find is crystallized honey. So you have to find a way to make it liquid again. Logic would dictate 
 a microwave or a stove with a pot of water, but you would be wrong, because the best way to liquefy 
 crystallized honey is in a steaming hot Jacuzzi. Nothing says heating food like a Jacuzzi. Fortunately 
 most of the puzzles are a little more sane, and make sense, but you just have to wonder what are 
 game developers thinking when they put these puzzles together. But the puzzles dont get in the 
 way of the story or the style of the game, which is a big plus.
  
  Sound in this game is pretty good. The voice overs are solid and feel very real. The parts are 
 played with meaning and care which always makes the characters much more believable. Kate Walker 
 is voiced as a strong woman with a conflict. You can feel her struggle while being in a foreign 
 land. Oscar and James, the primary Automatons in the game are voiced with elegance and a dash of 
 pomp and circumstance. Games that take the time to put some effort into the voices of the characters 
 really pay off in the sense of realism. The sound effects however, are a mixed bag. For the most 
 part, they are good, but there are times when they sound hollow and tinny, like they were recorded 
 in a shower. The music was a little offsetting as well as moments where it would peak or crescendo 
 would end up leading to no real climax. But in other parts, the music would lull in the middle 
 of a heavy sequence or action sequence. It was like the music was on a loop that did not care where 
 the story was going.
  
  There are few faults in Syberia that you will notice. Three that do stick out are graphical glitches, 
 a save bug and some out of order dialogue. The graphical glitches normally happened while opening 
 the cell phone for a conversation. It was not a hindrance, but the screen having black folding 
 triangles on it was a bit disruptive. Out of order dialogue is hard to control in a game that counts 
 on structure, but some plot points were given away before you knew about that point. While this 
 can happen with smaller points, it should never happen with main plot items. The last one is a 
 save bug that really got in the way of progress during one of the stages. And once it corrupted 
 that save, you had to go to a previous game and play through it again. Not fun.
  
  Overall, Syberia presents a unique universe that is a blast to visit and play through. If you can 
 get past some of the minor issues, you will find complex characters and diverse scenery to keep 
 you enthralled for several hours. At its current price point, it is definitely worth the investment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabit_a_s
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is very easy to pickup, and puzzles rarely require brute force. Graphics is excellent, 
 the game crashed a few times when scene changes (ATI9600, AMD 2200+) . The music is quite soothing 
 and blends into the backdrop.
  
  Most of the characters are very interesting. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This 
 is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is 
 a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb 
 game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. 
 This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. This is a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H8TD1
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  MYST meets Nancy Drew 
  That's what this game reminds of. I love point and click games ever since NES games like shadowgate, 
 Deja Vu and Uninvited. If you enjoyed games like Myst , Riven and any Nancy Drew game, then you'll 
 enjoy Syberia (PC) 
  . 
  You will play the role of an attorney from New York ,and your mission is to complete the sale of 
 a bankrupted toy factory. In the process , your objective will be hindered by a few mysteries. 
 The environments offer a unique setting not seen before in most games. Though is was said that 
 this game has several bugs, for me , I hadn't experienced any known reported bugs. 
  . 
  Playing this game , it took me less then about 13 - 15 hours. I did get stumped only twice in the 
 game , but I used Faq/Walkthrough By "Outrider" 35K found at gamefaqs, I got stuck by the lamest 
 thing that was right in front of my face, that involved making a picture for a young boy named 
 momo. O. K. The second thing I got stumped on was harder, that involved a channel lock and how to 
 open it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luizalves
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Syberia, to me, was one of those game experiences we have in life, when we get to play knowing 
 nothing about what's to come. How good is to do it! When the opening scene came, with those fine 
 graphics, touching music and such a cinematic feeling, I knew I was going into an amazing game 
 experience.
  
  This game follow the deeds of Kate Walker, a beautiful lawyer from NY who goes all the way to Valadilene, 
 a tiny city in the French Alps, to execute a purchase made by her enterprise. It's about a huge 
 toy factory which is a cultural inheritance for the city and the vicinities. She must then find 
 the heir of the factory, who is off to pursue his child's dream.
  
  "Dream" is a word that fits very well. I'm a bit suspicious to talk about it, since I just LOVE 
 huge locations, desolated areas such those snowy mountains and small cities in the middle of nowhere... 
 You know, get out through a great wall into the unknow, this is the true meaning of exploration 
 and adventure.
  
  Through a deliciously easy and intuitive gameplay, we must guide Kate as she goes on her journey 
 by train passing through the cities, meeting peculiar people, solving puzzles and being reward 
 with some unforgetable moments, such as an opera concert and a lecture about the lost tribes in 
 the north pole. We can't forget the way Kate herself changes throughout the story, as she slightly 
 cuts the bonds between her and NY, her family, her fiance... and dives with both feet into the 
 journey. We can feel she grows up, becoming wiser, more mature and more confident.
  
  So we are, as we play adventure games, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nataliwoodnt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Syberia is fantastic! If youre a newbie to pc games, and not into shoot em- up killing sprees 
 this is the game that will win you over and create an addiction to adventure games. The puzzles 
 are good, they make you think. If youre worried about having to do things in sequence, fear not, 
 in Syberia you go at your own pace with the freedom to complete puzzles in your own order. Being 
 able to complete things this way means everyone gets an individual look at the game. The movies 
 and graphics are cutting edge. You become, not just the gamer but the partner to your character 
 Kate Walker. Youre guaranteed to get swept away right from the beginning. No wonder it made Adventure 
 Game of the Year.
  
  The ending may be a little cheesy, but it leaves you wanting to find and dive into Syberia II. 
 
  
  Im presently looking for a copy of Syberia II where I cant wait to help Kate perhaps finally 
 help Hans find mammoths! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoscot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this, not knowing what to expect. It got awesome reviews, but I was leery. Adventure games 
 today are not the engrossing things they used to be. I was blown away. The graphics and ease of 
 control. The Story was very relaxing and intriguing at the same time. I found myself very concrened 
 about Kate Walker and her companions.
  
  The only downside, some of the puzzles were a little too simple, and I would like to have seen 
 more depth. There were many "Hot Spots" that had no purpose. Doors that were perpetually locked. 
 It would have been better had the story taken you further behind some of those closed doors. And 
 more options with the cursor, such as Taste, Look at, Touch. That adds variety and depth.
  
  Second criticism, many typos in the captions. Sometimes the Captions and spoken words did not 
 line up either.
  
  Although all of the above sounds overwhelming, it is very nit-picky compared to the overall game 
 play and enjoyability of the game. 
  
  Take the time to go to Syberia. You will truly enjoy the experience and feel that you have made 
 some new friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is far beond anything good, this game has the rights to be called a masterpiece. When 
 i played this game, i found this feeling inside me that made me feel like her.
  Syberia is one of the greatest games that I've played, I love the adventure and puzzles in this 
 game. But I'm here to give you a review and that's what i'm going to do. First of all I'm gonna 
 brake the game into few pieces and tell you what i think about them.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are wonderful, i think i haven't played a game with so high detailed 
 graphics. The characters are wonderful and have their own personality ( wich you can clearly see 
 in the graphics in this game ) . The landscape is beautiful and you feel like your inside the game 
 while playing; i give the landscaping in this a 10 ( I don't usually do this but it's so great 
 i had to ) . So the graphics in the game is a big part of it.
  So I give the graphics a rating of a 9.
  
  Sound
  The sound in this game is quite good to, 
 i love the detailed sounds, like the sounds in rivers floating and so on. I love the voice acting 
 in this game, the game is made for listening to what other people say; and then maybe later in 
 the game you will have some good use for it.
  So I give the sounds a good number of 9.
  
  Game play
  But of course it's the game play that matters the most. The game play in this game 
 is exciting and thrilling, so is the story of the game. The game play is mostly just about using 
 your brain, finding objects and put in certain places and so on. You basicly got 100's of puzzles 
 to do. 
  And I give the game play a great 10 because of it's great story and puzzles all the way through 
 the game.
  
  Well i hope this review has been help ful.
  Thank you, Lingermania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ams714
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Wasn't sure what exactly to expect from this game when i first bought it. After starting it I was 
 very surprised and shocked. This game has outstanding graphics for one thing, sound is good, and 
 overall story line was decently planned out. The different parts of the story you learn throughout 
 the game keep you locked into it I personally think. The puzzles in the game can be quite challenging, 
 and some of them definitly had me thinking for awhile. I believe my favorite thing about this game 
 is the outstanding graphics, it makes you feel like you want to literally jump into the game because 
 of how beautiful some of the game is. I would definitly recommend buying and playing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Syberia, really came out of nowhere for the gaming community. Yes, it looked promising, but every 
 PC gamer knew never to set themselves up with an adventure game. When it was finally released, 
 it was almost like a mini nuke was dropped in the gaming community. People thought to themselves, 
 "Syberia? Good? What?," or "How can this be? Not only is it good, but it's really good?," and they 
 were right, Syberia is really good, actually it's one of the best.
  
  I can really only express the enjoyment I had with Syberia in a few words, so here we go; Oh My 
 God. The game is truly incredible, whether it's the enchanting story, breathtaking graphics, spellbinding 
 musical score, or just the plain old fun factor, there are little to no faults in this game.
  
  In Syberia, you play the role of a young woman named Kate Walker, who is sent to Valideline, 
 France to buy up a family owned toy company. When Kate arrives in France, to her surprise she finds 
 out that the owner of the company has passed on, so she can't get the signature which was needed 
 to sign the company over. She learns that she needs to find the womans brother, who is the heir 
 to the company. So basically, the story follows Kate on an adventure to find Hans, the heir to 
 the company. 
  
  The gameplay in Syberia is fairly fresh for an adventure game. You use the mouse to click where 
 Kate moves, and double click for her to run. There are different avatars and symbols for different 
 actions to do using the mouse, which is definitely usefull while doing a puzzle. That brings me 
 into the next part of the gameplay, the puzzles. This is an adventure game, so I'm sure you expected 
 it would have puzzles, correct? Well, it does. The puzzles in Syberia might be the only thing that 
 isn't incredible in the game. don't get me wrong, they are great, and have no problems, but they 
 aren't anything you havn't seen before. It's like, put this key in this hole to access a new room. 
 Or, put this gear in this slot to turn this crank, etc. Fairly common puzzles, but for some reason 
 they aren't all that easy, which is a definite plus. The gameplay in Syberia is nothing but top 
 notch, it totally floors you to see that there is a new adventure game that lives up to the genre.
 
  
  As for the graphics of Syberia, they are easily the best I have ever seen. I'm pretty sure the 
 backgrounds are pre-rendered, so they are not real time. The character models are great, they really 
 fit the feel of the game. The envoronments are probably the most impressive part of the game, not 
 many games have the atmospheric feel that Syberia does. Definitely, the most astonishing part of 
 the graphics are the cut scenes, or full motion videos if you will. They are literally jaw dropping. 
 I can't think of any game, besides Final Fantasy X and Warcraft III that have better looking cut 
 scenes than Syberia. They totally captivate the moment, and put you right in Kate's shoes.
  
  The soundtrack in the game is also quite incredible, it features a orchestral score, that really 
 captures you and throws you into this mystical setting that Kate goes through. The voice acting 
 in Syberia is very impressive, all the dialogue in the game is done by voice overs, this helps 
 to immerse you into the wonderful story. Kate's voice is particularily impressive, all of her conversations 
 seem very fluid, and not forced at all, which is always a good thing, especially to those of us 
 who have played games with terrible voice overs.
  
  The value of the game is easily it's biggest downfall. Since it is an adventure game, you probably 
 didn't expect it to have any multiplayer aspects, and you were right, it doesn't. But, the fact 
 that the story was so well written, and the gameplay is so addicting, will definitely keep you 
 coming back. I myself, have played it through three times so far, and plan to play it again sometime 
 soon. Not many story driven games keep you coming back for more after you are done, Syberia is 
 an exception.
  
  If you can't tell by now, I really like Syberia. It's an incredible game that absolutely no adventure 
 gamer should miss out, under no circumstances. If your PC can't handle it, get the Xbox version. 
 It's worth it, just trust me on this. Few games are this good, and because it is an adventure game, 
 it is even better. Syberia is truly a work of art, it's as simple as that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I played a good adventure game that requires thinking. It has a uniquie 
 stoy line were you control this person names Anna walker and you have to find Hans Voraburge about 
 the death of his sister Anna Voraburge and the inhearatence of a Amaton Factory. So you have to 
 seach for him and along the way you have to find out how to get to one place to the next and find 
 a key or something to open ot move something. 
  
  Gameplay: Like a said before it is like the old school type of gameplay and unquie and the story 
 is non that i have seen before. The Controls are a little awquard but they are fine once you get 
 used to it.
  
  Graphics: They graphics are really well done and well Polished. The only thing is The main Charachter 
 you are controling is stiff when she walks.
  
  Value: You might find this game intresting enough to play it though a few time and like most games 
 once you know what to do then it is easy to go though the game.
  
  In the end it's a good adventure game for thoughs people who like adnventure games. Go out and 
 get it along with Syberia 2. 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bearrich
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game and did not want to stop. It keeps your attention every step of the 
 way, the plot lines, graphics and puzzles were all very well done. The musical score was totally 
 amazing. The crew that worked on this game deserves a big hand for all the time and effort they 
 put into making such a fantastic game. 
  
  You become very familiar with the characters of the story and the nice thing is there are not too 
 many of them to remember or have to follow. The main character, Kate; a lawyer from New York is 
 on a simple mission to close a big deal for her company in a very scenic little village in France. 
 She runs into a little more than she bargained for when she starts checking out the town and its 
 inhabitants. There are some really quirky people living there but it is a very quaint town. She 
 soon realizes that she isn't going home anytime soon from the sound of things. I highly recommend 
 this game. It is now my favorite game of all time at this point and Syberia 2 comes in at second 
 place. Get both games, if you don't you'll wish you had. You're going to want to start Syberia 
 2 as soon as you finish the first Syberia, it is that addictive!! A+++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuasha786
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  If there is any game in the world which much should played by any gamer is Syberia. I don't know 
 about other people but it's a dream game of mine. I have completed Syberia 1 & 2 more than 5 times 
 and every time it's just seems to me a new one. The same thing happened to the people played Syberia 
 whom I know. Syberia is a game which will definitely take you into a different world. The world 
 of dreams. The story begins with Kate Walker a Lawyer who started her jouney into a village for 
 a company (Investigations) . The story of Syberia is simply excellent and the graphics is marvellous. 
 Each & every characters role has been set so nicely. The Puzzles are really excellent and one will 
 definitely by solving those. I never liked to play RPG adventure games before but after playing 
 syberia it just turned my gaming world. So those who didn't play Syberia 1 and 2 yet I am requesting 
 them to play Syberia right now. Because it is the game of life. Hope there will be more Syberia 
 sequels in nearfuture.
  Thanks a lot.
  
  Antar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelooney305
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  Syberia is a welcomed reiteration of the old point and click adventure genre. In spite of the downfall 
 of this type of computer games these past years, Syberia is enthralling and exciting! It brings 
 new life to its dead predecessors and tries to revivify its kind.
  
  The most powerful feature of this game is the atmosphere it creates. The pervasive music, the wonderful 
 graphics and the mastery of character creation, all collaborate to build the feeling of strangeness 
 and exoticism.
  
  The story takes place in Europe, as a train voyage that takes you on a quest to find the last of 
 the mammoths. The heroine, Kate Walker, a lawyer from NY finds herself forced to undertake a journey 
 to the east, but also a journey of self-discovery. The more Kate travels, the more she finds that 
 she is leaving behind a life she does not want, and a boyfriend she does not love.
  
  The story is captivating and the scenery is absolutely gorgeous. I think that this a truly mature 
 game that can speak to anyone's soul and bring new experiences.
  
  I wish you have a great time playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyanyako
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I have never seen a game with so much great graphics and detail as this one! Microids have really 
 done a very great job in creating Syberia!
  
  I thought it was gonna be  but I was wrong. It's really 
 entertaining and colorful, as if the environment is really here at some other part of the globe.
 
  
  I think Kate Walker is pretty (and she really lives up to her name!) . The characters (especially 
 Oscar) are so well-rounded and they are fun to watch and listent to.
  
  If there's one thing that really took my breath away, it's the environment. The game really put 
 me into a rich, wonderful place that I somehow looked forward to going to (if it really existed) . 
 It also made me want an automaton of my own.
  
  Although the game is great, I just hate it when there are many certain clickable options in the 
 game only to find out that they are not considered an option (like the many doors in the hotel 
 and the other front doors in Valadilene) .
  
  Overall, the game is fulfilling and the story is really engaging. From now on, I'll look forward 
 to every Microids / The Adventure Company game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hienkhanht
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2005 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Syberia has revived adventure game, a lot of people hvae forgotten, some have not even played adventure 
 game but this game Syberia has been getting a bunch of attention for adventure game again
  
  Gameplay : the story is good, solid and interesting. 9
  
  Graphic : Syberia's graphic is 
 the most wonderful adventure game graphic ever. The enviroments really live. 10
  
  Sound: the sound is ok, but not quite good. 8
  
  Because this is an aventure game, the control 
 is the basic point-and-click so i have no comment about it
  
  This is an awesome game for everyone, even if you are not a fan of adventure game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballmitch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2004 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Syberia is one very immersive game. Its graphics are stunning for a two year old game and still 
 hold out well compared to todays games. The story is very stimulating. You find yourself always 
 wanting to see another cinematic. The sound is perhaps the best or one of the best i have seen 
 in any game. The timing of when the music starts and ends and when it gets louder or softer is 
 dead on. Another amazing thing about syberia is its voice acting. You really feel like they are 
 real actors. Its not corny or anything. The voice acting is also probobly the best i have ever 
 seen. What syberia does lack greatly is replay value. Its a great game but it ends too fast. If 
 you are looking for a story driven adventure game and don't need a lot of action in games then 
 syberia is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2004 7:14 am PT
Review:  Syberia is one of two adventure games I've been able to see through to the end (possibly because 
 it's somewhat short...) - the other being Full Throttle. I've come to find that as with any adventure 
 game and most Japanese-style RPGs, the goodness (if any is to be found) lies in the unfolding of 
 a thoughtful and emotional story - because the gameplay is usually sucky.
  
  Most of the time the puzzles were pretty easy and self-explanatory, and sometimes it felt less 
 like a puzzle and more like a series of logical events needing little thought. The few stumpers, 
 though, are generally hard only because there is a deliberately well-hidden clue or activator that 
 must be found - not necessarily because it's a tough puzzle to solve.
  
  The premise is good and the voice acting is mostly awsome. The music is limited but beautiful and, 
 in conjuction with the scenery, creates the emotional basis for the whole game. The art and scenery, 
 by the way, are beautiful and imaginative. The theme that Syberia carries is atmospheric and sort 
 of haunting for a part of the game before it gets to be a little redundant, though never quite 
 losing its "feel."
  
  The story is unique, thoughtful, and non-cliche (a big plus for me) . It didn't really tug at my 
 emotions like I felt it could have, though. It occassionally built up a good foundation for an 
 epiphany or dramatic moment, but didn't always follow through - or instead cut the moment short. 
 But what it does do is slowly build an engaging and increasingly imaginative take on a modern-day 
 pseudo-fantasy Europe with subtle repercussions from an era of war as seen from a backwoods sort 
 of view. Following? Heh.
  
  The point is that it's a fine game and for anyone wanting a good story to experience, or some thoughtful 
 (though sometimes ridiculous) puzzles. C'mon. She could just shoo the three 8-inch cuckoos away 
 and climb the ladder but instead has to follow a series of clues a puzzles to find a certain type 
 of grape that the birds like then distract them with it before she can gain access to the ladder 
 that they're standing in the way of. Fortunately, however, most of the puzzles make sense...
  
  For $20, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaborm
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 28, 2004 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I can only compare this game to the classic Myst trio + URU which gave me several insomniac days 
 and - shame on me - forced me to check the hint sites during the game.
  
  Do not get me wrong, I enjoyed the story, the graphics and the athmosphere of Syberia, but I finished 
 it in 1 day. I expected more challanging puzzles and the so linear storyline did not allow wondering 
 around. Anyway I am about buying Syberia 2 'cos I like the story wery much.
  
  The best part in the game is the sound and the music I enjoyed so much. Also the details of the 
 mechanical gadgets and vehicles are awsome.
  
  I recommend this game for starter adventurers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSDude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2004 5:41 am PT
Review:  Pure adventure games have been next to extinct since the late 90s. However every once in a while, 
 a great well made one does manage to be produced. Syberia is one such game. 
  
  You play Kate Walker who is a lawyer sent to a small French village to close a deal on the buy-out 
 of a family owned toy factory, which produced human-like robot machines called automatons. To your 
 dismay when you arrive, you find out that the owner has passed on and that there is a rightful 
 heir to the factory. Our protagonist is then set out on a big adventure to find this heir. 
  
  Those familar with the old skool point n' click adventure gaming genre will feel right at home 
 with Syberia's gameplay mechanics and interface. You basically use your mice cursor to move your 
 character about, pick up items and manipulate objects. Like many past old-skool style adventure 
 games, Syberia does suffer as well from the "find the dreaded pixel item and click-fest" syndrome. 
 Aside from that and the voice acting of the other characters in the game (who happen to also strangely 
 speak very fluent English with sterotyped European accents) , those are my only compliants. The 
 story I found took sometime to get into, but it is one hell of a story. The graphics are excellent 
 and something that have to be seen to believe. The screen shots just don't do it justice. The background 
 music is great and does help offset the voice acting quality a bit. The puzzle solving is relatively 
 easy, but as mentioned earlier with the dreaded pixel hunting and once in a while, but relative 
 small brain teasers, can sometimes be a little fustrating. But nothing too overly difficult that 
 it takes away from the enjoyment of the game. As for the ending, without giving too much away, 
 it pretty much made it obvious that a sequel was at the time expected.
  
  If you are an adventure gaming fan, Syberia does come highly recommended. In a day and age when 
 great adventure games tend to be few and far between, Syberia is a worth addition to your adventure 
 gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wonderful trip back in time to what adventure games used to be, and proves that 
 games don't need overly loud soundtracks and overly bright, flashy visuals to be immersing and 
 entertaining. Those who have fond memories of Sierra On-Line classics such as the King's Quest, 
 Police Quest, or Leisure Suit Larry series will be right at home.
  Playing as Kate Walker, a NYC attorney in Europe to close a purchasing deal of a famous mechanical 
 toy company, you get launched on an adventure to find the true owner of the company in question. 
 This man, missing for decades, is obsessed with a legendary land known as Syberia.
  Gameplay consists of talking to people for clues, finding items, and using them to advance in the 
 game. The objectives are more engrossing than simple "Find the key" missions, and more fun as well. 
 Your brain will get a solid workout trying to piece together all you need to do. You will travel 
 to several beautifully rendered areas by means of a clockwork train, assisted by Oscar, the automaton 
 engineer.
  The sound and graphics are both wonderful, and really make you feel like you're in the same areas 
 as your onscreen persona. This game is truly a classic and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: careroevil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 9, 2004 7:29 am PT
Review:  Syberia is a thoroughly enjoyable game experience. The graphics are astounding (aside from the 
 glitch at the Giant in Komkolzgrad that the patch didn't fix!) , and the gameplay varies from exciting 
 to merely entertaining. None of the puzzles are too esoteric. They only gameplay criticism I would 
 have is that there was an awful lot of walking back and forth throughout the game, which became, 
 at times, tedious.
  
  The ending definitely and unashamedly sets up a sequel, which I will undoubtably play. Unfortunately 
 I've read some reviews that are less than effusive about Syberia II. They still won't stop me from 
 forming my own opinion, which anyome who has played Syberia will want to do anyway. 
  
  One comment about the ending... I've been noticing alot of criticisms about the endings to alot 
 of Adventure Co. games (Jack the Ripper, Dark Fall Th Journal, this one) ... I'm still reserving 
 opinion on this. So far I personally was not very disappointed with either Jack or Syberia. And 
 I'm almost finished with DFTJ. Perhaps the criticisms reflect a the reviewers' need to have a final 
 resolution; however, I do not number among them. After all, wouldn't it be rather boring if everything 
 were explained? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TROAB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2004 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game had the makings of something truly spectacular, but in my opinion, while still good, 
 it fell short of what it could have been.
  
  The puzzles and settings and story were all very well done. I was truly immersed in this world 
 and wanting to find out what happens and move on. The whole concept of these turn of the century 
 mechanical devices was truly interesting, especially trying to find and work the winding machines.
 
  
  Unfortunately I feel that this game fell short in it's length. I felt like the story was just gearing 
 up when it was actually ending. It seemed almost too easy and somewhat anti-climactic. I was expecting 
 to visit a dozen more places in my journey. Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_eggus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  Thanks to games like Myst and the Kings Quest series I have always been a big fan of adventure 
 games. Unfortunately Ive been crossed enough times with adventure games that dont live up to 
 the hype surrounding them (Schizm, Egypt) so I find myself hesitant when I learn of a new game 
 of this genre. When I first heard about Syberia I wasnt sure I was even going to try the game, 
 but as I found out more about the game I became intrigued with its unique storyline. Usually these 
 types of games happen in unknown worlds, or in ages past, where the user may feel uncertain about 
 the rules of the environment they are in. In a different turn Syberia takes place in the current 
 day across Europe. Playing Syberia you enter a world that is vaguely recognizable, but filled with 
 the clockwork toys of one Hans Voralburg.
  
  You play as Kate Walker, a lawyer who has come to Valideline to complete the purchase to a New 
 York company, of a factory, owned by the Voralburg family, made famous from the clockwork toys 
 they design. Upon arrival you find out that the current owner has just passed away, and the factory 
 ownership has changed hands to the last remaining heir, Hans Voralburg. Unfortunately Hans has 
 been missing for some time. Kate will have to search for Hans, learn about his childhood and exception 
 talents, and follow in his footsteps across Europe is search of the fabled land of Syberia. 
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic. Game play graphics are well rendered, and the cutscenes 
 evoke an almost dreamlike quality. The real stars of the show are the amazing backgrounds found 
 in Syberia. The villages and towns that you visit have a mystical quality to them, evoked by the 
 design and color used in them. It truly is like walking through a painting. The musical score was 
 brilliantly chosen to pull at the players heartstrings, and compliment the game quite nicely.
 
  
  If you enjoy games that play more like stories, with depth and character development, then youll 
 love Syberia.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elethiomel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2004 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of an adventure gamer, but I really enjoyed Syberia. The graphics are absolutely stunning, 
 and the story is actually, well, compelling. The unfolding mystery drives the game forward and 
 the sub-plots are pleasant rather than distracting. I found myself taking an interest in the characters -- especially 
 the game's protagonist, Kate Walker. She grows throughout the game as a result of her experiences, 
 giving the game the quality of a good film or novel, unlike most adventure games.
  
  There is more to Syberia than simply clicking items until you find something that works with something 
 else; the puzzles are fairly straight-forward and involve a minimum of merely chasing from one 
 area to another. With the exception of one maddeningly frustrating puzzle (you'll know it when 
 you see it) I found that progress through the game was challenging enough to keep me interested 
 but not so difficult to send my scurrying for hints.
  
  My only complaint about the game is its length. It was not so short that I felt ripped off -- quality, 
 not quantity is truly the measure of this game -- but considering its $30.00 price tag, I expected 
 more than the 8 or so hours of play it took me to move through the story. However, considering 
 the vast amounts of junk out there costing far more, I don't mind spending $30 for such a well-done 
 game.
  
  All in all, Syberia combines a engrossing story with ingenious puzzles -- all set against the one 
 of the most beautiful backdrops in all of gaming. This non-adventure gamer is looking forward to 
 Syberia II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2003 9:45 am PT
Review:  The adventure genre for the PC has all but been extinct since the early 1990's. About a decade 
 ago, we saw floods of incredible adventure games, from developers like Sierra, and Lucas Arts. 
 But since then, we'd be lucky if we saw a half decent one every two years. The dismal state of 
 this gaming genre is actually somewhat depressing, but luckily, in 2002 we got ourselves something 
 to brag about.
  
  Syberia, really came out of nowhere for the gaming community. Yes, it looked promising, but every 
 PC gamer knew never to set themselves up with an adventure game. When it was finally released, 
 it was almost like a mini nuke was dropped in the gaming community. People thought to themselves, 
 "Syberia? Good? What?," or "How can this be? Not only is it good, but it's really good?," and they 
 were right, Syberia is really good, actually it's one of the best.
  
  I can really only express the enjoyment I had with Syberia in a few words, so here we go; Oh My 
 God. The game is truly incredible, whether it's the enchanting story, breathtaking graphics, spellbinding 
 musical score, or just the plain old fun factor, there are little to no faults in this game.
  
  In Syberia, you play the role of a young woman named Kate Walker, who is sent to Valideline, 
 France to buy up a family owned toy company. When Kate arrives in France, to her surprise she finds 
 out that the owner of the company has passed on, so she can't get the signature which was needed 
 to sign the company over. She learns that she needs to find the womans brother, who is the heir 
 to the company. So basically, the story follows Kate on an adventure to find Hans, the heir to 
 the company. 
  
  The gameplay in Syberia is fairly fresh for an adventure game. You use the mouse to click where 
 Kate moves, and double click for her to run. There are different avatars and symbols for different 
 actions to do using the mouse, which is definitely usefull while doing a puzzle. That brings me 
 into the next part of the gameplay, the puzzles. This is an adventure game, so I'm sure you expected 
 it would have puzzles, correct? Well, it does. The puzzles in Syberia might be the only thing that 
 isn't incredible in the game. don't get me wrong, they are great, and have no problems, but they 
 aren't anything you havn't seen before. It's like, put this key in this hole to access a new room. 
 Or, put this gear in this slot to turn this crank, etc. Fairly common puzzles, but for some reason 
 they aren't all that easy, which is a definite plus. The gameplay in Syberia is nothing but top 
 notch, it totally floors you to see that there is a new adventure game that lives up to the genre.
 
  
  As for the graphics of Syberia, they are easily the best I have ever seen. I'm pretty sure the 
 backgrounds are pre-rendered, so they are not real time. The character models are great, they really 
 fit the feel of the game. The envoronments are probably the most impressive part of the game, not 
 many games have the atmospheric feel that Syberia does. Definitely, the most astonishing part of 
 the graphics are the cut scenes, or full motion videos if you will. They are literally jaw dropping. 
 I can't think of any game, besides Final Fantasy X and Warcraft III that have better looking cut 
 scenes than Syberia. They totally captivate the moment, and put you right in Kate's shoes.
  
  The soundtrack in the game is also quite incredible, it features a orchestral score, that really 
 captures you and throws you into this mystical setting that Kate goes through. The voice acting 
 in Syberia is very impressive, all the dialogue in the game is done by voice overs, this helps 
 to immerse you into the wonderful story. Kate's voice is particularily impressive, all of her conversations 
 seem very fluid, and not forced at all, which is always a good thing, especially to those of us 
 who have played games with terrible voice overs.
  
  The value of the game is easily it's biggest downfall. Since it is an adventure game, you probably 
 didn't expect it to have any multiplayer aspects, and you were right, it doesn't. But, the fact 
 that the story was so well written, and the gameplay is so addicting, will definitely keep you 
 coming back. I myself, have played it through three times so far, and plan to play it again sometime 
 soon. Not many story driven games keep you coming back for more after you are done, Syberia is 
 an exception.
  
  If you can't tell by now, I really like Syberia. It's an incredible game that absolutely no adventure 
 gamer should miss out, under no circumstances. If your PC can't handle it, get the Xbox version. 
 It's worth it, just trust me on this. Few games are this good, and because it is an adventure game, 
 it is even better. Syberia is truly a work of art, it's as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingboard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 15, 2003 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Syberia is a weird game. It is about mammoths and robots. That aside it is truly an awesome game. 
 Gameplay is the usual find this and put it there puzzles but the settings and the machinery you 
 work with are really amazing. They all seem as if they would actually work. It Willy Wonka with 
 robots. The story is a little short and obviously leaves you hanging for Syberia 2. I wish things 
 weren't so vague in parts but overall it is a game all people should enjoy. I think it would have 
 been neat to make the environments entirely 3D because of the depth and realism that could have 
 been given to the environments. They are beautiful but they look too much like paintings and not 
 environments. Things just aren't moving enough. Sure there is some smoke or water moving in the 
 background but it still a little lacking in the movement category (is there even a category for 
 movement?) . This game is cool. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 29, 2003 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Syberia had been hailed by many as the second coming of the traditional adventure genre, which 
 has been on life support in America in recent years, despite the genre's continued popularity in 
 Europe. After reading effusive praise for the game, I decided it was worth the still like-new price 
 tag, and I made the investment. As someone who has invested time in dozens of adventure games in 
 times past, I must say that just like with The Longest Journey and Sanitarium, I just don't get 
 it.
  
  Yes, Syberia looks pretty, and last year, it probably looked even better, but that doesn't mean 
 the graphics are without flaw. For one, the art direction can't decide if it's going for a realistic 
 or a hand-drawn ambience, so the look is inconsistent at times, even within the same locales. Furthermore, 
 the backgrounds seem awfully static, lacking a sense of lively animation. Sure, there are a few 
 birds here and there, but the trees don't sway in the wind, nor do shadows dance on sunlit walls. 
 After seeing all of this done with 2 in in the GameCube's Resident Evil games, it's a bit jarring 
 to see such a static 2D world. Furthermore, in certain areas where there is a clear foreground 
 and distant background, the screen scrolls without any sort of parallax whatsoever, which looks 
 sort of amateurish, considering this was a graphical feat accomplished in games of the early 90's, 
 when a 486 at 33 MHz was considered a powerful rig. The final complaint is that the graphics are 
 just a little too sharp, and textures a bit too detailed for their own good. It makes the scenes 
 look needlessly busy. That said, the architecture and the character models and animation are quite 
 good.
  
  But, graphics schmaphics, what adventure gaming is all about is gameplay. Well, Syberia fails to 
 deliver in my book. Maybe I've been spoiled by LucasArts classics like Monkey Island 2 and Day 
 of the Tentacle, when adventure games had a clear hint- puzzle- solution progression, where even 
 ridiculous puzzles were made sensible within the game's context. However, in Syberia, much like 
 in The Longest Journey, a big deal is made in "realism," and grounding of characters in a world 
 with rigid logic systems. So, instead of puzzles being amusingly outlandish, they become tediously 
 so. Can't leave the first city without a few objects? Well, we won't tell you what they are, but 
 you must seek them out and put them on a shelf as decorative items before the train will run. Ridiculous.
 
  
  Furthermore, much of the game's structure involves areas that are inaccessible until you traverse 
 2 minutes of superfluous screens, only to have someone tell you that you need to go back and fetch 
 something from an area that has now just magically opened up.
  
  The dialogue is another place where the game suffers. Maybe it's from incomplete translation that 
 the game seems flat, but it's more likely due to the fact that the game takes itself so seriously. 
 Let's face it: no computer game is going to win awards for its script. Most games get around this 
 by focusing on humor. In fact, EA's Case Files of Sherlock Holmes and the Gabriel Knight Series 
 are the only two examples that come to mind that managed to succeed in being engaging without employing 
 a lot of humor. Quite simply, the story in Syberia is absurd, but the game vehemently refuses to 
 acknowledge that. Much like The Longest Journey, the only feeling the story seems to arouse in 
 me is fatigue.
  
  The game also suffers from poor pacing. There's too much filler in this game. Too many empty screens, 
 too much backtacking over said empty screens, and practically zero interaction with the environment. 
 The lack of interaction just makes the game feel like an slideshow that depends on your mouse clicks. 
 Every now and then, I want to be able to click on a non-essential object and have the character 
 comment on it.
  
  The fact that interaction is limited to essential objects makes the game simple to figure out. 
 Coupled with its relatively short length, Syberia is not a great adventure-gaming value.
  
  The sound in the game is competent, with decent voice acting and sound effects. The music -- when 
 there is some -- is good, but it's basically limited to four themes, which repeat endlessly. Snore.
 
  
  I realize what others were trying to do when reviewing Syberia... as a person who entered into 
 PC gaming because of adventure games, I want to see them live on as badly as the next guy. But, 
 we shouldn't be encouraging stuff like this, which downplays all the clever interactivity that 
 made aventure games a PC staple a decade ago. All this game is is a third-person Myst with dialogue... 
 need I remind you that Myst was not good for adventure games.
  
  If you're an adventure die-hard, I guess there's no way I can dissuade you from Syberia, except 
 to say that if you're a purist who grew up in the LucasArts/Sierra heyday, you will likely be let 
 down by Syberia. If you're new to adventure gaming and want to check out truly great games that 
 will run on your newer OS, check out Grim Fandango and Curse of Monkey Island. Both can still be 
 found on the discount racks at your local PC gaming store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeira_10389
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This is not a bad game in any respect, but a few steps down from other recent adventure games such 
 as The Longest Journey and Grim Fandango. Sure, the graphics are fantastic. Backgrounds are beautifully 
 done, animations are fluid and realistic, and cutscenes are stunning. However, they seem to have 
 been a bit too proud of their artwork because they've stuffed the game full of it, at the expense 
 of sufficient interaction. Probably more than half of all the frames are completely noninteractive 
 (besides walking through and entering and exiting) . Unlike the aforementioned games, the protagonist 
 (Kate) will not comment on any aspect of environment except maybe once or twice. It's like walking 
 alone through an art museum, sometimes. Not too boring, but had they simply included voiced "observations" 
 from Kate, they could have made exploration a lot, lot more fun, especially given the interesting 
 and beautiful environments they created.
  
  Indeed, limited interaction is the major flaw of this game. Puzzles are relatively few, and most 
 of them involve putting little objects or pieces of machinery in their correct places to make things 
 work. The cursor indicates when you can use or pick up something to useful effect, so often you 
 find yourself using things and picking stuff up just because you can, yet you don't know what you're 
 doing it for. There are no different methods of manipulation to try, and you don't even have the 
 option of manipulating or combining objects that are not correct. Doing this in other games have 
 often had funny consequences. In Grim Fandango, for example, tell Manny to "pick up" the car, and 
 he'll dryly say, "Sorry, I left my tow truck in my other pants." Syberia seems awfully linear and 
 limited due to this, and despite the beauty of the environments, they don't truly come to life. 
 Conversations are also very limited in that they play almost like movies. You get to pick the topic, 
 and then you sit back and watch them talk on their own. No more dialogue trees. So playing Syberia 
 ends up being a very passive experience. Most of the time you're either watching Kate walk silently 
 across frames (VERY SLOWLY, I might add, and it gets tedious sometimes) or watching her talk with 
 someone without your direct input.
  
  Lastly, the game seems altogether too short. The story itself was intriguing enough to keep me 
 fairly interested, but it's actually very simple and straightforward, and my expectations were 
 sort of dispelled by its abrupt and inconclusive ending, which is obviously setting up for a sequel. 
 It doesn't have that epic feel of Grim Fandango or The Longest Journey (well I guess that's why 
 they called it The Longest Journey...) .
  
  Notice, though, that I keep comparing Syberia to other, older adventures that I hold in higher 
 esteem. On its own, Syberia is definitely above average, for in these sad years the adventure genre 
 hasn't had much to boast about. As I said, the 2D graphics and art design are gorgeous. The music 
 is pretty good, but it doesn't seem to play all too often. Voice acting is professional and for 
 the most part convincing. The puzzles tend to be pretty direct and not difficult. While some involve 
 just finding a key, others are creative and original.
  
  Bottom line: Good (especially the brilliant graphics) , but the slow pace and limited interaction 
 results in a bit of tedium and can make the player feel somewhat excluded from any real in-depth 
 puzzling and adventuring. Also a bit short and dangling. Even so, it's the best adventure of 2002, 
 so if you like adventure games, it will be worth it. Though if you haven't played Grim Fandango, 
 The Longest Journey, or even the Monkey Island games, you should try those first. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
