-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Syberia II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/syberia2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,344 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Microids
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 30, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Syberia II isn't all that fans might have hoped for, it's still a very fine game and likely 
 to provide you with hours of enjoyment. 

  Syberia was a magical game that got just about everything right. Above all, it captured a real 
 spirit of adventure that many adventure games ironically lack. The game's richly imagined, visually 
 stunning world created a real sense of wonder and exploration. The puzzles were mostly interesting 
 and reasonable, tying in to the gameworld smoothly and naturally. Syberia also featured an unusually 
 well-rounded, strong heroine, Kate Walker. She began the story as a New York attorney sent to a 
 small European town to close a business deal. By the end of the game, she had made the decision 
 of a lifetime: to leave her promising career and thorny personal life behind to help a strange 
 old man, Hans Voralberg, pursue his lifelong dream of finding a lost land of living mammoths. In 
 Syberia II, you lead Kate on her further adventures with Hans toward the legendary realm of Syberia, 
 hidden somewhere in the distant East. While this sequel doesn't quite capture the ineffable magic 
 of the original game, it's still a strong follow-up that easily surpasses many recent adventures. 

          Kate throws in her lot with the enigmatic Hans Voralberg.     

  In Syberia II, you continue your journey into the unknown aboard Hans' streamlined clockwork train, 
 with the timid and sometimes peevish automaton, Oscar, again at the controls. The game opens in 
 the run-down Russian town of Romansburg, a tiny little frontier outpost overlooked by an imposing 
 old monastery on a nearby mountaintop. From there, you head into the snowy Russian wilderness where 
 you'll encounter some ferocious wildlife and an old friend from the first game who makes a dramatic 
 entrance. Your travels eventually take you to a remote cave complex that houses a village of vaguely 
 Eskimo-like people known as the Youkol. Eventually, you'll help the ailing Hans travel into the 
 great unknown to see if you can reach the fabled land of Syberia at last.  

  Other than some second-act tedium, Syberia II is fairly well paced, with an ever-greater sense 
 of expectancy as you near your final goal. Then again, the journey as a whole isn't as enticing 
 this time around. The first game let you travel on an exciting journey while also unraveling an 
 intriguing, emotionally captivating mystery. Here you're only doing more traveling on the same 
 train, with the same characters, hoping for some big payoff at the end. All along the way you'll 
 have to coddle Oscar, who again hides in the train, worries, or complains most of the time, as 
 well as Hans, who is subject to delusional fits and manages to get himself in serious trouble repeatedly. 
 Plus, the game does little to make the idea of reaching Syberia enticing in and of itself, beyond 
 its symbolic value as a land of childhood dreams made manifest. Unless you're a particularly big 
 fan of mammoths, the whole notion is likely to leave you unmoved.  

          One snowy, icy landscape after another can get monotonous.     

  Lack of emotional 
 resonance hurts the story in a number of ways, actually. There are indeed a couple of moments that 
 tug at the heartstrings. One of them is strikingly powerful because it's so unexpected and strange 
 and yet so fitting and melancholy. For the most part, though, the story just isn't as well fleshed 
 out as that of the original game. There's a thematically relevant but boring subplot told exclusively 
 through cutscenes, showing how Kate's old law firm sends a detective after her to reel her back 
 in. These scenes -- basically just voice-overs of phone conversations -- aren't interesting and are 
 also jarring in their occasional use of profanity, which seems totally out of place in the gentle, 
 wistful atmosphere of the Syberia games. Imagine someone suddenly cussing in the middle of an animated 
 Disney film. There's also a weak in-game subplot with two silly and unbelievable villains, Igor 
 and Ivan, one an outrageously slow simpleton, the other a cardboard cutout of a cackling bad guy. 
 More importantly, the ending, while heartfelt, feels too abrupt, leaving too many unanswered questions. 
     

  Also, Kate is something of an enigma this time around. Her only motivation seems to be helping 
 the diminutive, feeble Hans live out his childhood dream of seeing real live mammoths. What exactly 
 is her reason for ditching her family, friends, and career to help him? She doesn't seem close 
 to the enigmatic man on a personal level and certainly shows no great interest in Syberia itself, 
 so you're left to guess. You can only speculate that she clings so tenaciously to Hans' dream because 
 she made a total break with her old life before she had any dreams of her own to pursue.  

          Puzzles like this one can be more frustrating than fun.     

  While Syberia II's story 
 isn't all it could be, it still gets the job done reasonably well. It even manages the neat trick 
 of introducing child and animal characters and making them, against all odds, cute and sympathetic 
 instead of cheesy and saccharine. Of course, Syberia II is about more than its story: You'll solve 
 plenty of puzzles during your adventures. Like in the original Syberia, they usually tie in to 
 the gameworld well, without the sort of arbitrariness that mars lesser adventures. Overall, they're 
 fairly easy -- just challenging enough to be interesting and offer a little sense of accomplishment. 
 They run the gamut from a prosaic bit of salmon fishing to finally letting you operate the wondrous 
 train that's played so big a role in the games.  

  While most of the puzzles should seem pretty easy to adventure game veterans, there are a few harder 
 ones this time around, too. Some are hard in the welcome way of really forcing you to think. Some 
 are hard, though, because they force you to engage in too much monotonous trial and error, random 
 button pushing, or traipsing back and forth. Some puzzles are hard simply because it's easy to 
 overlook certain small items that blend too readily into the backgrounds. It's nice to see a slightly 
 greater range of difficulty this time around but sad to see this sort of inelegance marring such 
 an elegant series.  

  Whatever you think of the puzzles and story, you're likely to be impressed with Syberia II's gorgeous 
 visuals. The cutscenes are a model of their kind, filled with cinematic drama and marvelously rich 
 detail. The in-game graphics boast equally meticulous and imaginative details, interesting camera 
 angles, and dramatic lighting. It's enjoyable to simply let the eye dwell on the plush, old-world 
 luxury of the train interior or the massive Youkol machinery built of mammoth bone, petrified wood, 
 and leather. You'll also see more background animations this time around, whether people going 
 about their business, birds flitting past, or snow sliding off a roof.  

  It does get tiring, though, to see one snowy mountain path or icy cavern after another without 
 any respite. It's too bad the gifted artists behind the game were shackled by the story's wintry 
 locales, quite unlike the exotic variety of the first game. The foreground animations aren't all 
 they could be, either, with too many stiff, unconvincing gestures from many of the characters. 

  The audio suffers from its problems, too, mainly with the voice-overs. Most of the main characters 
 are voiced well enough to make them seem plausible and likeable, if a bit wooden at times. Fans 
 of the first game will likely be happy to hear familiar actors reprising their roles. Some voice-overs 
 just don't cut it, though. The isolated, mysterious Youkols seem to speak a language of just four 
 or five native words mixed with giggles and, quite improbably, broken English and no consistent 
 accent. Worse still is the villain Ivan, with his British accent and hokey "diabolical villain's 
 laugh" that sounds badly forced.  

          Trains can take you to the strangest places in the Syberia games.     

  On the bright 
 side, admirably subtle ambient sounds of wind and birds and shifting ice all draw you into the 
 game's locales. The musical score fits the action perfectly: Its melodies aren't particularly memorable, 
 but they feature well-chosen instrumentation, ranging from flutes and celestas and gentle strings 
 to accompany Kate and Hans' journeying, to a mix of ominous drums, rasping Tibetan-style brass, 
 and chants for the Youkol village.  

  Syberia II is filled with attractive, memorable touches like that. At the same time, it's a bit 
 of a letdown compared to the superlative first game: The story is solid but not as engaging, some 
 puzzles could have used reworking, the locales suffer from a certain monotony or even blandness 
 at times, and the game as a whole feels a bit shorter, too. While Syberia II only sometimes captures 
 the elusive magic of the original game, it's still one of the finer adventure games to come out 
 in the last couple of years. Its production values alone put it well above most of its peers. While 
 Syberia II isn't all that fans might have hoped for, it's still a very fine game and likely to 
 provide you with hours of enjoyment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jasperflobo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Having played and reach the end of Syberia (I just love that game) was in some way the end of the 
 line and the end of the story of Kate Walker and Hans Voralberg and his dreams of mammoths. Therefore 
 it feels kind of odd playing Syberia 2; there are no purpose, no reason, no surprises since you've 
 already been there. 
  
  I'm convinced; The Adventure Company developed Syberia and Syberia 2 as one huge adventure and 
 in the process realized that it would be too much of the good thing; Cutting it in half. That could 
 explain the short time spread between the release of Syberia and Syberia 2 (7 months) and the fact 
 that there are no improvements of any kind. This could be the reason why Syberia 2 failed to involved 
 me emotionally, witch Syberia did so well.
  
  If you haven't played Syberia I believe that you can find the same magic and emotionally involvement 
 witch Syberia delivered. 
  
  Accompanying Hans Voralberg to the cold tundra in search for the mammoths you will play as the 
 New York attorney Kate Walker, helping the old man fulfilling his dream; seeing the live and breathing 
 mammoths. 
  
  Actually I did in fact get emotional involved playing the game, but it was irritation and a lot 
 of swearing, while playing the PlayStation2 version. Advice: Play the PC version and avoid terrible 
 controls, loading times and general frustration.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperrussell
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Although Scott from Gamespot starts out with good intentions for this review it quickly turns into 
 knit picking at its finest. One of the most involving and well crafted storylines in any adventure 
 game is left dangling at the mercy of someone missing the big picture and trying way to hard to 
 be clever themselves.
  The New York cut scenes are described as an unwelcome departure from the whimsical world Kate is 
 following. H... E... L... L... O..... Don't you think it's meant to be. That's the whole theme of leaving 
 this angry business world behind to follow a whimsical dream. As to swearing (if you could even 
 call it that) and un-disney like - Disney is no longer Snow White and the 7 dwarfs, the world is 
 a much more edgey place if you haven't noticed.
  A good example of Scott's failing at a relevant review is this exerpt,
  "What exactly is her 
 reason for ditching her family, friends, and career to help him? She doesn't seem close to the 
 enigmatic man on a personal level and certainly shows no great interest in Syberia itself, so you're 
 left to guess."
  her reasons for ditching family and friends and career was because she realised her mother is self 
 obsessed, her boss is money obsessed and her boyfriend had an affair with her best friend. So all 
 in all a shallow, boring existence with the chance to throw caution to the wind and have a real 
 adventure.
  Not close to the man on a personal level? What they don't play bingo together? We see Kate's closeness 
 and caring in every interaction. No interest in Syberia itself? Do you think she's thrown her old 
 life away because she thinks she's going shopping at Walmart????
  Scott's final sentence say's it isn't all that fans had hoped for! I suggest a reviewer should 
 stay away from false generalised opinions of others and stick to their own.
  There was no mention of The Youki, a great addition.
  In conclusion I am sooooo glad I played 
 the game before reading this review otherwise my mind would of been poisoned to one of the most 
 enjoyable adventure games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Playing as the heroine Kate Walker, a former associate with the New York law firm of Marson and 
 Lormont. She has left her career to help the elderly Hans Voralberg, a maker of mechanical toys, 
 puppets, and automatons, fulfill his lifelong dream of finding the lost mammoth filled land of 
 Syberia. The story begins exactly where it left off in Syberia 1 and brings closure to a fantastic 
 tale. The game controls are smooth and easy to use requiring only a mouse to point and click with 
 and make this game a exciting and easy game experience. You enter a beautifully detailed world 
 that lets you make discoveries that always stick with the storyline. The game has a captivating 
 story making this a wonderful game to play time after time, and like a good movie or book, one 
 that you'll remember for a long time to come.
  
  I really enjoyed the puzzles and characters of the game. The puzzles were thought provoking without 
 being too hard and the characters were interesting and fun to talk with. All being said and done, 
 I give this game an A+ and have to say it one of the best games I've ever played and leaves you 
 with a truly wonderful experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Syberia II is the grand conclusion of Syberia. 
  You again take on the role of Kate walker continuing her journey to the fabled Syberia with Hans 
 Voralberg.
  On your way to stop off at Romansburg a Russian outpost that does not see many visitors. Here you 
 will meet all sorts of queer as well as endearing characters. Overlooking the town is the mysterious 
 monastery were few visitors are allowed to visit. 
  This is not a smooth journey by any means. All too soon you will be bombarded with obstacles that 
 you must overcome and enemies you must dispose of in order to get further along on your journey. 
 However don't give up hope, a few unlikely friends will pop up when you least expect them and help 
 you along.
  
  If you played the first Syberia you know what to expect as far as gameplay goes. If you are new 
 to the series this is just your average point and click adventure game. There is also a recap of 
 the first Syberia if you have just begun or if you want ot refresh your memory.
  
  This game has significantly better graphics than the first. Every area is richly detailed enhancing 
 its believability. What I found delightful is the fact that you get to find out what lays behind 
 that locked train door from the first syberia. The one Oscar kept standing infront of.
  
  Downsides: I found the puzzles to be a bit harder this time around. Well not so much as difficult 
 figuring them out, but in the fact that there was too much trial and error to a few. I had to resort 
 looking at a walkthrough just to get past an annoying puzzle or two. Also there is a pointless 
 side story that looked promising in the beggining but fell flat toward the middle of the game.
 
  
  Even though we do have an idea as to how the ending might turn out it still comes as a welcome 
 surprise. 
  
  A must play for Syberia fans and adventure fans alike!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Syberia was a whimsical adventure that had a healthy mix of stunning visuals, a deep sense of history, 
 and a storyline that walked the boundaries between reality and fantasy like an acrobat on a tightrope, 
 giving the overall experience a charming surreal quality. The sequel does a good job of continuing 
 these themes, but not really surpassing them in any noteworthy way.
  
  You reprise your role as Kate Walker, a former New York city lawyer who left her job, in fact her 
 world, to follow the childlike old man Hans Voralberg in the pursuit of his dream to find the legendary 
 lost island of Syberia where a live herd of Woolly Mammoths is said to still roam. The plot follows 
 the same formula as before, you are aboard a wondrous clockwork train and at each stop you must 
 solve a series of puzzles in order to get the train moving again. The geographical locations span 
 along the northern parts of eastern Europe, beginning in the fictional dilapidated town of Romansburg 
 situated at the foot of an icy Russian mountain range. As you go the plot recaps some of the events 
 in the previous game; Hans' history, his search for the aboriginal Youkol tribe, and their apparent 
 connection to the last Mammoth herd. After some trials and tribulations, you leave the town behind, 
 not without a few enemies in the process.
  
  The rest of the trip is mostly made up of minor hindrances as you traverse the frozen tundra, first 
 to regain control of the clockwork train which was stolen by two half-wits with delusions of grandeur, 
 then on your way to your mysterious final destination. The gameplay is sometimes broken up by phone 
 conversations taking place in New York as Kate's law firm tries to track her down. While there 
 was good use of the characters, the plot became too linear and often easy to see what was going 
 to happen next. That said, there were still one or two plot twists near the end that gave a sad 
 undertone to the final climax. The finale itself is touching, a fitting end to the overall story 
 arc, but leaves the player with a few minor unanswered questions.
  
  The voice acting remains good with the cast of Syberia reprising their respective roles. The musical 
 score has less of a classical theme to it this time and makes use of chimes and strings for the 
 winter wastes, tribal drums for the Youkol village, and the rest seems to be left to sound effects 
 like howling winds and crackling ice.
  
  The visual detail is not quite as stunning as it was in the previous game. Not for any lack of 
 art skill, but there are only so many ways you can draw snow landscapes. Still, the few areas the 
 artists were able to go into detail with are beautifully rendered and help recapture some of the 
 lost wonder.
  
  The gameplay formula itself remains the same, standard point and click adventure fare. However 
 the puzzles are decidedly more difficult this time around. I think this is mainly due to lack of 
 direction, there are not enough visual or verbal cues that tell you what to do next and you end 
 up experimenting with everything until something works. Not the best of formulas to go with, unless 
 you want a player so frustrated with the game that the idea of replay is the last thing on their 
 mind.
  
  Once all is said and done, Syberia II kept enough of the previous game in it to make it a worthwhile 
 game to play and finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valon34
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. The game play is awesome and the voice acting is great as well. The graphics 
 are great if you have a good video card for your computer! This game isn't that bad to play but, 
 I still say could of been a lot better because Syberia leaves this game in the dust. I couldn't 
 believe but, it's true. It put up some of a fight but, not enough to be better then Syberia. If you 
 like adventure games this is the game for you. It will get you hooked on it until the end of the 
 game. Some parts are hard yes, but, in the end we want a challenge not an easy game. I suggest you 
 rent this game isn't worth buying in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  If you have played Syberia, surely you will play the sequel to find out what happened next. Actually 
 the two games make one single story -- the first part dealt with finding Hans Voralberg and the 
 second part with finding Syberia where mammoths still roam around. You already know that the main 
 attraction of this game is beautiful highly artistic graphics coupled with awesome automaton designs. 
 The mystery element, according to me, had never been very strong in either of the games.
  In this installment, Kate takes a long automaton train journey with Voralberg (I am still not convinced 
 why Kate would do such a thing -- her life was not truly falling off, the story did not establish 
 that) in search of the mystical land called Syberia. This journey will be interrupted in various 
 ways, and Kate will have to resolve each of this problem till they come to a snowy land of people 
 who are unknown to the civilisation. This land heavily use mammoth bones as their technology. Yet 
 Kate does not get to see the mammoth till the end of the game -- and upon completion of further 
 journey.
  Some puzzles of this game does not follow any logical solution -- you simply have to try out your 
 inventory items or look for more inventory items to have these solved. Some other puzzles are pretty 
 easy. At times even a simple puzzle may take you very long to solve because you have not picked 
 up the right item.
  Point-and-click adventure games are simple to play. But I feel that this approach should be modernise -- 
 in pace with the 3D action games. Overall I find the game very simple for this reason -- though 
 visibly, a lot of hard work was given for the graphics and voices. I hope Microids make more adventure 
 games with a bigger perspective. Adventure gamers will definitely love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I found the controlls in Syberia 2 Smoother then the first one because Kate is no as 
 stiff looking when she walks. It's the usuall walk around and go up to something and wait for the 
 intreact Icon to come up to do something to that item. So In Syberia II, you continue your journey 
 into the unknown aboard Hans' streamlined clockwork train, with the timid and sometimes peevish 
 automaton, Oscar, again at the controls. The game opens in the run-down Russian town of Romansburg, 
 a tiny little frontier outpost overlooked by an imposing old monastery on a nearby mountaintop. 
 From there, you head into the snowy Russian wilderness where you'll encounter some ferocious wildlife 
 and an old friend from the first game who makes a dramatic entrance. Your travels eventually take 
 you to a remote cave complex that houses a village of vaguely Eskimo-like people known as the Youkol. 
 Eventually, you'll help the ailing Hans travel into the great unknown to see if you can reach the 
 fabled land of Syberia at last. This story line is very intresting and makes you want to keep going 
 to see what happen's next though the puzzles can be pretty confusing at times you have to do things 
 in order and talk to people to trigger another thing like a domino effect. Also it's one of though 
 games that you get to choose your topic diologe to talk to other people. The sub plot in the game 
 where Kate Walker's employer is looking for her but there is not much emotion that you get from 
 them wanting to find her.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are amazing, The Colors are bighting and vivid and are great to look at. 
 In the gameplay itself there are 3-D and 2-D put together which looks nice. During the cut scences 
 the graphcs look very nice and it almost seems like you are watching a movie.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, The sound track is great for the game and gives you that creepy feeling 
 to joyus feel. The voice acting is also well done.
  
  Value: The value of the game is ok, If you a fan of the game you may like to play it again but 
 it's a adventure game and once your though with it you already know what to do. but personally 
 I loved the story line of the game would play it over again.
  
  In the end this is an exellent adventure game that should not be missed, to bad it was a little 
 underratted. I give this game 8.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I simply cannot agree to those who are considering the sequel of Syberia a lot worse than the first 
 one. I simply don't get it! Syberia II is simply the sequel of the Syberia - one of the best games 
 ever released. Considering that graphics are a lot improved and gameplay remains the same, the 
 only thing that can drag down the game is the story. I must agree that Syberia II hasn't all the 
 magic of the old rusty Valladillene and the automaton factory of the first game, but still, it 
 has a great story with some (very interesting) twists and turns. The story it's even more mature 
 than the first one, more logical (remember the crazy Russian factory director who is devastate 
 by love for an opera singer which you have to bring to sing in his factory - was not alot easier 
 if he must go himself in Arralbad and confess his love?) . I even read (unfortunately in the official 
 Gamespot's review) that there are much snowy locations in the game - I mean, guys, it is Syberia 
 ! The snow and the ice is everywhere! I think that locations in Syberia II are more believable 
 than in the first Syberia. The Romansburg town is more realistic than Komkolzgrad. The puzzles 
 are harder than in the first game, but all are very well integrated into the story.
  
  The only major minus I found in the game is: the story of Kate's boss - it simply doesn't fit into 
 the game.
  
  Anyway, Syberia II is still one of the greatest games released in ages, and I strongly recommend 
 it to all those who have played the first Syberia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  So i heard that this part of Syberia does not compare to the first one , i kinda thought it will 
 be a shooter or strategy but it's simply an adventure game and above all is the second part of 
 the original - this is way it was conceived long before you played the first Syberia. I do not 
 see the bad in this game neither, the fist one was great, i loved it and this one is as good as 
 the first one. The only thing that bothered me it was that time i had to wait until they released 
 the second part.
  
  The game maintains the genial graphics, sounds and voice actings. The story continues just well, 
 i loved that they introduced that doggy (very fluffy) ... and that's it. Too bad it is over but 
 if it had been continued probably the story would get complex and the original story would be spoiled.
 
  
  The Syberia series are unforgetable and as a great fan it would be shame not to own them.
  
 
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbego
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Syberia 1, you have to go ahead with Syberia 2 also. As most of the reviews have 
 pointed out, you might find it falls short in a few area, and.. it does. The most frustrating part 
 in my opinion was that there seemed to be more arbitrary puzzles, where you just had to try all 
 the combinations until you found the right one. I had to resort to walkthroughs on a few occasions, 
 mostly to just find out there really was no magic clue or document that I was missing. Somehow, 
 I'd come to expect that the puzzles would always have some sort of logic where you could find the 
 right approach by studying or exploring something, or thinking about the puzzle and what it meant. 
 But some of them are really just try all combinations until you find the one that clicks. 
  
  But on the plus side the graphics are even better than the first game, music and sound effects 
 work well, the story gives you some interesting locations and characters (but not as varied or 
 powerful as in the first game) . Anyway, you need to complete to story, so... play Syberia 2. Also, 
 this game can probably be found for $10 or less by now, so a good value at that price (and the 
 seemingly shorter gameplay won't bother you as much then.)
  
  If, on the other hand, you've never played Syberia 1, then definitely don't play this one. There 
 is a brief movie that fills in the background info, but without really having the experience of 
 the first game, this one just wouldn't be as meaningful -- play Syberia 1 first, then.. see paragraph 
 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  The 3 elements that make a good adventure game are:-
  (1) Engaging story that holds the players attention.
  (2) Interesting and rewarding puzzles are 
 a well integrated in to the story and logical to work out (reasonable difficulty) .
  (3) Good graphics and sound to set up the atmosphere and immerse the player.
  
  Few games hit 
 the mark on all 3 counts. (One recent one that came close in my humble opinion was Still Life which 
 I highly recommend) . Syberia doesn't.
  
  I guess how engaging a story is depends much on personal liking, but for me, I find the story sweet 
 but ultimately dull .... why would the lead character go through all that trouble ... is she doing 
 it for herself or as an act of kindness ? This is not really explained.
  
  I have to confess I quitted roughly 10 hours into the game. Some of the puzzles are simply illogical 
 and tedious. The ones in the monastery makes very little sense and are counterintuitive. (Spoiler 
 * - for instance, If I wanted to burn some tribal herbs to create medicinal fumes, I would just 
 burn the herbs along with the other ingredients directly, and I am sure that's what the natives 
 do too. Having to make candles out of them is counterintuitive and illogical)
  
  I really want to like this game, but unfortunately, I simply cannot afford the patience the sit 
 through this, spending hours working on puzzles that cannot be solved by logic and advancing a 
 story that does not hold my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Syberia was a jewel, one of those rare games that transport you into a fairy tale world that you 
 want to visit often to let your imagination fly and disconnect from this hectic world. Some games 
 are pretty well designed to do that, and Syberia was by far one of the best examples of how to 
 make this happen. It is hard to live to those standards, so finding Syberia II a disappointment 
 was not really a surprise to me, although I really wanted it to be better, or at least very close 
 to the original. But Syberia II is, as most of the sequels of some great movies are, seems to be 
 just made to squeeze some bucks out of the franchise
  
  Syberia had one of the best open endings, typical of fairy tales but hard to find outside of the 
 genre and one of the best story lines I've seen even compared with a good book or a great movie. 
 When I finished the game, I was satisfied to see a video game to end this way, so delicate and 
 profound, so uncommon. You had to imagine how the game would finish if you wanted it to not finish 
 there, thing you can easily do too. So when I learned of Syberia II, I thought nothing good can 
 come from something that is already finished.
  
  Syberia II falls short in many aspects. The story, as I expected, was rushed to finish and lacked 
 the imagination of Syberia. It was repetitive and predictable. The characters were not developed 
 at all, and some of them were actually taken a step back from the first part. The graphics and 
 the interface, things that made Syberia to stand among other adventure games, where left unpolished, 
 a far cry from the fine and clever designs found in the first part. Distant where the witty mechanical 
 designs, the brainy puzzles and the marvelous environments. I was so disappointed, that at one 
 time I thought of stop playing it
  
  I recommend you to stay away from this game, unless you really want to know their interpretation 
 of how Syberia ends, which in my opinion it is not really needed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game is the natural sequel of its first chapter: Syberia. Syberia was just not complete. Only 
 the two games together, and played in order, can make sense.
  
  The game corrected some of the defects Syberia had, but also introduced new ones. There are too 
 many "trial and error" solvable puzzles. You won't have any clue, just twiddle with various combinations 
 till you find the right one. This is just an insult to the player. Moreover, there are puzzles 
 placed here and there just to make you waste time, just "fillers". And, worse, there's a bit of 
 backtracking which makes any logic crumble.
  
  Graphics has been further improved and is generally more pleasant than Syberia's one. Sounds are 
 good and voices too. Music presence is very minimal and certainly not outstanding.
  
  There are inexplicable things in the story: why on earth Kate's employer should hire a detective 
 to bring her back home when she's adult and she voluntarily decided to do what she's doing?! Why 
 Kate's family should rely on her employer to bring her home?! Nonsense. However, I suppose this 
 second chapter concludes the story begun with Syberia, even though the ending is a bit sudden. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioannicodim11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This morning I have written my review on Syberia, this evening I am writing the review on Syberia 
 II. Practically they are the one and the same game. This "expansion" is an worthy end of Kate Walker's 
 adventure.
  I was happy at the beginning of the game that some minor adjustments were made. These made the 
 play less "disturbing and boring". Anyway, I recommend to all who had played Syberia and enjoyed 
 it to take a try on Syberia II. 
  You don't have to be disappointed by the "static 2D" images. Just have a seat and prepare to watch 
 an adventure movie where the hero is YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 31, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Syberia II is a follow up to the widely acclaimed predecessor, Syberia. While the game is decent, 
 it has big shoes to fill and comes up short in most regards. It is a solid adventure game and finishes 
 up the story that was started in the first game.
  
  In this sequel, we pick up with Kate Walker continuing her journey with the quiet , childlike Hans 
 Voralburg and Oscar the conductor on their way to Syberia, the mythical land where Mammoths escaped 
 extinction and roam free. If you have not played the first game, it is not an issue as the game 
 offers a Summary of what has happened on the main game menu. Kudos to Microids for including this 
 as most games just take the assumption that you played the first game, or build the story in a 
 way that disjoins it from the first game. It is a feature more sequels shoud employ. 
  
  Anyway, the game starts you off in the wintery wonderland of Romansburg, which seems to be in the 
 old Soviet republic somewhere. And get used to this place, because you spend a majority of the 
 game here in Romansburg. This is a shame as one of the charms of the first game was the diverse 
 areas that went to on your journey in the first game. This is the biggest problem with the story 
 is that you have this slow meandering start in Romansburg and then it just picks up and sprints 
 to the finish line. A good adventure story is suppose to have a good steady pace. Maybe it will 
 have a few peaks here and there, but for the most part, it is an even keel. That being said, the 
 game does have a good story that picks up from the last game and gives you a tale that ties up 
 most of the ends. Although you get the feeling that this is not the last adventure for Kate Walker.
 
  
  Also there is a sub-plot in the story where the company you worked for is trying to find you. I 
 guess your mother is frantic over the fact you never returned from the assignment. She blames the 
 law firm you worked at for sending you on a difficult assignment. So they send a private investigator 
 out to find you. It just felt like it added nothing to the story. Occasionally, you would get a 
 cut-scene that would detail these guys calling the PI and he would talk about how he was getting 
 close, but you never cross his path, so it just brings nothing to the story. 
  
  Gameplay is similar to most adventure games as you seek to find the solution to puzzles to complete 
 mission goals. And the puzzles are logical and for the most part make sense. For example, you need 
 to find a way to get a cure into Hans system. The only problem is that he has to inhale it. So 
 you have to find the ingredients and then make them into a candle. It is practical in the sense 
 of a puzzle that follows real world logic. But there are always a few that are not. When you run 
 into the puzzle of the berries behind the ice, you would think that you could just break it with 
 all the ivory that surrounds you. Nope, instead, you have to scare a mouse into crawling through, 
 while plugging holes and flooding chambers to get him to the berries. It just seemed way out of 
 place.
  
  The game again looks like a painted masterpiece. The town of Romansburg feels like a dilapidated 
 town, with its staind brown walls and dirty soot colored snow. It feels like a Russian town that 
 has been forgotten over the years. The designers filled the town with old mechanical structures 
 that give it a Stalinistic feel. The outdoors areas that you get to later on do not have the same 
 sense of style as it is a lot of snow . It just does not have the detail that you are use to seeing 
 in the Syberia universe. But the Yokul village more than makes up for that. It is a fortress of 
 Ivory and Ice. It is like an amalgam of simple technology with old world craftsmanship. It is a 
 spectacle to behold when you first walk out and see the sprawling village that has merged into 
 its icy cavern. It is a sumptuous feast for the eyes. The characters merge into this environment 
 nicely and they seem to hae the detail upped a bit. Also, the cut scenes are again of high quality 
 for an adventure game. 
  
  Sounds are again good, but not great. The voice overs are just fabulous and full of energy. Even 
 the voice of Hans Voralburg is played quite nicely with its tired feel. You can tell that the people 
 they got to do the voice over work were dedicated to the job and put their feelings into it. The 
 score in the background would kick in from time to time, but it seems to be hard to hear at times. 
 It could be a sound card compatibility issue, but the score just seemed muffled at times. Also 
 the ambient sounds are rather non existant. You will hear the occasional bell , bird or the wind, 
 but for the most part, it seems like a land with the mute button constantly on. The voice work 
 definitely overshadows the rest of the sound in this game, but a big margin.
  
  The game is stable and runs pretty flawlessly. Occasionally, the game would stutter a bit, but 
 it could be new hardware not playing nice with an older game. The save game issues that plagued 
 the first game are noticalbly absent in this one which is a good thing. Sound issues aside, the 
 game is very stable out of the box, no patching necessary. Cant say that too often in todays 
 gaming marketplace.
  
  The flaws in the game are minimal, but it is a disappointment that the majority of the game is 
 spent in one location. The game is suppose to be about exploration while discovering the truth 
 about yourself. It is suppose to be about a journey of self-exploration, but you just seem to stay 
 in the same place for far too long. The musical score is a mis-mash and barely audible at times. 
 There are some minor movement glitches, but nothing that is a gamestopper in any way. The sub-plot 
 with the PI is also just not necessary and just seemed like filler.
  
  So does Syberia II keep the universe alive? Yes, the game is solid and far better than most of 
 the adventure games that are released in this day and age. But with such a spectacular pedigree, 
 this one comes up short to the original. It is worth a buy, but do not expect the same as the first 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 18, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Syberia II picks right off from the first installment and you resume your quest to get Hans to 
 the mythical land of Syberia.
  
  Right off the bat you notice how beautiful the game looks and the level of detail that went in 
 to it. The only thing I wish they would have allow for was a higher resolution for those of us 
 who have really high res monitors or those who just want to play in 1280x1024. Other than that 
 Syberia II delivers a great story and pretty sound controls. 
  
  The puzzle solving is where the main part of the gameplay comes in and it delivers in stripes. 
 Most puzzles use a basic premise of general thinking and if you study what you have learned or 
 think about it you can figure it out without too much strain. However the are a few which you just 
 have to sit there for ever and just try everything until it works which is quite annoying.
  
  If you want a great adventure slash puzzle solving game than you cant pass up Syberia II as 
 it delivers in all categories that are required in that type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Syberia 2 is a sequel to one of the most memorable Adventure game which was calledSyberia". 
 Syberia 2 continues the Stories of Kate Walker and Hans Voralberg who at the end of the first game 
 united together in search of the island of Syberia.
  
  STORY - The game starts of with Kate Walker and Hans Voralberg setting out on a perilous journey 
 to find the isle of Syberia. However things dont go as planned and they are stuck in a town called 
 Romansburg which the citizens say is the last town and nothing lies further. But this wont stop 
 Hans Voralberg to find out about the legend of Syberia and Existing Mammoths.
  Does Hans Voralberg obsession of the island of Syberia and Mammoths finally pay off???. This you 
 will know only when you play Syberia 2.
  The game has a very enjoyable story and has an emotional touch to it.
  However the game ends 
 quite abrubtly leaving people to wonder if the game is really over.
  However the few characters have been very well sketched out.
  The story is also slow paced.
 
  The perfect tagline for Syberia 2 can beHow far can you go to realize your Dreams."
  
  GAMEPLAY - Syberia 2 is what we call as Point-and-Click Adventure game.
  You move around in Gorgeous 
 3D environments presented in cinematic view. You'll interact with people and objects and collecting 
 stuff in hope that it might come in handy in any future puzzles.
  You move your mouse pointer over the screen like a Metal Detector in hope of some interactivity. This 
 is quite fun at times but it may get a bit annoying also.
  In order to continue your journey you have to solve some Mind-Boggling Puzzles. While some puzzles 
 are obvious others will make you say
  "How was i supposed to figure that out?".
  Although all puzzles manage to interact with the environment quite well and are challenging ,most 
 often their solution are not as obvious as they should be. They rely too much on luck.
  Also what is missing is that you dont have any clue regarding your objectives. Most of the time 
 you'll be wondering "Now What?".
  
  GRAPHICS - Syberia 2's visuals are just Fantanstic. Each Screen is a Masterpiece of Art and the 
 overall presentation is Beautiful.
  Syberia 2 has fully rendered environments thus there is scope for artistic creativity and cinematic 
 angles.
  The weather effects (Only Snow falling) is done exceptionally well and the textures are at its 
 best.
  The Cutscenes feature beautiful visuals and blend quite well with the graphics of the game.
  
 All in all Syberia 2 has wonderful graphics and is a break from the usual stuff.
  
  SOUND - The music of Syberia 2 is what we can say as fresh and "alive"
  Each theme suits the 
 situation very well.
  Each and every footstep which Kate takes is accounted for and the surface which she walks produces 
 a sound that resembles exactly as in real life.
  All characters of Syberia 2 are memorable due to the excellent voice acting.
  It brings the character 
 to life giving them a charming personality.
  Syberia 2 has a good mix of Sound and Music which is most satisfying.
  
  UPSIDE - Gorgeous 
 Visuals , Challenging Puzzles , A good Story , Good Voice Acting.
  
  DOWNSIDE - Puzzles can be frustrating at times , Little Help Interface, Too short (8-10 hrs of 
 gameplay) , Ends Abrubtly.
  
  Syberia 2 does a great job of storytelling and leaves you satisfied.
  However you may have some 
 unanswered questions.
  This game is an experience you shouldnt miss and is highly recommended to anyone who is looking 
 for a good story and mind-boggling puzzles.
  This game is a true adventure game in all its aspects and proves why adventure gaming is full of 
 life.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H8TD1
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Syberia 2 
  - 
  A continuation of the first Syberia featuring Kate Walker and her newly found client Hans Voralberg, 
 a sickly old man on a quest to discover his boyhood dreams. 
  
  Kate Walker, a New York lawyer decides after meeting the enstranged Hans Voralberg, to accompany 
 him on his journey to find the legendary Syberian Mammoths at the heart of a land told only as 
 a folklore story to children . 
  - 
  Kate Walker faces many trials of danger, mystery, and intrigue. The intellect of a new adversary 
 will at best only slow Kate Walker down. While traveling the frozen wasteland, the eccentric Hans 
 Voralberg becomes very ill. The witful and useless automaton "Oscar" as always will be of no help. 
 
  
  Kate Walker must find a way to help Hans Voralberg to continue on their journey. 
  - 
  You , as Kate Walker will meet a strange, but cute animal who later will be of use to you. 
 
  
  Meanwhile - back in New York, Kate Walkers' boss seems intent on bringing Kate Walker Back home. 
 Kate Walker will meet new people and eventually bump into a previous character and find out what 
 happened to another person from her first adventure. 
  - 
  - 
  This game plays like the first syberia, in a Nancy Drew / MYST style genre. There are plenty of 
 puzzles to be solved in the usualpoint and clickcommand. Though it takes 
  two disks to install this game on your PC , I found myself confused as this game didn't prompt 
 me to change to disk 2 as the previous "Syberia" did. 
  - 
  If you are into "point and click" games like Riven/Myst and love mysteries like Nancy Drew and 
 played the first "Syberia" game , then I recommend picking up a copy 
  ofSYBERIA 2 ". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadTricks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  First When I played Syberia i thought it as best game ever (story, graphics, Kate) , I had to use Walkthrough 
 several times (what i feel really bad about) but the interest didnt go anywhere, i made some rules 
 for myself too-Only one walkthrough peeking per trainstop/town:) .... But after playing Syberia II 
 (without Walkthrough) ... i said "Whoa!"... the game end video was just breathtaking... For me its 
 just 10/10 Best game ever. Seriously, instant classic, real addictive story, great graphics and so 
 on. Now just gotta wait for Syberia III. Kate must get to home too ;) For Every adventure player 
 this game is recommended and it must be played. Just play and you see how you are torn into the 
 best story what game can ever offer to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero-nine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  After playing Post mortem I was really curious what other games where released by Microids. So 
 I found Syberia II. I didnt even play the first part but it was the only title available so it 
 thought I should give it a try. 
  
  And I was truly amazed by the game from the beginning till the end. The graphics are just beautiful! 
 Every landscape, tree lamppost, building must have been drawn by an artist. An artist that took 
 all the time and dedication needed to complete the design of his single element in this game. You 
 can really see the hard work and dedication that was put into the design of all the scenarios. 
 And I can tell you; it paid off!
  
  Apart from the amazing graphics, the story is really good. It grasps you and wont let go until 
 after you completed it. The puzzles are interesting and challenging. The music is beautiful and 
 brings just the right feel to the game.
  
  But what about the price is it worth it? I paid about 30 euros for it. It should really be worth 
 twice that amount. So go out and but this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bearrich
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most extraordinary games I have ever played. It was like a movie or great book, 
 I couldn't stop playing, It draws you in! The graphics and music are the best I have seen or heard 
 in any game I have played to date. The plotline is excellent. Some really GREAT minds worked on 
 this game, a lot of work was put into it. Some of the puzzles are a little on the hard side but 
 that is what makes the game more interesting and fun, it makes you think. I want Syberia 3!! I 
 didn't want the game to end but when you finally reach the end you are fully satisfied, THEN you 
 wish for more! I congratulate everybody that had a hand in the making of this game, Excellent work! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlsamawicz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  As someone who loved the first Syberia, I was really excited about the sequel and was very prepared 
 to like it. I was, however, disappointed. Continuing the plot of the first game was a bad idea, 
 in my opinion, since it would be hard to maintain that momentum (Syberia II doesn't) . By the end 
 of the game, I couldn't wait to get rid of some of the NPCs. The areas had none of the diversity 
 and strangeness of the previous game. Even worse, the puzzles were even easier than the first one, 
 but there were fewer of them, so the game goes by really fast.
  All in all, the low price of the game and the cachet a sequel gets makes it a worthwhile buy for 
 fans of the previous game, but keep your expectations low. Nobody else should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is such a mixed bag, in this game although the good tends to overshadow the bad. First and 
 formost it is a beautifull game, making you want to explore every nook and cranny. The graphics 
 have not suffered at all. The only thing i think that has is the story a little. 
  
  It seems like this game should really have been a 2 hour addition onto the end of the original 
 siberia. Instead it seems they took these 2 hours of content and lengthened them to fit over an 
 entire game. There are a couple touching moments. One in particular which i think everyone can 
 agree is particularly heartwrenching. The only problem with this paritcular move is that it reduces 
 your sympathy to the old fart you are touting around with you. Almost to the point where i didnt 
 really feel like helping him out. He turned from a sympathetic old man to an emotionally stunted 
 guy who uses people. It sort of removed some of impotice for you to run around and do his bidding.
 
  
  Cates motivations seem a little unclear as well. The only thing i could ascertain is that she is 
 a borne adventurerer and likes to see new places while overcoming herculian obsticals. You dont 
 get a sence that her and Hans are even that close. 
  
  The voice acting is generally pretty good, but the dialog could have used some work. For some reason 
 everyone always addressess the main character as Kate Walker. Never as Kate. Its kind of bizzare. 
 Some of the dialog is forced, others are just plane bad. Most is decent enough though.
  
  Again, the posatives would seem to outweigh the negatives though since you get to explore beautifull 
 places, and are richley rewared at times. Still worth playing if you are a fan of the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 23, 2004 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Syberia is very much like living someone elses dream  one that you are not particularly interested 
 in. After the wonderful performance of the first Syberia this game falls flat in most respects. 
 First of all I never became invested in the dream-world ambitions of Hans. Second of all, the character 
 development of Kate Walker, which was the strong point of the first game, came completely to a 
 halt in this sequel. The Youki side-kick dog/bear thing also could have been done better  Old 
 Yeller this is not. However, despite all that, this game is still worthwhile. This is more an 
 indictment of the pure adventure genre than a true compliment for this game.
  
  The weird and completely irrelevant story of Kates employer and their hired gun is unsolved. Her 
 relationship with her friends and fianc from the first game is absent. The colorful character 
 of Kates mother is almost completely gone from this game, though a tenuous connection is made 
 between her family and her law firm. What that connection might be remains a mystery. In the end, 
 Kate walker has not progressed as a person, and her development and the story has become stagnant. 
 She was also too sickly sweet with Hans. She is supposed to be a hard-nose lawyer, not a flower-child. 
 While I am fine with the story being about her losing her hard-nose lawyers edge, I think that 
 aspect of her personality would still show up somewhere. She is practically a hippie in this version, 
 and the story suffers because of it. There is little or no counterpoint for the bizarre dream life 
 of Hans.
  
  However the ending, which I hated at first, began to grow on me. The complete lack of resolving 
 things Kate Walker is a stroke of existential genius. The absolute ambiguity of it is amazing. 
 Almost nothing is answered, and only new questions are raised. This is a gutsy ending for a video 
 game (in fact, Ive never seen anything like it in any other game) . I eagerly await the answers 
 to all the old questions and some of the new questions raised by this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmasri
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 23, 2004 8:35 am PT
Review:  I know Gamespot did not give the greatest review for this game, but I think for a sequel, Syberia 
 II was the best that it ever could.
  
  My only complaint for both games, are the long walk without the ability to zoom-fast (transport) .
 
  
  But both games had great story lines and average dfficulty level that kept you hooked!
  
  for a while adventure games had a cartoonish simulation (except for Myst series, which I find 
 too cubersome) . The cinematic in Syberia and especially Syberia II are great and the look and feel 
 of it, are so Hollywood-like with the added music
  
  Highly recommended as an inovative and mesmorizing game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peimope
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 14, 2004 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I must say... I was pretty disapointed with Syberia 2. After playing the original Syberia, Syberia 
 2 doesn't even come close. 
  
  For starters, Syberia 2 is much too short. The original game seemed to go on forever and had so 
 many more locations and so much more variety. Syberia 2 gets two thumbs down in my opinion in terms 
 of variety. Basically all you do is wonder around in the same snowy enviroment pretty much througout 
 the entire game. The worst part, is that the "Dream World" level of the game uses borrowed scenery 
 from the original Syberia, and what's worst, is that the scenery is displayed in a nasty brown 
 and tan color (not even in full color as the original game did) .
  
  Second, the visual clues are horrible. Trying to find objects in Syberia 2 takes entirely TOO LONG. 
 None of the objects needed to complete the game's puzzles and tasks stand out from the background. 
 You could easily spend HOURS looking for these objects. And it's not just the objects that are 
 hard to find... levers, key holes, wheels, switches and specially "pathways" are also extremely 
 confusing and don't "stick out" enough.
  
  Third... the puzzles... oh boy the puzzles! The puzzle design has to be by far the worst I've seen 
 in any adventure game. Some puzzles are so hard to figure out, that it would take a "rocket scientist, 
 a brain surgeon and forensic detective" to solve, mainly because they make no sense whatsoever. 
 Had it not been for the mighty all "walkthrough", I think I'd still be trying to figure out the 
 FIRST puzzle. To the developers at "MICROIDS"... please, please THINK BEFORE YOU DESIGN!!
  
  And lastly, the story line lacked direction. I can't stress that enough! The game seemed to 
 bounce back and forth with no real feel of acomplishment. Kate Walker spends the entire game trying 
 to help Hans reach his final destination (Syberia) without any clear reason as to why she left 
 her life behind in New York. In the mean time, she gets calls from her mom, and tons of calls from 
 her boss who even sends out a pivate investigator to try and find her???? What the hell is THAT 
 all about??? At the end of the game, Hans rides off on a giant mammoth and Kate just watches him 
 ride off into the sunset. huh???? What happens to Kate?? Where does she go from here?? HORRIBLE 
 story line... just horrible. 
  
  My advise is.... if your looking for a GOOD adventure game, don't bother with Syberia 2. I spent 
 $30 US dollars on it, and I finished the game in roughly 6 to 8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orly23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2004 11:44 am PT
Review:  For those of you whow played the first installation of Syberia will undoubtley want to catch this 
 game is only for the continuation of the story. In Syberia 2 you again resume the role of Kate 
 Walker, a New York Lawyer with a quirky sense on adventure. In Syberia your goal was to find Hans 
 Voralburg. In Syberia 2 you've found Hans and have decided to accompany him to Syberia the land 
 of the Mammoths. The game plays out exaclty like its predecessor in which you point and click and 
 point and click. The differences between the two games are not that great, to my dissapointment. 
 The graphics look better, the backgrounds look more alive but besides that everything else is the 
 same. If you loved the first Syberia then you should enjoy this one. The puzzles for the most part 
 are very well done, the characters are unique and fun. On the down side the game is a continuation 
 of the previous title in the sense that nothing new and exciting was put in the game. For those 
 of you who would like to get a sense of closure as far as the story goes good luck on that. At 
 the end of this game you are left much like the first game, where you just have no clue what is 
 going to happen to the protagonist. Like most puzzle driven games the replay value of this title 
 is very low. I believe that as soon as I beat it I turned it off and uninstalled it from my computer. 
 Not much of a challenge once you know the answers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2004 12:48 pm PT
Review:  A bit of "been there, done that" feel? Yes. Easy to miss important items and still miss them after 
 checking areas multiple times? Yes. The frustration of knowing exactly how "Problem B" will be 
 solved, but not being able to before solving "Problem A", even though there's no real reason? Yes. 
 Satisfaction from solving some tricky puzzles without any help? Yes. Excellent sound effects that 
 add to the "you are there" feel? Yes. Another fun, old school romp in the sadly neglected genre 
 of classics such as the King's Quest series? Yes. A fine follow-up to a fantastic original game? 
 Yes. Recommended? Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_eggus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Syberia so I was a little disappointed to see that the Syberia II did 
 not quite stand up to it.
  
  I found that the first Syberia was more endearing because it dealt more with the relationships 
 of this mysterious Hans Voralberg, while the sequel was more about just solving puzzles. Character 
 development was at the heart of the cell phone conversations Kate had with her boss and mother 
 in New York during the original Syberia. These interludes helped to flesh out the character of 
 Kate Walker. There are similar cell phone calls during Syberia II but these are just repetitions 
 of Come Home followed by Kates reply of Im fine. The conversations dont develop the characters 
 and become interruptive.
  
  I also found the puzzles of Syberia II to be more contrived than the original. The puzzles of Syberia 
 seemed to grow out of the environment, while the puzzles of Syberia II seemed to have been placed 
 just for the sake of putting a puzzle there. Some of the puzzle I also found were lacking clues. 
 For several puzzles involving codes or ordered actions required me to just systematically go through 
 all possibilities because I could find no clue as to what the solution might have been.
  
  However Syberia II still has some legs to stand on. It does conclude the story from the first game 
 to the ending that we all were expecting at the end of the first game. And some of the cut scenes 
 are as mind blowing as they could possibly be. I would play the game just on these two points alone. 
 The music in Syberia II is very good, but we dont hear enough of it.
  
  On the whole I enjoyed the game because it closed the story began in the original. However I dont 
 recommend this game to people who havent played the original, or to those people who played it 
 but who were indifferent to the story. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdarmstro
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2004 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game looks beautiful and the music is great, but the gameplay isn't as good as the first game. 
 There seem to be too many puzzles of the "try combinations until something works" variety, rather 
 than well thought out puzzles. There are also quite a few times when you have to wander back and 
 forth over several screens to solve a puzzle, which might not be so bad if Kate would RUN rather 
 than taking her sweet time.
  
  I also got annoyed by the character voices, especially Ivan and Igor. They really sound poorly 
 acted. Kate's not too bad, Oscar's really whiny, and Hans sounds like somebody trying to act old.
 
  
  However, the game does have it's strong points and there were just enough to keep me playing. The 
 cutscenes are really beautiful, although some seem a bit out of place. The "dog" isn't nearly as 
 annoying as I thought he'd be (although again it sounds like somebody pretending to be a dog/seal) .
 
  
  If I had to do it all over again I'd wait until this game hits the bargain bin before buying it, 
 but it's worth a play especially if you liked the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 24, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely a good follow up to the original game. The graphics are once again oustanding 
 and breathtaking even if they are mostly cold and snowy in appearance.
  
  I'm also fairly amazed by the puzzles in that they are extraordinarily well placed in the context 
 of the story. There aren't many, "push-random button, pull-random lever" puzzles and usually it's 
 easy to see what needs to be done. You just have to figure out how to do it.
  
  There are a couple of points in the game where you have to spend a good deal of time "pixel hunting" 
 for the one elusive spot that you have to click on, but it's generally not hard to find the hotspots.
 
  
  The game is a bit on the short side, especially if you don't have any problems with any of the 
 puzzles or with finding any of the objects you need to use an manipulate.
  
  The music isn't so great though and I rarely notice that it's even there. Not a soundtrack I would 
 want to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2004 1:28 am PT
Review:  Once again Microids presents Syberia II which is very well put together in wonderful music, excellent 
 graphics and a very simplified game play. The story line once again presents Kate Walker doing her 
 many puzzles and very very enjoyable puzzles. Unlike Syberia I, Syberia II does not leave the gamer 
 guessing
  what the outcome of the game will be. I reviewed this wonderful game on a high
  end Alien 51 AMD machine and there where no glichs what so ever, unlike many others I have reviewed 
 this year. Syberia II is surely to be another super suprise from the MICROIDS people whom have always 
 surprised the gameing world with their fantastic 2D artwork and simplified game play. MICROIDS should 
 be congratulated for putting together a game without all the glitchs that many other game companys 
 just throw out on opening day, wanting fast money and promising fixs for their games that never 
 seem to come. This game is not one of them. Though it will not rank with the likes of "Call of Duty" 
 or "FarCry" those makers should take lessons from MICROID on how to present a game without all 
 the gliches and need upgrades that never seem to come, but then again SYBERIA II is not a shooter 
 game. Is this the reason SYBERIA II is so perfect?
  I give this wonderful game a perfect 10.0. It can be played on most all computers with speeds of 
 350MHZ and maybe a little less. No need for high end graphics cards, though I suspect they are a 
 big help for the beautiful scenery. The game even supports low end sound cards. Best of all the game 
 is not a huge gluppy hard drive hog, with 5cd-roms or more. Great job for all gamers into adventure 
 and role playing MICROIDS ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
