-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Syndicate Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/syndicatewars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 9.0, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Take-Two
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Masterfully recaptures the dark, deadly emotion of the original. 

 The original Syndicate detailed a future gone mad, where rival corporations vied for global control 
 through production of mind-altering microchips. From the ashes emerged the ultimate victor, EuroCorp. 
 The world is now firmly nestled in EuroCorp's grasp - but a technologically superior religious 
 sect hopes to undermine their authority through a powerful computer virus. Assume the role of either 
 a EuroCorp Executive or a Church of the New Epoch High Disciple in Syndicate Wars; this sequel 
 plays not unlike the original real-time action strategy game, in that the player commands a quartet 
 of self-sufficient, heavily armed cyborg enforcers in an isometric cityscape to perform any number 
 of violent assignments.  

 Syndicate Wars boasts an awe-inspiring, texture-mapped, 3-D polygonal engine. Each city is rendered 
 in astonishing detail; pedestrians wander about unassumingly, shiny hovercars swerve around corners, 
 polluted rain patters endlessly, and flickering video screens stream high-tech advertising. But 
 just as these cities are attractively dismal, they are delicate; your agents' firepower is enough 
 to level even the tallest of skyscrapers and the thickest of walls. Every element of Syndicate 
 Wars' environment can be damaged and destroyed in an awesome, cataclysmic explosion.  

 Unfortunately, the people of Syndicate Wars are represented by small, harsh-looking, pixelated sprites. 
 Distinguishing harmless civilian from deadly foe may prove difficult at first, and the onscreen 
 radar will do little to help because its color coding is not immediately obvious. And while the 
 vast cityscapes are rendered in high-resolution SVGA, their residents look blocky at all times. 
 Syndicate Wars also falls short in the audio department; vicious firefights between EuroCorp and 
 the Church seem stale because of repetitive and decidedly uninspired grunts issued by battle victims. 
 Luckily, though, the explosions are just as impressive on the ears as they are on the eyes.  

 
 Syndicate Wars feels much more chaotic than its 1993 predecessor. Your aerial vantage point can 
 be rotated smoothly at will, an attractive feature that may quickly become frustrating. Enemy agents 
 have a habit of attacking from where you cannot see them, and before you can swivel the map to 
 get a good look at the assailants you'll find your minions heavily wounded or worse. The Deep Radar 
 option helps a great deal by making any visually obstructive foreground architecture semi-transparent. 
 Since ammunition is no longer scarce (each weapon is energy-based and requires mere moments to 
 recharge itself) , Syndicate Wars allows for a copious use of fatal force, in contrast to the original's 
 more conservative approach to the killing. Syndicate Wars plays closer to an action game, while 
 its precursor felt more strategic.  

 Syndicate Wars masterfully recaptures the dark, deadly emotion of the original, adds to it a huge 
 variety of weapons and scenarios, and refurbishes it with a gorgeous new coat of paint. Over five 
 dozen missions and multiplayer support ensure Syndicate Wars a long life expectancy. Corporate 
 persuasion through urban violence: Who could ask for anything more?    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ComboTroop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Syndicate Wars? Yes Syndicate Wars is an sequel to Syndicate, and is very good, it is better than 
 Syndicate in some ways, like the graphics have been improved, and theres way more weaponary, and 
 the enviroment is nearly all destructable! But the only problem is it still the same nearly, yes 
 its a different story, yes theres more weapons, cyborg mods, vechicles and that, but some of the 
 feeling is lost, its not fighting over land now, but over U. T. O. P. I. A which is some type of mind 
 control system Euro-Corp made, there are two sides, Euro-Corp Syndicate and The New Epoch Church, 
 if you choose the Euro-Corp Syndicate you'll be playing as the Syndicate Agents again! If you choose 
 the New Epoch Church you'll be playing as the Zealots and their twisted ways and ideals of the 
 world, the plot is very clever and has loads of turns, but money, how do you earn money on this 
 game, it isn't collected like taxes now, because you must steal it from banks and missions were 
 you steal billion truck and that, to steal money you must destroy the banks or steal the billion 
 trucks and get them to the evac location, i have to say i like this game loads, but it can get 
 repetive if you have the last 2 games, but i say you must play this game! Check on the net you 
 could problay get a cheap copy! Or check any Abandonware sites and get a CD-RIP version that is 
 legal! The only problem is, no movies and no music! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Syndicate Wars improved on the original in almost every aspect. The most obvious was the shift 
 to a fully 3D destructible city. The old game suffered in hiding what was going on behind tall 
 buildings, and still the new 3D view did not compensate fully for this. It remains frustrating 
 to keep panning the camera around to obtain a good view of the action, while running around houses 
 and slugging it out with the acolytes of the Church of the New Epoch.
  
  The game structure and missions remain the same, as does most of the research and weapons trees, 
 with some minor improvements. The main difference of the campaign is that you are fighting one 
 enemy, rather than multiple rival syndicates. Vehicle variety has been improved on a lot, and now 
 also includes flyers. The game is also quite hard compared to the original. Whereas in the old 
 game, hiding behind a corner with your flame throwers ready was an effective strategy, you really 
 have to keep moving in this one.
  
  I personally didn't like the change to the weapons interface, in that ammunition was changed to 
 a global energy bar, from which all weapons drain their power. So while weapons won't run out of 
 ammo, you'll still be able to drain all your weapon energy with your most demanding weapons, leaving 
 you virtually defenseless for a while. All in all though, this is a great sequel, and a joy to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosha
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  I'm really blessed to be able to play this as one of the first few games on my brand new Pentium 
 Classic way back in '97!
  
  As much as graphics go, I wasn't really impressed after seeing Quake in action, but I really loved 
 the overall gaming experience of SW particularly the environmental aspect of it! From the occasional 
 public announcement styled "Please move along..." to the futuristic public transport that floats 
 all over the city, it all adds up perfectly to project the ultimate triad war of the future.
  
  Perhaps there will be a remake of this title, or something close on the latter consoles in 
 the market today? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: euchrid
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  After having played the original Syndicate to death, literally missing more than one night's sleep 
 due to it's power, I was excited about the release of Syndicate Wars. Very excited. I read magazine 
 articles about it, soaked up every little detail and eagerly saved my pocket money when it was 
 finally released.
  
  It was very disappointing, then, when the game turned out to be rubbish. The biggest problem was 
 with the graphics which, in retrospect, were trying too hard to create a free-camera 3d environment 
 before the technology was really available. The blocky figures didn't have any of the personality 
 that the orignal sprites did, and the environments lost the cool-ugly-utilitarian vibe that the 
 previous installment's had; instead they were just plain ugly.
  
  A game which could have been great but instead is distinctly average and completely unworthy of 
 the fine heritage of the original Syndicate. Stick with the classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  The game set in the future where you get to kill stuff Cool. How cool would it be if you could 
 have a top team of cyborgs running around killing targets and helping you gain world domination, 
 well know with the help of Syndicate Wars you can.
  
  When i first played this game i did not like it the graphics where not to good and i stopped playing 
 it, but then after 3 months i tried it again this time i liked it i got to use all the cool weapons.
 
  
  This game is as i found out a classic, yes the graphics are not good but who needs good graphics 
 when you can hear men being torn up by razor wire (that weapon cracked me up every time i used 
 it) . 
  
  This game is well worth playing again if you can get it running on you pc that is. It might not 
 be perfect but then games are not meant to be are they. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
