-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: System Shock 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/systemshock2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.2, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 1,952 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Looking Glass Studios
Developer: Irrational Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
System Shock 2 both retains the best attributes of its predecessor and provides a fresh experience 
 in its own right. 

 Contrary to popular gaming lore, the original System Shock was not a commercial failure and sold 
 over 170,000 copies over time. But when it first released in 1994, gamers overlooked Looking Glass's 
 groundbreaking game despite favorable reviews. Some erroneously discounted it as a Doom clone, 
 even though it was actually the offspring of a line of games that preceded any of id Software's 
 first-person shooters. Other players dismissed it as a derivative first-person role-playing game 
 that arrived on retail shelves just after a parade of Wizardries and Might and Magics. In fact, 
 System Shock was a game that defied pigeonhole classification because it borrowed elements and 
 themes from a variety of genres. Yet it was precisely because of its creative design that it is 
 now commonly, belatedly, regarded as one of the best computer games ever made. Irrational Games 
 was given the difficult task of creating a worthy successor to the cult-classic original, and the 
 new development company has responded by delivering a game that both retains the best attributes 
 of its predecessor and provides a fresh experience in its own right.  

 Prompted by the near destruction of Earth by the self-aware and malevolent artificial intelligence 
 SHODAN, Earth's previously ineffectual political governments formed the Unified National Nominate 
 and imposed constraints on the power of megaconglomerates. But after inventing faster-than-light 
 technology, the corporate creator of SHODAN, TriOptimum Corporation, convinced the UNN to engage 
 in a cooperative expedition into unexplored space. Your character awakens in the midst of a crisis, 
 as the ship that undertook the monumental journey has apparently become infested by some form of 
 alien life. Suffering from that infamous RPG plot device, amnesia, your character finds that he 
 has received illegal cybernetic implants that grant superhuman abilities - just the kind of endowments 
 necessary to survive System Shock 2's chaotic circumstances.  

 Even though it's a sequel, System Shock 2 feels entirely original because too few RPGs have science 
 fiction settings. This one offers a rich combination of psionic powers, contemporary and futuristic 
 weaponry, and William Gibson-esque cybernetic implants and technical skills. The plot unravels 
 as you listen to e-mail and message logs. While the convenient placement of dozens of logs throughout 
 the otherwise realistic environments is a bit contrived, the messages are consistently engaging 
 and gradually expand upon the fates of most of the game's key figures. Unfortunately, since the 
 settings have generally been abandoned by friendlies, the logs all but replace direct interaction 
 with nonplayer characters. You'll also experience a handful of scripted story sequences crafted 
 using the game engine, as well as frequent and interesting ghostly reenactments of earlier events. 
 Collectively these storytelling methods convey an intriguing plot and generate an eerie atmosphere 
 that make System Shock 2 feel unique through to the end.  

 Like its predecessor, System Shock 2 is a first-person game that cannot be easily characterized 
 otherwise. The role-playing elements are deeper than they were in the first game, as you're able 
 to personalize your character's initial attributes and abilities and later update them in a variety 
 of significant ways. The game looks and generally feels like a first-person shooter, but the RPG 
 elements and detailed environments give the gameplay more depth. Unlike in a first-person shooter, 
 you'll find it hard to be successful in System Shock 2 if you storm into every room, guns blazing. 
 Ammunition is scarce throughout the game, forcing you to warily advance through dark hallways, 
 leaning around corners to look for additional resources and opportunities to dispatch unwary foes. 
 Even solitary enemies can be dangerous, and carelessly trekking into an unexplored room will often 
 alert a security camera, which summons a legion of enemies to finish you off. Consequently, travelling 
 through the creepy surroundings often slows to a crawl, even while backtracking since enemies randomly 
 regenerate.  

 System Shock 2's engine is well equipped for such stealthy maneuvering, as it's essentially an enhanced 
 version of the Dark Engine created by Looking Glass for Thief, combined with some of the better 
 interface features and controls of the original System Shock. The engine's 3D-accelerated graphics 
 are capable of producing a variety of plausible futuristic environments, and its ambient fog and 
 lighting effects look particularly good. However, the engine seems less capable of depicting characters, 
 as humanoid figures look like a fusion of rudimentary polygonal shapes masked by a decent texture 
 map. But since there are some plot justifications for the irregularly shaped beings, and most of 
 the game's settings are extremely dark, the relatively simplistic character models work fine, even 
 if they're not as detailed as those action gamers now expect. The game's dynamic music is appropriately 
 fast-paced or atmospheric depending on the circumstances, but its crisp sound effects deserve particular 
 praise. Environmental audio is a supported feature that's used to great effect. Straining in the 
 darkness to gain foresight into the challenges ahead becomes an essential tactic, whether it be 
 to detect the distant whirring noise of a security camera, the haunting ramblings of a mutant hybrid, 
 or the banter of a haywire protocol droid. It's all great stuff, and it contributes significantly 
 to the tense mood rapibly established in the game.  

 One of the best aspects of Thief's engine was that it accounted for how noisy and how visible your 
 character was and ensured enemies responded accordingly. Fortunately, all this is intact in System 
 Shock 2. Don't expect to be able to casually open the door to one room, deal with its inhabitants, 
 and then open the next door and repeat the process. If any creatures are within earshot of combat, 
 they'll rush to join the fun, making it important to choose your battles carefully. Enemy AI is 
 very good generally, as even basic grunts charge after you instead of haplessly lumbering in pursuit, 
 while certain deadlier opponents will stick to shadows from where they'll launch their rapid-fire 
 attacks.  

 Fortunately, System Shock 2's interface is well designed and even fits well with the game's plot. 
 You can maintain a view of the gaming world while searching through your inventory and use hotkeys 
 to quickly access weapons, use items, or listen to log messages. To help you navigate you can superimpose 
 semitransparent compass directions over your viewing window, pull up an automap, or maintain a 
 miniature version of the map onscreen. Since your character is supposed to be grafted with a variety 
 of cybernetic implants, there's actually a reasonable justification for your ability to access 
 information such as this. The interface is not only effective, but it actually contributes to the 
 game's ambiance instead of detracting from it.  

 Your character is initially trained in one of three military branches - marines, navy, or OSI - 
 each emphasizing a different proficiency: weapons, technical skills, or psionic powers. But the 
 professions don't add as much depth as you might expect, since during the course of the game you 
 can choose to develop any skills or attributes regardless of your initial choice of profession. 
 The professions are badly unbalanced as well, especially at the beginning of the game when the 
 modules used to upgrade your character are extremely rare. It's very difficult to survive without 
 picking up at least a smattering of basic weapon and technical skills, and since navy characters 
 start the game with those abilities, they have a huge advantage. Meanwhile, marines are essentially 
 navy characters stripped of those vital technical skills, while OSI characters lack both weapons 
 and technical skills and are extremely fragile initially for lack of items that restore their psionic 
 energy. During the course of the game you can develop truly different characters that are capable 
 of successfully completing the game in their own right, but the initial selection of profession 
 isn't relevant or even enjoyable in the manner in which it was intended.  

 Finally, despite System Shock 2's novel setting and its RPG elements, its gameplay doesn't really 
 evolve significantly beyond that offered by recent first-person shooters. You'll spend much of 
 your time strafing at enemies around corners, opening crates, and even hunting for keys. But the 
 realistic environments, intriguing plot, and consistently uneasy atmosphere make System Shock 2 
 constantly effective. It is a hybrid game that effectively blends elements from a variety of genres 
 into a thoroughly enjoyable and accessible package.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (66 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is just. I can't describe it! It is just a "You have to play it!" Kind of game! 
 You I can't even explain what it's like even if I was being held at gunpoint! I mean it's like 
 telling the legend of zelda series in order! It's impossible and only Doomguy and Chuck Norris 
 can do it!! 
  PROS:
  Genuinley scary. Most games get scares by having things just pop up out of nowhere. Not System 
 shock 2. It gets it's scares with three things. Atmosphere. Music. Enemies voices. Theres blood 
 on the walls, enemies acting all creepy, and even ghosts of the former people on board! You can even 
 hear the former crew members as the monsters asking you to kill them!
  SHODAN
  Amazing weapons. Okay SSII has your basic weapons but ammo is so scarce you always feel in danger. 
 Because you always are in danger!
  Great RPG elements. What System Shock started. System Shock 2 Continues. Brilliantly. This game 
 perfectly executes it.
  You can't call yourself a gamer if you haven't played this. If you have never played this masterpeice 
 you are not a gamer. End of discussion.
  CONS:
  Nothing. Nothing is wrong with this game in any way possible.
  This game is as perfect as games 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredyellowone
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This review will be simple. Try it if you're a fps fan. Then, your standard of the best fps ever 
 will change. Its good. enough weapons. A crazy amount of way to kill a foe. Scary. Great soudtrack. 
 Amazing plot. Way better than Bioshock. Yes, you may have troubles finding it new. Download it 
 where you can find it, and enjoy!!
  
  Look at me hacker. How a pitufil creature like you can challenge an immortal creature like me?
 
  
  So, since i must fill 100 words for this review, here is my best FPS list ever.
  1- system shock 2
  2- bioshock
  3- alien versus predator
  4- perfect dark
  5- goldeneye 
 007
  6- medal of honor
  7- quake arena
  8- time splitters 2 and 3
  9- call of duty 4
  10- doom III
  
  All those games are very good in each of their ways. But system shock 2 is 
 the best one cause it combine great time, with a plot that will reminds for age. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Va0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about System Shock 2, before I played it, it was frequently hyped as being an incredibly 
 difficult game. I was expecting it to be hard - I would have a challenge, it would potentially 
 be bordering on unplayable. As I discovered, this was not an issue - System Shock 2 is arguably 
 the most modern game I've played. It has a well made interface. If you get a few mods (try strangebedfellows. de) , 
 you'll swear it was released in 2002 or 2003.
  
  Yes, System Shock 2 doesn't have a bunch of shaders or the like. It doesn't let you take advantage 
 of a crazy high definition screen or some absurd 7.1 (or is it 11.1 - when will it end?) surround 
 sound system. No, it doesn't have excellent squad AI or even the ability to choose between good 
 and evil. It's just you - Goggles - trying to stay alive with your one buddy in the world who talks 
 to you all mysterious like on the future version of a phone.
  
  If you're into horror games, just get System Shock 2. If you haven't yet played it, play it. You'll 
 see where Bioshock got just about all its ideas. If you have, I would highly recommend you replay 
 it if you haven't played it in years. I played it this past summer - the summer of 2008 - almost 
 a decade after its release (and without playing the original) . It is still amazing. It is still 
 truly a breathtaking experience. It creates an atmosphere like few games can. It is truly horrifying 
 in the best ways - it's not Doom 3, jumping out of the shadows. This is human nature, in your mind, 
 turning against you. And it's beautiful. 
  
  It's too bad no game has really gone farther - as one reviewer said of Bioshock, he wanted it to 
 be 'a disembowelment.' Yes, I concur. That is what modern horror game should be. It's too bad the 
 mainstream doesn't want a beautiful disembowelment. Until then, we're stuck with System Shock 2. 
 It's a pretty good substitute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaoticon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Bioshock and thought that game was great, then you will defiantly think this game 
 is beyond great. This game has great characters, weapons, environments, and a really awesome story. 
 
  
  This games skill/spell system has a lot more to it then Bioshock. In System Shock 2 It is possible 
 to beat the game purely using the psi-amp, although it is a pretty hard start.
  
  This is an AMAZING game. This game can be had really cheap now. If you haven't played it, then 
 go get it right now!
  
  If you've played Bioshock and thought that game was great, then you will defiantly think this game 
 is beyond great. This game has great characters, weapons, environments, and a really awesome story. 
 
  
  This games skill/spell system has a lot more to it then Bioshock. In System Shock 2 It is possible 
 to beat the game purely using the psi-amp, although it is a pretty hard start.
  
  This is an AMAZING game. This game can be had really cheap now. If you haven't played it, then 
 go get it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTullusCicero
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is one of a select group of games that transcend the traditional "gameplay-graphics-sound" 
 rating system to become a truly unique experience. The gripping storyline, the haunting sound effects, 
 the immersive atmosphere, and numerous other factors all combine to make System Shock 2 renowned 
 designer Ken Levine's greatest work to date.
  
  It's easiest to start with my criticism of the game, since there's so little of it. As much as 
 diehard fans such as myself would like to defend it, there's simply no way around the fact that 
 the graphics are nothing to write home about. Even in 1999-the year of System Shock 2's release-the 
 3d models, though decent, could hardly be considered spectacular. However, they're certainly not 
 so bad that they detract significantly from the overall experience of the game. 
  
  Graphical shortcomings aside, there is so much to love about System Shock 2. On the technical side 
 of things, the game's sound has received universal praise, and with good reason. The slow trod 
 and pitiful voice of the hybrid, as well as the mechanical drone of the security bots, are enough 
 to make your spine tingle. The echo of the ship's PA system through the empty corridors reinforces 
 the feeling that you are completely alone. Even the clank of your own footsteps on the steel floor 
 will set you on edge.
  
  The discussion of the game's sound brings me to one of System Shock 2's defining characteristics: 
 it positively drips with atmosphere, and it is downright creepy. It can compete with the best Hollywood 
 flicks in terms of psychological horror. The hybrids' pitiful cries of "kill me!" as they swing 
 their bloodied wrenches at you are supremely disturbing. The Von Braun's onboard computer Xerxes-one 
 of my favorite characters from any game-will come over the PA to give you a friendly reminder to 
 get your holiday shopping done, and follow it up a minute later with "to avoid possible detention 
 and execution, please respect the will of the Many." The words "REMEMBER CITADEL" scrawled in blood 
 on the wall of the medical ward will make veterans of System Shock cheer, and will cause new players' 
 stomachs to turn. And, despite the unimpressive graphics, some of the game's visual qualities play 
 a major role in contributing to the immersive atmosphere. The steam vents look very good, and the 
 lighting is absolutely superb. Flickering lamps and dimly-lit corridors create an ambience worthy 
 of a Hollywood sci-fi/horror flick.
  
  Equally gripping is System Shock 2's fantastic storyline (possible SPOILER ALERT) . 42 years after 
 the disaster at Citadel Sation in System Shock, the newly re-licensed TriOptimum Corporation sends 
 the Von Braun, the first faster-than-light ship, on a scientific mission. The unnamed player is 
 inserted into the midst of the action, as SHODAN's biological experiment has returned in the form 
 of an intelligent biomass known as the Many, which infects the crew members. It is a classic last-person-alive 
 situation (or close to it, as you will run into a few survivors, most of whom are promptly killed) , 
 but manages to avoid feeling clich. The brilliant plot twist, when the player discovers that the 
 faithful guide, Dr. Janice Polito, is actually the crazed artificial intelligence known as SHODAN, 
 ranks with the infestation of Kerrigan from Starcraft and Baal's return in the final cinematic 
 of Diablo II as one of the greatest plot twists in gaming history. It even gives such classic cinematic 
 moments as "No, LukeI am your father" a run for their money. (end of Spoiler Alert) The numerous 
 data logs found in desks and on the bodies of dead crew members provide an excellent storytelling 
 device. They allow the player to piece together the story, rather than having it simply explained 
 by a NPC. Furthermore, the excellent voice acting makes you feel truly connected to the unfortunate 
 crew members such as Polito, Delacroix, Watts, Diego, and the delightfully despicable Captain Anatoly 
 Korenchkin. 
  
  Of course, no game can be considered a "classic" without superb gameplay. It is in this area-aside 
 from obvious improvements in graphics and sound-that System Shock 2 really builds on what its predecessor 
 offered. First off, the controls in the first System Shock were atrocious-it did not use the magic 
 four (W, A, S, D) , and was generally clunky. System Shock 2 uses the familiar controls from Thief: 
 The Dark Project, and allows the user to configure customized control sets (a feature which is 
 taken for granted in the modern FPS world) . More importantly, System Shock 2 added the open-ended 
 gameplay for which it has received so much praise. The character customization system gives the 
 game excellent replay value, and the level design allows you to explore at your own pace, neatly 
 avoiding the railroad-track feeling which plagues so many shooters. It should be noted that System 
 Shock 2 is not a FPS in the classic sense. The game is very difficult, something that I greatly 
 appreciate. Running into a room and spraying lead everywhere is highly unwise, as ammunition is 
 extremely scarce, and it is therefore necessary to make every single shot count. Fortunately, there 
 is a respawn system in the form of genetic reconstruction machines which fit nicely and make sense 
 within the game. They do not, however, make the game overly easy, as they cost money and must be 
 activated before they can be used-if you die before you find the reconstructor in your area, your 
 game is over.
  
  In all, it is safe to say that System Shock 2 is one of the greatest games ever made, probably 
 my personal favorite. Its outstanding story, gameplay, and atmosphere deserve every bit of praise 
 received. Try to find this game if you can; it's difficult to get it to run on XP and Vista, but 
 it can be done, and once you've succeeded you will find that it was more than worth your effort. 
 Trust me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I got this game expecting something along the lines of Dues EX. This game was 10x better. Storyline 
 is great and the game plays like a real horror. Ammo is very difficult to find and enemies just 
 keep taking bullets. You see crew that is still alive, but never actually make contact with them. 
 Atmosphere was plain creepy. You wonder what's going on in some of these places and it's usually 
 explained through a disk you find lying around. Although, the game does seem to wear off towards 
 the end. If you max out a weapon it can usually 1hit enemies with the right ammo and they become 
 nothing more than an annoyance. Ending is expected, but still fun right up to it. 
  This game is a classic. The perfect combination of RPG+FPS elements.
  
  Storyline is easy to 
 follow so no need to play the first one.
  
  
  
  
  
  Watch out for the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cristyrazvan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I can't forget this game. At that time, 9 years ago, the graphics were stunning! The level design 
 was breathtaking, the thriller of the story was overwhelming, and the complexity was unforeseen.
 
  A couple of years after some good souls updated the character graphics (look on the net for the 
 graphics patch made by some enthusiasts) and the game became even closer to perfection.
  The upgrades are fantastic, the quests and the puzzles are mind blowing, and the action is frantic! 
 The perfect recipe for a perfect game.
  Played this game about three times, and still love it, it is another one of my perfect 10 score 
 list.
  9 years after playing it, and still love it :) The graphics, the gameplay, the customisation! Just 
 simply fantastic!
  Trust me, once you have played it, there will be very hard to find another game to keep you as 
 entertained as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is one of those games that inspired many yet is relatively unheard of. In fact, 
 if it wasn't for Deus Ex and Bioshock I would probably have never bought it. I heard of it, but 
 I never owned a PC until 2002 and the chances of me finding a copy of the game was a complete joke. 
 In fact, the first proper PC game or games I played was Deus Ex and Half Life. I remember my PC 
 just being able to run both of them. Yes a 9GB hard drive and 256 MB Ram did absolutely no wonders 
 whatsoever for me and PC gaming. But hey, it came with a NVIDIA Geforce 5200 graphics card and 
 the PC ran these games particularly well. Except for Deus Ex, the amount of times I had to delete 
 all the saves because of the size of them seriously turned me away from PC gaming for a bit. However, 
 I couldn't get over how fantastic Deus Ex and Half Life was, and still is. Yes both games have 
 aged considerably, but the foundations in both have carved out some fantastic future FPS games, 
 most noticeably the sequels. Half Life was a fantastic ride from start to finish and has never 
 been bettered (some, myself included would still choose the first title over the sequel. Not that 
 the sequel is bad or anything like that) and Deus Ex was the first truly emergent game I have ever 
 played. Little did I know that Deus Ex was inspired by another game? Another game that hardly sold 
 any copies and yet was passionately loved by everyone who played it. Which is probably why it's 
 so hard to get a copy because people couldn't part with it that includes me and my treasured copy?
 
  
  So let's fast forward to 2008. The year I finally get to own and play the game. I can always approach 
 these old retro games with the intention of playing them without the new foundations made in newer 
 games (i. e. Metal Gear for the MSX doesn't have a radar or field of vision cone, so I adapt I shall) 
 and without the fine tuning and balancing needed. So I shall review the game as if it came out 
 in 1999. I know I can't truly do this and some prejudice will no doubt erupt somewhere but I shall 
 remain as faithful to judging as if it just this week came out.
  
  So System Shock 2. What can I say that hasn't been said? The gameplay mechanics are a mish mash 
 of first person shooting, sneaking and with a sprinkle of RPG elements thrown in. The supposedly 
 derelict space station is one of the creepiest environments in a game ever, the whole game to this 
 is very unsettling and none of the atmosphere or bleakness has been lost at all. And the plot. 
 What can I say without spoiling such a wonderfully thought out and indeed thought provoking plot? 
 Just that it's one of the greatest and not one game have managed to make THAT impact as quite profoundly 
 as System Shock 2 did. The gripe I have is after that moment, the plot loses its appeal a little 
 and if it weren't for the shocking and scary ending, I would have said stop playing after that 
 moment. So let's begin at the beginning, which ties in nicely with the gameplay paragraph.
  
  The intro of the game explains the events that happened in the first System Shock title. It 
 is 47 years after the A. I. Shodan was destroyed by the Hacker, which was the protagonist/player 
 combo of the first title. You play as a biomechanical soldier who is emotionless and mute (to put 
 you directly into the shoes of the story thus making the emotional ties to the story far stronger) 
 at a training facility. Here you get taught the basics in control, inventory and using the various 
 gadgets and gizmos that you'll encounter. After the initial basic training you can have the option 
 of training in the three categories that ultimately decide what sort of character you'll be. First 
 there's shoot first and sod the questions later weapons training, complete with trying out various 
 weapons, ammo etc. Then there's the technical and maintenance. So this means you'll be more of 
 a hacker and weapon fixer than a fighter. Then there's the Psi Ops training. Here you basically 
 use a black orb with a sort of syringe connector that stabs into your arm and you use magic spells. 
 The training gives you telekinesis and a freeze spell. So after you done all this training the 
 next task is to pick the one training school you'll side with. After picking this school there's 
 no going back and this is when your character will get shaped. After that you pick three additional 
 stats for your character and four years past and the main bulk of the story begins.
  
  The game plays very much like Looking Glass' other game, most noticeably Thief: The Dark Shadows. 
 You have the option of approaching the current objective any way you see fit be it sneaky, shooty 
 or a mixture of both. The sneaking is very much spot on, seeing how it's almost like Thief just 
 minus the light bar and many, many shadows that engulfed that game. In fact, it feels like the 
 stealth in this game is a tad easy and is not as forced as Thief, which is pretty obvious seeing 
 how Thief is nothing but stealth. Then there's the actual fighting. The fighting mechanics control 
 solidly. You first start off with a wrench, naturally, but you soon acquire all mannerisms of weapons 
 from shotguns, pistols and laser guns. Depending on your stats though you can't use all these weapons 
 as soon as you pick them up. This adds a good element in my books because it teaches you to be 
 cautious and weary of your bullets and it adds a factor of realism to the game - despite the space 
 setting and cyborgs. The downside is the weapon degradation. It's totally messed up and is in no 
 way balanced. All the weapons in this game don't last long and it's quite a while until you procure 
 the necessary skills to stop this being a talent. In fact, if you never picked Navy at the start 
 you will seriously have a hard time ahead of you. Although Looking Glass and Irrational Games have 
 rectified this problem with a patch, I am still playing this game as if it came out today and that's 
 one of the main criticisms aimed at System Shock 2.
  
  You upgrade your character by collecting cyber modules, regularly given to you by Dr Polito or 
 by finding them scattered all throughout the Citadel. Items and ammo can be found in various crates, 
 corpses or bought from vending machines, provided you have nanites. You can cut the cost of the 
 items down if you hack into the machine. Hacking costs you nanites and you can hack vending machines, 
 gun turrets and cameras. It's pretty easy to hack to begin with. It's a little mini game and all 
 you have to do is line up three bright green squares. As you progress it becomes aggressively harder. 
 Red squares appear and if you highlight them, boom! Course, you could just use the hacking tool 
 and be done with it regardless of difficulty. Nanites also come into play if you die. If you die 
 you can be brought back to life providing you activated a Quantum Bio-Reconstruction Machines and 
 have the relevant funds to allow such a thing to happen. If not, then it truly is game over.
  
  So that's the main core of the game. It's solid, if a little skewed in some places here and 
 there but the overall game plays really well. The sense of panic that perpetuates throughout the 
 game is one of the game's many strengths that still stand up to this day.
  
  The graphics were more or less dated when they came out. Not badly, but this was a time when Unreal 
 was out and it was going to be matched against that. However, the graphics work well for the atmosphere 
 and overall design of the game. Yes the space station is kind of boring and monochrome in a sense. 
 But name a space station that isn't. The last parts of the game are clearly rushed and used many 
 textures from the first part. The character models are blocky and lacked animation quality, even 
 when it was originally released. However, despite all that the game still has a charm to it that 
 carries it well. It's still playable and that doesn't hamper the actual game at all. It's scary 
 and tense and the atmosphere can be unbelievably bleak and desolate at times.
  
  The music has a retro 80s synth feel to it and it pops up in important events such as plot revelations 
 or action moments. It's competent and some of it is pretty cool, but it's nothing to write home 
 about. Now the sound effects and voice acting. That's where it's at. The voice acting is tremendously 
 good, despite the odd guff actor or line delivery. The person who steals the show though is the 
 actress who plays Dr Polito, who also wrote some of the story. Her delivery is absolutely spot-on 
 and you'll see why she's cool as you play through the game. Hell, even in the intro you'll see 
 why. The sound effects pack that visceral punch and the 3-D sound engineering is just amazing. 
 Granted the technology is slightly dated but it's still affected.
  
  System Shock 2 is a decent length of 20 hours, plus replay-ability thanks to the many options available 
 in this game. Though the original release didn't have multiplayer the developers saw fit to include 
 it with a patch. I still to this day believe it should never have had multiplayer. It's a single 
 player experience and the multiplayer takes that away. So I say ignore that mode and concentrate 
 solely on the single player. Plus the multi player is completely tacked on and was only added later 
 because of PC boys crying for it.
  
  In conclusion, System Shock 2 is a very well made game. A very well made with a few blemishes. 
 It's far from perfect and it was clearly made by amateurs. However, it was clearly made with an 
 absolute passion to the series and it's clearly better than its predecessor in every single imaginable 
 way. The story is the clear reason why so people love it. There's nothing quite like System Shock 
 2's story and the gameplay and nuances that appear throughout the game have appeared in others, 
 such as the brackets around interactive items. System Shock 2 was clearly ahead of its time and 
 stands as one of the finest videogame achievements in its history. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyslap
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Ken Levine and the rest of Irrational put together the best game ever. I have played 
 through it 67 times hopefully 68 by this weekend. BioShock is the second best game ever, I refuse 
 to call them 2K they are still Irrational games! Can't wait for BioShock 2! I feel nauseated when 
 I think about how long it will be til I get to play it. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 Excellent I can't think of anything I would add to make it better without spoiling 
 it. It's Perfect.
  
  Graphics: 6/10 From what I've read Irrational didn't exacley have an arsenal of engines at their 
 disposable and it was the year 2000 but at the time it was impresive visually.
  
  Sound: 10/10 Horrifying. Need I say more?
  
  Learning Curve: About an hour.
  
  I feel this 
 game will go down as one of the best game in the industry's history. Ken Levine and the team at 
 Irrational are simply genious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  When I decided to check out System Shock 2 a few years ago, I was skeptical about playing a game 
 that was as old as it was. Still, I was familiar with looking glass studios and loved the Thief 
 series, so I gave it a shot.
  
  To say I was amazed would be a massive understatement. This game had me up to the wee hours of 
 the morning playing, and despite me wanting to kill the damn game for being so ridiculously difficult 
 at times, the plot sucked me in like a black hole, only able to leave my PC once I had beat the 
 game.
  
  I had always believed that the more advanced a game was, the better the opportunity for storytelling 
 was. System Shock 2 turned that idea on its head and soon I was completely immersed in the game. 
 The incredibly effective storytelling, the intelligent gameplay, and the gripping plot kept me 
 going through all the difficult spots- along with a cheat that allowed me to spawn medkits. Even 
 so, the game remains one of the premier examples of storytelling through gameplay, and despite 
 its graphical limitations and ridiculous difficulty, does an excellent job at creating a convincing 
 atmosphere that is as immersive as it is compelling and frightening.
  
  The story begins with you waking up from a cryogenic sleep on a starship, only to find the entire 
 crew has been infected by a hive minded parasite. You are forced to use your wits to fight through 
 this hell to get to the only other survivor, a woman named Janice Polito, but even there, the plot 
 thickens into a brick of pure awesome in one of the most shocking and wonderful twists in a game 
 that keeps you completely on your toes until the game's equally bizarre and fascinating ending.
 
  
  The key to the storytelling, in my opinion, is the excellent sound- near the beginning, you witness 
 an infected human chasing down a woman and eventually gunning her down with a shotgun. While the 
 graphics make that scene look rather silly, the sound is convincing and horrifying, and sets the 
 morbid stage for this game. To add to that, there are voice journals you find of dead crew members, 
 each one adding to the plot and giving the player a glimpse into the despair and horror the crew 
 experienced as the aliens slowly began to take over the ship.
  
  One of the coolest aspects of this game is for the most part, none of it seems unnecessary. In 
 many games, there is a severe difference between the plot and the things you do in the game- I 
 find myself wondering, as a player, "Why am I doing this? How does this help my character kill 
 Strelock or find his dead wife?" In System Shock 2, the line between the plot and the actual game 
 experience is one and the same, and despite some sections seeming a bit out of the way and inconvenient, 
 they all make sense to some extent or another, and the objectives make sense. To further strengthen 
 the gameplay-plot pairing, there are no real cutscenes, instead the game itself is full of various 
 highly effective plot devices, ranging from the voice journals to some rather eerie ghost-flashbacks. 
 
  
  Another aspect that I really enjoyed was the character customization options. From the beginning, 
 you have the option of being a marine, a psi op, or a techie, each one offering different strengths- 
 the marine is best for your FPS fan who wants to shoot things until they die, the psi op has the 
 most options for creative gameplay with an expansive library of psychic abilities, and the tech 
 is fun for finding all sorts of neat ways to hack things. Furthermore, the classes are not solid, 
 so it's possible to have a hacker marine, or a techie who specializes in stealth psi-ops, or anything 
 else you can come up with. This gives the game great replay value, and with co-op mode, it's even 
 better. 
  
  Despite this game having an amazing storyline and said storyline being delivered in a spectacular 
 fashion, it is not without it's flaws. As I said earlier, the gameplay is very difficult, and supplies 
 are in short demand. But that makes sense, though, and in many ways makes the atmosphere much more 
 menacing. Intellectually, it can be very taxing, as unlike Thief, hiding in the shadows does not 
 make you invisible and the enemies can be very difficult to kill. Furthermore, the weapons tend 
 to break after maybe 2 shots, a point that makes the game downright infuriating at times. Even 
 so, these issues are what they are, and the game is overall a highly immersive experience. The 
 problem is that sometimes these glaring problems get in the way of the fun, but in any end, as 
 far as storytelling goes, this game is unparalleled. 
  
  Last year, Bioshock hit the market, as System Shock 2's spiritual successor. It is pretty much 
 System Shock 2, the steampunk version designed for people who want to be able to beat a game without 
 any real challenge. This seems to cater to a more mainstream audience as well as the storytelling 
 in games junkies, but the side effect of that is making a gameplay atmosphere that is not all that 
 scary. System Shock 2 was frightening because the enemies could hurt you, but with Bioshock, it's 
 been dumbed down and simplified to a point where most logical thinking is removed from the game. 
 Still, it's got the great storytelling aspects of System Shock 2, and despite it being a fun, creepy, 
 and well rounded game, System Shock 2 will live on in my heart as one of the best implemented plots 
 in a game, well worth playing by anyone, despite the difficulty being ridiculously frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limowrecked
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Back in that time there was a group of brilliant people called Looking Glass Studios who spent 
 their time on making computer games. One of their creations is a phenomenon called System Shock 
 2. Game itself didn't make huge commercial success which is maybe the main reason why game creators 
 didn't follow or developed the possibilities this game shown. But from beggining: u play as a space 
 marine stranded due some accident on a space ship infested with aliens, crazy robots, and misterious 
 A. I.. Many players complained about this game because of its difficulty level, weapon jamming and 
 fast enemy respawn, and at this point it should be said: yes this game is difficult especially 
 when u play games like half-life or quake and then u get the game where u really have to make your 
 best to survive. On the other hand how stupid and unlogical would it be if u just would have to 
 run around the ship killing everything as if u were walking death incarnation. Aside from pure 
 FPS aspects of the game u get RPG style interface and character development system which is both 
 fun and smartly done. U'll have a hard time deciding which skill or atribute u need to improve 
 and believe me u'll need them all. Acting fast and thinking fast is the key in this game and u 
 really have to know what u're supposed to do because simply going from point a to point b wont 
 pass exam here. Survival as well as great story and sounds are keys to the unique stylish, creepy 
 atmosphere, when u're traveling the corridors hearing sounds of alien infested humans walking near 
 and listen to the memo recorded by the former crew members. This is really amazing that the game 
 which was made almost ten years ago still delivers a blow which can easily knock out most modern 
 games both in the terms of gameplay and story it tells and i know what i'm talking about i've played 
 that game for the first time about 2 years ago. Then i returned to it less than a year ago n yup 
 it was still sharp. 
  What can i say? System shock 2 class games are really damn rare and its well worth playing just 
 to take a look on how succesfull FPP/RPG hybrid can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 was one of the final games designed by Looking Glass Studios, in partnership with 
 Irrational Games. Known for their high quality games and knack for creating innovative titles, 
 Looking Glass was responsible for the Thief, Ultima Underworld, and System Shock series. One year 
 before the company folded up due to a financial crash, System Shock 2 was released in stores, but 
 was forced to compete with Half-Life, released one year before. Sales were disappointing, but the 
 game has attained the rank of cult classic over the years. 
  
  Act I 
  
  System Shock 2 features a clever storyline built from a common science fiction clich: Amnesia. 
 Set some forty years after the first System Shock game, you have been serving society for three 
 years in your selected field of expertise (Marines, Navy, or OSA) . You begin your fourth year by 
 undertaking a mission aboard the first faster-than-light ship, the Von-Braun. Another starship, 
 the Rickenbauker, is accompanying the Von-Braun. Something very bad happens during the journey, 
 and you awaken from a cryogenic stasis to find that you've been given some illegal cybernetic modifications 
 that improve your body in various ways. In the midst of your memory loss, you are immediately contacted 
 at the game's beginning by the voice of a woman identifying herself as Dr. Polito. She urges you 
 to seek her out and perform various tasks along the way, all the while avoiding and battling the 
 evil that has taken a hold of the ship. 
  
  The graphics are rather underwhelming, but this is not such a bad thing for System Shock 2. Many 
 of the game's environments thrive upon shadows and suspense. The graphics engine produces a foreign, 
 artificial setting that plays upon the player's emotions. There is a sense of isolation and nightmarish 
 detachment from reality while playing System Shock. Enemies are also frightening and disturbing 
 due in part to the lower graphics. 
  
  Sound is a massive factor in System Shock 2. It is the most successful aspect of the game. The 
 entire story is revealed to you in real-time through the collecting of private audio logs dropped 
 by crewmembers and other people that had been aboard the Von Braun before, during, and after the 
 eruption of complete chaos. The voice acting is top-notch. Computers and machinery whirrs, clicks, 
 beeps, and hums. Adding to the eeriness of the game are the voices of your various enemies, which 
 often speak strange, broken sentences, or erupt with hideous roars, screams, or moans when they 
 catch sight of you. 
  
  Act II
  
  The gameplay of System Shock 2 was highly innovative for its time and remains so today, although 
 other games have adopted its open-ended sandbox style experience. SS2 can be properly described 
 as a hybrid of an Action FPS and an RPG. The game takes place in the first-person, and you are 
 able to collect various items, weapons, and keycards while viewing them on a real-time inventory 
 screen. 
  
  You earn special points throughout the game, designated as "cybernetic modules". These allow you 
 to upgrade stats, learn new tricks, or improve your abilities. Following your choice at the beginning 
 of the game, a Marine would naturally be moving towards skills with guns and maybe some technical 
 skills like computer hacking. A Navy officer would have excellent technical skills but less in 
 other categories. The O. S. A. agent has psychic abilities for starters, but lacks weapons and technical 
 skills. The three branches can be focused upon heavily, moderately, or ignored altogether. Choosing 
 a starting character type does not limit you game-wise. You can buy different abilities and change 
 yourself into a character that has sufficient mastery of all three skill branches if you like. 
 
  
  Stealth is important in System Shock 2. Enemies are constantly respawning at random and there are 
 security cameras that will set off alarms if they catch sight of you. If an alarm goes off, you 
 must flee or fight for your life against endless charging hordes of enemies until the alarm timer 
 runs out. 
  
  Weapons like guns break down over time in System Shock, requiring you to not only make every shot 
 count, but to be moderately skilled with the ability to repair and maintain your weapons if you 
 want to keep using them. Ammunition is also scarce and expensive on higher difficulties, which 
 means you will have to conserve and choose your battles carefully. 
  
  Perhaps what makes System Shock 2 most appealing is the open-endedness of the game. You don't need 
 to make yourself into a crazy marine with guns constantly blazing, although it is certainly possible 
 (I've done it) , but not the smartest decision on higher difficulties. You could be a purely technical 
 person, sneaking around, hacking security panels to shut down cameras and turrets, beating enemies 
 into pulps with your trusty wrench. Or you could give yourself psychic abilities (those are fun) 
 and fry your foes, make computer hacking easier, create force-fields, etc. Best of all is that 
 you can combine all three (and you will) in any way that you like, and play through the game in 
 practically any way that you like. 
  
  The replay value for System Shock 2 is pretty high. Being able to always construct a different 
 character every time you play is a big plus. There aren't many hidden secrets, though, and the 
 online multiplayer is very poor. However, as a single-player experience that can be enjoyed more 
 than once, SS2 excels. 
  
  If you can get your hands on a copy of this game, I would recommend it, simply for the sake of 
 experiencing an awesome, creepy, and entirely unique type of game. It will be worth your time, 
 but be sure to look up configuration changes if you have a newer computer like an XP. I had to 
 get a patch for my game before it would run on mine. After that, if you're still curious, there 
 are also fan-made patches to the game that improve the graphics and other little things. Good luck!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepwninator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The game, though difficult, is extremely enjoyable, and the replay value is virtually unparalleled 
 amongst FPSs. This is due, in part, to the stellar role-playing aspects of the game, as well as 
 the sheer size and detail of the game world. The graphics, for the time, are very high quality, 
 and the overall atmosphere of the game is incredible, as are the enemy and level design (except 
 for one enemy, which had me in a rather "WTF?!!?"-ish state when I first saw it... damned cyborg 
 midwives...) . 
  
  The only real problem I have with it is its final segment; the open-ended nature of the game is 
 lost when you leave the Rickenbacker, thus destroying its greatest strength.
  
  The game can be rather difficult if you do not play it correctly, and, as such, it can be very 
 frustrating to the player who simply picks it up. However, this problem is easily remedied, as 
 the game is only around 12-14 hours long, and you will know if your character is disadvantaged 
 almost from the offset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraivyne
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I am giving this game a late review, as I registered a new account on gamespot. This game is defiantly 
 high up there with the greats, till now no single game has given me the thrill and adrenalin that 
 system shock gave me and still does.
  
  I have played this game more times than I can remember and have yet to find a single crack in its 
 perfect shell. Some might say I am going a bit "over the top" with the praise, but truth be told 
 this is just a fabulous game.
  
  If you recently played Bioshock and thought it was amazing, go to the bargain bin of the nearest 
 retailer and pick this up. You will soon understand where Bioshock gets its thrills and praise 
 from.
  
  If you have played Bioshock then you have undoubtedly met the fabled Big Daddy, well hands down, 
 System Shock 2 is just that... It is the Big Daddy .... hell its the whole family tree in comparison.
 
  
  Xerxes wants you to play this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  1994's System Shock was a remarkable game, but it was also somewhat crude. It was little more than 
 a glorified first person shooter with some freedom embedded in it for good measure. Irrational 
 Games (known mostly for their latest release, BioShock) released a follow up in 1999, and I'm ashamed 
 that it took me so long to actually bother and complete this gem of a title.
  
  Set forty two years after the hacker from the original game triumphed over Shodan on Earth's orbital 
 space station, Citadel, you are a soldier who requested to be posted aboard the Van Braun, the 
 first warp speed capable human vessel on its historical maiden voyage. When the Van Braun discovered 
 a strange life form at Tau Ceti V something went wrong causing a wide scale crisis on board turning 
 the historical vessel into a derelict ghost ship, with very few survivors. You are alone, and sixty 
 seven trillion miles from Earth. System Shock 2's story is a seemingly hopeless survival story 
 that plays the horror card very well since it focuses more on the psychological aspects of the 
 genre than wall busting, leap out of the shadows and into your face (Doom 3) horror. While the 
 story isn't deep by any stretch of the word, it is well written and doesn't cheapen the lonely 
 and desolate atmosphere.
  
  System Shock 2 plays like a first person shooter with role playing elements, because that's essentially 
 what it is. You have generic stats such as strength, endurance, agility, etcetera as well as weapon, 
 psionic (System Shock 2's version of "magic") , and technical skills that you upgrade with cybernetic 
 modules that you obtain over the course of the game. Since it's a shooter as well, you get a wide 
 array of weapons to play with... unfortunately the ridiculously fast rate in which ranged weapons 
 wear down and break makes melee weapons far more appealing. I did not care for the weapon deterioration 
 system.
  
  System Shock 2 provides you with a variety of horrific enemies (and some, not so horrific, like 
 the kamikaze protocol droids) that wander the decks of the Van Braun. Unfortunately, despite the 
 fact that they WILL follow you no matter how far you run (except when you enter another area) the 
 AI seems to be somewhat lacking. System Shock 2 uses the same engine as Thief: The Dark Project, 
 and Thief II: The Metal Age which both had brilliant AI, so this is somewhat puzzling. There were 
 several times when I just wandered past enemies and they did not move to engage, or even act like 
 I was there. But despite the occasionally crude AI, tripping an alarm by getting caught by a security 
 camera will summon forth an infinite amount of enemies for as long as the alarm timer is counting 
 down, and the enemies spawned by that trigger won't ignore you.
  
  Visually, System Shock 2 is definitely outdated. It uses the Dark Engine, so you've got hybrids 
 with no noses, ugly models in general, and low resolution textures. Even for its time System Shock 
 2 was not a particularly nice game to look at, it wasn't until Thief II's revision of the engine 
 in 2000 that the visuals of the technology were even remotely on par with the other games of that 
 era.
  
  While the graphics were mediocre, the audio was exceptional. Featuring top of the line voice acting, 
 an ambient and techno musical score, and horrific sound effects SS2 has an amazing sound track. 
 Whether it be the creepy atmospheric musical score playing in the background as you explore the 
 Van Braun's cargo bays, or the monstrous voices of the hybrids as they stalk you through the corridors 
 SS2 does a great job with bringing its world to life through audio.
  
  System Shock 2 is a cult classic for good reason, it's a superb game with a great combination of 
 FPS and RPG gameplay, a compelling enough story, and an atmosphere that would make Resident Evil 
 quake in its disc case. It is by no means perfect, but then is any game truly perfect? It took 
 me a few years to sit down and actually bother and play through the entire game, but now that I 
 have it was well worth it even if it is outdated by today's standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  When system shock 2 came out in 1999, I learned about it after reading an article in a PC gamer 
 magazine. I wanted this game real bad.
  
  I bought it, paid a full 60 canadian bucks in a future shop, came back home and played.... and 
 played... and played.... and played.
  
  System shock 2 hooked me. The gameplay was so fantastic that it kept me playing for hours and for 
 days and weeks. This game belongs to the category we call FPS/RPG hybrids which means your sight 
 is in first person and there is a character build-up system to it. SS2's story is set in a derelict 
 spaceship overunned by parasitics creatures which borded it after it landed on a planet. You wake 
 up with no memory of who you are or what's happening and a ''surviving'' crew member briefs you 
 and gives you directions. And then... the adventure starts!
  
  To complete your tasks you have an array of weapons, skills and enhancements which can be upgraded 
 to you liking and to suit your playing style: you prefer hacking turrets rather than destoying 
 them? fine. make sure to upgrade your hacking skills! You want to research creatures organs to 
 learn how to kill them efficiently? Upgrade your research skills!
  
  Without telling too much about it, if you've played games like Deus Ex 1 and 2 or bioshock and 
 loved them, you'll be pleased by System Shock 2.
  
  On the minus side, the graphics: they were already dated for the time, using the thief 2 engine, 
 so today they're quite ugly.
  
  If you're planning on getting the game, make sure you download fan stuff that make it look better 
 like the Rebirth mod which changes character textures and others mods which enhance texture resolution. 
 Make sure to look out for a way to make it run on WinXp: get this info on fansites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best games out there, whether GameSpot knows it or not. SS2 is a 
 phenomenal game with an unusual plot and complex mechanics. It's a gritty and twisted first-person 
 shooter that combines RPG elements with the FPS premise that makes it famous. The game may seem 
 dated, but it's still spectacular. In fact, it's a Halo-killer in its own right. 
  
  SS2 is a good bit similar to Deus Ex in visual style and plot. When the game was first released 
 in 1999, the graphics were unbelievable. Hell, they still aren't bad-looking - the environments 
 are still good-looking and the character models are great. 
  
  One important note about the game is that, after almost ten years, it's still freakin' scary. The 
 levels have a dark atmosphere of death and despair, you'll find corpses strewn about and gore splattered 
 everywhere, and the violent ambushes performed by hideously mutated enemies will scare you s***less.
 
  
  Any way you look at it, shooter fans and RPG fans alike will find something to love in SS2. Even 
 though it's almost ten years old, it's still one of the most incredible technological achievements 
 ever. These days, copies are cheap - I would strongly advise any PC gamer to try and get a hold 
 of System Shock 2. It doesn't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Personal Comment:
  I had heard of System Shock 2 a long time ago, but I never played it since I was a total WUSSY 
 back then and didn't like the fact that it had a reputation of being scary. After playing it though 
 I found an amazingly cool and revolutionary FPS+RPG hybrid.
  
  Review:
  You are a normal guy who starts off going to join the military, picking from one of 3 different 
 careers. Those are Marines (Good Weapon abilities and Health) , Navy (Good at repairing and Hacking) , 
 And the O. P. S. or something like that (Prefer Psi abilities) After a 4 year program you find yourself 
 on board the Starship Von Braun where something has gone wrong. You quickly find that a infection 
 has spread to nearly everyone on board. So its your job to out-smart the A. I. Xerxes and find a 
 way off the ship. All along the way you'll encounter numerous terrifying and down right scary creatures. 
 Zombie-like Hybrids, Evil Psi throwing monkeys, all kinds of creepy enemies await. You'll also 
 encounter spooky apparitions and freaky voices. The apparitions make you feel sorry for the victims 
 since they are cursed to go through their deaths for all eternity and the voices just plain freak 
 me out. You don't have to worry about having sucky aiming or low as hell health, unlike Deus Ex, 
 since you can upgrade your body's Bio-Metrics using terminals to upgrade Psi, Tech, Weapon, and 
 Logic. Each one boasts a different number of upgrade options, like increased hacking capabilities, 
 better accuracy, Harder hitting with blunt weapons, repairing weapons, and numerous others. However, 
 to upgrade yourself you need to find some hard to get Upgrade Modules. These are gained from finding 
 them on dead bodies and completing objectives. This is what sets SS2 apart from just your run of 
 the mill FPS. These upgradings make it a bit more like an RPG and add a lot more depth to it.
 
  
  Make sure to get the special texture upgrade mods for SS2, just look around on Google or Yahoo! 
 and you'll find them.
  Conclusion:
  If you're a fan of RPGs or FPSs you'll enjoy System Shock 2 and if you've played Bioshock but not 
 this, what are you waiting for? Go out and get it.
  
  Pros: Deep and creepy story, Great combination of RPG and FPS, Atmosphere is just perfect, the 
 way the enemies react is just plain freaky, scares abound, nearly endless customization and Psi 
 abilities.
  
  Cons: Unless you get the Texture upgrade mods the graphics look pretty bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I played half life simultaneously with this and when I got to the final three stages it seems like 
 a complete rip off of each other that I got bored almost playing either game. But System Shock 
 2 seems like a role playing game only in its deliberately slow pacing. For the most part, its at 
 a heart an FPS, and quite linear at that. This game is scary but only because its alien life forms 
 look weird and it mixes organic horrorbloodfest with maniac computer. Nothing new here. The midwife 
 is by far the scariest enemy but the rest look hardly threatening. You also fight robots, that's 
 cool. There are special powers but doesnt mean most of they will be useful, only like 75% for most 
 of the time. This is not a classic in my opinion. the polygon count is unnecessarily low by todays 
 standards and render faces and bodies quite primitively. you can lots of stuff within this game 
 but only it seems within a confined spaceship and within a short linear time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I played SS2 after a very long time, and I have to admit, I got SCARED. I'm not talking about scary-movie 
 scared, but actually **** The gameplay, the concept, the MUSIC... it all creates the kind of game 
 environment that you just never want to leave. The story line is action-packed and aggressive, 
 though I thought that the starting levels had a little too much of  
 kinds of errands. Nevertheless, it all amounted to a game experience that I'll never forget.
  
  The GRAPHICS are okay enough, though a lot of characters, even the protagonist, look squarish 
 , but considering that the game was made in '99, that's not exactly bad. On a high-end gaming rig, 
 the game might look ever better...
  
  The MUSIC does more that to just immerse you in the game... it makes you feel what SHODAN wants 
 you to feel. For those who know what SHODAN is, they will agree that it/she is probably the most 
 memorable and mind-numbingly terrifying character ever made. The voice of SHODAN instantly gives 
 you the feeling of imminent danger and impending doom.
  
  I don't know exactly what to say about this game. Sure, there are a lot of games like Half Life 
 and Deus Ex that try and do what SS2 is doing, but that's just it... those games aren't SS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Here is a game that is worth playing, inspite of the fact that it was released in 1999. I would 
 even say that is fsr better than a lot of new games out there.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  When you compare it with the ultra-realistic graphics that the modern games have to offer, it falls 
 way off the elite zone. But when for a game released in 1999 it is pretty good. Either way one 
 must remember that graphics is not everything.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Ah! Scores good here. The background music is just perfect... keeps your concentration focussed 
 and the pulse racing. The in-game sounds like the shouts of monsters just fits in - not too much 
 to talk about. In other words the same as in other game. And then there is the in-game instructions 
 and recordings, clear and apt.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  Now, this one's good. The game is set well in the future-in the 22nd century. You start with memory 
 wiped out and fitted with various implants aboard the starship Von Braun. You are helped (In other 
 words, given objectives) by Dr. Janice Polito on your way. In this your main enemy will be a group 
 of Extra-Terrestrial life form that invades the human body called The Many. As wander the corridors 
 of Von Braun you get to find a number of message logs, through which you come to know of what has 
 happened to the ship and the whole story unravels. What of SHODAN from the original System Shock? 
 You have to play the game to find out.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay is really innovative. It is a Sci-fi RTS/FPS combo. The game has an intense plot that 
 is well supported by the eerie atmosphere. The ultra-futuristic gadgetry and implants are something 
 that make the game all the more unique. These RTS/FPS games are usually based on magic and not 
 on Sci-fi and here is where SS2 stands out.
  Coming to the game atmosphere, I have to really say that it is somewhat creepy. After some encounters 
 with the enemy you'll soon find yourself turn frantically around and try to find a safer place 
 at the slightest sound or movement (In the game, I mean) . You won't find armies of the enemy or 
 even a wide variety, but within some time you'll feel that this is more than enough. The AI is 
 good.
  Now, for the RPG aspect. You will earn Cybernetic Modules (Fancy name for Level points) , as you 
 complete the objectives, which you can assign to any of the 4 character attributes. Don't be hasty 
 while assigning the Modules to your attributes. Think twice and assign them to what is actually 
 necessary. These points are a bit hard to come by.
  Cons: The game tends to get monotonous after a while, especially with very similair surroundigs 
 and lack of monster varieties.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  The blend is just right and the plot is well done. It might be an old game but is well worth to 
 be tried out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helena73
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I can't say I'm a real shooters fan. I don't like running around killing things.
  However, for this game I am willing to make an exception. The story is very thirilling, apocalyptic 
 and real scary in some parts. There's something lurking everytime you turn the corner. Something 
 evil that becomes a pleasure to kill.
  The sound of the voices in this game were really creepy and you get a feeling of survive or get 
 mutilated and eaten.
  
  I believe that a game becomes a classic when it is able to bring out some emotion from the player. 
 The game was a total rush and kept me on the edge of my seat right to the end.
  I'm looking forward to more shooters like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  I just finished dumping about 8 hours into system shock II.
  
  I must say, that game is obviously where Deus Ex, and other various games get there ideas.
  
 
  It was a real neat treat playing it. It's too bad I had to play Deus Ex first, because some of 
 it seemed like a replay - but not exactly. Not only do you have guns, you can fight with special 
 PsI powers, use hand objects, etc.
  
  Let me first say that usually, I start games on medium mode when I get the choice. But, after 6 
 hours of medium gameplay, I just decided to lay it out. It's simply, too hard at medium gameplay 
 for the first time through. Don't get me wrong, there is nothing wrong with a challenging game, 
 I just wish that I had set this on easy before beginning.
  
  I thought it was some-what scarey. Your walking... all of a sudden you hear a loud noise, and a 
 robot clunks up behind you and starts blurbbing something, then explodes.
  
  One thing I didn't like, is that sometimes, it seemed like you can't ever secure a room. You'd 
 walk off in another area, complete it, come back... and it's crawling with goodies again. There 
 is nothing wrong about this, there IS when on medium mode, there is a scarcity of resources... so 
 soon, you are fighting with a crowbar... because most of your items are broken.... and you dont have 
 the right ammo because your all out to fight certain objects- (Robots take AP projectiles, ETC)
 
  
  I played this game using the high-res patch, and the graphics were pretty decent.... no complaints 
 here about graphics, sounds, or controls... very highly playable.
  
  It's innovation is its BEST feature. Everything, including objects, etc seemed pretty new and fun... even 
 to this day. Elevators that are just made of an air current, etc. You walk around, finding PDA's, 
 its just like Doom III in that since.
  
  During my 6 hours of gamplay, I did not see much that attributed to an RPG . I would argue against 
 it being an RPG. Yes, you can build up your charactor a certain way, but the story line so far, 
 would be the exact same way everyway through.
  
  One other complaint is the quick save option. It only works when your playing the game. So, if 
 you shut it down.. and start it back up later... you loose everything you have. Which, is actually 
 a big deal, because we are so USE to using quick save. I spent alot of time actually on this game 
 just getting back to where I was... it was alittle irritating. Make sure to push ESC, then actually 
 really save it before quiting, because you WILL forget!
  
  Sometimes, I'd like to think there was just too much options to make yourself into. You could make 
 yourself into this PSI monster, but you can't really use weapons that well.... especially repair 
 them because they fall apart too fast. I tried to make my charactor very borderline for PSI, but 
 able to use small arms really good... and I still was having trouble because I didn't have enough 
 points to be able to repair my weapons, and my PSI was lacking for being borderline . So this means, 
 that there may be too much options to really keep up with the game. It might be good to stick with 
 one thing, as with most open ended skill point games . A good comparison of what I am talking about 
 is building a necromancer in Diablo 2. Only stick to a couple skills.. such as Bone and Summon... or 
 Summon and Bone. if you do everything, your Necro will be weak. Best weapon I found out is the 
 crowbar.... it doesnt fail, its just as strong as the firearm.. and it works on everyone... why not?
 
  
  Conclusion: Overall, this game is a MUST have. It's free, and its the backbone of most of these 
 SCI-FI shooters that we have today. Is it better than Dues Ex? Not a chance. But if you had fun 
 with Deus Ex, you will have fun with this game. This game again, is innovational. Nothing is conventional... which 
 makes this a very unique sci-fi shooter.
  
  Pros:
  
  *Highly Innovated.. It's the Blade-Runner or 2001 of Sci-Fi movies
  
  *It's Freeware.. you can't 
 complain.
  
  *Lots of different skills/weapons you can be
  
  *Scarey in alot of spots
  
  Cons:
  
  *Quick Save Option only saves while you are in the 
 game. Don't forget to do a FULL SAVE before you exit.
  
  *Somewhat a long learning curve
  
  *Difficulty is too hard for medium settings your first time through.
  
  *Storyline is non-changing..
 
  
  *Intro seems alittle too drawn out.
  
  *Weapons become dysfuntional too fast... would be nice to have a few more skill points at first 
 so you can be more multi-skilled .
  
  System Shock 2 brings a nostalgic sci-fi experience with many hours of fun gameplay. Best of all, 
 it's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Blends RPG and FPS elements nicely, decent story, can be creepy
  
  The Bad: Dinosaur age is a real eye sore, clunky menu layout, default controls are awkward, Doesn't 
 explain things clearly
  
  SS2 came out around when HL1 did and for some reason this game just feels EXTREMELY old and that 
 really breaks the experience down. The menu is also pretty clunky and there are a lot of times 
 when you pick up an item and have no idea how to use it. The RPG elements are nice but it just 
 was done right here. I played maybe an hour of this game and just got rid of it. The game is a 
 nice experience especially if you're waiting for BioShock. The voice acting is good and the story 
 is decent but this game being almost 10 years old just really turned me off from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is truly a unique experience. You won't have to play the outdated first episode 
 to truly enjoy this masterpiece. Although even now such a game would be considered too old for 
 some gamers, it will never lose its place along side of the greatest games ever made.
  
  The story, to put it in short, is extremly fascinating yet revolutionary in my opinion. I believe 
 it sets the standard and served as an example for other games to come. I don't like to give out 
 spoilers so I won't explain any plot to you, you'll have to enjoy it yourself. You will believe 
 me when I say it's immersive, entertaining, scary and even innovative in many ways.
  
  The gameplay is also very fun. All I'll say is that you will be a genetically inhanced human being 
 with the ability to increase your potential in mutiple ways. Your enemies will try to stop you 
 around every corner and maybe your salvation will be a step closer if you succeed in defeating 
 them. But only if a certain someone agrees to help you out..... This title is a must for every 
 gamer out there. It ranks up to Doom, Half-Life, Quake and every other classic game out there. 
 You can't really appreciate today's games unless you finished System Shock 2 at least once. The 
 length of this game makes it even more enjoyable. Tons of hours of entertainment packed into this 
 amazing title.
  Enjoy the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 401225
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Okay, System Shock 2 maybe dont have incredible graphics but that doesnt cares so much, the real 
 reason that makes this game cool its because its gameplay, the creativity, and also things that 
 you can make here, there are implants, enemies, expended maching, hacking of a lot of systems and 
 his challenging dificulty, sometimes you will need more the ammo than the health in this game also 
 we must use our brain to resolve some obstacules that we will found in our way, like get a door 
 key, hacking security crates, system, machines, cameras and a lot of variable stuff around there. 
 XD
  
  Enjoy!!!!!!!!! And  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryomorph
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game has something ... something that makes me say SUPERB.
  
  The hybrids, the spiders, the worms, and of course the rumblers ... they are frightning ... really 
 frightning. Just finnished this great game and scared me a lot ... Those sounds were terrifying. 
 But where is the thrill in a game, if you're not afraid to look what's behind a door or a wall? 
 What a rush of adrenaline runs your veins when you find yourself in a room with monsters and your 
 weapon jams, or you run out of ammo.
  
  Great game ... Waiting for System shock 3 (BioShock ???) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  *** Be sure to get the mod pack that improves the graphics***
  
  System Shock 2 is one of the few games in this genre (RPG/FPS/Adventure hybrid) sharing the space 
 with games like Deus Ex. So if you've played Deus Ex you'll have an idea how the game works .
 
  What really makes System Shock 2 unique is the way it pulls everything off so well: The RPG element 
 is well developed with a limited number of upgrade modules that can be spent in 4 different areas, 
 including weapons proficiency /skill, physical attributes, Hacking abilities, and psychic abilities. 
 There are numerous ways you can develop your character and get a quite different playing experience. 
 Comparing this to Deus Ex it makes Deus Ex's RPG element look like a redundant bolt on. The adventure 
 element is superb, its a well executed cyberpunk horror that keeps you guessing, updating the story 
 along the way with the obligatory data pads and also communications from your mysterious helper. 
 Each section of the game is something new so the story never gets old and you constantly have the 
 feeling of being on the edge with unknown horrors ahead.
  
  The FPS element is perhaps more rudimentary than it might of been in some ways but in others its 
 also quite advanced, there is a large array of offensive weaponry and capabilities, the effectiveness 
 of which are determined by your respective Skills/Cybernetic upgrades in that area. the firepower 
 (or lack of) goes a long way to upping the suspense and atmosphere of the game, you're constantly 
 low on ammo and having to use you're whole array of weapons A) because you simply run out of ammo 
 on the gun you want to use B) because different guns and ammo types have vastly different efficacy 
 on different targets. One thing that does feel a little artificial though and is a pain in the 
 butt is that your guns are constantly degrading in condition and breaking, so you either need to 
 be skilled in repair to fix/maintain them of just plain carry a load of guns of the same type so 
 you can swap out when they brake - its unrealistic because in real life you might expect to fire 
 thousands of rounds from a pistol like a glock without need for maintenance or it breaking where 
 as in the game you might get a dozen shots.
  
  What really makes the game, as i've said it the way these elements mesh together and support each 
 other, they don't feel like separate elements but just part of the whole which is the game.
  
  Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FistandantilusX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Everywhere you turn, you here people proclaiming the merits of new next-gen shooters just because 
 they have prettier graphics or a better physics engine, but the majority of these same people have 
 never even heard of System Shock 2, let alone played it. In my opinion a next-gen game is defined 
 by gameplay rather than graphics which seem to define the modern next-gen . I have yet to play 
 another game which can match the complexity and depth of SS2. The saddest thing about System Shock 
 2 is that it never recieved the publicity that it deserved, yet finally it is getting some publicity 
 because of Irrational's next deep game, Bioshock, which may get the publicity that System Shock 
 2 never got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrorsound
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game really struck me as my all time favorite. I compared this game to Half 
 Life1 and 2, all Resident Evil, all Halo, etc.. All my favorite games, regardless of genre, next 
 gen.. All that marketing buzz word crap.... System Shock 2 still won hands down to this day. The 
 exploding robots, crew members hanging by ropes, the ghosts that roamed the deck of the von braun, 
 the recordings of dead crew members, the many, shodan, turrets, bio add ons, the mini games, comeon!!!! 
 Just pure genius!! No one to this day can touch the atmosphere SS2 has.. I still play it with the 
 newer skins and it still rules, how can you improve on the formula of the many coming at you with 
 pipes and shotguns, taunting you to join them as they shoot you or beat you to death!!! Just brutal... 
 Bring on the next gen whatever, it still does'nt matter.. SS2 had the golden fleece and ran with 
 it, so far no one has caught up.. Game developers to this day, if they are lucky may land a good 
 balance, may come close to Ted's genius but I doubt it.. Mr Levine you rock, EA 'aka the cube' 
 did'nt have a clue, they still don't to this day..
  
  Ted Levine and company, Thanks for sacrificing to get SS2 out there, you have made your mark and 
 we the true PC gamers salute you for it, the corp morons will never get it, they'll never come 
 close, money does'nt equal talent, talent equals godliness.. It has been written, it is done!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece of horror gaming. It is the Aliens of video games.
  
  I don't think I've played anything scarier. Sure, it's not a slasher, it doesn't have a lot of 
 the horror shticks, but this is brilliantly scary.
  
  There is nothing freakier than that crazy multi-voice thing whispering to you after having some 
 ugly critter jump you and you're almost out of hit points and ammo and already really jumpy.
  
  Newer survival horror games don't really have anything on this game. This game is the acid 
 standard. If you like scary games, play this NOW.
  
  In addition, the gameplay is awesome too. There are role-playing aspects as you develop skills 
 and find clues and enhancements. You do all this on a big scary ship that just scares the s$#t 
 out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeaLocKe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Terrific ambience, good sound, lovely inventory interface and shoot mode/use mode interface, 
 excellent mob AI.
  
  Cons: Some weapons shoots could be more fiery, a little lame weapon sounds (when u reload specially) , 
 unique game ive seen that when u became invisible u are still visible to u.
  
  This game is one of the most amazing games i played on my gamer career, actually is the one that 
 most surprises and hard moments gave me. If u are looking for a resident evil + doom + any rpg 
 type game then look no futher. This is a game that makes u turn it off cause u are too scared, 
 moving up VERY slowly looking around all the time and that sometimes u freeze out when u hear somethin.
 
  
  In deep analysis:
  
  Gameplay: Excellent, fast wep changing, excellent movement that is affected by stats (if u dont 
 think so , try using a speed booster and move) . Lean movements, amazing interface, u can order 
 ur items very easily. Also, this game is very, VERY large, and the creepy fact will not let u finish 
 it fast AT ALL.
  
  Multiplayer games are also very exciting, u must rely on share resources and use each chars main 
 abilities to survive. Sadly, and because this game is a little unknown, there isnt the number of 
 players u would want to be available to play.
  
  Fights with monsters are quite energetic (specially if u are taken by surprise or ambushed by security) . 
 And depending on ur build u can make various types of char depending on a class with various types 
 of weapons usages
  (Melee type is very fun) .
  
  Graphics: For a game on that times is very very great, however, some weapons shoots look much weaker 
 that should be and lots of players missed some more gory reactions when u fire a grenade to an 
 hybrid (come on, u shoot a grenade and the hybrid just fall to the floor slowly??!)
  
  Sound: The best aspect is the sound, u will be paranoid from machinery sounds to hybrid&acute; s 
 grunges. I specially recommend using headphones for a better (and scarier) experience.
  
  Value: Invaluable xD. As i said before, this game is an unknown classic, it should be at top with 
 very great games like quake 2 or unreal. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This is more of a look-back review and overview of SS2. Upon playing this classic again recently 
 during the summers game dryspell, I still felt it is one of the best ever. I'm not one for nostalgia 
 or retro normally. I hate XBLA for example. Of are like me and you can start up a PC game that 
 was made pre-2000 and enjoy it alot, that says something. Thanks to EA's stubbornness you'll have 
 to buy a used copy of this if you want to play it today. Patches will allow it to run on XP/2000. 
 Another patch ads Multiplayer although I never tried it. Ironically, the value of this game is 
 quit high indeed if you have a legit copy. Goes for as much as 70$US in some places. Also some 
 of the later patches can stifle the supidest feature of the game... degrading weapons (nanites and 
 such ok, still a dumb feature) . Also a texture upgrade that improves the look. I tried to review 
 the scores here as if it was 1999 though. The big cult following this game has is due to the uniqueness 
 and sci-fi horror. You may pick one of 3 classes early which will pretty much dictate how you play 
 the game. Use guns and attack directly, hack your way through computer systems, or use a PSi power 
 to get through. A blend of 3 may be used. 2 very interesting enemies in this game, and you are 
 all alone except for the recorded dialogue of the dead crew of the Von Braun spaceship. The story 
 and level design is great. Although you will be left your own devices sometimes in an overwhelming 
 way. That much is typical of games from this era. Tp wrap up the game review, if you have patience 
 to get this working on your PC and want to experiance a gaming classic, its a must play. The feel 
 and immersiveness of this a game like this doesn't come along too often.
  
  Without System Shock 2, you have no Deus Ex. Though that franchise went from awesome to a lesser 
 and heavy console influenced game to an eventual absolute garbage in a spinoff title I can't even 
 remember. So perhaps if EA was blowing smoke about making SS3 and decides not to go through with 
 it, it is for the best at this point. Though without EA making a System Shock 3 you will not likely 
 see a reason for them to re-release this game as they should have been doing. Maybe as an unlockable 
 bonus on XBLM for 15$ or in the PC special edition for $60. Regardless, they will make it expensive 
 enough to make it worth their while. Perhaps it is of more value to EA in limited circulation and 
 cult fandom for publicity for SS3. Don't be suprised. The decisions of what is to happen to this 
 franchise are not made by gamers or people who make games (EA corporate) nor was it ever and thats 
 how those people think. After all, they were dumb enough to bury it in the first place. Failing 
 replaying this game. Keep an eye out for BioShock next year. SS2's sequel in spirit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Rather than re-iterating all that's already been said about System Shock 2, I'm going to keep this 
 short. If you're a hard-core gamer like I consider myself to be (I've played well over a hundred 
 PC titles) , then you'll know that there are few games that stand out as exceptional. Consider those 
 that are truly revolutionary, and the list grows even smaller. My benchmark is simple... if I had 
 to pick 5 games to take to a desert island, what would they be? (Of course, I'm assuming I'd have 
 an unbreakable PC, unlimited power supply, no Internet connection, and pizza and rum punch served 
 by brown skinned island girls, but that goes without saying.)
  
  Well, as you might have already guessed, System Shock 2 would be on that list. A lot of people 
 would probably disagree, but for my part, each game in such a selection would have to be two things: 
 incredibly immersive, and highly re-playable. In my humble opinion (which I respect) , System Shock 
 2 has both those qualities in spades.
  
  'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakkabe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then, a friend of mine points me at a bizarre game that I've never heard of, and 
 when I sit down to play it, it promptly kicks my ass and steals a good 20 hours of my life. This 
 time, however, it was all my little brother's fault.
  
  I'll admit, I never played the first one, but after watching the introduction I could tell it hardly 
 mattered. The events of the first game were summed up in the first two lines and after a brief 
 overview of the game I was about to play, I was all set to go.
  
  In System Shock 2, you are a soldier who was apparently recruited at the last minute to serve as 
 security on board the Von Braun, the first starship capable of faster than light-speed travel. 
 After a somewhat confusing sequence detailing some emergency surgery, you emerge from a cyrogenic 
 sleep to discover that something on the ship has gone horribly wrong. Armed with nothing more than 
 a wrench you find lying around, you soon begin to encounter humans infected with some sort of parasite. 
 As you try to get power restored to the elevators without the main computer knowing it, the happenings 
 aboard the ship begin to reveal themselves through the audio logs of the terrified and now most 
 likely dead staff, and you slowly begin to realize the true magnitude of what you're up against.
 
  
  The graphics of System Shock 2 are pretty mediocre. The environment is pretty cool, but occasionally 
 dull since you never actually leave the ship. The character models, however, are rather lousy. 
 The hybrids you face are blocky and bland, while the humans you find suffer from what I call "triangle 
 feet." There is some good news, however. A mod was made that greatly improves all the worst character 
 models, so although they don't really move more or change their facial expressions, they do look 
 much cleaner and even a bit scary.
  
  The sounds, on the other hand, were dead-on. There was a wide array of voice-acting for all the 
 audio logs, some coming out kind of bland, others, dare I say, frightening. The weapons are great, 
 and make different noises depending on the surface they hit. In addition, nearly every enemy you 
 face will try to talk to you. Some hybrids moan about the joy of The Many, while others will try 
 to warn you, and beg for death when injured. On the other hand, C-3PO-like protocol droids will 
 continue their charade of helpfulness  "Sir! I believe I found what you're looking for... where 
 did you go?"  right up until they get close enough to take you out in a suicidal explosion.
  
  Throughout the game, you find a VERY wide array of weapons, reaching from your ` key out to 
 the equal sign, and you can load several weapons with different types of ammo, for armor piercing 
 or other purposes. Most weapons also come with an alternate fire, and leaning is even allowed.
 
  
  It's not all a shooter, though. In many RPGs, I find that the game is hard at the very beginning 
 until you can get a few level-ups, then it becomes super easy for a while, then you get to a certain 
 badass boss and have to go back and level up a few more times. Other times, it just becomes easy 
 throughout the entire game. That didn't happen here. This shooter has a level-up process, which 
 works not by killing opponents, but by using cyber-modules, which can be found by exploring and 
 are also awarded to you for completing objectives. On easy, you could probably get away with just 
 wrenching everyone to death, but on the harder difficulties, you will need to upgrade your stats 
 and skills, which consist of weapons proficiency, hacking, repairing, and a few others, as well 
 as a well-devloped "psy" stat, which allows you to perform all kinds of both useful and incredibly 
 pointless abilities. I'm not so sure anything in this psy list is worth the points you have to 
 spend on them to get anything good, though.
  
  One bizzare thing about this "RPG" is that there are tons of items, but nothing resembling a shop 
 at all. You can get a "recycler" later, that can turn small, useless junk into money, but for the 
 most part a useless item is a useless item. In this game you must learn that when you find something 
 you don't need, you'll actually have to let it go. You can only carry so much, and there is a LOT 
 of unhelpful junk. An interesting note is that you hardly even "meet" anyone throughout the game. 
 You mostly communicate through diary entries and the stream of e-mails from one or two supposedly 
 omniscient guides.
  
  Playing through the game, I don't think I received the effect the game went for. Had the graphics 
 been better (I didn't know about the mod when I played through it the first time) and the music 
 more immersive, I might have been scared by this game. It was a highly innovative concept and Shodan 
 was simply an awesome character. Lack of polish notwithstanding, I loved it.
  
  Highs: Immersive experience, great story, characters that manage to be kickass without ever even 
 getting to introduce themselves, combat that lets you dodge. Oh, and it's now free. Did I forget 
 to mention that?
  Lows: A bit too much running around, bland graphics, that nagging feeling that you won't find another 
 healing station for a while and you wonder if you should turn around, being a psy-user sucks.
 
  Bottom Line: Anyone that likes a good ghost story or an offbeat RPG should find a good time in 
 this game. Hardcore FPSers, "You'rrrre not wwelcome heeeeuuurrr." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Getting a 3 day ban from posting on Gamespot really have me ample time to tackle some games on 
 my "Now Playing" list. One of these titles just happens to be a little gem I missed while I was 
 away in the military in 1999, System Shock 2. It's is usually hard to review a game this old and 
 try to keep in perspective, but System Shock 2 makes it easy.
  
  I can start out by saying that this gamehas a great Sci-Fi story that could have been a blockbuster 
 movie, or at least a B-movie with a large cult following. The story starts off roughly three decades 
 after System Shock 1, in which the events in that game caused the downfall of major conglomerates 
 and the rise of regular governments once again. Everything is looking kind of up for this new society 
 until one of these fallen companies create this fascinating technology that lets humans travel 
 space faster than the speed of light. With such a break through in science, you know the goverment 
 has to get their hands involved in this one. This Is roughly where the player comes in. The game's 
 hero of sorts starts out with no fanfare, just a person that wants to better their life by joining 
 either the Marines, the Navy or the OSA which happens to be a new branch of service dealing with 
 mental powers. You get to choose which branch you go into which will, in turn, effect the way that 
 you play the game. Marines will be your standard tank persona, the Navy is the typical stealth/hacker 
 character and OSA will let you use mind powers to overcome enemies. After that choice is made, 
 you know have the ability to choose your first three duty stations which will give you starting 
 boosts to the skills essential for your early survival in the game. The last year of service, the 
 hero reports to the Faster Than Light (FTL) ship, the Von Braun, which is led by the TriOptimum 
 Corporation and literally pibby packing this voyage, The Rickenbacker, the governmental guard of 
 this expedition.
  
  Needless to say, things go horribly wrong and you're stuck between government and corporate redtape, 
 A rogue AI and alien lifeforms bent on the destruction of mankind, and the need to survive.
  
  The RPG side of the game is a great addition to this game but isn't as well utilized in games 
 such as Deus Ex and Vampire the Masquerade. With that said, the game still gives a great amount 
 of customization and freedom even though the missions may not always cater to the choices you've 
 made. I found a well balanced character is usually better prepared than having strictly a Marine, 
 Navy or OSA character. The shooting engine had to be great for the era this game came out because 
 it's still a solid engine allowing quick weapon changing, rapid reloading, different type of ammo 
 and upgrades to the guns. Speaking of guns, there are over a dozen ways to dispatch the various 
 enemies in the game, ranging from melee weapons to alien technology.
  
  The AI in System Shock 2 is a mixed bag. There's no group tactics here but that could be explained 
 by the nature of the beasts; All these creatures in the game want you dead. The assassin droids 
 are the only exception, they were generally stealthy and tried to attack from a distance. The only 
 complaint I could make about the AI is when an alarm is triggered. Even though I could get out 
 of the area where I was spotted, the computer was able to track me down hiding in a closet and 
 send swarms of enemies at me. The graphics were ok thanks to a downloadable texture upgrade. Of 
 course these aren't high rez textures and the models have a very low polygon count, but the engine 
 still does a good job to this day. The levels each had their own theme to them and were in different 
 amounts of ruin. That fact alone eleviated the feeling of running through a repeatitive ship structure. 
 The enemy models looked good but moved rather rigidly, but again that's ok because of the day this 
 game came out in.
  
  The sound department was a highpoint in this game. Using sound to locate a nearby enemy was a key 
 factor in survival. It was the best way to figure out that some sort of beastie was trying to sneak 
 up and cause bodily harm. The music also picked up in areas of a lot of action which complemented 
 the feeling of panic and dread. The voice acting on the data disks and through email was perfect. 
 Not a single bad actor or any instances of terrible dialog.
  
  So great story, dated but decent graphics, good voice acting and a unique RPG system for the time 
 is reason why this game is as critically acclaimed as it is. Simply put; they rarely make games 
 like this anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 should be competing against other epic games like Quake or Half-Life, but many gamers 
 have not appreciated the work of Looking Glass Studios on System Shock 2. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very good. The movement is just like with all FPS games, but there's an inventory 
 system. You can keep many things in your inventory system, from weapons to chemicals. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics aren't really that good, but this game was made in 1999. These graphics 
 are just like Half-Life's or GTA III's, but whatever. 
  
  Sound:
  Gunshots and object sounds fill the noise spectrum in System Shock 2. But sometimes the reading 
 of emails can get really annoying and repetitive. 
  
  Value:
  Definitely get this game. It's very fun and will keep you on the edge of your seat for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Been looking to play a scary game lately.... well end your search here... nothing gets better than 
 this. System Shock 2 puts you in the position of.... well you. This game is a FPS/RPG which lets 
 you choose your own path. From the start you are asked to go through training which includes basic 
 training, Advanced training, Weapons, Engineering and Phsycic abilities. You also have a coureer 
 path which consists of three groups: Marine Core (Weapon based) , Navy (Engineering, some standard 
 weapon skills) , Phsycic training (well Psy- power based) . You then (After chosen the coureer path) 
 have three years to complete your training. Though the training dosn't sound as interesting as 
 it looks... it's quite simply walking through some tunnels choosing the skill to improve on. 
 
  
  Once your three years are up... prepare for the worst. You are now aboard the Rickenbracker which 
 is a ship going along with the Von Braun which is carrying a couple of hundred million aboard it. 
 Yet something goes wrong.... you awake upon the Rickenbraker in a Cryo Chamber/tube 5 months after 
 you boarded when you awake your memory is not completely clear... yet the worst is still to come... 
 you are 67 trillion miles away from earth. Shortly after waking you are being chatted to by Dr. 
 Janice Politio of the Von Braun's computer maintenence reminding you why your there... the cutscene 
 end's by her saying ".... there after us both now".
  
  The games graphics are now pretty out dated..... luckily there is a mod which improves the look 
 of the characters and models. The sounds are excellent especially for the terrifying Hybrids which 
 rule the corridors of the Von Braun. They sound pretty normal before you aproach them, the start 
 to mutter to themselves then as you walk passed them the will start saying "You are most unwelcome" 
 in a strange High pitched distorted voice.... which haunts you when you first hear it. You hit 
 them and their bloodcurdling screams echoe the corridors.... once their injured they start saying 
 "KILL ME KILL ME". The repitition of the Hybrids words are awesome as they stick in your mind. 
 The main creatures you really come across is the hybrids but they come in different forms. Some 
 carry pipes, some even hae shotguns. Though what really gets to you is the fact that sometime's 
 when you think all the Hybrids hae been killed.... one pops up out of nowhere. It frightens you 
 especially if your in use mode ,and you say "I think i will hack into this door now the Hybrids 
 are dead", halfway through hacking you are made jump by the sound of a Hybrid or Hybrid's coming 
 down the T-junction corridor to your left and your frantically clicking to try and escape the menu's... 
 then you realise you can just press tab to go back to shoot mode. 
  The real thing that makes the game epic apart from the gameplay and all the other things is Shodan. 
 Shodan is a computer virus who is the main opponent in the game. Shodan as PC gamer have said is 
 "The Girl Who Wanted To Be God". Shodan is a unique character and the legendary bit where your 
 walking though the church corridor and your walking on the cieling to see the crosses are now upside 
 down! Demonic!
  
  
  The game is not very easy.... not just because your being beaten about by Hybrids but because you 
 might not be able to find the crew door keycard or maybe a gun or some ammo... unable to find a 
 charging station for all those dead batteries in your inventory! Not only that its not easy learning 
 the controls. You would think that going into your inventory pauses the game but it dosn't. I guess 
 thats one of the scary factors about it making you decide wether to take the risk of opening your 
 inventory and listening to your PDA audio files or maybe just keep making sure there's no hybrids. 
 You couldn't survive through the game without your inventory so you do sort of hae to take that 
 risk every now and again. The worst thing that could happen though is having no gun when security 
 camera's are around. If an alarm goes off you might as well just take that wrench and batter yourself 
 with it as you become exposed to the Hybrids. An endless cascade of them come charging towards 
 you.
  
  Overall: This game is excellent though i forgot to metion the fast paced electric music score that 
 goes with it. Graphics are outdated excellent sounds and gameplay and not easy for begginers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie2688
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  As it is know System Shock 2 has been out there for a number of years and it has become a cult 
 game due to the immersion factors and as well as being one of the most scary and disturbing games 
 ever.
  Lets start by looking at the factors that make this game so great
  
  Gameplay: The game play is almost perfectly done and it is fallowed greatly by an incredible story. 
 This game mixes you typical FPS with RPG elements such as upgrading you skills, learning others 
 and modifying your stats as well as others not so conventional such as learning to hack systems 
 or research specimens. After choosing you character class that comes in form of a Marine that is 
 basically a warrior, Navy that is like a rouge and OSA that is like a wizard but instead of magic 
 you have psychic powers. You passing thru military training that is a very well done tutorial, 
 you are sent to this ultra high tech faster than light ship the Von Braun were you wake up and 
 you have no memory plus you have this illegal cyber implants that will give the opportunity to 
 survive this bloody mess, from there is a race to get the hell out of the ship but it wont be easy 
 the ship is infested with numerous mutants and freaks that will not stop till your dead as well 
 as numerous obstacles youll have to deal in order to progress. The story also contains many plot 
 twists and unexpected events that will keep you on the edge of you seat.
  
  Graphics: The games graphics are really good, while the human models dont look that well the mutants 
 and overall everything else looks really good even for this time. What is more impressive is the 
 how realistic the environments are. The ship is what you will expect from a real life high tech 
 ship nothing is missing even the most small detail is there to enrich this horror experience. Also 
 the design of many enemies as well and some environments and situation are very disturbing even 
 for the more experienced players, this games visually says a lot from enigmatic situations to bloody 
 scenarios.
  
  Sound: If I could I will give this game 11 as the score in sound. This is what sound masterpiece 
 is, and is not necessarily the music but the excellent voice acting and realism of the sounds, 
 the voice acting is completely realistic and is presented thru various audio blogs you will find 
 scattered thru the ship that will unfold the story as well as giving you aid or hints and even 
 some disturbing information, this audio blogs will keep you fascinated and you will always want 
 to find more to know what happened next and what really happened in the ship. The sound of the 
 objects are done perfectly the sound of the items is what you will expect as well as the sound 
 of other more disturbing things such as the monsters will make you be alert all the time.
  
  Value: The ship is massive and thanks that is no walk in the park it will be long hell of a 
 ride to the ending the will surely to keep you satisfied. The game is not easy, this is no shoot 
 everything on site you have to keep your resources checked so you wont find yourself in nasty 
 situations. As most RPGs the selection of class will determine the experience also the game doesnt 
 give enough points for you to actually learn everything so you will have to play the game numerous 
 times in order to try all abilities, weapons and powers.
  
  The overall experience is a complete horror masterpiece that will keep you engaged all the time, 
 there is no dull moment when you are running for you life in a doomed ship full of horrors. This 
 game is a solid mix of different types of games that is executed almost perfectly making it a surely 
 unique experience that should not be missed by true hardcore gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcaze
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is a mix of RPG and FPS genres. While you can play it as a FPS, is very hard to 
 do so; weapons break very frequently and ammo is not very abundant. In the game you will do a lot 
 of things: hack security systems to avoid being detected by cameras and turrets, repair Von Braun&acute; s 
 (the ship in which all the game has place) engineering systems, and such. For every completed objective, 
 you are given cybernetic modules to spend improving your skills like strength, agility, weapon 
 skills, hacking, and such. The story and atmosphere are the strongest attributes of SS2. You awake 
 in a cryo tube in Von Braun&acute; s Medsci deck. Everything around seems a chaos and guided by 
 Dr. Janice Polito you must discover what happened and, above all, how can you escape the mess. 
 All this is told through audio logs that are picked up through the whole ship. The enemies you 
 find are very scary and make noises that surely will make you tense and be alert all the time. 
 The audio contributes a lot for the fear factor in SS2; at the minimal strange noise you hear you&acute; ll 
 go paranoid and frantically move the mouse in all diferent positions to see from where it comes. 
 The graphics are the only bad part of the game. Although not horrible, by now (2006) they look 
 very dated. There are mods that make models look better, but in my opinion they take off a lot 
 of the scariness that comes with the old models. Nevertheless, the gameplay and atmosphere more 
 than compensate the visual faults of SS2.
  If you are thinking of buying or playing this, don&acute; t hesitate to start now and be completely 
 hooked to one of the best games ever. Fear the Many! Fear SHODAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robreloaded
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  First a little back story on my first System Shock experience...
  
  Back in the days...
  
  I was a young nipper (13) and just started to venture into the big world of PC gaming. Having 
 spent my previous gaming experiences on Amstrad's, Megadrive's and Playstation's nothing had quite 
 prepared me for what System Shock 2 had to offer.
  
  I remember fondly as I started up the game and watched the spine-tingling intro. Then when the 
 game did start, I actually thought it was another movie that had crashed, yet to my surprise this 
 was in-game. I guess it was coming from the blocky Playstation graphics to the nice high resolution 
 FPS images that shocked me, as the character models in the game are arguably the worst part of 
 the game (more on this later) .
  
  I played the game for a few hours, but strangely enough I never got any further than about 1/4 
 of the way through. Due to a few factors mainly being, it was scary as hell and I got stuck and 
 forgot what I was meant to be doing. And that my friends is how my System Shock experience remained 
 for many years, until I decided to give it a second go...
  
  So many years after my initial experience, I installed System Shock 2 again, along with a few mods 
 for visual improvements and away I headed back onto the star ship Von Braun.
  
  Present day...
  
  Seven years after release and this game still has everything to make you 
 want to play it all over again. Nothing about the game seems old or dated the game simply excels 
 in every area.
  
  Game play:- Never have I known a game to draw me in as much as System Shock 2. The atmosphere is 
 produced by the bucket loads and holds you tight through the rollercoaster ride that awaits. The 
 game could be described as a Survival Horror FPS/RPG, but even that doesn't do the game justice, 
 because it's more of an experience than a game or challenge.
  
  Graphics:-Whilst the environments are great and do exactly what they were set out to do, there 
 is no doubt that the character models are some of the worst seen. There is a solution however! 
 SS2 Rebirth (Complemented) : http://www. strangebedfellows. schwarzsilber. de/index. php/topic,8.0. html 
 This is a high polygon model update for most of the enemies in the game. It will improve your shocking 
 experience no end.
  
  Sound:- Bumping cyber techno tunes provide ambient music driving you through the game while still 
 keeping the tension high. The enemy sounds are some of the best I've experienced. Never have I 
 known fear simply from hearing the call of the many.
  
  Niggles:- Ok so why haven't I gave this game 10/10? Well a few small points really (all of which 
 thankfully can be fixed with the aid of some mods :D ) . First point, the character models seriously 
 distract you from the immersive experience. Second point, some of the Psi inventory options can 
 seem a little clumsy at times. And my final point is more a matter of opinion, and that is sound. 
 If you simply don't like the cyberish techno style of the soundtrack it could take away somewhat 
 from the experience.
  
  Final words:- This game still stands as a landmark for all FPS's. Games like Doom 3 have seemingly 
 tried to copy many aspects of System Shock 2 and failed. So I plead with you, please play this 
 game before it is too late and it really will seem out-dated.
  
  If you do decide to pick up this game, check out this forum post before you do: http://uk. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/systemshock2/show_msgs. html? topic_id=m-1-28999744] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Has there ever been a horror game that actually scared you? 
  
  You know, SCARE, not make you jump or flinch. Not Resident Evil's jump out freaks, or Silent Hill's 
 atmospheric creepiness, I mean a game that actually had you making your character crouch and hide 
 under the nearest table from horrifying tortured monsters? 
  If you haven't played System Shock 2, I doubt you ever have.
  
  Not only is System Shock 2 
 one of the most horrifyingly scary games ever, but it's also one of the best FPS/RPG hybrids in 
 existence, only challenged by the likes of Deus Ex, which it beats out in terms of AI and polish 
 anyway. 
  The story revolves around an experimental spaceship which will take several thousands of passengers 
 across space to colonize another world, they're accompanied by a military ship for protection. 
 
  
  As you would know, things just don't work out.
  
  Tensions rise between the two ships, as conflicts between the civilian and military leaders arise. 
 All of a sudden, the ships are silent, both floating through space, when a moment ago life was 
 bustling, things seemed to have drawn to a complete halt.
  What happened?
  
  You wake up at this moment in a cryogenic tube, you can't remember what happened on the ship or 
 any other details. You're a military bio unit, part machine, part man. System Shock 2 never focuses 
 around your cyborg parts though, as the story revolves around something completely different. 
 
  
  System Shock 2 does have an excellent story, and the writing is ingenious, most of the story is 
 told through dialouge that you receive in your PDA, but it's incredibly well acted, and as mentioned 
 before, the writing keeps it believable and fluid.
  If I can mention the good voice acting, I can also included how fantastic the sound is, as any 
 person would know, a game's sound quality lends largely to how immersive it is, and System Shock 
 2 manages to deliver so well, that even today some games haven't achieved its perfection. 
  The ship hums eerily around you.
  The deep grating breaths of mutated beings echo around each 
 corner.
  Mechanical parts crank and squeak.
  And the weapons are loud, and somewhat powerful.
  
  Some of the sound effects are genuinely 
 terrifying, such as the tortured wails of the Hybrids rushing at you, or the deep shrieking roar 
 of a huge Rumbler. Each time I heard either one of these sounds I jumped in my chair and went into 
 a deep breathing fit, just frantically looking around to see where the beasts could be hiding.
 
  
  System Shock 2 has adequete graphics, they aren't amazing, but they're pleasing to the eye and 
 offer some good effects. Considering the large amount of weapons, items, and enemies in the game, 
 the models are incredibly well done, especially considering how long it must have taken to make 
 so many.
  So how does it play? Exceptionally well. System Shock 2 launches you into a tutorial that allows 
 you to choose between three schools of military positions. They include the Marine, which focuses 
 on weaponry and melee combat, the Special Ops, which focus on your cybernetic implants and pyshcic 
 abilities, and last but not least, the Navy, which balances the two evenly.
  
  After you've chosen your gameplay style, you start the game off. Various aspects of the game are 
 introduced as you play. The inventory system is clean and very ascessible, with only a few mouse 
 clicks to properly swap equipment. As you accomplish tasks and level up, your skills will improve. 
 The game balances your powerful physcic powers with your energy levels and the required items to 
 restore your power.
  Included, you can hack into computers, pick electronic locks, and do several other tasks. Granted, 
 it does sound alot like Deus Ex, but remember that this was released first.
  Suffice to say, there isn't much to describe about System Shock 2's RPG system, if you've played 
 say Morrowind, or Deus Ex, they match up pretty evenly.
  
  But that doesn't change the fact that the variety of ways you can develop your character is insane. 
 It'll take awhile before you develop a character suited to your tastes.
  
  System Shock 2 does have its problems though. The game can be incredibly difficult for begginers 
 (although not frustrating) and learning how to properly play and evade enemies, then put them away, 
 can take awhile to master. These are some major problems that stop me from giving System Shock 
 2 full credit, but they don't prevent it from being excellent.
  
  So if you're looking for a terrifying, and unique intuitive game, you should at least try System 
 Shock 2. If you're patient, you'll find a satisfying, long and well done ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmenneverdie
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  System Shock The Best Game of 1999. One of the best Horror/RPG/Shooters ever. one of the best games 
 I ever played I picked this game up in k-mart i have to say its one of the best Game Purchases 
 in my entire life.
  
  You start out in the game on a ship you come out of acoma and don't know anything that happened 
 to you in the last 2 weeks, You contuire through out the ship guided by a Woman over a com, You start 
 to find out what happened to the ship and the distrubing fate of what happened to the crew they 
 where either mutalated or worse.
  
  The weaponry can jam making it tough in some postions you can repaier them but it costs and you 
 have to have a high enough skill and you have to have skills to hold certain weapons.
  
  The GFX on this game are very good for its time there slighty better then half life 2. And phyics 
 all though no ragdoll are pretty decent on other items.
  
  So i give it a 99% it is a perfect game pick it up if you have'nt played it. And if you don't I 
 think I might have to slap you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  System Shock 2 shines in almost all aspects as the best first person shooter / role playing game 
 of all time. Yes, it's both a FPS and an RPG. Software companies have tried doing it in the past 
 with Heretic and other titles, but this game succeeds. 
  First of all, the game used the proven though dated Thief engine. This isn't necessarily a bad 
 thing since older systems will have an easy time running it. Those with fast systems, alot of RAM 
 and a 3D card will find rich, detailed graphics with alot of special effects as well as 3D sound. 
 
  The story is very well thought out and is presented in such a way that it truly immerses you in 
 the moody atmosphere. There were times in this game that the graphics and sound actually startled 
 me and got my blood pumping. The levels are balanced and don't seem linear, though there are a 
 number of quests that are required to progress. 
  The AI is good, starting off easy and advancing quickly to provide you with a challenge. 
  The 
 role playing aspects of this game are especially well done. Skills such as "Hacking" and "Research" 
 are available, among others, as well as a very important "Psionic Ability" attribute that allows 
 you to use a psionic amplifier to manipulate objects with your mind. Instead of experience points 
 you upgrade yourself using cyber modules. At the beginning of the game you must choose which branch 
 of the military you wish to join. "The Marines" are like the fantasy warrior, "Navy" are like thieves 
 (technical specialists) and "OSA Agents" are like mages, specializing in psionics. 
  Some bugs in the story are present and the much touted multiplayer aspect of this game is only 
 available through a game patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of those games that you buy and never expect to enjoy. I picked it up in the 
 $10.00 bargin bin and waited nearly a year to install it. Man what a fool I was.. This game was 
 just revolutionar in its scope, theme, action, and sound. The game play was just chill inspiring. 
 
  
  Not since Alien vs Preditor for the old Jaguar system has a game scared the living crap out of 
 me. From the sound to the shadow effects the ery environment of this game just set a wickedly enjoyable 
 gaming experience like the which no other game has since.
  
  Why this game failed is beyond me, it is simply one of the best games I have ever played. It is 
 listed as one of my all time top five games. SEIV, TRIBES, TRIBES II, BOTF, and System Shock. There 
 are few games that I have enjoyed as much as I have enjoyed System Shock. IF you can still find 
 this game, get it and revel in the spookiness of its game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplaygames2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  system shock 2 is really a great game for its time six years ago it was and still is very good. 
 this game is very scary but the plot is bit laughable when u think about it and try to expaln it 
 to peopele but like its pertty good if u play on ur own witch is unfonrtine no one did the sound 
 is like the best part because of the logs all well acted its a shame we got to see only a few people 
 alive in the game. this game has good gameplay that is compliated yet easy to use at the same time. 
 i found this game to be the daddy of games like deus ex and deus ex 2 so all in all its scary ,fun, 
 and it should be noted that its very replayable and also the load times never get out of control 
 eather u might have to wait 30 seconds but thats pertty good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Queen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Bylo nebylo, za tremi horami a peti vrchy, kutlalo se v malem pokojiku na nevelkem monitoru pekne 
 pozdvizeni. Dlouhovlasate "kstice" (originalni to nazev pro vyvojare tvorici krasny oldies rules 
 hry, haha) pracuji na hre s nazvem System Shock 2. Pokracovani od Warrena Spectora. Inu a jak by 
 to mohlo dopadnout jinak, nez genialne. Skoda slov, zahrat, zpracovat, nabazit! Potemnele levely 
 pripominajici depresivni styly desivych umelcu, zombie a stvury a atmosfera lamajici srdce nekolika 
 punkeru, cyber-one pribeh a hlasove vytaceni telefonu. Pribeh se toci na nezname lodicce kdesi 
 ve vesmiru a protoze vas nikdo neuslysi kricet, na vsechno jste proti jednickam a nulam (mimo jine) 
 uplne sami. Doba Curvy je sice ponekud vyssi, ale co, je to paradni tak i tak. SS2 je OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustibabu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Fantastic!! Just about to finish the game. Such an old game but still packs a good punch. FPS fanatics 
 who've never truly dared to try a RPG can safely go for this game - it gives u a pleasant idea 
 of what RPG is all about and at the same time caters to your FPS appetite. 
  
  Decent graphics and special effects, considering when the game was released, smart gameplay, reasonably 
 good enemy AI and superb sound.
  Various artillery and ammunition adds to the overall fun. Strong storyline with a good twist halfway 
 through the game. Various upgrades are available for free download which enhance the overall appearance 
 of the game. The whole game itself can be downloaded for free, if u know where to look for it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  If I were to write a one-sentence review of System Shock 2, that sentence would be: No other game 
 has made my in-game avatar cower in fear of the enemy, or run away shamelessly from threat. 
  
  It's simply the most intense game I've ever played. Interestingly, the little tricks that make 
 System Shock 2 as good as it is are gameplay mechanics often criticized in other titles. We'll 
 get to that later.
  
  System Shock 2 begins 67 trillion miles from Earth, where starships Von Braun (the first faster-than-light 
 ship ever) and Rickenbacker (Von Braun's escort) are overtaken by an unknown force which turns 
 most of its crews into mindless humanoid monsters filled with alien tissue and robotic enhancements. 
 You start off some time after the incident, waking up from a post-operative cryogenic sleep. Rather 
 conveniently, your memory restoration process fails. Your only contact, Dr. Janice Polito, tells 
 you via voice mails that you volunteered to get cybernetic stuff buried in your head.
  
  And thus begins your journey into the bloody corridors of the Von Braun and the Rickenbacker. The 
 game plays as an FPS/RPG crossover with heavy emphasis placed on atmosphere and survival as an 
 objective. You won't find yourself gunning down hundreds of aliens here. Rather, you will find 
 yourself running away from the next wave enemies as you accidentally trigger a security alert while 
 your gun is on the verge of jamming and you have less than 10 rounds left.
  
  Yes, that last sentence almost sums up the most important gameplay mechanics which makes System 
 Shock 2 stand out. First, you have very little ammo. While you can purchase ammunition, it is quite 
 costly, especially when Nanites (the game's currency) are also used for other purposes, such as 
 hacking security computers, healing yourself with surgical units, or even resurrection through 
 quantum regeneration.
  
  Second, your weapons break down over time. While many players have criticized the speed at which 
 weapons deteriorate, I find it very suitable to the mood of the game. This feature forces you to 
 invest some points in the maintenance skill and makes inventory management critical to your success. 
 Moreover, it combines nicely with the lack of ammunition and sends a message to players: make every 
 shot count!
  
  Finally, your enemies respawn after some time. A trip through an area you cleared out 30 minutes 
 ago may prove deadly as those enemies have come back, and sometimes with better weapons. Security 
 alarms will trigger a period in which enemies continuously spawn from each spawn point, forcing 
 you to adopt more defensive (or even evasive) strategies until the alarm period is over.
  
  The rest of the game's features have become rather commonplace today. Doom 3's audio logs-based 
 they-were-here storytelling technique is here in full force, and arguably remains the best example 
 of such technique. Scripted sequences (ghosts!) are scattered here and there, used to augment the 
 creepy atmosphere and, in some cases, provide hints. You can even find minigames to play on your 
 Multi-Function Display interface, much like the way you play arcade mini-games in Grand Theft Auto: 
 San Andreas.
  
  Overall, the game has impressive production values. The stunning sound design, which places much 
 greater emphasis on effects and voice acting than music, is scarily effective. From the call of 
 the midwives to the screech of the psychic monkeys, System Shock 2 sounds absolutely perfect. The 
 visuals are good enough to evoke a creepy atmosphere, although the character models are rather 
 on the low-poly side.
  
  As System Shock 2 has heavy RPG elements and gameplay mechanics which encourage an emergent style 
 of play, it's far more replayable than most single-player shooters. You can choose from three distinctly 
 different classes and upgrade your abilities as you progress through the game. Most situations 
 can be solved by more than one way, and the constantly respawning enemies keep you on the edge 
 of your seat all the time. And there's even a co-op mode where you can play through the single-player 
 campaign on Hard difficulty with up to three of your friends. Pretty impressive for an old title, 
 I think.
  
  Playing System Shock 2 now makes me feel rather nostalgic. Innovation is something seriously lacking 
 in the gaming industry today, and the notion that a 6-year-old title has more innovation packed 
 into it than a dozen recent titles combined seem absurd. Despite a heavy defeat in technical aspects, 
 System Shock 2 remains today the best first-person perspective game of any kind ever made. And 
 definitely the most scary one.
  
  Now try to find a copy of the game and buy a lot of underwear. Just in case you soil your pants. 
 I know I almost did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridhuman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game, sorry, this glorious masterpiece - is one that no gamer should ever miss (just $6 at 
 Radioshack!) . There is so much replay factor with the RPG side of the game being truly awsome! 
 This game, of course if you haven't heard already, is scary. Not just scary "boo" kind of scary, 
 but I'm talking about atmosphere baby. This game truly makes you get freaked pantless and extremly 
 neurvous to continue just by engulfing you in its delightfully dreadfull atmosphere! The music, 
 the sounds, the level design, each aspect of this game is executed flawlessley. Sure the graphics 
 aren't all that spectacular (although they were at the time) , but don't moan on that, just try 
 it. With its gameplay focus on ammo conservation and a serious look on survival, this is no run 
 'n' gun FPS! The many things you can do is so awsome! I cant even begin to describe it all. System 
 Shock 2 became a classic ahead of its time, back at the time, and in many ways it still is. 
  
  Also - I can't wait for BioShock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is together with his older brother from 1994 (hunting Shodan at Citadel) still one 
 of my absolute favourite games. Despite of the fact that the game brought me some desperate situations, 
 especially at the end when I had to kill this annoying brain of "the Many". Here I admit humbly 
 that I failed (the only great game I wasn't able to finish) . I don't know whether this was a bug 
 or only my own unskilfulness.
  
  When it came out, SS 2 was like its predecessor a revolutionary game. It brought great graphics, 
 a brillant story and a magnificent atmosphere. Definitely awesome was its industrial trip hop sound. 
 I hardly remember any game during all those years which could compete with it musically, I would 
 list only the good old Quake with the soundtrack from Trent reznor and maybe Vampire the Masquerade 
 - Bloodlines with music from great Goth-bands. 
  
  It's a immense pity that Looking Glass Studios doesn't exist anymore. Every game they've made was 
 a masterpiece - it the System Shock or the Thief series. I hope the programmers will continue in 
 solo projects of similar quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final_Infection
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  System Shock 2, one of the most terrifying games of all time, is one of those games which few know 
 about, but those who do love it. I picked up this game on a tip, and so far, I'm hopelessly addicted. 
 This game terrifies me unlike I've ever been before, and I have to say that once you've played 
 Shock, there's no going back.
  
  This game's graphics were avant guarde in its time, but now look quite outdated, although this 
 can be easily reminded with the "SHTUP" (SHock Texture Upgrade Patch) and "REBIRTH" mods. I have 
 to say that the graphics are truly horrifying, my current favorites being the "REMEMBER CITADEL" 
 written in blood on the station wall (A reference to System Shock 2's predecessor)
  
  The sound is utterly amazing. It reminds me so much of Doom 3's sounds, with enemies behind you 
 actually making noises behind you, giving you somewhat of a surround sound feel. I only wish I 
 had the speakers to truly appreciate what this game is capable of.
  
  The learning curve can be a little difficult to overcome at first, due to the complexities of the 
 RPG/statistic system, but within an hour's time, you shouldn't have any difficulty after too long 
 getting into play.
  
  All in all, System Shock remains my favorite game of all time, and I hope to see more people learn 
 about this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaphan3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  Now, I havn't finished the game yet, but this game is well worth your money. It's very fun and 
 sometimes even scary. 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. From hacking keypads to modding weapons. This game has everything a sci-fi 
 rpg should have. In the beginning of the game you have your basic training. Then advanced training. 
 After them you get to choose between Marines (Focusing on weapons and combat) , Navy (Focusing on 
 Technical stuff like hacking and computers) , and O. S. A. (Focusing on Psi powers) . Each teaching 
 something different. Then you go to school for 4 years ( No not really 4 years but you walk into 
 the class and it jumps to the next year) After every class you choose you earn points toward whatever 
 the class was about. 
  
  The graphics in it today are terrible. But, since the game was released in 1999 the graphics for 
 it then were amazing. Grade A stuff when it was released. 
  
  The sound is this game is amazing. The sounds and the music blend together perfectly. The sound 
 makes it feel like everything around you has life. From the hybrids moaning and monkeys making 
 monkey noises it sounds like they are real. 
  
  Value has to be the best for this game. You can always come back to it. Maybe playing in the Navy, 
 then the Marines then O. S. A. Or in many order you want. Training in different things. 
  
  This is as good as it gets for FPS/RPGs. You can find this game just about anywhere at a Ebgames 
 or Gamespot. Or even on the net. Since its 6 years old it shouldn't be that much. I got mine for 
 $7. I strongly recommand this game for people who like RPGs and FPS. Playing this game could turn 
 some people on to the RPG element. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This title is worth owning simply because of its current price tag and for the first seven or so 
 hours of gameplay. Every element of the first part of the game is beautifully presented and well-layed 
 out. I don't know why, but after the hydroponics lab, everything collapses. It's not a CHORE to 
 go through, but it's not nearly as rewarding as the first part of the game -- while you're still 
 in discovery mode. I played through with all three major class varieties, and with all three, it 
 was once I moved on from the hydroponics lab that the game lost steam. Two other people confirmed 
 it. That, ladies and gentlemen, is bad pacing. At any rate, the game is still an exercise in brillant 
 storytelling and perfect execution of atmosphere. It's just too bad it didn't have the guts to 
 finish what it started. The ending is good, to boot, so it's especially frustrating that there 
 is a moldy rind between the fluffy cake on the outside -- cake made of undead and killer machine 
 parts, granted -- and the creamy filling at the end. Pah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp5slipknot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The fact that this is made (Or rather had a part in it) by Looking Glass Studios, my favorite gaming 
 company, was enough to tell me I would love this game. And when I played it, I was nothing but 
 amazed. What amazed me more though, is how under-appriciated this masterpiece is. I think the only 
 reason this game didn't get the credit it deserved was because it was released during the still 
 settling after-glow of Half-Life.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is something that I think every FPS should follow. It really 
 is 3 game styles in one, First person Shooter, RPG, and survival Horror. For the shooter fans, 
 its got plenty of cool, fun to use weapons and plenty of enemies to face of against. For RPG fans, 
 its got an in depth, complex RPG development system that allows for some really nice character 
 custimization. And for survival horror fans, well, this game is pretty freakin scary! The game 
 uses the same engine as Thief, meaning it takes with it all the things that are great about it, 
 but also all its problems. While it has actually improved upon the engines performance, there are 
 times when you would find yourself trapped in a door or something, but fourtunantly, this is fairly 
 rare.
  
  
  Graphics: Going by '99s standards, the graphics dont look that bad. The level design is well done, 
 however, the character design could have been better as they look pretty blocky, and sometimes 
 they move just a little bit weird. Overall though this game looks nice.
  
  Sound: This game simply sounds great. The acting is top-notch, the ambiance is great, the monsters 
 sound cool, the music rocks and really sets a tone, but the best part of the sound is when you 
 talk with the rogue artifical intelligance SHODAN. LGS games have always sounded great, and this 
 continues its tradition.
  
  Value: This game has some really nice production values. The movies look pretty cool, theres a 
 fair amount of customability in terms of game options, and theres an editor with it. Its just to 
 bad there are only 3 fan missions made for the game.
  
  Overall: This game is simply a must play by, anyone. It is easily one of my favorite games off 
 all time. Just play it, dont ask any questions why, just play it if you find it. Because this game 
 rocks and I cant wait for Bio Shock to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2004 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Well I was around to play system shock back when it looked like doom did when it first came out. 
 It was a blast to put it back in my old 486sx and try it out again. I could not believe how hard 
 it was to use just the keyboard again.
  WOW .
  
  Sinking my teeth into SS2 FPS/RPG when it first came out was a shock to my system. being it was 
 produced I believe in 1993 or 1995 it was way before any other in the gamming comunity. The ability 
 to view as FPS use mouse and key board to lean as well as the many other things done regularly 
 now in gaming was mind blowing. Not to mention RPG
  
  We all benifit in our games today because of the team that made SS2.
  
  First of all the sound 
 puts you right there in the middel of it all not to mention the types of sounds (GOD I hate Monkeys) 
 and the groans of the undead will send shivers down your spine. Running from those Dam robots.
 
  
  Second the graphics were fantastic for its time and well done I sometimes think we can't get better 
 but that is not true today. The weapons can be troublesom as you must repair often and you must 
 reasearch to find the right mix. The psy weapons are cool and varied.
  
  Third the story line picked up from the first game and continued on and many of us are wishing 
 and hoping to see the third installment but that may prove to be a very long wait as the team no 
 longer exists together.
  
  This game I must admit was not completed solo for me as I only made it about a third of the way 
 thru it when I discovered multiplayer and played it with my son-inlaw. I have since played it and 
 finnished it but we still play it again every so often in multiplayer mode. The replay value is 
 great.
  
  I strongly recomend this game for your gamming pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2004 9:36 am PT
Review:  Hi guys. What to tell about this jewel? many people call it FPS, but it has more and more of a 
 FPS, it's a RPG with FPS visual, and believe me my friend, it is an explosive mixture.
  It uses the Dark Engine which moves another great game Thief: The Dark Project.
  You play in 
 a strange sci-fi world and during the game you have to use your brain to progress in the game. 
 Much things to do, you can improve your skills and become a computer expert or master the psycho 
 skills, it's amazing.
  Dark atmosfere, fear, and challenge in the best (in my opinion) FPS/RPG ever seen in the PC videgames 
 scene.
  Guys, you can't miss this one, go and buy from your resellers, it's old but you can find it in 
 a budget price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2004 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is incredible. You wake up from a cryo-sleep on board a space craft somewhere 
 out in deep space. You are alone and soon discover that something has gone terribly wrong on board 
 and you have to find out why.
  
  You quickly find yourself in contact with a survivor on another deck who you have to make your 
 way through the ship to get to, but you have to fight through zombies and mutants to get there.
 
  
  I think the great thing about this game is that it's not just a first-person-shooter. The ammo 
 in the game is relatively constrained so you can't just go blasting through the entire game. You 
 have to be careful in your actions. I also love the role-playing aspect in that you gain "points" 
 you can use throughout the game to improve various skills you have at your disposal.
  
  The best thing about this game is not the gameplay, but is the atmosphere. This game is pretty 
 scary, not really because things are constantly jumping out at you, but because every detail is 
 designed to put you on edge. As you move through the game, you get to pick up and listen audio 
 recordings from the former crew and you basically get to piece together what happened to the ship. 
 As you listen to the recordings, you can often hear a distortion in the voices as they begin to 
 mutate and it just makes your skin crawl.
  
  I also love the game because it is long. Every time you get to a point where you think you're nearing 
 the end of the game, you discover that there's a lot more left to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodzillaX8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 8, 2004 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the single best games I have ever played, for multiple reasons. First of all, it 
 has an immersive and incredible storyline. This motivates you to continue playing to figure out 
 what is going on. It also has one of the best engines I've ever used in a first person shooter. 
 The first System Shock had an innovative engine for the time, but it was a bit too clunky. The 
 SS2 Engine fixes all the mistakes of the original engine, and perfects it. The graphics of the 
 game have held up incredibly well over the years, especially through the work of dedicated fans 
 on the Rebirth and SHTUP projects. Rebirth provides newer models with higher poly counts, and SHTUP 
 provides new textures for the game that are sharp and detailed. Both improve the game an unbelievable 
 amount, although both are unfinished projects as of now. The sound in System Shock 2 is amazing, 
 with the exception of some of the weapon firing sound effects. But no worries, you can download 
 sound mods, or make your own if you don't like the default sounds. The best part of the game, though, 
 is the customizability of the main character. This game by far surpasses Deus Ex in customizability, 
 although Deus Ex is a great game in its own right. The only problem I have with this game is that 
 there isn't a System Shock 3 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2004 12:03 pm PT
Review:  System Shock 2 is the sequel to a game that came out in the Doom era that was majorly overlooked, 
 even though it had what most consider the most intriguing story and best gameplay for its time. 
 System Shock 2 follows in the footsteps of its bigger brother, but this time around it also steps 
 out into the spotlight.
  
  SS2 was designed by Warren Spector, the man behind Deux Ex, as the first truely immersive first 
 person shooter. It boasted of an impressive storyline, and a great mix of first person shooter 
 action and role playing story and stats. Not only did SS2 accomplish what it boasted, but it also 
 sported some cutting edge graphics at the time.
  
  Nowadays, the graphics still hold up, except for the immensly dated character models. SS2 was the 
 first game that i ever waited watching expecting a cutscene, only to realize that it was actually 
 normal gameplay - the texture resolution is that good.
  
  SS2 plays out around the story of you fighting for your life on a ship that's AI went on a rampage. 
 As you play through the game, you come across data logs and dead people, along with zombies upon 
 zombies. You often also see apirations of those who died on the ship, and witness the automated 
 security, controlled by the rouge AI, doing some crazy things. Essentially, SS2 seems very similiar 
 to the recently released Doom 3.
  
  Along with the great story, you're also given RPG stats, that allow you to become more skillfull 
 in fixing and building pistols, hacking, using different weapons, etc. There is also an invintory 
 system worked in straight out of the Ultima games, where you choose what you have equipped, armor, 
 guns, etc.
  
  SS2 brings everything together without even a hiccup of a flaw. The gameplay from SS2 is what led 
 to the award winning Deus Ex game, and is so similar that if you liked Deus Ex, you'd like SS2 
 as well. SS2 is an excellent game that, while it sold well, didn't get as much recognition as it 
 should have when it was released - I highly reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2004 3:38 am PT
Review:  Well What can I say about System Shock 2, it kicks butt. this is one of the best shooter/rpgs' 
 ever made the skills system is deep, and I mean deep. Now Deus Ex is still my favorite game possibly 
 of all time, but SS2 still rocks. The fear factor of this game the first time I played it was high, 
 I slept with the lights on for a week after playing this game. All the different types of weapons 
 is sweet too, and your numerous si powers ( or however you spell it) are awsome as well. Now my 
 only real complaint is the lack of high, or even moderate amount of polygons on the character models, 
 they looked pretty unrealistic. However the sound quality, and the atmopsheric nature of the game 
 made up for that little shortcoming. Although the zombies we're still creepy sounding especially 
 the midwifes. The other thing that makes the game so good is its length, it took me 20 hours to 
 beat it the first time. Overall SS2 is one the creepiest and full filling shooter/rpg hybrids out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2004 7:47 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite PC games of all time, along with Planescape Torment. 
  
  There's a great story in system shock 2. The "world" of this large space station is impressively 
 interactive. The combat gives you lots of choices. The levels themselves are often quite diverse. 
 The enemies are just as diverse and surprising. There's aliens, machines, and more.
  
  It can be hard to survive some levels if you dont plan your scarce resources carefully. But that 
 is part of the challenge. What the game does well is make you feel dread when you open up a new 
 area, but at the same time you are intensely curious what you will find in this new area. Very 
 few games accomplish both immersion and surprize.
  
  It is possible to replay the game as one of the other 3 types of characters and there is often 
 more than one way to solve any particular problem. 
  
  The graphics are quite solid but dont expect cutting-edge effects. The sound is excellent however.
 
  
  If you didn't like playing this game, you either didn't give it a real chance or you didn't like 
 the sometimes high level of difficulty. You also missed out on one of the best PC games ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quatloo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I see that they have cleared out the dozens and dozens of reviews
  that raved about this game. Fair enough. They needed to open up
  more hard disk space in their 
 servers. I just wanted you to know
  that if you don't play this game, you are missing a game that I
  and many others enjoyed even 
 more than Half Life. In fact, I have
  no doubts that had Half Life not been made that year, this would
  have been the Game of the Year 
 in most publications (instead of 
  just some of them) It truly has a cult following and if you stick 
  with it long enough to learn 
 it you will see why. I still think it's
  the most enjoyable game I've ever played. The key? Total Immersion. You
  will be 'IN' this game. 
 You will laugh, you will cuss, you will
  jump out of your seat and feel real fear. You will spend alot of time
  mulling over how to spend 
 scarce resources. You will feel like a kid
  at the fireworks stand with your own paltry hard-earned money deciding
  which fireworks to buy. 
 Remember that thrill? Don't wait until the
  graphics become so dated that it looks like 'Doom' to you. It's still
  nice to look at and the 
 sound is the best I have ever experienced.
  Gamers who have played this game are reading this and nodding their heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faryn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2004 12:09 pm PT
Review:  In my many years of gaming, System Shock 2 is the only game that ever scared me. Not scared in 
 the sense of being startled every five seconds, but genuinley scared. To be sure, there are some 
 startling moments. More than once, I wandered the deserted halls of the Von Braun, only to turn 
 around and come face to face with one of the Hybrids (zombie) . 
  
  What sets SS2 apart from most horror games is that it attempts to imbue the player with a palpable 
 sense of fear. It succeeds. The atmosphere is designed to be unsettling. Empty corridors, punctuated 
 with damaged areas. Here, the designers deserve credit; the corridors do look generic, as one would 
 expect in a large naval vessel. However, you never get the impression that you are wandering generic 
 corridors. It does feel like a real ship, inhabited by real crewmen. When you come across a barricaded 
 area, or an area where there has obviously been fighting, it is easy enough to imagine what happened 
 there. It is not merely a pile of crates. Your imagination kicks in, and you start to picture desperate 
 crewmen, cut off from all help and hope, trying to hold back the enemy that were ocne friends. 
 Sometimes the developers help you along; every so often an apparition will appear, and you will 
 watch a ghost re-enact a past event before your eyes. 
  
  In one case, wandering the crew-quarter decks, I witnessed an apparition hang himself in despair, 
 telling me about his roommate, who was trying to break in his door to kill him. Watchign him hang 
 himself was very disturbing to watch. Two minutes later, while searching the quarters themselves, 
 I came across a borken door, with blood marks and what appeared to be dents. I entered the next 
 room, and from there, a into the blocked off room. There I found the hanging crewman, and my mind 
 raced to connect the clues, and flashed back to the apparation I had seen. What an amazing effect!
 
  
  This atmosphere does not get stale as the game progresses. Long after you get used to dealing with 
 the Hybrids, the game is still scary, as the voices of Hybrids (and only God knows what) call out 
 to you. 
  
  The voice work is first rate. Instead of using developers and their buddies to record the voices, 
 they hired actual voice actors. Through the various logs you find, the story of what has happened 
 to this doomed ship is related to you. Listening to these recordings makes the sotry very personal, 
 as you can actually hear the excitement (and later, fear) in the voices of the crew. 
  
  This game is a first rate horror/sch-fi/rpg/fps. It is unique. The game is still available, usually 
 through amazon, or in a bargin bin. It will work on Windows XP, with a little work (go to www. sshock2. com 
 for the simple instructions) . If you can get hold of this gem, do it. You'll never have as satisfying 
 an experience as with System Shock 2.... if you don't run away in fear first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2003 1:40 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say... this game is simply **incredible**.
  I am reviewing this game 4.5 years after it was released and still I think that this game is a 
 natural born winner. Bravo to ION Storm for developing a polished gem such as this.
  I only recently started playing this game, and I can tell you that it really grabs you. I really 
 did not know what I was missing...
  In this game you choose 1 from 3 careers, a navy officer, an OSA agent or a marines soldier. Each 
 career makes you actually a different character, and that is where the role playing enters. Once 
 you choose your main career, you start specializing in the various skills, traits and perks of 
 that career, such as melee combat specialist, tech specialist and on and on... Once you do that 
 the game begins, no turning back. This gives the games a high replayability value, which is great 
 because this is the immediate thing I would do when I finish it.
  You start off waking up in a shuttle that is about to get airlocked, so immediately you are on 
 the double, no time to relax. As you move through the corridors of the spaceship you start living 
 the sounds you hear, it really gets you, really...! Something that reminds me of the movie "Event 
 Horizon". Also, the hybrids, which are the main foes "on-board" have this taunting speech, they 
 are actually trying to despair you in your quest. And their voice sounds like a devilishly destorted 
 voice, like in The Exorcist. You soon find yourself peeking out of every corner, just to get a 
 hint of what is in the next room/ corridor. This is not a game where you just run arond with your 
 weapons blazing, you gotta think here, think of concealment, when you read your e-mails and hear 
 you audio logs, and be ready with the specific ammunition for your next foe/s. Armor piercing ammo 
 will not be good on a living foe the same as Anti Person ammo will not do well on reinforced metal 
 objects. The foes here are not dumb, you can get them from behind if you sneak good enough and 
 down them with 1 blow, or face to face them and empty 4 bullets, your call...
  When you look at them, they really look like they are looking for you, moving their head from side 
 to side with their weapon ready. When they make eye contact with, you better run boy, you better 
 run...! This game is rather hard. I have played Deus Ex (another game from this developer) on "hard" 
 and finished it (no cheats of course) . So I tried this game too, on Hard setting and it was hellishly 
 difficult, nothing to comare to Desu Ex. I am now playing on Easy and it is still challenging. 
 Ammo is scarce, and also good weaponry. Most items you find are either in bad shape or simply unusable 
 by you until you can repair them which requires sometimes an upgrade in that skill... So you gotta 
 be careful how much you shoot. Learn to use you melee weapon well...
  That is it, I am off to continue playing the game. I hope that you will enjoy this game as much 
 as I am enjoying it now...!
  
  All the best!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 15, 2003 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game 2 times and quit because I got so frustrated early on. It took me years 
 to finally finish it and I can say that I am glad that I finally did. Every sci-fi horror game 
 that I play is going to have to match System Shock 2.
  
  The game's overall atmosphere and storyline is so enthralling, and so creepy that it stays with 
 you after you walk away from the computer. The use of sound in this game is brilliant. The messages 
 and logs that you find have a haunting sound to them, as they gradually paint a grim tale of what 
 happened to the crew of your ship. Enemies sound frightening, and you are reminded of this each 
 time that you hear one around the corner or in the next room. The voice acting for the game is 
 terrific. There are enemies with a low, moaning voice and a computer that threatens you in a nice, 
 courteous voice.
  
  The game's unique role-playing system has a lot of very cool features. All of the items that you 
 find, including the game's "currency", nanites, give you a lot of ways to upgrade and equip your 
 character. You find and "buy" all sorts of doohickeys, ammo, weapons, powerups, and health kits. 
 However, the system is kind of a mixed bag and has some balance issues. A psi character is helpless 
 at first, and if you start the game without hacking you can't make it past the first area. Deus 
 Ex had a better role-playing system, because you could construct your character in all sorts of 
 different ways, and the game would seem to adjust to you.
  
  System Shock 2's biggest fault is that it is so tedious and frustrating for at least the first 
 half of the game, until you can develop your skills enough to hold your own in a fight. The difficulty 
 level on the first two levels of the game is simply insane. There seem to be all kinds of contrived 
 difficulties -- like pistols and shotguns that break if you fire them 10 times, and little errands 
 that you have to run just when you think you are ready to move to the next level. Almost Every 
 encounter requires two or three quick reloads before you get it right, no matter how careful you 
 are. Perhaps that is a good thing, because it gives you a feeling of triumph when you pass a big 
 stage of the game. 
  
  My recommendation to anyone thinking about playing this game is to go out and get it, and then 
 stick with it through the early stages. It's a great Sci-Fi RPG game that rewards you for it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
