-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tabula Rasa
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/tabularasa/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Open-ended profession system lets you choose your class as you play.
 Shooter-like combat keeps you engaged.
 Exciting random attacks on control points and in explorable areas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visually unappealing.
 Lots of gameplay annoyances and an assortment of bugs.
 Convoluted crafting and lack of an auction house make the player economy stagnant.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,519 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Oct 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Richard Garriott's newest online creation has its problems, but it's still a good amount of fun. 
 

  Aliens aren't new to the massively multiplayer online gaming arena, but they're certainly not as 
 prevalent as elves and gnomes. Tabula Rasa helps balance things out even further, with its universe 
 of secret extraterrestrial artifacts, chainguns, and hulking space creatures. But it isn't just 
 the setting that makes the game interesting: An action-oriented combat system and a unique Battlefield-esque 
 system of control points add some flair to the proceedings. That isn't to say you should expect 
 anything groundbreaking, nor should you expect a world conceived as well as Anarchy Online's Rubi-Ka. 
 Yet even with its flaws, Tabula Rasa is an entertaining game that deserves a look for anyone looking 
 for a little more oomph from their online explorations.  

           Caves are home to some of the nastiest creatures in Tabula Rasa.      

  One of Tabula 
 Rasa's most interesting facets comes to light the moment you create your character. As you would 
 expect from an online role-playing game, you choose some physical characteristics for your character -- but 
 what you don't select is a profession. There are professions to be sure, but you start as a generic 
 AFS (Allied Free Sentient) recruit, which gives you the chance to taste a variety of weapons and 
 skills before committing later on. You are, in essence, the "blank slate" referred to in the title. 
 Eventually, you can specialize in one of eight classes, roughly separated into combat and support 
 types, though you'll have to wait until level 30 before you can choose your final profession. Worried 
 you won't like the profession you choose? No worries: The game lets you clone your character with 
 its level and experience intact, so you can go back and try other options without having to start 
 a new toon from the ground up.  

  There's more to choosing a profession than gaining levels, though. Artifacts called logos elements 
 are scattered across the game's two planets. Within Tabula Rasa lore, these are snippets of an 
 ancient language that divulge secrets of universal power. From a gameplay standpoint, you need 
 to collect them to access specific abilities in your skill tree. So just leveling up is enough 
 to gain access to your desired profession, but if you want to use all the weapons and skills available 
 to that profession, you need to go logos hunting. Most of the logos are attached to missions, however, 
 so even if you don't need a particular logos, there's still impetus to find as many as possible, 
 since there is experience to be gained.  

  Right off the bat, you'll notice how different combat is from the standard massively multiplayer 
 online role-playing game. Tabula Rasa controls much like a third-person shooter. You use the mouse 
 to freely look about, and the mouse buttons to fire your weapon and perform special abilities. 
 There are two hotbars, but rather than click on an ability or weapon to use it, the chosen weapon 
 or skill is assigned to the corresponding mouse button. Thankfully, it's easy to cycle through 
 them using the Q and E keys on your keyboard, so if you want to switch weapons on the fly, you 
 can do it quickly. This is especially important in Tabula Rasa, because many enemies are weak to 
 certain attacks while invulnerable to others. Regardless of which profession you choose, you'll 
 want to keep a few different types of firearms on you. Of course, this is still an RPG, so you 
 won't need an enormous amount of twitch skill to succeed. The targeting reticle is extremely forgiving, 
 and the damage you are doing, as in most similar games, is tied to a series of under-the-hood calculations. 

           These warnet soldiers are immune to electricity.      

  But even with these typical MMORPG trappings, Tabula Rasa does a good job of keeping you engaged 
 in its shooter-inspired combat. You'll fight off all sorts of indigenous critters, from tree lurkers 
 (which look sort of like arachnids made of tree bark) to giant amoebas, but the crux of your fighting 
 is against the evil Bane -- a group of races fighting the remnants of the humans they drove from 
 Earth. As you roam about the planets of Foreas and Arieki, dropships will release groups of soldiers, 
 which keeps you on your toes, since it could happen at any time. In fact, the game's greatest asset 
 is the element of surprise, a quality not many similar games offer to this extent.  

  This factor is most prevalent in the Bane attacks on the various control points scattered across 
 the planets. In a Battlefield-inspired stroke, these bases swap hands based on exciting surprise 
 attacks from Bane forces. One moment, you may be purchasing new supplies or turning in quests; 
 the next, the entire base may be under fire from swarming Thrax warriors. These moments are the 
 game's best, because they play directly to its biggest strength: fun combat. One of the drawbacks 
 of the system, though, is that there is no looming reason to control bases, aside from gaining 
 access to those missions (and, of course, being able to turn them in) . You do gain tokens for kills 
 during these assaults, and it's fun to group with friends and take back a captured base. But in 
 the overall scope of gameplay, there isn't as much of a sense of urgency to retain control of these 
 bases as you would expect. Thankfully, these battles are fun and rewarding to participate in, even 
 if you won't always feel pressed to stick around for them.     

   

  Once you bypass the combat and surprising Bane assaults, you will find a mostly standard MMORPG 
 underneath with its share of hits and misses. There's nothing terribly unique about the questing 
 system, and most missions boil down to the usual go-here, kill-that scenario. Actually, performing 
 missions can occasionally be a drag, due to the oddly linear map designs. Unlike many persistent-world 
 games, in which there are vast expanses of explorable land, Tabula Rasa keeps your travels very 
 focused, with its mountainous terrain and impenetrable forests. Often, you will seemingly be right 
 next to a mission waypoint but can't get to it because it is high above, and you need to wander 
 about to find the one path that will let you reach it.  

           Going into this instance on your own is not really a good idea...      

  On the other 
 hand, instanced mission areas are put together extremely well. When you enter an instance, you 
 are greeted with a story sequence that fills in some backstory, in the style of Asheron's Call 
 2. Once inside, you and your group will find a good number of subquests to complete, plenty of 
 challenging combat, and some well-designed multipart missions that can take a bit of time to complete. 

  You should also note that like with most MMORPGs in their first months, there are some bugs and 
 annoyances that you'll need to struggle through to get the most out of the experience. We had to 
 deal with quests that couldn't be completed, getting stuck far too easily in level geometry (thankfully 
 an easy fix with the /stuck command) , monster models that blink on and off, missing animations, 
 and, most annoyingly, mission waypoints that get turned off every time you change areas or log 
 out. And considering the game's far-future, far-removed setting, it's a little odd that there are 
 Dell XPS terminals scattered throughout the bases. Is the fact that you can turn on the screensavers 
 on these in-game computers a feature we really needed?  

  There's also the issue of Tabula Rasa's erudite crafting system. The game never explains exactly 
 how to craft, though it's essentially a matter of removing items from looted weapons and armor, 
 finding or purchasing certain components like electronics, and then using them to craft new items 
 or modify existing ones. This works pretty well with modifications, but it's far too much work 
 when you end up with just a few grenades. An in-game auction house would help you find needed components, 
 which would make crafting a lot less of a hassle, but as of this writing, there is no auction house 
 to allow players to easily sell and purchase what they need from each other.  

  Exploration is not as rewarding as you would hope. Once you get past the initial freshness of a 
 sci-fi world to explore, you discover that Tabula Rasa simply isn't much to look at. Many of the 
 creature and soldier models are done well, but across the board, the game offers little visual 
 respite. The color palette is a mess of browns, oranges, and other dull colors, a visual design 
 that fits with the obvious tone the developer aimed for but weighs heavy on the eyes over time. 
 Even areas that scream for lusher greenery or brighter tones, such as the fields of the Cumbria 
 Research Facility, are formed without much detail or variety. The weak technology behind the graphics 
 certainly doesn't help, so expect to see lots of sharp edges, plain textures, and a good amount 
 of visual slowdown.  

           Xanx don't do a lot of damage, but they absorb an awful lot of bullets.      

  The 
 sound design stands out a bit better. You can hear the eerie whispers of the Eloh race when you 
 collect a logos symbol, and the growls of Thraxx soldiers are creepy and cool. The rock-tinged 
 soundtrack fits the bill nicely as well. On the other hand, some of the weapons lack a sonic punch, 
 though sound effects across the board are rather good. The voice acting is anemic, though. Some 
 of the voice-overs are just overblown military clich, as if the actor were trying to do an imitation 
 of R. Lee Ermey but failed. Other actors sound as if they were pulled from a local high school 
 drama class.  

  Nitpicks aside, Tabula Rasa's take on the genre is unique enough to make it worth playing. It's 
 fun and action-packed, and if you can get a good group together, the instanced areas are a blast. 
 It's got its share of problems and plenty of room to grow. But if you want something different 
 and surprisingly entertaining, you'll probably find a lot to like about Tabula Rasa.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (125 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa is not your best option. If you want something really good try Guild Wars or Warcraft. 
 But Tabula Rasa is a result of a brand new work you will not want to try, but you really ought 
 to. Richard Garriot is better known for Ultima Online. So he passed some ingredients to this game. 
 In Tabula Rasa, you will fight the bane, the most cruel alien race ever. Choosing your class, you 
 will get straight into action fighting to level up or doing numerous quests. In combat, Tabula 
 Rasa is alike to a first-person shooter, making it a very good system. You can also change your 
 class into the game, thanks to Tabula Rasa's open system. But there are some major problems: numerous 
 bugs which make internet stucking all time, and insufficient visual styleand graphics machine. 
 And to end, many ads appear in the game, making clear that the game is not that serious. Tabula 
 Rasa is one of the best online games, and you should try it for a while (in fact it will be shut 
 down in two months) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PipeBigboss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I been since the beta in this game very promising but at the end is going to disappear a shame.
 
  
  Summary: The mankind was attacked by some aliens, the people is evacuated from the planet with 
 alien technology, passed sometime we learned to use aliens power "logos" and we start fighting 
 against the aliens that invaded and destroy the civilization. 
  
  
  About the Game: I played it for a lot of time and honestly it was interesting, yes maybe the people 
 that reach level 50 gets bored but as I said why did you camping wining experience only to have 
 a level 50 in a few days??. That's the problem they didn't enjoy the game, they didn't make missions 
 so at the end they left the game, is the same with WoW, Ragnarok, SWG, Eve. City of Heroes
  
  Maybe one thing that killed TR was the price the monthly price. 
  
  The interface: Yes 
 it was a MMORPG and with good things, for example the careers and all the abilities that each on 
 had. Also the possibilities of cloning and the crafting system.
  
  The bad: True when you reached lvl 50 you missed the love for the game and got bored, but let me 
 say again why do you have to rush, it was a game with more environment story than PvP. 
  
  The Sound and graphics: Nice sound and story, good graphics maybe could be better but no that is 
 going to end impossible.
  
  February is going to be a hard month for it, NCsoft close it for some reasons :
  
  The game 
 didn't earn all the money and the population that they wanted, was a AAA game but is hard to believe 
 it. Also Richard Garriot left NCsoft after his travel to the space so it lose the most important 
 person and after that they decided to close it. We can't hide the bugs on it but the developing 
 team was working hard to fix them.
  
  Also I don't agree with some users, you can't say if the game is bad or good with only playing 
 it 1 - 2 hours, specially one that is an online one.
  
  A shame I'll miss this game, honestly it was different from others online games around.
  
  
 Pipe 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixxard
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  I decided to try out Tabula Rasa before the game met its timely shut down in early 2009. I was 
 repeatedly reminded of trying this game out seeing the collector's box set for a hefty sum in P. C 
 World. So, I decided to give the game a try, it was very easy to setup and download the game and 
 with one surprisingly small update I was ready to play. 
  
  I shall firstly focus on what Tabula Rasa fails at accomplishing and turn to aspects of the game 
 I liked. After being impressed at the opening cinematic I felt that the storyline was perhaps a 
 little weak. Earth attacked by aliens, survivors go through giant portals to other worlds... right. 
 The character creation wasn't that bad, it was more developed than WoW but most of the different 
 designs looked bland and unappealing. After fiddling with my characters looks I entered the game, 
 here the disappointment really sank in. The tutorials were rather shoddy and I felt that I could 
 learn more about the controls and functions myself rather than the tutorials which seemed to have 
 little order to them. The starting stage had a back story but like many MMO's thus far there is 
 little over-arching story-arc. Within 5 minutes I had already changed my weapon and gear for something 
 slightly better. 
  
  Another disappointment was server stability, I have played many MMO's but the lag and 'jerkyness' 
 of this one seemed more apparent. For a game that seemed to have surprising few players this point 
 seems to me all the more relevant. 
  
  The user interface felt overbearing and was rather staining on the eyes, it was not simple by any 
 means. The controls were easy enough to grasp but portions of the interface just felt just felt 
 nothing short of a blunder, I tried hard to like how it was laid out but the small text felt too 
 much of an eye sore to even bother attempting to read. 
  
  Throughout the time I was playing I did not need or was compelled to interact with other players 
 what-so-ever. It felt more like Pirates of the Burning Sea, a more single player orientated game 
 with players in a mmo world. There were people in the chat talking but there seemed little enthusiasm 
 for interaction within the game such as grouping. 
  
  
  The game does feel like an odd version of Halo. The creatures, ships and landscape looked oddly 
 familiar, I don't think this is at all a necessary negative point. I did enjoy the landscape and 
 how it was structured. I also enjoyed how you played your character, it is like a 3rd person shoot-em-up. 
 The combat felt more fluid in terms of MMO design, being able to use special abilities alongside 
 your main weapons and occasionally use a finishing move in melee to earn a bonus. I loved the way 
 you were able to run over a corpse and be able to pick up whatever was available instantly. I also 
 really liked the layout of the planets and thought that there were some really well designed areas. 
 
  
  Another impressive feature was the actual classes and how you chose them. The tree design of slowly 
 specialising in a class was superb. It was a different perspective that I have not seen and I hope 
 is repeated in another future MMO's 
  
  What Tabula Rasa does is try to be different from all other MMO's, it tries to be different for 
 the sake of being different rather than it being better playability and gameplay. In the end the 
 game was a bore to play and I neither felt involved or had the patience to give it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krelliann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I swear to God! An almost TOTALLY AWESOME GAME! IT'S SO DIFFERENT THAN THE RUN-OFF-THE-MILL MMO's.. 
 IT'S LIKE A BATTLEFIELD 1942 MMO, i mean the way you fight and large battles (against NPCs) is 
 totally different than the way you fight in lets say... WOW, LOTRO, EQ II etc etc... feels more 
 like Quake or such hehe, if you dont use ur twitch skills a bit and aim your sights on the target, 
 ur gonna miss, every freaking time.............. AWESOME LOOKING WEAPONS AND ARMOR, WELL DONE ANIMATIONS, 
 AND AN UBER and tight (+PROFESSIONALLY WRITTEN) STORYLINE TO FOLLOW (and a very beliveable starship-troopers 
 kinda mood despite its uber scifiness: D ) !!!" The ONLY downside i can think of in this game is 
 prolly the LACK of END-GAME content.... BUT than again, i guess they were gonna introduce EARTH 
 for that matter, but now thats its shutting down, we'll never see : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soiheardyoulike
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Tabula rasa is a game that tries to be different by giving us an mmo fps environment. The problem 
 is the game does not take the best from the fps and mmo genre, but instead will taek some of the 
 tedium. Thats not to say it is a bad game but certainly not good. 
  
  Gameplay-The game plays somewhat like a shooter because you shoot things. Besides that , the game 
 does not take enough cues from good fpss. It suffers from repetitive grinds to level up and a damage 
 system where the lower level is not as good as the higher level. Now you might say, "Well of course 
 this is a rpg afterall. The higher level guys have to have some aid." The problem is this, in an 
 fps, everyone is on the same playing field. Even if a bad guy like a boomer in GeOW takes 3 head 
 shots to down, it still can be done with skill. This still feels like I am bound to my level. 
 
  The UI is not that friendly and the game is easily no WOW. You will use hot keys a lot. It is 
 not intuitive at all. Also one big flaw is in all of my time playing, there was practically nobody 
 on. Literally i saw 20 people at the most.
  
  Story-Its an fps and an mmo. All you need is a reason to be here and I am set. Some will say this 
 is a lame concept but then again most do not care about the complex lore of WoW or other mmo's. 
 
  
  IMPORTANT NOTE-The game is closing in Jan or feb so its not the best idea to invest. 
  
  Fun 
 factor- Its an mmo so there is plenty of grind but unlike others it lacks the pvp and variety to 
 keep me interested. I hate to say this but it is not WoW or LoTR: O. Bad guys will invade your base 
 which can be fun, but like I said earlier, it plays nothing like an fps with hordes of bad guys. 
 In halo i could take them on, but here you are bound by level. 
  
  End-Its about 5 dollars on amazon and if you really , and I mean really want to try it, you can. 
 Its at the same time not as good as other monthly fee mmo's like wow or war and it will not feed 
 your fps needs like other shooters. 
  
  6.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Chernuska-
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Hi, 
  
  First of all i played alot of MMorpg. And this game is alot better then alot of peeps talked about 
 how bad this game is. Yes at the time the game made his first steps alot of bugs, not enough content 
 for hig levels etc, broken quest made this game sink. But afther a year there is alot of improvement. 
 The GFX are great for an MMorpg (not cartoony like WoW) and the sound is also great. Its not a grinding 
 fest like other MMorpg i know. Because of that this game is fun when playing in a group. Also this 
 game playes well solo but to have the real fun you need to be in a party. Some inhere are saying 
 that this game is like a very bad version of SWG. I dont think he ever played SWG preNGE because 
 that, s a total different gameplay. You cant compare SWG with TR. TR is plain fun even on low levels. 
 While other MMorpg are more grinding types where you need to invest alot of time in the game TR 
 is more plain fun right away. This game is a very small version of Planetsite with a very great 
 community. I would say try the free-tryout and judge for yourself. I like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bananza25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  this game was supposed to succeed in being different it succeeded but at the same time it failed. 
 Pros:
  twitch based shooting
  clans
  story
  missions
  sieges at bases fairly nice community
  
  Cons:
  still have to grind glitches galore
  still 
 is like WoW
  needs more polish
  No drivable vehicles (cmon what kind of sci fi game doesn't have vehicles
  
  There is also 
 a long list of classed and skill trees to try out plenty of missions and battles to take part in. 
 And a large number of destructive weapons to use.
  
  As i said before there are plenty of glitches i found like one i was escorting a charecter to a 
 base he instantly teleported to the base he was supposed to go to although this worked to my advantage 
 it kinda defeated the purpose of the game.
  
  This game is fun ill give it that. I haven't played it in a while but ill most likely come back 
 to it it takes a lot of its aspects from other mmos but overall it's an enjoyable experience Ive 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evets_Wolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I only played the trial but it was a good refreshing twist on mmos insted of being slow tedious 
 fights agents giant rat insteed youre in a fast paced fire figh aginst aliens who took you home 
 and now its reveng time.
  
  not a bad game, it had its ups and downs but over all its a good game, ideal for those who like 
 TPS's and MMO's, but the missions are too hard, its like they want you to be on a team.
  
  three things
  
  1. fix bugs
  2. inprove graphics
  3. add events with total chaos were humans 
 are defending a base or sieging a alien base on earth
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komrad_generals
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  RGTR Richard Garriot's Tabula Rasa was a new whole level of MMORPG that immerse you in the future 
 on different planet's, world, instance (by lvl) , many kind of creatures and a lot more ... The 
 first hour is like you didn't see the time's go up and you wanna reach new levels to get more abilities 
 or weapons, etc. When you begin at the lvl 1 you was a recruit; more your lvl is higher more classes 
 you reach but you need at least to choose from the starting of the game wich kind of character's 
 you want between the 8 because each classe's give you some kind of abiliie's to do like : resurection, 
 stealth, summon (like the ennemie's) , hack and a lot more, more, and more of them. Gradualy when 
 your'e reaching higher lvl's in the game more you'll become powerfull and maybe if you changed 
 your mind; example: your'e on the way of an ranger and you wanna move on the way of the engineer 
 because you'll know this character was able to do some instance alone without to be in a team of 
 1-4; you can move easily.
  Why?: Because you get 4 tier in all the game that represent different lvl and classe's of your 
 character's and there is how the inside of the game works: Tier 1 (lvl 1-4) you are a recruit, 
 when youre ready to reach the Tier 2 (lvl 5-14) you got the choice to do a clone of your main character's 
 from the present lvl you are 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  i give this game a 7. cause it was a good game, story and weapons and themes and all was a good 
 game... but that being said the strongest point this game has is the music, it has great great 
 music. i love the music in it.. but the performance of the engine and performance of the game itself 
 could of been done better.. my opinion, they just didnt spend enough time developing it, and try 
 to make up for it now with patches and all that sort of stuff, but other than performance issues, 
 the online community was great.. seems alot of people were willing to help, though you will run 
 into the occasional trouble starter, but every game has those... this game just couldnt keep me 
 into it with the performance issues it had, same thing for star wars galaxies, that game had even 
 worse performance issues that tabula rasa... the leveling in TR was good, the weapons were good, 
 the story was ok. my main thing about the game was the performance some engines just are not that 
 good.. regardless how they look some just perform poorly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I'll admit a lot of my feelings towards this game are based on playing at release, and not sure 
 how much has improved since release. Anyway, based on my playing for the first month:
  
  Environment/graphics: I really loved the world this game was set in and graphics were sweet. I 
 did have to update my video card and still was facing some pretty major issues which frustrated 
 me. I just loved the sci-fi world and its something the MMO world really needs instead of the usual 
 fantasy. 
  
  Gameplay: Very nicely done. I enjoyed the way things worked, combat was alot of fun, taking over 
 the many bases that had been overrun was a blast. Solo content was fun and enjoyable. 
  
  My gripes: I can't quite put a name to it but SOMETHING was missing in the game and I never could 
 put my finger on it. Performance was a major issue for me and probably the reason I left it. The 
 feeling of 'community' or wanting to group was lacking and that's what makes an MMO fun. Crafting 
 was horrible when I played. Instanced areas were almost completely unplayable for me, even though 
 they were so much fun when I could. 
  
  I play (ed) a lot of MMOs and have a system that can handle them all. Performance was probably the 
 major reason I stopped playing this game, despite how much I liked the world/genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinate
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  I came across Tabula Rasa by pure chance, I saw an advert for it, I clicked and before I knew it 
 I had my own Trial account.
  
  I logged in, it looked and felt good, the games flows for me. Combat is nice, not too simple and 
 not too complicated. Plenty of abilities to keep me busy, but not too many to district me from 
 blasting aliens :D
  
  After 7 days I upgraded to a full account, after 2 weeks I am now lvl 33 and loveing every minute, 
 trying out different spec and races.
  
  For me this is a great game that will keep me busy for awhile to come, or till WoTLK comes out 
 :)
  
  I really like the speccing system making clones and so on, It really helps not having to lvl up 
 all the way from lvl 1 again just to try another direction. 
  
  The only negative things are that a few quests are insainly hard, A target is surrounded by a clump 
 of 10 mobs, if they all see and shoot you, you are dead :) lso the fact that mobs love to chase 
 you, sometimes for a few mins until they give up and turn around. The hornets thou.. they never 
 give up :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  When i started playing this game, at the very begging, the character creation, it seemed that the 
 game looked alike to Star Wars Galaxies, and when i entered the world...
  It was True.
  This game is a plain copy of SWG
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The controls , moving and stuff, was just 
 the same as SWG, didnt found a difference, except for shooting. Well we could crouch, first-person 
 mode, and shoot all the aliens and whatsoever. But i realized how easy this game is, there was 
 some mission I had to make and well... Crouched, First Person, and started shooting, there were 
 lots of mobs against me , one, and hell i came out without even a scratch, not even -1 Hp Point, 
 it was like shooting barrels.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well, the graphics aren't something from other world, a little battle then SWG for example, but 
 still nothing New, nothing Unique, nothing that other games already accomplished.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well the sound actually is kind of good, the blasts , and the ships, but the soundtrack, 
 is there any bg music? I actually didn't noticed it.
  
  
  While i was playing my Crap-o-meter was shining and was pointing at the game as Max-Crap-Sector 
 so i had to delete this game, and logs, and whatsoever my computer had related to it. If people 
 like sci fi mmorpgs, try EVE or SWG, this game shouldnt be even played, the worst thing NC Soft 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  A great game, that can get old fast.....
  
  This game has great potential. Its a shooter MMORPG that has great world battles that occur at 
 bases, that can not only claim your life, but the attackers can also claim your base, making you 
 unable to spawn and trade in quests. This is great, as it causes players to team up, and fight 
 thier way back into the base. If you love protecting the base, you can warp from base to base to 
 fight off the invading alien enemies.
  
  There are Logos hidden throughout the maps that you find and can unlock abilities as you level 
 through the game. You also gain Clones, so when you hit those magic levels, where you choose your 
 path as a gun towing blood bath lovin animal, or that loving medic that saves your butt, you are 
 able to clone, and thus level in different pathes, without haveing to go through the begining levels 
 agian... which i LOVE!!!!
  
  The bad part, there are not a great deal of difference between enemies. Some are just a bit of 
 color, or a gun they are holding, so fighting enemeies turns into a blurry gun shooting spam, and 
 then switch out and spamm again to get the rest (some dont take EMP damage, some dont take projectiles 
 damges) . That adds a nice as [pect to the game, that not all weapons hurt people. some characters 
 you can use EMP to bring down shields, then switch out to a bullet style gun, or sonic gun to finish 
 them off. 
  
  I think this is a great game to burn a a few months away, but i personally cant see myself lasting 
 more then a few months. 
  
  Give it a try, and for $30.00 and a few months of sub fees, its worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTBHEFLIN
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome, I've never worked harder to advance, and never enjoyed it more. I like the way 
 the game Devs try to stay on top of problems in the game, with on line game managers. They monitor 
 the general chat and respond with in some cases with lightning speed. They also send out a follow 
 up by e-mail, and if you had a problem with a GM or another player, they also want to know that. You 
 don't have to put up with a self serving ,14 year old server manager with outrageous roe like BF 
 2 or 2142, and you you don't get bumped to let a server member come play. It's all central and constantly 
 monitored.
  Now as far as Graphics, there is, in my iew, only one real way to describe them, just flippin' unreal. 
 I put this game in my puter on April 8 2008 and have played exclusively since then. I've tried several 
 player roles and options allowed for my current level, and found my comfort zone so to speak.
  If you were expecting a technical debreif, well sorry, I'm not qualified to comment in those terms. I'm 
 58 years old I'm having fun and I enjoy the interaction I have with other players that are on when 
 I play.
  As Walter would say,"and there you have it" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson336
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I love sci-fi, and I love RPGs. There is very little out there 
 in the MMO world that combines these two things. You are mostly stuck with MMos based in a magic 
 and sword, medieval-type setting. So I was hoping that this would be right up my alley. Maybe I 
 was expecting too much, but I know that this game did not capture me like I was hoping it would.
 
  
  First off is the lack of race selection. I know limited races fits in with the whole theme, but 
 at least have some ethnic flavoring. Instead they give you multiple outfits to choose and color. 
 Howeer, you have new armor by the time you hit level 4, an hour later, which makes picking your 
 starting outfit completely unnecessary. Weird.
  
  Second. You start out as a grunt. No professions to choose from as you start. Instead, you choose 
 branching professions as you progress. I thought I would like this, but the problem that became 
 apparent to me is that in order to see if I like a class, I need to slog my way up through levels 
 of earlier classes I may not be interested in. 
  
  Combat in all MMOs get repetetive after a while, but it feels even more linear in Rasa. Usually 
 in MMOs you spend the first 10 levels discovering new spells and getting the foundation of how 
 that character type will function at higher levels. In Rasa... you shoot. Some guns drain shields, 
 some drain health, some do both. After a few levels you get a lightning attack. At level 5 you 
 pick you first branching profession and get access to a new gun type, new armor type, and new power. 
 Then you shoot again, for 10 more levels. Shooting is fun, as is being able to jump into the midst 
 of battles being waged by 2 groups of NPCs, but it doesn't last.
  
  Rasa could have done much more as far as tutorials and storyline content as well. You get a brief 
 tutorial and then are turned loose in a wide open map. Good if you like sandbox environments, but 
 there is no real central storyline to keep you engaged and wanting to play. With so many other 
 MMOs offering up option after option to characters, Rasa seems rather bland in comparison. I found 
 myself playing for a little while because it was fun to shoot, but after an hour there was little 
 motivation, so I would log off. There was no gratification at leveling, knowing that there would 
 be no new abilities at that next level. There was also no grand story to keep me going.
  
  Sadly, I would rather return to a medival MMO laden with options and storyline than an MMO in my 
 beloved sci-fi setting that has few optioons to keep my attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvfosurvialhor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  The fast-paced gunplay that makes up the core of the Tabula Rasa experience is the game's greatest 
 strength. It's flat-out fun to figure out the best way to attack a situation with the various firearms 
 and abilities at your disposal. Things get vastly deeper at higher levels, but even the early game 
 presents players with fun options. Shotguns allow great mobility and are fantastic for groups of 
 enemies, while pistols pack a surprising punch against single foes and rifles allow a much greater 
 engagement distance. Mix in different damage types (you won't get far using physical damage against 
 the heavily armored Kael, for instance) and the vast diversity of abilities from the various classes 
 and you've got combat as good as any.
  
  Tabula Rasa's other great achievement is in making the gameworld feel alive. With few exceptions, 
 enemies never stand around waiting to be killed  hostile troops land in squads from dropships 
 to assault human positions, and creatures attack players who come too close to their nest. Control 
 points will fall to the malefic Bane if players don't help to defend them against the assault, 
 leaving that area's quests and NPCs unavailable until the point is retaken. It's rare to feel like 
 you're "grinding" or otherwise fighting enemies just for loot and XP. The vast majority of my playtime 
 was spent exploring, defending, assaulting, or rescuing  battles were just an enjoyable diversion 
 along the way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipervvviii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by stating that I have ONLY played the three day demo... quite religiously. Although 
 I had to jump through flaming hoops to obtain it, I enjoyed it very much.
  
  I logged in and entered the character creation screen, which was very clean, organized and to the 
 point, I thought, I forged "William Fellbane" and embarked on my trial. The first thing that I 
 noticed was the cross-hairs in the center of my monitor, and was informed of the radial dial menu, 
 which if extremely useful, by the way. A quick jaunt through bootcamp riddled with a few mistakes 
 made by yours truly educated me about how the game works and it's simple controls.
  
  Grinding in Tabula Rasa is a hotly debated issue, and in my personal opinion I believe that yes, 
 Tabula Rasa presents the option to grind, but in a very fun and integral way, as it does everything 
 else. You must navigate tactical problems and react quickly to incoming Bane dropships, often being 
 aided by friendly NPCs in large battles.
  
  Another point is capturing and holding bases. One can hold a hotly contested base for hours on 
 end, never running out of new problems to solve and new enemies to kill. Capturing a base successfully 
 gives you that same feeling you get when you kill a Scarab Walker in some cool way by yourself 
 in Halo 3, or pull off an amazing hit in Assassin's Creed, which is something I've never experienced 
 in an MMO before.
  
  All in all, Tabula Rasa has the same kind of bugs that World of Warcraft does, they simply occur 
 more often. Tabula Rasa kept me on the edge of my seat, holding off wave after wave of Bane and 
 screaming at my monitor for a "mother****ing frag" as I would in Call of Duty 4 or Crysis. If you're 
 looking for an MMO that's a little faster paced than all the others, then Tabula Rasa just might 
 be your game. I hope you found this review helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuqbag
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I love what Tabula~Rasa TRIED to be, but in the execution it failed... If its not the gameplay 
 that gets really boring, and the most repetitive MMO I have EVER played that kills my experience 
 with this game, then its the games rough framerate and GFX issues... I feel like im constantly 
 fighting the GFX and controls, it never feels comfortable to me, thats unacceptable. Its a huge 
 shame too because I love the games setting, there are too few Sci-Fi settings in video games for 
 me and I loved the games background and mythology. 
  
  I really enjoyed the games class system and advancement, with the ability to make a character save 
 via collect able coins found by doing specific things throughout the game. Then with that save 
 you can make a new character at the same level right before choosing the class path and take the 
 opposite path to explore all the optional character classes in the game. This is a brilliant feature 
 that I hope other developers involve in their games down the line.
  
  Grouping with other players is easy enough as long as theres people who actually want to do the 
 quest your working on, if not, your out of luck. There's a few instances that are not very solo-friendly 
 which is a shame because if your in a mood to finish a quest line and you have no friends to help 
 it really feels like it takes a bit too much gumption to re-arrange your motivation to travel somewhere 
 else and find something else to do. Usually at that point i just log out. And when I finally found 
 a group of 4 others to help with an instance it felt like pure chaos and everyone just rampages 
 through with usually no consideration for anyone interested in the story or reading the quests 
 that you are working on. If you DO read anything while playing through you then need to try and 
 catch up the your group who seemingly shot a speed-ball into their veins before sitting down for 
 a session of TR.
  
  The only way I would recommend this game as is, is if the box was only 10-20$ and the sub was no 
 more than 10 per month. Otherwise I would say wait another year to scope this one, perhaps by then 
 they will have the games GFX and controls ironed out a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayless69
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Well Tabula Rasa's got some bad press lately, and alot of it not totally justified from my point 
 of view. I'm really liking it so far, it makes a real refreshing change to get away from the damn 
 Elves, Dwarfs and Orcs to be honest.
  
  I'm not a hardcore gamer so very rarely, if at all, experience many of the end game issue alot 
 of the hardcore players end up complaining about. It's not the only MMO recently having this complaint, 
 Lord of The RIngs Online suffers from this at level 50 too but I'm still only level 21 and I've 
 been playing since release :)
  
  From the start I felt immersed right in the action, nice pace, great music and atmosphere. When 
 you get a little higher in level and start really battling the Bane at Control Points it gets even 
 better.
  
  If you fancy a refreshing break from the norm, give it a go. At the very least it'll distract you 
 until Age of Conan or Warhammer Online are up and running! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DdraigX
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I have played Tabula Rasa since Beta and I still feel like I am playing a half finished game. It 
 has a lot of potential to be a unique and exciting game but in the end it just becomes mediocre. 
 It is the type of game you play for a few days non-stop then forget about playing. Essentially 
 this game is a MMOTPS (Massive Multiplayer Online Third Person Shooter) and it is either off or 
 on there is no in between time to socialize. 
  
  Graphics, the graphics I would give about an 8 or 9. They fit very well for the storyline and stylistically 
 for the game that you are playing. I haven't really had too many graphics issues but that was because 
 of video card issues not the game. 
  
  The game can be enjoyable to play for the first few weeks, however this fades as you get higher 
 in levels. There is a big flaw in this game and whilst the developers might know how to make MMOs 
 they don't really have a vision on how to make a good MMO. Richard Garriott has been influential 
 in making this game what it is today but it leaves out the key aspect that made his Ultima series 
 and specifically Ultima Online a great game. That is the risk vs. reward, exploration, and community 
 that make up an MMO. 
  
  Risk Vs. Reward in this game lacks greatly. You take on these missions that have hardly any risk 
 at all if you know what you are doing and the rewards you get is absolutely non-existent. Ultima 
 Online you were initially allowed to attack other players, loot them, and repeat it. The community 
 would then come together to form units to stop these murderers. This gave a basic morality choice 
 to the game, without the need for quests. Tabula Rasa attempts this by doing quests, but it really 
 has no reputation system or any reason do act morally when making a choice with these quests. This 
 is just one of the system that was not fully thought out in the end. Crafting I would say is also 
 a system that was not thought out, and has no real benefit or reward other than being able to "buff" 
 your weapons. Because players only have backpacks, and foot lockers it means that collecting items, 
 trinkets, prizes, basically trophies is pointless. There are not trophies in this game. If they 
 implemented an apartment system such as Anarchy Online then it would open up the game to more loot, 
 and better items to craft such as furniture. 
  
  Exploration in the game is almost non-existent. One of the best things that many MMOs give you 
 the ability to do is to explore. Ultima Online started this where you could travel anywhere in 
 the world, even to some dangerous areas and if you could handle yourself with a sword you could 
 probably run away quick enough. Star Wars Galaxies has an immense opportunity to go out and roam 
 planets exploring. Even World of Warcraft with its zoned system also has the ability to explore 
 if you desired. Tabula Rasa, does not really give you this feeling. You have the ability to explore, 
 but it is also a Zoned system and to the point of being restrictive based on the creatures that 
 are in that zone. Zones themselves are small, and it makes running around them easier. The primary 
 difference Tabula Rasa has from other MMOs, besides being zoned, is that they have Instances of 
 the same zones. So if you are in Instance 1 you could decide there are too many people and move 
 to Instance 2 and hopefully finish your quest. This is a bit ridiculous and I will explain why 
 in the community section. Heavy reliance on portals as at the time of writing this they still have 
 not programmed the vehicles into the game. Exploration can aid in crafting, and the Risk Vs. Reward 
 system by the introduction of resources that would need to be collected for people to create items, 
 weapons, furniture, etc. 
  
  If you know anything about an MMO it is that it isn't necessarily the game that is great but the 
 community. Community and a strong social component is probably the biggest thing that an MMO needs. 
 There are a few ways this can be done and I feel Tabula Rasa has failed. After leaving Beta and 
 transitioning to Live I heard that they would not have an Official Forum. This left me as well 
 as almost everyone else I spoke to uneasy and slightly disappointed. An Official Forum, not only 
 provides a strong social cohesion to the player base but also allows developers to gather adequate 
 feedback on where they need to improve the game. The Development staff have built up a wall around 
 themselves and I feel they are plowing a head with a flawed model in this regard. As far as the 
 game play goes the biggest social component is a Clan. Clans in most games have a number of features 
 however other than the most basic features Tabula Rasa lacks quite a few. Other than Clan chat, 
 and the limited ability to set clan officers there is no other control a clan leader has. There 
 are no clan banks, lockers for storing group equipment, or ability to have a clan insignia. In 
 regards to a statement I made in the exploration section, because Tabula Rasa is a Zoned system 
 people do not get the sense that anyone is playing the game if they load into a sparsely populated 
 zone. By having one massive zone instead of smaller zones and instanced this adds to the benefit 
 of Community. Individuals bored with hunting instead of logging off might actually go to the Tavern 
 and hang out, or congregate around the Auction house. However this is also something Tabula Rasa 
 lacks, a reason to congregate and make friends. There is no "IornForge" of Tabula Rasa really because 
 you can just hop to any other instance and get away from the crowds. No reason to hang out in the 
 Tavern, if they gave you an Experience Buff for hanging out in the Cantina for a number of minutes 
 or dancing that would be at least something. There really is no social aspect to this game, which 
 is the single most critical aspect of a Good MMO. Ultima Online had it (Britain bank) , Star Wars 
 Galaxies (Starsider: Corellia, now Tatooine) , but Tabula Rasa sorely lacks it. If you're a role 
 player I would not even bother it is rather difficult with the game play. This is the type of game 
 where you are either in the thick of it, or you're not playing it. 
  
  Instead of being unique they tried to emulate or copy from World of Warcraft. Star Wars Galaxies 
 tried this and failed, and currently I would say Tabula Rasa is also. I feel that essentially sums 
 up my review of Tabula Rasa. This game is currently between a 4.0 and a 6.0 but it has the potential 
 to be an 8.0 or 9.0. So I'm giving it a 4 right now. It will however be a long time before it reaches 
 the score of 8.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  A lot of people have probably heard the words Massively Multiplayer Online (MMO) thrown around 
 quite a bit, especially in recent times where a lot of companies seem to be jumping on the bandwagon 
 to cash in on the craze. There's one person we have to thank for kick starting the genre and that 
 guy would be Richard Garriott. He was the mind behind moving a pretty popular role playing game 
 into new grounds. Ultima had already spawned eight games and he was keen on new ways to spice it 
 up and thus the genre MMORPG was born. It was a pretty ambitious project back then. They hadn't 
 really been much in the same vein before it. Now 10 years later Richard Garriott is bringing us 
 his newest project in the form of Tabula Rasa.
  
  Tabula Rasa is set in a future where Earth has been attacked and mankind nearly wiped out. Gamers 
 take control of their character as a new recruit of the Allied Free Sentient (AFS) and as one of 
 the last few humans alive, it's your job to go kick some alien scum for setting ablaze our beautiful 
 planet. The aliens in particular are called "The Bane" who travel the galaxy hunting down another 
 group of aliens called the Eloh. Humanity was lucky enough to find some technology left behind 
 on Earth by the Eloh and using this they teleported some survivors to another planet. There they 
 met up with other species that were also fighting the Bane and thus the AFS was born.
  
  In a genre that is usually full of Orcs, swords, bows and scantily-clad Elven ladies, it's nice 
 to see a fresh change on the subject matter. It's not like sci-fi or aliens haven't featured in 
 the genre before, it is just that they are few and far between compared to the rest. Also Tabula 
 Rasa has gameplay mechanics that differ a lot compared to everything else out there and that helps 
 it stand out, and also pushes the genre into new areas.
  
  The first thing you notice as soon as you start playing is that you control the game like a shooter. 
 The standard controls have you moving using the WASD keys and aiming with the mouse. That's correct, 
 there is aiming in this game, so to speak anyway. The game is full of guns and guns require you 
 to target enemies and shoot. It works by aiming the cursor onto an opponent and pressing the mouse 
 button to shoot. It isn't precise because if you are somewhat close to it, it will count as a hit, 
 so the game doesn't play like a pure shooter. It may seem silly that you miss sometimes when you 
 are perfectly aiming at someone but at the end of it all it is a RPG and it is fully understandable 
 what is going on. It still manages to make you feel like you are aiming and blowing away aliens 
 and that is what matters most, it also makes the game feel very different compared to most other 
 MMORPGs on the market.
  
  Fighting is a major part of the genre and the combat really does play a great part in keeping the 
 player engaged. Battles are all fast paced because of the shooting style gameplay and there are 
 plenty of enemies to fight off against. What's even more interesting is how enemies keep coming 
 down from drop ships from time to time. You might find yourself exploring an area and all of a 
 sudden the Bane carrier ship arrives and drops some soldiers off for you to blast away. It actually 
 keeps you on your toes when these surprise attacks start coming from nowhere. If you manage to 
 stay in battle for long enough your XP gained begins to multiply upwards, increasing by 25% every 
 time you kill a certain amount. It's a great incentive to make you battle hard and fast to increase 
 those experience points, as we all know grinding usually ends up as a big chore.
  
  Since Tabula Rasa is heavily based on shooting, they are plenty of guns to pick up and play with. 
 Shooting isn't the only way to attack though as the human race has somehow manage to inherit Logos; 
 basically the name for the magic aspect of the game. Throughout the course of playing, you'll come 
 across pictographic languages of Logos that you'll be able to interact with and learn the magic. 
 Like pretty much every other MMORPG out there, there's plenty to learn, some for general purposes, 
 while others will be locked to a certain class. Magic is used by pressing the right mouse button. 
 The game allows you to have both weapons and magic linked to boxes on the screen. Using the Q and 
 E keys, nicely placed next to the movement ones, you can quickly switch weapons and magic on the 
 fly.
  
  Tabula Rasa has some nice ideas about how you go about getting your classes. When you first create 
 your character there is no option of what class to have. Everyone who starts the game is down as 
 a recruit. From then on as you progress through the story and level up, you can start branching 
 off into different sections. It starts off with an option of either Soldier or Specialist. Soldier 
 is the side that is all about combat and fighting, while Specialist is the support side of things. 
 Carrying on from these tiers makes them split into even more, where finally at level 30 you choose 
 the final class you want to be, depending on which side of the tier tree you went down.
  
  A clever feature which has been implemented into Tabula Rasa is the ability to clone your character. 
 If you clone your character you retain your skill points and level but start with no class again. 
 From there you can go and test the other classes that you might be interested in. It's a fantastic 
 idea that I'm surprised hasn't been around already. It really does help to keep interest in the 
 game when you don't have to start from scratch to try out all the other game's classes.
  
  Everything else is pretty much your standard MMORPG affair. Quests are given out by non-player 
 characters (NPCs) and are the usual killing things, collecting things, meeting characters and so 
 on. Some aren't as simple because the game gives you options in some situations on what to do. 
 One of the earlier ones is letting an alien go free or arresting him and taking him back to headquarters. 
 I was a butt kisser so I did what I was told and arrested him. It didn't really seem to do all 
 that much in the story. I guess it's just experience, character responses and items that you acquire 
 that change from these situations.
  
  Apart from quests they are also control points scattered around the planets you explore. Because 
 of the constant enemy drop ship attacks that happen throughout the game, these control points, 
 or bases would be better calling them, are always under attack and changing sides through your 
 gaming session. Losing them cuts off been able to use facilities in those areas, things like hospitals, 
 shops and so fourth. They even change when you aren't playing, so expect some nasty surprises if 
 you think you're close to safety one day, only to log back in and find your new home has been overrun 
 by alien scum. It's another thing that just shows how Richard Garriott was trying to change how 
 combat works in MMORPGs.
  
  Other things to do include player Vs player, which is a bog standard featured mostly every other 
 game contains, and crafting. Crafting was a little confusing to get to grips with so I never really 
 got into that part of the game. It doesn't just seem to be me having this problem as looking around 
 on the forums; it seems a fair few people aren't "getting" the idea of it. You are suppose to take 
 things off weapons and find certain components and use them to craft them, but it just felt like 
 too much hassle.
  
  Graphically the game looks good enough. It has some nice design for characters and monsters, but 
 other aspects get a bit bland. It looks like a lot of action games that have been coming out recently. 
 That brown, gray feeling you get, basically full of dull colours. Performance wise is also a mix 
 bag. The game seems to require a decent PC to get the most out of it. Running it on full specs 
 somehow caused the game to stutter around every so often, but not because of the strain, as the 
 frames per second counter was in the 30s. It just seems to be some sort of bug that's in the game 
 at the moment. It seems to hog the memory of your system. Audio wise the game has a nice soundtrack, 
 mostly rock inspired. Weapons are fine too; they are just missing that oomph noise for the added 
 impact.
  
  With the MMORPG market getting so overcrowded nowadays, it's hard to choose what game you should 
 be handing over your hard earned money for that monthly subscription. I can say that Tabula Rasa 
 is certainly one of them you should have a good look into. Problems aside (I'm sure things will 
 be fixed with patches) the game is a lot of joy to play, and it's all because how fresh the combat 
 feels. They say certain aspects of games can make or break them and its noticeable here that the 
 combat has made this game. At the end of it all you want to be having fun and Tabula Rasa supplies 
 this fun, fast fun at that through its uniqueness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  When i first herd about Tabula Rasa, i was really, really excited.
  
  Finally a game where it's not grind, grind, grind, in a fantasy universe. 
  
  TR plays very 
 well for a game, you don't get bored while you grind!!!
  
  Every battle is exciting and breath taking, after you finnish shotting all the aliens around you, 
 you take a deep breath and tell yourself, that it's over.
  
  Instead of spells and stuff you use a gun, your gun is your spell, your gun is all you need (unless 
 you use a staff or sword) .
  It plays very similar to a 3rd Person Shooter, point at the enemy and shoot, the only down side 
 is that your FPS don't really matter, there still is a health bar and a there so no thing called 
 Head Shot. 
  But still is very fun to shoot horde after horde of Thrax soliders and watch them going down.
 
  
  You also get special spells you can collect called Logos, that range from Lighting Bolts to Making 
 Robots. 
  Logos can be located by talking to NPCs or you can try and find the real secret ones by yourself.
 
  
  Instances are also very challanging, you can do it by yourself, but would be very hard, as you 
 lvl higher it gets hard and harder to do a instance by yourself, and each time you encounter a 
 boss you have to change your tactics to kill the boss.
  
  Traveling is also less frasterating unlike other MMOs. When you die, you respawn at a Hospital 
 near by, if you want to go to a town or camp then you can use the teleporter, no more waiting or 
 walking for 2 hours to get to a palce!
  
  The only down side on Tabula Rasa, which gives it a bad score is....
  
  That it's a MMO. TR 
 does not feel massive nor does it feel like it's online. Most of the time it just feels like your 
 doing a single player misson on a 3rd Person Shooter. 
  You can't really do anything else EXECPT KILLING.
  THere is a crafting ssytem but you must kill 
 stuff to get the materials and receipes. 
  There arn't much pointless objects like beer or fire works or anything to play around with, every 
 one pretty much looks the same because they all are wearing the same armor from the handful of 
 quests you completed and there isn't any Battleground or Areana to compete against other players.
 
  
  The only way to fight each other is to get into a Guild that PvPs. And guilds won't let you join 
 PvP battles unless you have good gear and are max lvl.
  
  Unlike other games where you can take a break from battle and hang out with friends in a city or 
 just get involved in some fun RP, or even jsut go mining or fishing for materials, or grind for 
 that rare item you always wanted to get.
  None of these are present in the game so if your not such a hardcore gamer, you can't play for 
 8 hours straight.
  
  This is my opinon but... I play MMOs to relax, to get away from the adrinalin building war games 
 like Call of Duty 4 or COmpany of Heroes. MMOs let me relax and do stuff at my own pace, but TR 
 dosn't let me, it just wants me to keep on killing.
  
  As a game it might succesd but as a MMO it might not.
  
  If you like non stop action, tired 
 of the old MMOS and looking for somthing new, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahidzadeh
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I've played many MMO games, almost since their inception, and tabula rasa feels unfinished, even 
 after being "debugged" since it's release 6 months ago. My friend and I have high-level characters 
 and we are continuously running into buggy missions and uninspiring quest lines. After level 20, 
 it seems that every "new" planet or continent is just a random rehash of old material. Missions 
 are usually just errands and not very challenging. I find that I can solo almost every quest in 
 the game. With my friend at my side, it's a joke. We have yet to encounter a mission we had much 
 trouble finishing. Equipment, weapons, and armor are pretty static with nothing new with advancing 
 levels. Even the graphics of the items change little. In summary, don't waste your money. If you 
 are willing to wait, I suggest age of conan for your next MMO game. Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  I originally wrote a review for this several months ago. Most of my criticisms were accurate, and 
 fair.
  
  However, this game has really come a long way. I played through the beta and was mostly disappointed.
 
  
  In fact, at one point, I even characterized the game as "nauseating" to a friend.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are average, if not unimpressive. Sometimes they shine, most of the time 
 they do not. With MMOs being made on the unreal 3 engine, and LOTRO & Age of Conan's DX10 visual 
 appeal, Tabula Rasa falls flat on its face in this regard. Sometimes they look decent, but it just 
 isn't that great for a 2007 release.
  
  The anti-aliasing also does not work properly and jagged lines are always visible. This is supposedly 
 going to be addressed in a future patch.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  In beta, there was no cover. At least, when I played. Now, the entire environment can be interacted 
 with during combat. Different objects can be used as cover, providing varying degrees of protection. 
 This adds a LOT. 
  
  Ammo is no longer extremely expensive, and you aren't left scrounging to get money in order to 
 supply your weaponry.
  
  The game doesn't really shine until you hit 15th level. Once you begin to progress on your tier 
 path, you can really start to enjoy some of the game's finer points.
  
  Tabula Rasa is odd. It feels sort of wrong and "off" but if you give it a chance, it grows on you. 
 
  
  I , for one, am very happy that I gave a game I ranked as one of the worst releases of the year 
 another chance. I am really enjoying it. I don't think it has the staying power, with its current 
 level and range of content, but I think it deserves credit for having come a long way.
  
  I plan on playing Age of Conan when it is released, but in the meantime, I'll be playing TR.
 
  
  Check it out... you might be surprised if you give it a chance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  
  Back when WoW turned out to be quite the cashcow, everybody rushed to create their own MMO and 
 get a piece of the action. Of course the first ones out would have the best chance to acquire a 
 somewhat decent market-share before being swamped in the onslaught of all these other MMOs.
  
  Tabula Rasa is pretty much a product of this development. It's pieced together almost entirely 
 from highlights of other games. The bad guys look like refugees from Doom 2, the levels look like 
 a 3rd person take on Everquest (including the tree huts) , the interface is borrowed from Guild 
 Wars and the game mechanics (quests, auction house, skill trees, crafting) are straight from WoW. 
 The visuals are not particularly bad, but definately not noteworthy in any way. Items feel clunky, 
 level artwork dated and textures are straight from a 2005 CD-ROM. Line-production is also rather 
 sloppy, with the game trying to be grim and serious one moment only to be unrealistic and comical 
 the next.
  
  All this doesn't make it a bad game. Actually, it's one of the few MMOs that feels so bloody comfortable, 
 you can get up and running in under an hour. The only thing that makes this game stand out somewhat 
 is the semi-realtime combat. Instead of flipping an attack toggle and trotting off to make coffee, 
 combat is now about aiming and moving and pressing the trigger every time you want someone to hurt. 
 The core mechanics are still your regular old MMO: once you acquire a target, you can still hit 
 it if you're not aiming straight at it. But still, it feels refreshing to experience run&duck combat 
 after all the wait-for-the-power-to-cool command stringing.
  
  The crowd playing this game are mostly WoW refugees and the guys playing games like Gears of War. 
 Lots of sincere college students discussing which MMO is the best, though I doubt any of them will 
 ever take home the Nobel-prize.
  
  Between the dated mechanics, the buggy quest structure, the blatant Dell sponsorship and unbalanced 
 economy and crafting, this game is a fun way to waste some time. If it wasn't for the steep monthly 
 rate, it might have been an underdog contender to the Guild Wars position. Right now, it's another 
 of those almost-but-not-quite MMOs PlayNC is known for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  TR is a new Sci-Fi First Person Shooter-ish MMORPG from the Eastern MMO company NCSoft which has 
 only resently caught attention in other markets with games like Guild Wars and City of Heroes / 
 City of Villians.
  
  Earth has been conquered by an alien race that the general population had no idea about, however 
 our leaders were somewhat preparied and used on earth wormhole technology to move the best of the 
 best to another planet to fight in a war that very well may be older than mankind itself.
  
  The game is third person with an optional over the shoulder close up camera, and it is First 
 Person Shooter LIKE, which is to say not really at all, other than the fact you want to aim in 
 the general area of your target, and 70% of the weapons in game are ranged only.
  
  The game handles most of the accuracy for you so you dont really need to have good "twitch" skills, 
 but you do need to make sure your target is in line of sight and doesnt have excellent cover.
 
  
  As you level up you gain skill points to "pump" up skills you already know or learn new skills 
 or abilities. Probably the most unfortunate thing is that most abilities are really sub par to 
 gun type weapons, so you'll be shooting a lot and not using abilities really all that much.
  
  The game starts with one class which branches into two at level 5 then each of those into two 
 again at 15 and then each into two again at 30, all in tree type progression.
  
  You get free "clone" points at 5, 15, and 30 before you make your next choice and this helps to 
 not have to repeat the low level content again and again, which is a good thing because its all 
 the same everytime. However since leveling is very fast in this game and you dont need to redo 
 it with each charaters you'll be wanting some End Game Content... well currently there is none, 
 theres pvp, but its kind of an aquired taste.
  
  The graphics are good but too demanding, and thats a common complaint game wide, most sound effects 
 are good but not great, a lot of gun / ability sound effects are lacking, the music and voice acting 
 is decent if not a little awkward.
  
  The controls are standard MMORPG wasd + mouse style and feel generally pretty good except for the 
 fact that the in game UI has a horrible Hot Key system with only one 5 slot bar at a time for Weapons 
 and one 5 slot bar (changable but only one at time) for abilities and consumables.
  
  A main failing of the game is that it just gets old really quickly, as most of your doing is pointing 
 and shooting over and over, the same monsters just higher and higher levels and then before you 
 know it your between the levels of 30 and 50 and you have access to every skill / weapon type you'll 
 ever get and it really isnt very much at all as each class really only has about 5-6 different 
 weapons and 5-6 different abilities. Realisitcally youll find and use your best 2 weapons and maybe 
 3 abilites over and over until you just dont want to use them anymore.
  
  There is a crafting / customizing system in game but its generally unfriendly at first and once 
 you understand it you realize its really not worth your time until getting to level 50.
  
  There needs to be a lot more incentive to do ingame dungeons as currently you run them once and 
 when its complete there is no point in going again, there needs to be a lot more end game content 
 besides PvP, there needs to be more incentive to PvP, there need to be more incentive to capture 
 control points (mini wars against NPCs) . Even crafting needs to have a better risk to reward system.
 
  
  Obviously there is a lot this game needs to help give it some varity. The story line also needs 
 to be presented in an more immersing way rather than just text.
  
  Its a fun game but the fun just doesnt last. Definatly a game to keep your eye on in the future 
 as some serious patching / updates could help this game greatly.
  
  If you really jones-ing for a new Sci-Fi MMORPG, pick this up, try it out, you get a month free 
 with the game, but be careful about letting it get old or boring and be careful about holding your 
 breath waiting for the next patch or update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeaderKilla
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  For Tabula Rasa, The combat system and skill system is what partly makes Tabula Rasa unique. For 
 the RPG and Shooter man, the battle system is for you. That combination is very rare, almost unseen 
 today. The skills are able to be used in battle withOUT slowing the user down. One of the best 
 ablities that don't slow the user down is Rushing Blow, wich makes you just plow into the user 
 like the Great Khali into Hornswogle. (Sorry, wrestling quote there.) Now, time for the downside. 
 The biggest part of this are the glitches. When you step into a glitch, they will be huge, and 
 could stop the game altogether. An example of a glitch is when the game just crashes randomly. 
 Another thing isn't big, but falling down a cliff that could be as big as 50 feet..... Doesn't 
 kill you. That's just godly. Except for that, its not a bad game. So, without further ado, I give 
 Tabula Rasa a 8.0 out of 10.0 points. It's another good unique game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petrovsk
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa is the kind of game that jumps into your face with some innovative new gameplay. It 
 is most likely the first Sci-Fi RPG you will play that feels like a Sci-Fi RPG. Instead of the 
 likes of Anarchy Online where you auto-attack with guns occasionally and otherwise use magic in 
 the same fashion as Everquest and its various clones, Tabula Rasa relies on cover, time to aim, 
 and the magic is more limited and usually generates sci-fi effects (smart mines, deployable turrets, 
 beacons to call an air-strike) . This new feel is very fresh and fun but once the excitement wears 
 off, you will find a game that ultimately feels very dated.
  
  The graphics have been a huge subject of debate. First of all, Tabula Rasa relies on all earth-tones 
 meaning that the game has a gritty, drab look. It makes the universe believable but if more colorful 
 graphics are to your liking, you won't find any color here. I personally found the graphics to 
 range from incredible (some indoor areas) to vomitous (the horrible popping landscapes with an 
 obvious repeating rock texture) , depending on where you are.
  
  Secondly, the graphics are extremely inefficient. For the quality of the graphics, you need a very 
 high-end card to run them at decent framerates at all times. Brand new machines will find areas 
 in which to choke. On my system in particular, which will run any Unreal Tournament 3 engine game 
 at max detail at 60+ fps, Tabula Rasa will drop to 18 fps in certain instances. If you just bought 
 a high-end card, don't expect Tabula Rasa to be the technical showcase.
  
  Tabula Rasa does introduce a clone system, which as I write this, is quite an overrated concept. 
 Clones allow you to create a new character at the same level as your current character with reset 
 skill-points. Since you choose one of two class branches at levels 5,15, and 30, clones will help 
 you explore all of these branches. Clones are excellent if you want to try several classes, but 
 this would have been a problem easily solved by allowing players to choose a class at level 1. 
 Because your clone is created with reset skill points, they are also used to change your skills. 
 Clones are also the only way to change your skills, which means every time you want to try a new 
 skill set, you simply create a clone and transfer your gear. Sounds easy, right?
  
  Nope. Unfortunately, in lieu of the cloning system, Tabula Rasa made the ingenius decision of giving 
 every character their own friends list and clan position. This means that when you make a clone, 
 you will need to a) transfer equipment, b) repopulate your friends list. By the way, you can't 
 add friends while they are off-line, so if they happen to make a clone around the same time, you 
 might find him/her by spamming /who all day. c) rejoin your clan. If your original was the clan 
 leader, you will also need to transfer leadership. Cloning complicates everything you would come 
 to expect from an MMORPG although it is nice to change your characters name/appearance any time 
 you like. Did I mention you can't transfer clone points? That means if you have four clone points 
 and use a clone point to respec at level 45, your new character has zero clone points. Does it 
 still sound like a good feature?
  
  I fell in love with Tabula Rasa when I first tried it, but only two months later, I
  also found 
 that it also lacks what makes an MMORPG very appealing: Hope. Tabula Rasa is simply too ambitious 
 to expand its own content before it becomes obsolete. There several reasons for this:
  
  -Graphics aimed at photorealism. There is a reason many MMORPGs go for stylized graphics - they 
 stand the test of time. Throw Xenogears into your Playstation and then Metal Gear Solid; one clearly 
 looks better by today's standards. Tabula Rasa is already starting to look a little ugly after 
 playing Crysis at a better framerate.
  
  -Clueless developers. There is no better way to say this without sounding a little smug. Recently, 
 they revamped the "Medic" class because it wasn't fun and consequentially underplayed. After the 
 revamp, the general player reception was lukewarm at best. Not a good start.
  
  -PvP. Tabula Rasa shipped with a very basic PvP system: Duels and Clan Wars. The RPG-shooter hybrid 
 gameplay creates an interesting problem. If you ever feel some PvP competition with your machine 
 gun and are anything like me, you will immediately log out of the game and play Call of Duty 4 
 online, Unreal Tournament 3 online, or any other shooter of choice. Tabula Rasa would need some 
 very interesting battlefields to breathe life into its PvP and its not a high priority for the 
 developers at the moment. This comparison might also raise new questions. Why does any game with 
 guns and bombs exclude rag-doll physics?
  
  -Bugs. The problem isn't necessarily the quantity of bugs, it's the rate at which they get fixed. 
 New patches create as many bugs as they fix. I have enough programming knowledge to conclude that 
 someone behind Tabula Rasa made some very sloppy code.
  
  I can't seriously recommend Tabula Rasa to anyone except those seriously tired of Everquest clones 
 in the MMORPG world. You will find fresh air in Tabula Rasa and I can't say how long it will last. 
 If you're not tired of Everquest clones, I will recommend the same thing Tabula Rasa players will 
 tell you in general chat if you complain about the game: "Go back to WoW."
  
  ~Petrovsk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I admit that I skipped over this game more than once. I never really read any reviews, and I sort 
 of feel stupid for that. I should have paid better attention because I really enjoy this game. 
 I have played many MMOGs, such as UO, WoW, L2, etc. I have played quite a few FPS games too; Starsiege 
 Tribes, CS: S, COD4, etc. So when I played the 3-day trial I was pleasantly surprised how Garriott 
 & co. really made a decent hybrid of the RPG and FPS genre. This goes beyond what other games have 
 already done, such as the Buying system of CS: S & the Level system of Gunz, and takes everything 
 to a whole different level of gameplay. Without further adieu I present to you my review of Richard 
 Garriott's Tabula Rasa.
  
  //Storyline//
  The story itself is very open-ended. It is a post-apocalyptic story. One day the mighty Thraxx 
 came by and attacked an unprepared Earth in the near-future. In a last ditch effort, the Human 
 race took some of the best warriors of the human race, and left Earth to the Thraxx, and everyone 
 else to die. With such small numbers, the human race has resorted to using advanced cloning techniques 
 to increase the human population & reinforce the "AFS" military.
  
  One thing of note to the above is that there are quite a few roleplaying clans that were established 
 on every TR server quite early in the game. This is probably mostly due to Garriott's fame in the 
 UO community, which was known for it's deep RP-PvP Guilds. Most of these guilds are probably coming 
 from that part of the gaming world, so if you like RP in any way then this is the place to be.
 
  
  //Graphics//
  The graphics aren't at all something to gawk at, but for someone like me who played UO for X number 
 of years, the biggest concern I have is gameplay and replayability. If you are big on graphics 
 then you are going to find this game more or less an eyesore, although there are varying levels 
 of detail you can allow, or disallow, in the video options menu. However it is my opinion that 
 the graphics are very acceptable. I am very pleased to have purchased a game from a developer that 
 knows not to waste DVD space on voice-overs and eye-candy that will not add to the value of the 
 game in any way shape or form. Even though these are not the best graphics, in my opinion, they 
 are all very well placed. He did a good job with what he had to work with. The experience of Garriott 
 and his team shines brightly all around you proved in all you see and do.
  
  //Sound//
  The sounds and music is absolutely amazing. I have birds living outside my window, so when I hear 
 the birds in the game, I am looking out at my window wondering why the birds are so loud; they 
 sound very realistic. The music is excellent, and the ambiance in the background really fits the 
 story and theme. The sound here is something any sound enthusiast can appreciate.
  
  //General//
  There are many different types of weapons, many levels, good XP scaling, interesting 
 abilities, and it is all persistent. The quests are all at least decent, and there are also more 
 than a few "instances" similar to Missions in Guild Wars which are very interesting and encourage 
 players to form a party; especially in the later stages of the game.
  
  The monthly fee is also innovative. Instead of charging a flat fee per month, players are encouraged 
 to purchase more time at once instead of paying month-by-month. The monthly fee is about 15 dollars 
 a month, but if you buy 3 months up front, that price goes down by a buck, and it keeps going down 
 for 6 months, 9 months, and a full year. If you buy an entire year you are actually paying $11.99 
 a month. How cool is that?!
  
  In conclusion this is a game most MMOG fans will want to pick up at some point especially if you 
 are a UO veteran like me. See you in game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymoose99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa is good because it's new and refreshing. I can't argue with that. However, the game 
 seems to have little depth. With everyone starting at the same starting place, and no different 
 races to choose from (something I have come to expect from my mmo's.) However if you got a pretty 
 good system (something I'm lacking, thus the reason I play mmo's) you can have tons of fun with 
 this game. Also you have to appreciate shooting s*** then this game will work fine for you. But 
 thats also another flaw with the games depth, it seems that until higher levels melea combat is 
 no where to be found. All and all it's a pretty fun game, storming and capturing bases is way fun, 
 just the week pvp, shallow character creation and lack of any type of combat besides ranged make 
 this game more of a mmotps than a mmorpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Edit addition: Well I was cautiously optimistic with this game, but as I feared things started 
 going downhill. I found myself doing the same old thing at higher levels as I was doing at level 
 10. Even the mobs did not really change, just leveled up with me. The action in the more advanced 
 areas never quite matched how Concordia Wilderness felt. In short, it seemed like I only leveled 
 to be able to wear the next best armor and use the next best weapons, all of which did the same 
 thing, just at a higher level. I can't complain, for the money I would normally not get as many 
 hours of entertainment as I did out of Tabula Rasa. So give it a shot, who knows, you might just 
 like it enough to stick with it.
  
  Original review...
  I started playing MMO's with Ultima Online back in the 90's, played through EQ, Daoc, and Wow. 
 At this point I got tired of them, same old crap over and over. Tabula Rasa is the first MMO I 
 have played recently that I am actually having fun with and does not feel like I have played it 
 before. Granted, I am only level 11, so I will re-review it later, but at this point I am having 
 fun and not even realizing I am leveling. This is the first game since I can remember where I am 
 surprised when I gain a level, which is a Godsend for MMO's. 
  
  You can read up on the backstory and all, but basically you are humans and you are fighting aliens. 
 The unique thing about the game which is a blast is bases. There are bases spread out over the 
 land and either humans or aliens can occupy them. For example, let's say humans own a base, you 
 can buy supplies at this base, use a teleporter to other areas etc, useful stuff. All of a sudden 
 alien transport ships start flying in and you hear an alarm sound. You can man the walls with your 
 long range rifle, or exit the base to confront the enemy up close. The battles can be fierce, and 
 sometimes the aliens DO win and take the base, in which case you must mount a counterstrike and 
 take it back. Don't worry, you don't have to organize it, the game sends in troops to start on 
 it's own. There are also AI troops manning your bases to help fend off aliens. Players also get 
 tokens for defending or assaulting bases that can be redeemed for rewards, so it is in your best 
 interest to be involved. Pretty cool stuff, and only about a 10 minute break in between the action. 
 So far base assaults and defending is my favorite feature, but I am sure it will get old eventually. 
 
  
  Then you have your typical MMO questing, which is pretty good in itself. You feel like you are 
 actually on a mission with many of the quests and instances. Not to mention on the way there you 
 are sure to encounter numerous aliens and many AI troops fighting them as well. As long as you 
 stay in the right areas for your level you should survive most runs through the maps with little 
 difficulty. You are able to take on pretty big groups by yourself with some AE damage.
  
  There are basically two branches which lead to more specific classes, damage on one branch and 
 support on the other. I have been on the damage side and having fun with that. 
  
  Not too detailed, basically just a review saying give it a try. The game is pretty cheap now in 
 most places. My only concern is will there be enough variation to keep going in this game, or at 
 level 30 will it be the same old thing as level 10? I'll let you know later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firelawrence477
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  And it still is. I love the vast choices of classes and how the class trees split the way they 
 do. You never have to ask anyone, "Guys what class should play as", because you have time to decide 
 along the way. And if you don't like the class you can always clone your character and try out 
 new classes and change your skills accordingly. Crafting... not so great. Get the recipe, buy the 
 materials, and then watch the little buzzy animations on the crafting station move around while 
 your 15 second timer bar goes down. Ding your item is complete. They'll probably make it better 
 some time. I also like the various damage types you can use. Each weapon has a different skin for 
 it's damage type (an EMP Chaingun and an EMP Rifle will have similar features) . Control point battles 
 aren't amazing but still they're pretty fun. They give the feel of actual war. Dropships coming 
 in every now and then to assault these bases and surrounding territory. Kind of like the Battlefield 
 series. 
  
  I really enjoy this game and it's a little glitchy but it's new, so it'll get fixed. Sci-Fi is 
 definitely better than every other MMO that is based in Medieval times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeheart6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I don't have a lot of time to play MMORPGs anymore since I'm 35, a fulltime student and working 
 towards my Masters. I was looking for something that would not require hours or a party of 40 to 
 complete an instance (ala World of Warcraft which I spent over a year perfecting my mage in a huge 
 guild) . Truth be told, WoW had it's moments but it was a huge time sink with little rewards for 
 your efforts. 
  Now comes along Tabula Rasa, Richard Garriott's latest lovechild. I enjoyed his Ultima Series (except 
 for the last one which he had very little to do with) and even enjoyed Ultima Online from the beta 
 until late 1999. I've been waiting for Tabula Rasa for some time since hearing about it and was 
 kind of anxious to see where it would take us in the MMORPG realm.
  Am I disappointed in his latest creation? No, there are still a few wrinkles in the game. Maybe 
 people compare it to WoW but they seem to forget or simply do not know that WoW had it's own share 
 of problems in the first six months of its existence. As of this writing Tabula Rasa is still less 
 than two months from its release date. Was it released too early? You bet! Is it the same game 
 that was shown in beta? Not by a long shot.
  The game is fun. I could tell you about all the skill trees and classes you can choose from but 
 you can read that somewhere else. The bottom line is, it's fun to kill things, bad things that 
 are killing you. Once you get to level 30 and get to choose that final class you wish to be... the 
 fun level increases 10 fold because you can kill more things faster.
  You can solo instances in this game. I'm not a real social person and its a pain trying to find 
 others for an instance run although people are usually happy to help. The ability to solo instances 
 made it much easier to spend my time blasting away inside an instance then wasting it spamming 
 the LFG channel looking for squad members.
  The game is adult oriented. There are a lot of curse words and inside jokes in the game. I suppose 
 you could use the profanity filter but why would you want to?
  There are only two negative things I can say about the game. First, there are missions which are 
 still broken. Many of them have been fixed and I'm sure the remainder will be completed soon after 
 the holidays but it still is annoying to have to contact a GM to finish a mission. 
  The second problem I have with Tabula Rasa is there is hardly any social interaction. Sure there 
 is chatter in the General chat channel but there is not a collection of people to be seen anywhere. 
 In WoW this problem was solved with placing the Auction House in the main cities of the Horde and 
 Alliance. Tabula Rasa just introduced their version of the AH called "Military Surplus". The problem 
 is that they placed it in every main base on each planet, sometimes twice on one planet. And since 
 the crafting system is basically worthless at the moment, Military Surplus is kind of useless unless 
 you want to buy armor and weapons quickly before you would find them as a quest reward.
  The bottom line is that Tabula Rasa is a fun game. It is different than anything else out there 
 at the moment. Whether or not it will stand the test of time will be decided on if the remaining 
 bugs are fixed quickly and players are drawn to the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lelmer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  The concept for this game allows for a much more imersive player experience right from the beginning. 
 I got very bored with the grinding in the other MMO games but in this one the game play keeps you 
 involved even when all you are doing is defending a base. There are so many options that are open 
 to the Dev team that I can't see an end to the additions and improvements with this game for a 
 long long time. Tere are some things that need to be revised or just tweeked though. The player 
 economy is not well fleshed out to date and the crafting process needs a lot of work. There are 
 some other minor tweeks that could be made to improve the whole TR experience, but I suspect that 
 many great things are on the way. Over all this is a great game and a most welcomed change to the 
 MMO world. Oh I almost forgot, this game has the best game support that I have ever seen. I have 
 had the opportunity to submit some bugs (both during beta and after gold release) and request in 
 game support. Both were handled very well and kept my in game experience very positive. Imagine, 
 actually getting in game support from a GM while you are still on line! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Just what we needed, another game that has you grinding levels and killing 10 of this and that 
 in an endless treadmill style grind. This doesn't offer a darn thing new or inovative.
  
  No vehicles, no star ships, no space, no ground vehicles, nothing sci-fi at all about it. You run 
 around in an endless cycle of upgrading weapons and armor. Crafting is a convoluted mess.
  
  It has some intersting missions but you can get the same type of objective based gameplay from 
 just about any new shooter (Enemy Territory, which there is no monthly fee and the enemies are 
 human not brain dead AI's)
  Really, the only thing that makes this game Sci-Fi is the artwork, other then that its the same 
 old poop with a different skin.
  
  Gameplay - not revolutionary. In fact didn't SOE try this third person based shooter stuff with 
 that moronic NGE they tried in Star Wars Galaxies? Let me fill you in, yes. And it about killed 
 the game, in fact it never recovered.. Graphics - look very similar to other NCSoft games. Come 
 on guys, at least try.
  
  Missing parts - shipped missing basic things like an auction house... hello, WTF kind of oversight 
 was that? The devs are already talking about revamping several aspects of the game.
  Where did MMO's lose their way? Why do we keep getting this grind based, linear garbage that plays 
 like a weak, poorly made single player game? On top of it, there is very little depth to any aspect 
 of the game. Just shoot anything in your way and thats about all there is to do.
  
  The rest of the PC gaming industry has a stellar year while MMO players get fed junk like this 
 and Vanguard. Well... at least this one runs.
  
  This game is a disappointment on just about every level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zindale
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome even thou there are some bugs in the game it seem that the developers are working 
 hard to fix them. I have had awesome response time from the GMs which means a lot to me in the 
 game and also even thou it might get boring it really don't, it is a semi-perfect combination of 
 a FPS and a RPG. If you can get passed the flaming about other games in General chat and get your 
 self a fun clan or squad you can have some fun in the game doing instances and CP (control point) 
 raids. The game has an equal balance of soloing and partying, meaning which you don't have to have 
 a party to do anything in the game but if you want the party to help you then it will be there 
 for you. I can agree with most people in the game that at the higher levels the game becomes more 
 of a grind but that is because most of the higher level zones aren't complete mission wise. But 
 as it is going right now the developers are inserting new content in to the game about every 2-3 
 patches and almost every patch has mission bug fixes and other bug fixes. The game is also has 
 very good graphics; basically it is one of the best game graphics for a sci-fi game I've seen all 
 year. But if you don't like what I've written here I must tell you I'm only up to level 29 in the 
 game, I still have another 21 levels worth of experiencing new surroundings to make the game look 
 better to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I could not stand this game's beta or its release.
  
  It has come a long, long way.
  
  The duck and cover system is quite interesting and enables a squad to use realistic tactics.
 
  
  If you're a hardcore gamer you could probably get 2 months of solid play out of this. After 2 months 
 of near daily play, I got burnt out on it, but I did thoroughly enjoy the experience.
  
  Tabula Rasa's graphics are kind of dated at times. It feels a little strange at first but if you 
 give it a chance, it grows onto you.
  
  If you like shooters and sci-fi, you'll enjoy this title. The devs are constantly trying to add 
 more to the game, and they are putting in some quality work.
  
  It's a pretty balanced and bug free experience.
  
  I think that TR is one of the best MMOs 
 out there a very sharp contrast to what I thought about it at release.
  
  If you haven't tried this one, give it a shot. You probably won't stick with it forever, but you're 
 guaranteed to have fun if you give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Straegen
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I have no idea why someone would like this game. The UI is horrible and whoever thought up T to 
 talk and loot should be flogged. Clicking on people to activate quests is now a common standard 
 amongst games and works really well so boggles the mind why this and so many other UI elements 
 were changed making it annoying relearning keys out of the gate. Next up, boars... yes this is 
 a space game but you still have to farm boars for the first few levels. All of it makes me feel 
 so heroic slaughtering farm animals in the woods. Seriously, the best they could come up with is 
 gather some boar DNA and go into the woods and camp? Leading me into the next area... camping. 
 This is so throw back my head almost popped off when I saw what people were doing to level early 
 on. Camping is very 90s and has little place in todays game. Monsters that just appear and a flood 
 of people shooting them shows just how old and dated the designers of this game are. This leads 
 into my next REALLY annoying thing about this game which is the pacing. Running from place to place 
 is horribly slow which compells people to stand and watch monsters appear rather than hunt them 
 down. Also, combat is slow paced in this game. as well as no real feeling of peril. The mobs don't 
 come fast and furious nor does most combat syles. People writing games should seriously play games 
 like Resident Evil which certainly gives you a sense of peril and excitement when playing a game. 
 Which moves into the next lacking topic which is style. Talk about any town USA feeling in this 
 game. I get the very big sense that I have been there and done that in this game. With games like 
 WoW, Guild Wars, LotR, etc bearing down with epic areas that really set the mood this game simply 
 throws together some pretty bland settings. Lastly (at least for this review) , is the horrible 
 equipment and character development. While a couple things (such as reloading and limtied ammo) 
 are nice touches, the item development piece is severely lacking and while I can respect the devs 
 for coming out of the box without character classes like most games of this genre you want to feel 
 like progress is being made and the game doesn't deliver. With so few attributes and skills, I 
 just don't look forward to a really cool power or upgrade right around the corner. In the end, 
 it feels like an FPS that is way too slow and ugly or a character leveling game that is a throw 
 back compared to the progress made by games such as WoW. There are some gems in the design, but 
 way too many flaws IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme2571
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  With not that many current Sci Fi mmorpgs, Tabula Rasa brings in a fresh of breath of air to something 
 new to the public. Not alot of people will like it, but just as many will love it.
  
  Its definetly worth a try if your looking for a new mmorpg to dabble in and I'll let you be the 
 judge of the game. From my standard of play, I find the game pretty fun at times and then again 
 repetitive. The missions can be boring at times, but the instance are the fun factor part of the 
 game. On another note, base busting can be fun as hell and raging machine gun havoc on the bane!
 
  
  This game has so much potential to be awesome, I only hope the developers can see this and implement 
 those features (auction house, vechicles, end game content and factions etc.) If this stuff isnt 
 done in a certain amount of time, TR could lose alot of its subscribers and only leaving the hardcore 
 fanatics to the game.
  
  So at this point, if you know someone with a 3 day pass, well try it out and see what you think. 
 The game can be extremely fun when using ventrillo or teamspeak with guildmates or also by using 
 the in game voice chat with total strangers.
  
  Check it out, you got nothing to lose and I hope you enjoy the game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwned101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  I have had Tabula Rasa for some time now, and I love every second of it. The combat is wonderful, 
 and feels like a third-person shooter. The AI is strategic, and you always have something to do. 
 The quests can be irritating, but the combat makes it fun. Crafting can be a pain, because recipe's 
 are one use. Ammo can we pricey, but credits are not hard to get. The class tree is an amazing 
 idea, and cloning really helps. The monthly fee is the same as most other games, $15.00 a month. 
 This game revolutionizes the MMO world. I will rate this an A++ game, and my favorite Massively 
 Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game (MMORPG) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxbat44
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  With bad gameplay bad graphics and nothing new to offer this is just a rehash of what others have 
 done better. I played the beta for 2 days. I normally give games a longer time than that to impress 
 me but it was that bad. Travel in the game is rediculious be prepared for half our runs to the 
 location of your quest followed by a half hour run back to turn the thing in. The quest itself 
 might take 10 minutes. So lets add that up 1hour of tedium and 10 minutes of actual gameplay that 
 really isn't that rewarding to begin with. Travel is compounded by mobs that attack you while you 
 are on the roads. Why are there even roads if they are just as bad for travel as the terain? The 
 map also doesn't clearly show obstructions so even though the whole zone is mapped you still don't 
 know how to get from A to B because there could be a large cliff or inpenetrable forest (Solid 
 wall O trees) in the way.
  
  The above is a list of the problems with zone design in this game. Should I go on and mention the 
 problems with class design. Combat gameplay problems. Lack of social design in the game. The list 
 goes on and on. Not to mention the dry story that is hard to get involved in.
  
  Please only try this game if you have more than $50 to burn and are extremely extremely bored. 
 If you want an action FPS MMO try Hellgate. IF you want a real MMO play WoW or City of Heroes. 
 It seems like all the reviewers are going really easy on this game. They list the problems many 
 of them, but stil give it a good score. My time is more valuable than that and I hope yours is 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil16-psp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa isn't your typical mmorpg, but still follows the same basic structure.... to some extent.
 
  
  Game Lore:
  - Tabula Rasa uses the age old story of humanity struggling against a more powerful evil force, 
 while this may have been used before in Tabula its used extremely well and immerses you into the 
 game and the story. I wont go into the story but throughout the game its used very well. Story 
 Verdict: 7.5/10.
  
  Gameplay:
  - Game play is mainly determined by the combat system within an mmorpg and how players can interact 
 with the world and socially, and Tabula rasa has certainly shaken up this and created a new but 
 somehow familiar experience overall. In tabula combat is done very dynamically with the main usage 
 being of guns and powers (logo's) , it uses the same damage system seen in other mmorpgs but adds 
 a few things to spice it up. Combat is very active and very much similar to an action game in function 
 with the environment playing a key role in fighting, they have done this using a great cover system 
 that allows objects to act as damage de-buffers and creates a far more strategic variables to the 
 mix. Tabula also is a very dynamic game in every sense when playing it you feel like a war is actually 
 raging with small and large battles all taking place around you, but still allows free movement. 
 You could be passing a bridge and see a few AFS soldiers trying to hold it, while an barrage of 
 bane soldiers pummel them... and you feel connected to the soldiers that your part of this huge 
 struggle and you can help them if you want (which will give you exp/loot/cash) but you will be 
 risking your own life, so combat can be rewarding as well as quite dangerous. But Tabula also takes 
 this to a new level with adding control points that are of extreme important to players in terms 
 of supplies and quests, these bases are frequently under attack and can get overrun quite quickly, 
 if everyone doesn't pull together and help the npc's.... its adds a whole new level of game play 
 and role playing to the game... mainly it seems realistic. You hear the alarms sounding and emergency 
 lights flashing while solders rush to defend the gates from both the bane and natural predators 
 ( yes the animals will also act dynamically running in packs to get their next meal be in a bane/nps/player 
 or even other animals) . These combined make an amazing a very social experience, people will help 
 you and you will help them its as if the game has pulled the community together in a great way 
 which i haven't seen in a long time in mmorpgs.. if ever to this extent. Tabula also rewards you 
 for helping out and defending bases with varies extra bonuses and points. Economically the game 
 is quite flat since loot isn't really defined as well as it is in say hell gate London, but the 
 addition of a soon to come auction house should revamp things. But i can honestly say this is best 
 game play experience i have had in a long time with games. Gameplay Verdict 9/10.
  
  Visuals/Graphics:
  - Tabula Rasa does has good visuals but doesn't match up to the quality of 
 lord of the rings online, but the are great in their own right and suit the setting of the game. 
 They have a variety of interesting a exotic places from huge valleys to scifi military bases to 
 explore, its a joy to watch and experience. Models and animations are great from the bane drop 
 ships to how guns feel and look, but a bad point is the lack of variety in armor while they are 
 realistic a bit more pimping wouldn't have hurt from a visual stand point. But overall they are 
 nice to look at and for a mmorpg do just fine. Visuals Verdict: 8/10.
  
  Sound:
  - The sound quality of the game is top notch, the use of quality voice acting and sounds really 
 do make a difference. You can hear machines ticking over, bane and AFS forces shouting and bantering 
 while quest givers do provide so nice voice work. You will hear a variety of sounds from shotguns 
 firing to majestic waterfalls that all sound great.
  Sound Verdict: 8/10.
  
  Overall:
  - Overall Tabula Rasa is a game that will enter you in a fun and compelling world with alot of 
 stuff to do and experience, I highly recommend it to any mmo/action/rpg fan!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I played Tabula Rasa for the 30 day trials after purchasing a collector's edition of the game, 
 which was by the way a mistake. Why it was a mistake? Well, personally I felt the bonus content 
 was not justifiable. You get a pet that only gets in the way of seeing enemies by flying infront 
 of your UI, and you get 10 "Special Dye" that is really only a dye that lets you choose from the 
 selection of Dye available individually.
  
  What a waste!
  
  Other content is a Challenge Coin (how nerdy-and ultimately useless) . The only thing I liked about 
 the collectors edition was the full color manual and the maps. Other than that I felt jipped.
 
  
  The game itself is really awesome, however. I really did enjoy shooting aliens. I hardly even noticed 
 I was leveling while traversing such an enjoyable world, but after a while I started seeing things 
 literally copied from World of Warcraft such as instances. The one thing that really stood out 
 amongst other things was the music-it was all either beautiful or intense, suiting aspects for 
 each.
  
  All in all, I will probably come back to this game when the game is further developed and has more 
 interesting aspects and improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irelevent
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Don't expect to have to much fun with this mediocre mmorpg 'shooter'' .
  
  
  Tabula Rasa is a big time-waister, its not really that fun, but it's not bad.
  -In the game you 
 don't actually shoot, it's more of a broken auto aim.
  -Some of the controls are questionable.
  -Good Graphics, however NCsoft didn't use it as much 
 as they should have.
  -Akward and confusing class system.
  -Very repetive quests, (kill 100 monsters, possibly the worst quest ever, whos stopping you from 
 just saying you killed 100 monsters?) .
  -PvP consists of duels and a sort of clan vs clan battles.
  -Generic story.
  -Cool armor features.
 
  -a User Interface thats almost as good as World of Warcrafts
  
  -= (Screw you guys who say comparing a game to World of Warcraft is stupid, if a game isn't as good 
 as a game that came out almost 4 years ago it doesnt deserve to get higher than a 8, unless its 
 free of course) =- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gogrick
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa might be a good game someday, but not right now. The game play is very repetitive and 
 customization lies almost solely on item drops.. and there's not that much variety there either. 
 If you enjoy customizing characters, planning out your advancement, and becoming your character, 
 then you'll not find a home in TR. If you like a plug and play approach to gaming then maybe you 
 will. For my dollar adding a few attribute points every level and getting new skills at intervals 
 of 5 to 15 levels is just plain lazy on the development end.
  
  The social aspect of the game is also lacking. Grouping is almost entirely non-existent. Chatting 
 with characters you've never seen is the extent of the social tools here.
  
  The game could be so much more, but they need to invest you in your character. A nice tutorial 
 starting at earth and getting you off planet could strum those emotional strings. Greater depth 
 in character skill trees and attributes might lure in a few more. But the depth of a game, what 
 makes people stay for years, that comes from social connections. Very few games have found a proper 
 balance.
  
  I'd recommend you try a free trial before you drop $50 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate4657
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Even when you are just hanging out defending a base, its just really fun to either barely survive 
 fighting for your life as a noob, or completely dominate as a high level pro. The teleporters make 
 getting there easy, and there is plenty of action when you arrive. 
  
  I was playing WOW forever before this game came out, and it was so fun to just get immersed on 
 a huge zone-wide battlefield where i wasn't getting owned (much) , burning thousands of rounds of 
 ammo, kicking butt, and filling my bags with loot. It just never got boring, and I never felt like 
 I was "farming" and wasting time. I was just playing the game, and the game is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Story: your a merc trying to kill people. Cool
  
  Graphics: nice enviroments. Guns look like crap and do charcter models.
  
  Audio: Crap.
  
 
  Quests-Mostly grinding quests but alot of recorving and story missions
  
  Controls: FPS or MMO style
  
  Features: Lots of lvls, lots of quests, awesome story, crazy PVP 
 and awesome PvE
  
  A. I.: Amazing for a MMO.
  
  Loading Times: Small ones in between towns. very fast.
  
  Multiplayer: Its a MMO...
  
  
 Requirements: Pretty high end PC, Montly Subscription
  
  Weapons: All futureristic. Rocket launchers to SMG's to mechs.
  
  The Good: Crazy Awesome MMO 
 style. New Idea. defiannly close to WoW as the best MMO ever.
  
  The Bad: Some lag in big towns.
  
  The Ugly- The Bane
  
  Buy or pass- Buy. there is a 30 
 day trail so your not risking much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I love this game. It is growing on me slowly but surely and is now my main MMO 
 and I have cancelled my WoW accounts. One of the coolest things about Tabula Rasa is being able 
 to fight with and heal NPC's while engaged in a large battle. This makes the world truly seem interactive. 
 I got involved in one of these fights today and it was pretty insane. Basically I was trying to 
 make my way across Memory Hill, about to hit level 14 so I was handling stuff pretty easily. However 
 there is one addage in this game and that is that any fight can go south quickly, and soon I found 
 myself surrounded by about 13 Thrax and some Machina as well. I fell back across a crater near 
 an area where an AFS dropship had put some NPC troops down and started healing like mad. Once they 
 had the agro, I requiped my gun, chucked a class II Incendiary grenade and waded back into the 
 fight. 
  
  We had some quests that were telling us to go to the Crater Lake Research facility, another instance 
 in Tabula Rasa. As I stated before Tabula Rasa instances are more like mini maps, both indoor and 
 outdoor, that you have all to your self to explore and XP in. This one was smaller than the Pravus 
 map, but packed on the map were some tough mobs and a lot of XP and cool things to do. First off, 
 if you have the quest from the Ranja Gorge to collect the 5 crystals, they are located in crates 
 and boxes scattered all over the ruined facility. You need to open those crates and loot the crystal 
 inside. The crates do respawn quite fast so don't worry if you ninja loot your buddies. All the 
 instances scale also so you dont have to worry about having a full party. Overall a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  If you ever played Ultima Online, by Richard Garriot, you would see immediately that Tabula Rasa 
 is a whole different animal. UO was complex, and could still be considered so today, compared to 
 Tabula Rasa. It seemed like much more of a dynamic, living environment.
  
  Tabula Rasa's gameworld is immersive and interesting, but not as dynamic as I'd hoped, at least 
 not yet. There are no spots to camp mobs, as they could appear any where, and the Bane (the main 
 enemy of the AFS) will attack stronghold and control points randomly, which is dynamic. But that's 
 about all there is, everything else seems static to me.
  
  The missions are very well done and are a blast to play through, especially with friends. I've 
 had no problem soloing, but grouping is much more fun. The great thing about this mmo is that neither 
 really outshines the other, just play as you prefer. Although, as you advance your class, chances 
 are you will be steering more toward one style or the other. For example, I am trying to become 
 a Medic, which is a purely group oriented class.
  
  There are a good variety of classes, with a nice assortment of skills to choose from. Choosing 
 wisely can make an impact on your playing experience. Luckily, you can change your skills, and 
 even your main class, by using clone credits, which allow you to respec. You start off with one 
 credit and can earn more by completing missions.
  
  The gameplay is solid. It's somewhat of a hybrid shooter/RPG. It is not a twitchy control scheme 
 like a typical shooter, there is even a target lock, but aiming true can give bonuses to damage, 
 or so I've read. Taking a knee and letting your sights narrow onto your target can pack more of 
 a punch as well. It is nice to see something like this come back to a mmo, as it was a great new 
 feature in the original SWG. Taking cover is also important in Tabula Rasa, and really adds to 
 the gameplay as you can use the environment to your advantage, it's no longer there just to explore, 
 it's going to play a role in your success in battle. The game is mostly for PvE, although there 
 is some PvP in clan vs clan wars.
  
  The graphics in Tabula Rasa are alittle above average I guess, but nothing special. Lord of the 
 Rings Online and Everquest II still share the top spots as far as graphics go, but Tabula Rasa 
 has some nice art and for me, the game runs perfectly smooth at the highest settings, which is 
 very important. Vanguard: Saga of Heroes can look amazing on a particular PC, but in order to achieve 
 that you much suffer through hiccups, freezing, and lag. Nobody want that, and you won't see any 
 of that in Tabula Rasa considering you meet system requirements.
  
  Sound in the game is great. Explosions, firearms, soldiers and the Bane screaming in battle, it 
 all comes together to make it a very immersive experience. The games soundtrack is alright. I haardly 
 notice it until I roam into a new place when the music changes.
  
  As I mentioned, this is an mmo that does appear to be a system hog and runs quite nicely on an 
 older PC like mine. It can be enjoyed by hardcore and casual players. It's got a lot of content 
 in the early going, but I'm not so sure of the end game content at this point. The good thing is 
 that Richard Garriot and Destination Games are working on additions, patches, and expansions, and 
 Tabula Rasa looks like it has a very bright future. So if you like Sci-fi mmos and are interested, 
 TB may be a good one to try. I don't want to mislead and say that this game is near perfect, because 
 it's not. The lack of depth and some bugs can sometimes take the fun out of the game, but rarely 
 does this happen. I believe the game will grow and become something better, but it's pretty damn 
 good as it is right now just after release, and that says alot about the dev team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 932
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  To get starte with Tabula Rasa is fun like City of Heroes. The craft system need a BIG FIX! no 
 guide to how it work, and the trading system is not better. But it not a bad game, just need t 
 little more work.
  
  Graphic: it's nice when you thinking on that it is an Online game
  
  Sound & music: They are okay. But I think all game music in mmo will get boring sooner og later. 
 Sound need's some work some were in the game
  
  Gameplay: It's nice that you can take af fast mission in 20 min to just kill som time before you 
 need to leave or waiting. 
  The battles over the base's are the most fun part of TR, never have you seen so many players storm 
 af place at the same time... TOTAL AWESOME! Lag's comes and goes (EU server) but I can live with 
 that.
  
  In The End:
  
  Think Tabula Rasa is a game worth looking at. Maybe not so in it's gameplay but still a game that 
 will give you something new.
  
  (sorry for my bad english) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Seeing as how this is early in the product cycle for Tabula Rasa it really isn't half bad. Most 
 MMORPG's take a while to completely get off the ground so bugs and half-baked concepts are almost 
 an accepted norm in a new game like this. 
  
  The craft sysytem needs some refining (like say, a place to auction stuff) and the combat is either 
 "innovative" or just awkward depending on your point of view. Neither is enough of a reason to 
 completely ignore Tabula Rasa for the time being. 
  
  It's an interesting and ambitious game from someone who knows a thing or two about creating a successful 
 IP; Richard Garriott (not to say its a good idea to trust him completely, but his track record 
 gives him some benefit of the doubt) . If you're looking for a new massively multiplayer game that 
 isn't a dwarves and swords fantasy-fest then give Tabula Rasa a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cryptor_comp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Get yourself a trial key asap. The game is great, feels fresh and new.
  There is so much about this game that makes it really great ;
  1. Graphics is fantastic.
  2. 
 Dynamic battlegrounds.
  3. Quests that often present you with choices as far as what side to pick - This is awensome and 
 adds a whole new lvl to the game - by far one of my very favourite features.
  4. Large variety of quests.
  5. Base battles are awesome - Very intense and super fun, defending 
 the bases so that you have access to the NPCs or just to get CP points for ToO quests is alot of 
 fun.
  6. Guild vs Guild battles - Not yet fully implemented to its full potential but looks like this 
 will be a great feature of the game.
  I could go on and on. get hold of me thru my blog at mmorpgslave. com and I will get you a trial 
 key so you can try it for yourself ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RageSet
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Bullets rain on me as I hit the crumbling barrier for cover. I feed a new clip into my pistol, 
 with a satisfying click. Streams of sweat pour down my face as the anticipation of looming danger 
 kicks my adrenaline into high gear. I peek over the large concrete slab I'm hiding behind, four 
 Bane soldiers let loose on my location. "1, 2, 3!" I say in my mind as I jump up and fire at the 
 approaching Bane. I empty all 35 bullets on the Bane soldiers and as the smoke clears, I see the 
 bodies of the dead Bane soldiers. The downed Bane soldiers lie on the ground riddled with holes. 
 I count the bodies. "One, two, three, where's the fourth?" I say to myself. I look around the area 
 and suddenly a herd of bullets flood my location. I fall to my knees; a trickle of blood exits 
 the wound to my right shoulder. Instinctually, I check my ammo belt for another clip, I'm all out. 
 I look upon the last Bane awaiting its final blow. My muscles tighten, inside of me something opens 
 up. I stand up and aim my left arm towards the Bane as its fires upon me. The bullets reflect off 
 me harmlessly and my raised hand begins to glow. A string of lightning bolts pour out my left hand 
 into the remaining Bane soldier, frying it alive. I look to my hand, "What the hel" 
  
  
  If you are looking for moments like the one above, Tabula Rasa (TR) might be for you. TR's 
 combat system is for the frantic player in all of us. TR plays a lot like the common third person 
 shooter on consoles, but don't let that scare you away. During my first three days of playing Tabula 
 Rasa, I have grown from "it's ok" to "very nice". It's the kind of game that grows on you over 
 time, not unlike most MMO's on the market that requires a bit of time to enjoy. TR's combat system 
 plays like it is in real-time, but many factors play under the hood. If you play TR like a common 
 first/third person shooter, you'll die, a lot. You are suppose to use cover whenever possible, 
 not only does this help you take less damage, you do more damage to your foes.
  
  You are among the few humans that have the ability to use Logos; Tabula Rasa's version of magic. 
 So far, Logo's are not much different than magic in other MMO's. Although, you'll spend a lot of 
 time searching for new Logos to use that are hidden amongst the game's many caves and dungeons. 
 The GUI which helps you organize all your logos and weapons is streamlined for ease of use and 
 quick play. I do wish that the Items Equip section was separate from your character's overview 
 menu. 
  
  Tabula Rasa isn't the best looking game in the world, but like my other favorite MMO, Anarchy Online 
 (AO) , looks aren't everything. TR's graphics aren't ugly, but they won't make you forget about 
 Crysis and come running. I must mention AO because, not only does TR seem like a sequel of sorts 
 to AO, but a lot of AO's players have migrated from that game to TR. Tabula Rasa does play like 
 a friendlier version of Anarchy Online; whereas in AO you have total power over your abilities 
 and character skills (so much so, that AO has possibly one of the highest learning curves of ANY 
 MMO game on the market) , in TR, you don't have a lot to worry about except three character skills. 
 This brings me to what is starting to be a clear case; TR looks to be a bore at higher levels because 
 of the MMO standard grind. The music in the game is good for what it is, but I expect some of you 
 will lower the volume and play your own music. 
  
  Tabula Rasa doesn't have all the bells and whistles of other MMO's, not even the depth most new 
 MMO's offer, but it will satisfy the shooter junkie in all of us. I expect TR to become better 
 as the developers expand the game with updates and expansions. Until then, only get Tabula Rasa 
 if you a willing to pay for the potential it has and not for what it is offering now. 
  
  Frank
  
  P. S. If you are a fellow AO refugee and you are playing on the European server, look 
 for Twinkiez. The same name as my toon in AO. I'll update this review with more information after 
 additional time with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcaldwel
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought it was pretty cool. But I soon realized that group play had no coordination, 
 it was all about just unloading damage and blasting your way through the quests. Now this was fun 
 for a week or so, then it just got boring. Soon I finished the quests and moved on to the next 
 map. Same quests, but this time the map didn't show you where the quest is located. So I spent 
 2 hours looking for character x that was supposed to be somewhere else. I finally found him and 
 killed him. Oops! I think I was supposed to talk to him. The quests become more vague, like for 
 instance "the cow rises in the East, find the golden rock that runs east of the path to the north 
 that intersects with the moon". Maybe I am just missing something, but a game like this needs PVP, 
 killing MOBs can only go so far, especially when its just lock and load baby!
  
  Go back to WOW, Conan is around the corner. Mr. Garriot should stick to fantasy, there is a reason 
 there 200 games about fantasy, cause it works, we like it. FPS is for other times, not times to 
 pay. Go away Garriott, and we will kill you like we did in Ultima Online.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I won't dribble on for too long about this disaster, normally I give games a good chance before 
 I get out the Hammer of Doom, but on this one, the hammer fell, and it fell hard within a few hours.
 
  
  Biggest disappointment is that the graphics are awful, even at full settings many games that are 
 now years old (Guild Wars, WoW, even EQ2!) will beat what Tab-Rasa has on offer easily. Let's just 
 say bland, blurry, uninspiring, messy, a plain old mess for the eyes.
  
  Combat is meh. Over-hyped. Professions are ok but everyone tends to look the same, unless you are 
 willing to torture yourself by getting to level 30. The spontaneous random attacks are cool the 
 first 2-3 times, but are just annoying after that. Crafting is rubbish. The economy is non-existant 
 - WTF it's an MMO this is essential!
  
  The only 2 good things are the sound and the UI - certainly not enough to keep my interest or a 
 fee.
  
  I wasted my money on this one, and regret buying it. Harsh but true.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tygerwilde
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Who hasn't played the old ultima series. out of those, fewer have never played Ultima online, so 
 really, there's a lot to expect out of something that the mastermind behind them has produced. 
 However, there's something lacking in this one. 
  
  I can't say that overall it's a bad game, it truly is interesting, and fun at points, but it's 
 still broken. It seems like oftentimes, it was throwing me at enemies I wasn't prepared to fight, 
 other times it seemed like I would get into a fight I could manage and suddenly I was aggroing 
 enemies from half a mile away.
  
  Quests were all copy pasted from warcraft, EQ, AC, and any other source you could imagine. nothing 
 new from what I saw.
  
  this one needs a lot of work before it will be worth paying for. I'll revise my score if they ever 
 make it playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  First, this is not a MMORPG. It's more like a FPS action game where you don't need to think... 
 just kill, kill, kill. I got bored after just some hour. And I don't wanna pay every month for 
 something like that. If I wanna shoot stuff then I can play some PS2 game...
  
  The graphics are ok. Nothing special... close to Guild Wars.
  
  The game is boring... boring 
 missions, boring AI, boring characters, boring story...
  
  What can you do in TR? Kill aliens, thats about it. I told them in Beta to add more PvP, vehicles, 
 weapons, monsters, story and so on. But nothing.
  
  Stay away from this game.
  
  I give it 3 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meubanks
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  If I were reviewing RGTR as a single player action shooter, I would probably be calling it brilliant, 
 and if it were a free to play rpg, I would be able to overlook it's flaws, because it does shine 
 in some areas, and it is fun for a little while. But in all, this game just lacks the sense of 
 reward that would hold my attention long enough to justify the monthly fee.
  For me, the main appeal of an rpg is the sense that that my character is developing and being rewarded 
 as I progress through the game. Unfortunately, this is completely missing from Tabula Rasa. 
  Character's advance according to a tier system, where you choose a new class at levels 5, 15, and 
 30. But in truth, the abilities you get at the upper tiers are often less effective then the lower 
 tier abilities. In my experience, the best weapon in the game is the shotgun which is available 
 at level 1 to all characters. While designing the lower tier abilities so that they remain useful 
 throughout the game is a good approach, it shouldn't be done at the expense of nullifying the more 
 advanced skills. The effect of this design approach is to make all the characters feel the same, 
 regardless of class and build specification.
  Many of the game mechanics seem out of place, poorly implemented, or just plain useless. I could 
 go into great detail here, but I won't for the sake of brevity. I get the impression that some 
 of the elements of this game are only there because "all the other MMO's have them" regardless 
 of whether they fit this game or are actually all that useful. For example, crafting is completely 
 broken. Nothing you can craft is better than what you will get in drops, and you are more likely 
 than not to destroy the item in the process. In addition you need to use valuable skill points 
 to craft at all, and there are never enough of them for the skills that are actually useful. Why 
 waste game resources on recipes for crafting ammo, health packs, etc, that are identical the items 
 that can be easily and cheaply bought from literally any vendor in the game? And since there is 
 no player based economy in this game, why even put crafting there at all. The development resources 
 could have been better spent elsewhere.
  Another are where this design flaw shows clearly is in healing. It works fine, it's just not very 
 useful. Basically once your armor is gone, your death is usually imminent. No amount of healing 
 will keep you alive long enough for your armor to regenerate, so why bother putting it in the game. 
 The medic class is so useless that basically no one even bothers to roll one. 
  On the positive side, advancement is based on doing missions, and doesn't require much grinding. 
 However the missions aren't particularly fun, challenging, or rewarding. The game is for the most 
 part incredibly easy. I understand that this game is primarily targeting a casual gaming audience, 
 and I'm not the most hardcore mmo gamer myself, but it's kind of disappointing to be able to solo 
 all of the instanced content through at least the early portion of the game. I know some people 
 complain about being "forced to group" but you know when you buy the game you know that it is a 
 multi-player game. Part of the fun of an mmo is the social aspect of the game, and at least some 
 of the content should be challenging enough to require some teamwork. I'm not against solo play, 
 in fact I solo more often than not, but I at least want the instanced content to provide a bit 
 of a challenge. On top of that, the mission rewards are almost always too low of a level to be 
 anything other than vendor fodder. Also, many of the missions are bugged, and don't properly credit 
 once completed. I expect a few bugs in a new mmo, but it's annoying to have to redo an entire instance 
 because one of the missions didn't credit properly. Finally, there is absolutely no replay value 
 to any of the content in this game. Once you've done a mission it can't be repeated, and the bosses 
 don't drop anything special, so once you've completed a zone there is really nothing else to do. 
 There is no end game to speak of at this point, and there really isn't that much content to begin 
 with. Once you hit the level cap your character might as well retire. Sure, you can re-roll, or 
 level up a clone, but what's the point, you've already done it once, and there isn't enough difference 
 between the classes to make it worth doing again.
  Special items drop like candy in this game, but they frequently have bonuses that don't make much 
 sense, or aren't particularly productive. For example, many items have bonuses to resisting certain 
 types of damage, but very few mobs do that type of damage. Weapons often have mismatched bonuses 
 as well. For example, a laser rifle that reduces the targets resistance to physical damage. It 
 isn't really a disadvantage, it's just pointless, and has the effect of making all the items seem 
 generic. In addition the game color codes items like many games, greens, blues, purples, etc. But 
 there really isn't much difference in the actual quality of these items. Even blues or better can 
 be sold to vendors most of the time.
  There are aspects of this game that I liked, the graphics are very good, and the character models 
 are some of the best I've seen in an mmo. The combat is fun, and there are endless hordes of bane 
 soldiers to do battle with. The effect of having the bane deploy in drop ships, rather than randomly 
 spawning on the map is kind of cool, and the AI is generally smarter than it is in most mmo games. 
 The character cloning mechanic is actually a good idea, you can try a different build without having 
 to play through the whole game again. 
  I don't want to be too hard on this game, but I really wanted to like it, and had such high expectations 
 for it. A game designer with Richard Garriot's rpg pedigree automatically brings a higher expectation 
 of quality for me. I just hate to see game designers focus time and attention developing systems 
 that are so flawed that no one bothers to use them, and releasing games that are half baked with 
 too little content. This is especially true when the game is an mmo which charges a monthly fee 
 for the privilege of playing it. To the developer's credit, they do seem to care about the game, 
 and do respond to issues as they discover them, but I don't plan to continue paying the monthly 
 fee while waiting for content that should have been included in the retail box. I do think this 
 could eventually be a great mmo, maybe one of the best for the casual gamer, but in it's current 
 state I can't really recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outriderx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  I have seen a lot of new material over the past month. The MOBs have become more challenging with 
 some increased attacks and AI adds like pathing. The improvements in the Environment, User Interface 
 and Design are very nice.
  
  Since the begining as before I like the fact that your playing against the computer with other 
 players. And the computer AI can capture a base and you can capture it back. That is the part I 
 like best.
  
  If your still not sure about this game, tight on cash or don't want to waste money. I would come 
 back in 3-6 months and try the trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Lord British announced that he would be creating a new MMO. Myself along with many 
 other fans of his work were very excited to hear the news. I followed the game off and on as it 
 was developed, waiting to get a hand on the final copy. Now after a month of played Tabula Rasa 
 I feel happy and sad at the latest creation of General British.
  
  Tabula Rasa is a sci-fi MMO based on a alien world far from our own. Earth has been taken over 
 by invaders known as The Bane, and the last of human kind is shot into outer-space to find a new 
 home. The intro video does a good job of introducing your role in Tabula Rasa along with some great 
 voice acting. You can also expect to see more FMV clips for story archs as you play the game.
 
  
  The spirit of Ultima is everywhere in TR. As you adventure, you will find artifacts which will 
 help your character to a limited degree. These feel very much like the Virtue shrines of older 
 Ultima games. The different artifacts also translate into words, kind of like the runic alphabet 
 of Sosaria. Warp gates are placed around each map which allow for fast travel in the same matter 
 that moongates were used. The armor and weapons match the types of gear you could obtain in Ultima 
 2. To top it all off, you will find some great easter eggs that point back to Ultima and it's characters. 
 I will leave these up for you to find, as that is what made it fun for me.
  
  All is not dandy in Tabula Rasa. There are quite a few game breaking bugs, although these are being 
 looked at and dealt with in weekly patches. The controls are not always responsive even when playing 
 off hours and having a low ping, which makes me believe there is some UI tweaking that needs to 
 be done. Some of the quests can become broken if not done in a correct sequence, which can lead 
 to some frustration. Others are still broken and cannot be completed at all. These are common issues 
 that come up with any release of a new MMO, so we the fans must put our faith that the devs will 
 keep up on the fixes.
  
  Even if you are not a fps fan you are going to find alot of enjoyment in TR. Most of the targeting 
 is done for you, just make sure you are pointing the gun in the right direction and holding down 
 the mouse. The community is what you come to expect from most MMOs. If you are looking for a more 
 mature player base then your best bet is to play late at night. I'd say give TR a shot but that 
 is going to be up to you and your patience. Bug/client issues are going to be a problem for awhile 
 and with time they should get fixed. It depends on how dedicated you are to the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: commonperson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa is many things, while it is not the ground breaking revolution that it claims its self 
 to be it's also not the World of Warcraft "Clone" that still others say it is. What I am forced 
 to wonder is how long have the people who call it that have been playing video games and have they 
 truly thought out their statements? (And in some cases where did they learn to spell. When someone 
 like me who's spelling is passable at best can see basic grammatical and spelling errors it seriously 
 undermines the intelligence of the point being made.)
  
  The main complaint many of these "neredowows" have is that the game is simply a grind of get a 
 bunch of quests, complete the quests, gain XP and bump your level. Wash, rinse, repeat. But to 
 call that a "World of Warcraft clone" is a disservice to World of Warcaft and hundreds of other 
 games. Frankly I challenge them to find a "role playing" experience that does not use that exact 
 same formula or in the least a variation of that. Certainly by calling it such displays a lack 
 of depth of vision and a pure lack of understanding of the medium. World of Warcraft while adequate 
 in its own right is certainly not unique or original lifting it's formula from other games like 
 Everquest, Ultima Online and dozens or hundreds of Role Playing Games before it. Add to that it's 
 lack of originality in setting and character design (just ask any Warhammer fan and see them foam 
 at the mouth) it's clearly an invalid comparison.
  
  Getting past the histrionics and the posturing and looking at the game it's self we find that Tabula 
 Rasa is a game with a lot of potential, some very interesting ideas, a few charming philosophical 
 nuances, but at the end of the day lacking that spark that makes it truly special. Don't get me 
 wrong; having played from mid-beta I really enjoy this game. It's one of the few games that I've 
 played past beta as I often simply don't see the magic. Tabula Rasa is not a perfect game; there 
 are balance issues, a few bugs, lack of end game content, and some rough performance spots. That 
 being said, in this world of MMORPGs show me a game where this isn't a case. In the extreme examples 
 like Hellgate: London or even worse Vanguard we have a game that in some ways wasn't ready for 
 ship and was pushed out the door anyhow. Tabula Rasa isn't that bad. It's playable and enjoyable 
 but definitely not everyone's cup of tea.
  
  Eschewing the all too familiar fantasy setting it goes for a near future pastiche throwing together 
 a human race on the run and pushing back against an all powerful aggressor our children scattered 
 to the stars. Think BattleStar Galactica meets Stargate. This is a nice change from the standard 
 fare but not as unique as they claim with titles like RF Online and others like Huxley on the horizon 
 or the already released afore mentioned Hellgate it's a genre that will be getting more crowded 
 as time goes on. That being said the balance of twitch to standard MMORPG structure is interesting 
 as your rounds will make interesting "curves" to hit targets but if you draw a bead and keep it 
 close on target you are more likely to do damage and hit a critical then if you are aiming 90 degrees 
 from your target.
  
  A nice affectation that is a hallmark of a Garriot game is the moral ambiguity. There are missions 
 that will open up other mission strings where there's no right or wrong answer. Do you sell the 
 stims to the soldiers who are clearly suffering or do you bust the ranger who swiped the pills 
 from the medical tent? How you behave will affect the reactions but it's not a simple yes no. There's 
 no right or wrong, its infinite shades of grey which is a very interesting twist on the standard 
 good vs. evil you see in so many games.
  
  Added to this shooter/rpg hybrid you have logos. In any other game this would be called Magic but 
 in the mythos of Tabula Rasa the evolutionary abilities imbued in us by benefactors from the stars 
 whose rebellious brothers we now battle. These powers allow for some stupendous feats and some 
 pretty nifty effects.
  
  The GMs are responsive and helpful and so far have had little problem. One major thing it is lacking 
 is a consolidated community. No official forums means turning to "Fan" forum sites and official 
 communications can be hard to come by.
  
  End game is already being fleshed out with an ambitious schedule of updates and features including 
 "vehicles" that can only be termed as "mech lite" personal armour units that vary depending on 
 class. And from the reviews of them that I've heard they will be SWEET! That being said like many 
 MMORPGs Tabula Rasa walks a razors edge between greatness and obscurity. You only have to look 
 at PlayNC's other recent release AutoAssult. A game that tried to buck tradition and start an entire 
 new genre and failed miserably being yanked unceremoniously servers shut down to undergo "redevelopment 
 of the intellectual property." Sure it didn't have General nee Lord British's name attached to 
 it, Richard Garriot though not having made titles for a few years and having stepped out of the 
 lime light still carries a lot of cache and seems to have brought a focus to a team that was languishing 
 in development hell before he took the reins. That could save it from the ignominious fate of its 
 automotive cousin but is that a sure thing? Who knows, if they keep their end of the bargain and 
 release frequent content patches with interesting developments and steady bug fixing it may well 
 be the breath of fresh air it claims that it is striving to be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't bad but it's far from great. I have to give it some credit for being origonal in 
 combat system and all that stuff, but not much as SWG attempted to do the same thing when they 
 had there combat update.
  
  The game is fun, its 3rd person shooter feel realy captures the fast paced battle some people may 
 realy crave, and thats the one aspect of the game I have to say is realy well done. Sadly though 
 thats about it... the game is basicaly a WoW clone in the sence that you find all the quest givers 
 in a zone gather up quests and complete for mundane boring rewards and xp.
  
  The game has no true crating system but rather a wepon/armor upgrade system that can be more annoying 
 to use than its worth, most players I know just avoid using it all together (aside from creating 
 dye) .
  
  The graphics in the game are extreamly well done if you have the PC that can handle it, if you 
 don't you'll be stuck with an improved version of WoW. Sadly the game lacks a lot of good content 
 outside of killing hundreds of mobs and completing cookie-cutter quests.
  
  TR is an ok game, if you've played WoW and you want a more action oriented game you should check 
 out TR but if you want somthing "more" from your MMO you'd be better off looking ealsewhere. With 
 a lack of origonal content and interesting features one has to beg the question: If the guy who 
 made this designed UO the ultimate Sandbox MMO, what happened? Where did all his magic go? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WABBLE
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  well to tell the truth this game was not my frist choise. how ever i'm real glad that i chose this 
 game, granted there will be quiet a few patches but that will only make it better. all around this 
 is a very fresh and exiting game with an interesting battle sistem that just gives it that extra 
 edge. not to mention the fact that as you kill the thrax on your way to misions or you just kill 
 them in battle just for the sake of a good gigle do to the fact that you just lvled up by walking 
 around kiling thing with a smile on your face, one way or another even the most weakest character 
 that is just goin around duing misions to get the goodys that are set as insentives to get the 
 mision done, it seams that every one becomes a variable in the TR univerce, evey battle every mission 
 makes it look like you are actualy part of the war and not just some mindles drone that justs want 
 to kill, loot, complte quest, repite. the graphics are emaising and kind of makes wow look like 
 a boring dinosour. granted lots of people have put the game down by puting out how there are some 
 bugs, and that this is an unfinished product, well all i gat to say to that is "you have no idea 
 what you are talking about" when everquest frist came out it was so bad it was near unplayable 
 just like wow, and when dark age of camelot came out god only knows how many paches were made in 
 the frist month alone. TR on the other hand came out as a very complite and enjoiable game that 
 just made my jaw drop to the floor.
  this is a great game, and with th PAU units that are being added, and the controlable NPC squad 
 member that you can take with you were ever you go for back up, man i tell you this game is just 
 goin to get better and better and i must say this game will top all MMOs on the marqet. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that, although I'm not a fan of Richard Garriot, he did strike and appealing tone 
 with Tabula Rasa. Instead of a wall of text, here are the pro's and con's of this great game.
 
  
  The Good
  - An interesting setting that stand apart from the fantasy clones.
  - Fun gameplay combines standard MMO features with those of an FPS.
  - Action is fast and furious, 
 something that other MMO's don't have.
  - Interesting classes that feel distinct from one-another.
  - Clone feature let's you try many 
 of the different classes without replaying.
  - "Capture and hold" gameplay is innovative and entertaining.
  - Great graphics and sound supply 
 an immersive environment.
  - Cool videos before each dungeon (instance) help set the mood.
  - Collector's Edition is jam-packed with neat junk!
  
  The Bad
  - Lack of an Auction House 
 makes crafting extremely difficult.
  - Instances lack the necessity for strategy (no real need for teamwork) .
  - Somewhat different 
 gameplay may not appeal to the usual MMO-fan.
  - Enemies don't change very much.
  - Some areas seem too similar to other areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaaaru
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  By trying to reinvent the wheel, Tabula Rasa failed at giving the player a fun and easy UI to use. 
 ''If its not broken, don't fix it'' they say... A ''new'' UI style wan't necessary and it killed 
 the game in my humble opinion. I'm pretty sure that the game will improve in time, but I dont beleive 
 Lord British and his team will go back to a more ergonomic UI. 
  
  Having to use the keyboard to enable an on screen mouse cursor to click on some icons and then 
 use the keyboard again to get rid of the cursor is not ergonomic. Dont forget that once that mouse 
 cursor is on yer screen, you can't do squatz... all the cursor is used for is opening or closing 
 boxes and stuff... no real combat use here. Also, having to leave the movement keys (A'W'S'D) to 
 shift+F1 etc in order to scroll tru the abilities bars to find the right one in middle of combat 
 is not ergonomic... in fact, having to leave the movement keys (A, D, W, S) at all at anytime is not 
 ergonomic, period... I mean, why oh why did they trew away the mouse cursor ??? If you ever played 
 WoW with a Hunter you will understand what I mean... very frustrating/confusing. 
  
  Oh I'm not saying WoW is better, but how come all the other MMo's out there use the Mouse cursor 
 like it was meant to be?... As in ''to be used to point and click''. For a game that pitch a fast 
 and furious combat style, the UI needs a really big overhaul or change because it makes it really 
 feels weird. Guess we'll have to rely on the modding community for that.
  
  Makes me wonder if this was picked up by the Beta testers but pushed out the door anyways... And 
 no official forums ??? C'mon Richard, you can spare a Forum, I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is nothing like World of Warcraft, or Everquest, or really any other MMO 
 I can think of. 
  
  So it gets a lot of "points" right there. 
  
  However... the fatal flaw in this game is that there is essentially combat, button mashing combat, 
 and nothing but combat. 
  
  It's not that great. That's the bottom line, in my opinion. 
  
  The graphics and art are really nice... the music is wonderful. But you just run from point 
 to point blowing stuff away and... I don't know, but it just feels so damn boring once you get away 
 from playing it for a week or so. 
  
  My experience is that I bought into the hype and thought this was the greatest game ever. I put 
 about 20 hours into it and then took a break... and now I can't force myself to go back... because... the 
 game doesn't offer any compelling reasons to. It's just not that fun after you've defended a CP 
 several times, or tried to assault one. 
  
  What's missing? I'm not quite sure. It's a logos hunt... it just didn't keep me playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarFace7331
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played many MMORPGs, and I'm a big fan of them. WoW, Lineage 2, Final Fantasy XI, GuildWars, 
 Ragnarok Online, etc, I've played many of them, and currently I'm only playing: Tabula Rasa.
  
  Good Stuff - Inovative gameplay leaves you wanting for more bane ass kicking; awsome graphics 
 for a MMORPG; good sountrack and sound efects; not much grinding; cloning sistem lets you experience 
 other classes without having to level up all over again.
  
  Bad Stuff - You'r going to need a pretty good PC to play this in a cool way; only one race at the 
 moment (promised new ones at further patches) ; can be a little confusing at the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Everything in the game is designed with a goal: To get peoples who usually don't play shooters 
 to play Tabula Rasa. Auto-lock, not shooting your friends, insane amount of ammo and recharge is 
 also the trigger button...
  
  It is fun the hear your squad talking, and as a MMO player, I am not used to that yet. It is fun 
 to switch weapons all the time. It is fun to use your side abilities (zzzzaaap) , which are linked 
 to the logos.
  
  There are many quests, but it feels it could still have more OR that the player could be directed 
 to them in a better way, often players think they have no more quests or are unsure about what 
 to do.
  
  The evolution system of your character is interesting, but ultimately flawed. EQ2 was designed 
 that way... and players just want to start with the final class, and developp their ability at precise 
 levels... redesigning that would means major rework. But it is not fun to see everyone of your level 
 been soldiers or specialists and that is it. The game has 8 classes to offer; let's start with 
 8. It is my experience that the evolution system works better in a single RPG game, but with other 
 players, it is fun to have a bigger diversity. See, your a soldier, half the server and peoples 
 you group with are just like you... this isn't fun.
  
  The tutorial... there needs to be a warning to say you cannot shoot with your logquest open... I 
 waste 5 minutes, reading the tutorial, and then doing a baby step by step, but for some reason, 
 to shoot, you need to close the logs for the quest, need to say it in the tutorial where you need 
 to shoot the crate.
  
  The girl model, it ALWAYS move. I know the official answer is that if a geek (the player) would 
 look at a girl that intensively, she would be shy... but damn, this is sure annoying.
  
  Customisation is limited, both in powers and in look. You are blond or red-headed is as far as 
 the customisation will go... and under a helmet is doesn't matter.
  
  That's been said, the game is solid if we exclude a few bugs about the quests (getting them and 
 losing them, didn't figure it out so I won't explain it, but most of the time, someone in the squad 
 was shafted in every mission, not fun when 1 teammate (not always the same) is always screwed.
 
  
  There is some level of AI in consideration, if you snipe a big insect and are far enough, it will 
 run in circle and never find you... if you snipe an intelligent creature, no matter the distance, 
 it will come for you.
  
  I may sound harsh, but in my case, despite all the fine tuning they made to accomodate non-shooters 
 players, my reflexes are unable to catch on. The game is just too fast for me. So I won't stick 
 there since I can't be efficient/compete, so there is no point either in cooperating and been a 
 flaw to a team I want to help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerzc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  I have to say at first I was very skeptical about this game. I had seen all the reviews by people 
 saying the graphics were bad, the combat system was bad, there was no content, and generally how 
 everything sucked.
  Well I decided to take a chance and pre-order it anyway. I figures if I didn't like it I could 
 simply uninstall and all I'd be out was $50, which in the grand scheme of things, is little more 
 than pocket change. I'm now very glad I did, as I have to admit I love the thing.
  
  All personal opinions aside, this isn't the biggest best thing in the world. In fact there is no 
 "best". Every game, be it single player, multiplayer, or otherwise has done a great job at some 
 things and a bad job at others.
  Tabula Rasa is also a mixed bag of sorts.
  Visually it's no Crysis or COD4, but things look nice. The engine does tend be somewhat limited 
 compared to other MMO's, but by no means do the graphics "suck" as some would say.
  Audio is.... well audio, and it's there. It's really a hit or miss thing, not much inbetween (audio 
 in general that is) , and TR "hits". The game supports 5.1 surround (my preferred setup) and it 
 works well. The audio actually follows the camera POV. IE: if you have your third person camera 
 behind your character (character and camera facing north) and you have some animal behind you (to 
 the south) , you will hear it from your rear speakers. And if you rotate the camera around to the 
 front of the character (character facing north, camera facing south) the sound from the animal 
 will come from your front speakers.
  I know this may seem like a very basic thing not worth mentioning, but keep in mind that the surround 
 sound support for some games is subjective to the character alone. For instance in City of Heroes. 
 If something is behind you and you rotate the camera to look (keeping your character facing the 
 same direction) the sound will not move. You have to rotate the character to get it to move. To 
 me this is a very annoying thing.
  Something else worth mentioning (which I enjoy GREATLY) is the audio when turned to 100% is a very 
 nice 0dB level. I bring this up because I've noticed a trend with some newer games to have lower 
 audio output levels than in the past. For instance COD4 and Crysis, with their master volume turned 
 to 100% is only as loud as Tabula Rasa (and many other games) set at 40%-50% of max volume.
  I do however with there were more options for both Audio and Video.
  
  Play is totally subjective, 
 so anything I say here you can't really trust as it only applies to me point of view. This is a 
 game you either love or hate. I for one am on the love side of that argument. I'm not all big and 
 hardcore when it comes to combat systems and being able to do combos and backflips while shooting 
 rainbows out my butt like you can in some games. For me it's simply a matter of "fun" or "not fun". 
 The way combat works in TR, to me, is fun. I've heard the complaints about how the game isn't really 
 twitch based (like an FPS) . Well they are right.... it's not, and that's because it's not a full 
 on MMOFPS. It's somewhat twitch based in that you have to aim your pointer in the general direction 
 of what you want to shoot. After that you just click and as long as you are within a certain range 
 of what you are trying to hit, you generally will. The point of combat in TR is not to test your 
 cyber marksmanship skills, that's what FPS' are for. The point is to have fun.
  honestly TR reminds me a lot of the good old days when I played StarWars Galaxies (back in the 
 first year when things were actually good, compared to now) . that was my first MMO, and I loved 
 it for what it was. TR brings back those days pretty well.
  
  One issue I do have with TR (and the reason I did not give it a 9.5) is that it is a bit on the 
 buggy side. Missions (quests) that can not be finished, server lag/instability, a crash here and 
 there. This is of course all stuff that can (and I expect will) be fixed at some point.
  Yes I do hate when something comes out and it's not 100% perfect or finished. But guess what, most 
 games aren't released in a truly 100% complete state where no patches are required. Maybe it's 
 a sign of the times we live in, where anyone with an internet connection can patch up with the 
 latest and greatest bag fix in seconds. Also you'll notice a lot of things in real life are the 
 same way... needed modification or upgrading to be "just right". computers, cars, motorcycles, 
 amusement park rides, food (pass the salt anyone?) lol.
  To vilify a game simply based on the fact it's not 100% perfect is stupid and unnecessary. Lets 
 face it, we hear nerds and fanboys crying about that WAY too much already, don't we?
  
  So should you play it? Well that's up to you. You really have to try something before you'll know 
 either way. Doing so (or not) based simply on the recommendations of others doesn't make sense. 
 If you have the money to blow and you are curious then go for it. If you have to budget and save 
 for 6 months in order to afford it save your cash for something you KNOW you like.
  I took a chance and got lucky.
  I would however like to suggest waiting until a few more bugs 
 have been worked out in regards to being able to complete missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeatyAlien1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game disappointed me. I was looking forward to it for a while but it ended up being a game 
 that isn't worth your time or money. First off this game is VERY REPETITIVE. All the quests ask 
 you to do the same things whether it is going to find someone or to just kill X amount of some 
 enemy. Same goes with the weapons, there needs to be a larger variety of different weapons, only 
 difference is more damage and maybe a different type of damage which really doesn't make big of 
 a difference. It is quite easy to level in the game and someone could reach the max level in a 
 matter of a couple days. Also the lack of a good PVP and crafting system doesn't help the game 
 at all. Overall this game just really isn't worth $15 a month because there are just too many flaws. 
 I would hold off and wait for a 14 day trial or maybe a $0.99 trial disk from ebgames before buying 
 the full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killswitch1968
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot that's done right in Tabula Rasa, and I'll talk about each in tandem:
  
  Story
  The story and universe itself is well fleshed out. Everything from the game manual to 
 the opening scene, to the in game NPCs all contribute to the atmosphere of an intergalactic struggle 
 of man vs. alien (in this case "the Bane") . The missions you get are usually somehow related to 
 this struggle and considerable details is spent making you feel like a soldier in this great battle. 
 No complaints here.
  
  Gameplay
  What sets Tabula Rasa apart from the standard MMO is how targeting/attacking works. Instead of 
 clicking on a target, you put your crosshairs over it, and then attack with whatever weapon you 
 happen to have, much like an FPS. There are an assortment of guns with different strengths and 
 weaknesses. Shotguns are better close up and deal high damage to groups of enemies, but leave you 
 vulnerable. Rifles are better at long range but can only kill one target at a time. Pistols are 
 good close up but only against single targets. The different variety of weapons means you'll be 
 switching a lot between different guns depending on the situation. This may sound cumbersome but 
 it's actually one of the more enjoyable parts of the game.
  What IS cumbersome however is that not only are there different types of guns, but there are (count 
 'em) EIGHT different kinds of damage types in the game. There's physical, fire, ice, lightning, 
 sonic, virulent, and others. Different monsters are weak against different types fo damage. WHile 
 sometimes this is intuitive (EMP vs. machines) sometimes it's not. For example it's not at all 
 obvious that Bane troops are resistant to virulent but weak to fire. Nor is there a simple way 
 to determine this. Even if you did know all the weaknesses of enemies it would mean you would need 
 a backpack fuill of 8 damage types of each weapon. For example, a fire-shotgun, fire-rifle, fire-pistol, 
 a sonic-shotgun, sonic-rifle, sonic-pistole etc. That part can be overwhelming.
  Another interesting feature is the cover system. This is reasonably well done and intuitive. Getting 
 behind sandbags will reduce damage, and you can tell easily if you are indeed covered by a HUD 
 indicator. But the problem with this is that when you're behind cover it's darn hard to shoot anyone 
 because the cover is blocking your fire. So rather than being the dug-in soldier with a machine 
 gun a la a pillbox, bunkers are usually used as something to crouch behind to reload, which is 
 unfortunate. It may be because I chose a stumpy character model, but aesthestic choices should 
 not impact gameplay.
  The class system was a good conception as well. You start off as a recruit, and don't start picking 
 classes until level 5. From there you become a soldier/specialist, and then those classes can then 
 subspecialize at level 15 and 30. This is a great system that prevents people from picking a class 
 when they know nothing about the game. Another fatal flaw is the classes themselves don't offer 
 a lot of unique talents. Classes can wear different types of armor, and wield slightly different 
 talents, and have a small handful of abilities, but that's it. And when I say 'small handful of 
 abilities' I mean it. There really isn't a lot of 'spells' in this case. At level 30 you will have 
 every spell you will ever have at the end of the game, a max of around 10. Thankfully the plethora 
 of different weapons adds some variety but it still ruins the uniqueness of your character. Fortunately 
 you can 'pump' abilities by adding more points to then as you level, but since the damage rarely 
 increases by putting points into abilities this is not always a wise investment. 
  
  Another heralded feature of TR are the base assaults. In each zone there are a couple bases that 
 will periodically get attacked by Bane soldiers. Without ant PC resistance these bases will indeed 
 fall and be ceded over to the Bane, meaning any quests or Waypoints you had at that location are 
 lost unless this is taken back. Initially it is quite fun to hold back the invaders or retake the 
 base with a group of fellow PCs, but you then realize that these attacks occur every 15 minutes 
 with identical troops and the novelty fades. Even worse, there are important quest objectives with 
 valuable rewards that require you to attack/defend these outposts. That means in order to complete 
 these objectives you have to sit at one of the contested bases waiting/hoping for an attack so 
 you can kill x numbers of Bane to get the reward. You can't easily tell which base is being assaulted 
 so it means sitting there and waiting. You can't get credit just killing generic Bane soldiers 
 either so you are forced into doing what should be an optional activity.
  
  The Inventory system is awesome. No more looting corpses yourself, simply walk over them and everything 
 is picked up automatically. Those worried about stuffing up on junk loot needn't, since just about 
 everything stacks in the thousands. No more having to destroy items or port back to town constantly 
 to sell stuff. You spend more time shooting stuff then organizing your items.
  One of the highly heralded points about the game is the ability to 'clone'. The idea behind cloning 
 was that you could copy your character before picking those classes at level 5, 15, and 30. that 
 way if youdidn't liek the choice you could drop it and play the other character. This is a great 
 idea, but there is one HUGE problem: Tabula Rasa does not allow you to respec at all. The only 
 way to access respecs is to clone, in which case abilities can be respec'd but not stat-points. 
 This is a monstrous, horrible oversight that completely destroys the idea of cloning. Most people 
 are nervous about wasting 'clone' points (they are limited) because they may want to respec, in 
 fact most will. So the whole philosophy behind cloning is defeated because you cannot respec.
 
  
  Another major complaint I have is with character models. At the beginning of the game you can painstakingly 
 choose hair, face, decals, even starting armor. Within about half an hour (essentially when you 
 get a helm) you become a faceless player like everyone else. When I played WoW I intentionally 
 chose the ugliest character model possible and never had my helm showing. The comments I have were 
 great. This option is not available at all in TR.
  
  There are other major shortcomings, such as inability to inspect, no auction system, no vehicles 
 or 'mounts', and no town portals/hearths. While they say these features are 'coming' I have often 
 heard such promises from developers and these features rarely end up materializing.
  Fortunately there are numerous waypoints that instantly port you around a given zone. This partly 
 helps make up for the lack of mounts/hearths.
  
  The first 3 instances I played were also very bizarre. There doesn't appear to be 'elite' style 
 monsters, so my modestly leveled part of 4 completly bulldozed each zone with little to no teamwork 
 at all. I was hoping to roll a healer but the targeting system makes this a real challenge. It 
 can be hard enough pointing your reticle over an AI player, but trying to heal a fellow PC who's 
 jumping around and shooting is a nightmare.
  The other major issue with the current 'healing' classes is that tabula rasa has 2 components of 
 healing, you can repair armor and heal health. Think of it like Halo where you have a layer of 
 armor and a layer of health you have to protect you. The medic class specializes in mending health, 
 and can also repair armor like all other specialist classes. The problem is that health only represents 
 20% of one's overall damage intake, so if someone's armor is gone chances are they are on the brink 
 of death. This means specializing in a toon that mends health is frivolous. Again supposedly they 
 are going to make health more important but nothing has been finalized yet.
  
  The last major issue I have is the crafting system. First, there is no orientation to this confusing 
 mess, it is never introduced in the game. While the system is actually very simple, the sheer array 
 of ingredients you see during the game makes it very overhwelming. Within minutes of playing the 
 game you will have several different chematics/recipes. Second, in order to be a good gatherer/crafter 
 you have to TAKE POINTS FROM COMBAT ABILITIES INTO CRAFTING. Imagine in WoW if you wanted to level 
 herbalism you had to use talent points. That's what's in Tabula Rasa and it sucks. Who wants to 
 be a crappy fighter so they can be a better junk collector? It's a terrible idea that should never 
 have been implemented. The idea was that alts could be the crafters but that is a silly trade off. 
 Crafting should be a secondary skill that runs in tandem with combat, not a trade off.
  
  I was hoping for a good PvP system but is largely absent in Tabula Rasa. If you want to PvP you 
 have to be in a clan, and your clan leader has to decide to 'go to war' with another clan, and 
 then you can attack other players. I can't even comment on the balance of PvP since I haven't seen 
 it implemented yet really.
  
  The last major short coming in TR is the late game. The early-mid game is chocked full of quests 
 and things to do and see. By end game you will be struggling to find quests and objectives, 
  
  The servers are rock solid. There are a few issues with lag, but they are minor. There is the 
 occasional bug mob and AI behaviors that border on Down's syndrome but it's not common.
  
  Graphics+Sounds
  Very pretty, no complaints here. Lighting effects are the best I've seen in 
 an MMO. The guns and grenades sound plenty realistic, and the voice acting is reasonably well done.
 
  
  In conclusion Tabula Rasa has some things it does very well, some things it does okay, some crucial 
 things that are strangely omitted, and some simply horrible decisions that desperately need to 
 be changed to make this game a success. I have had fun playing the first 20 or so levels but serious 
 and drastic changes need to be made soon to improve the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabutrader
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun to play for me the first couple levels, I liked the idea of capturing points 
 and having them come under an attack every so often, I LOVED the idea that this wasn't a fantasy 
 MMO and that you actually used machine guns and the like. Basically, I loved the concept of Tabula 
 Rasa - but, it really fell short IMO. Some of the bad points are basically every instance has at 
 least 1 bugged mission associated with it. The lag can be pretty bad, some areas you can't even 
 go into (level 38-40's area) , and WAY too much Knockback, Stun, Explosion Knockback, etc. (for 
 instance, in just one battle I was knocked back 3 times, stunned twice, rooted once, and then I 
 actually survived to be blasted by the area artillery into yet another knockback.
  
  Being a Spy is really a no-no, stealth armor just doesnt work, you carry a sword/blade (which was 
 cool) but to use it of course you need to be in melee range which equals to knockbacks in every 
 fight, and most of the time if you are knocked back - they hammer on you while you just sit there 
 and stare at your character waiting for him to get up. --  not fun at all. Ahh.. i could go on...
 
  
  Being a sniper is of not much benefit, the torqueshell guns you use takes like ten seconds just 
 to fire one round, sure it's lots of damage, but its just one kill in a standard mob of six. And 
 once again, you will use the non-functioning Stealth Armor.
  
  Strangely, after the latest update to the servers my ping went down dramatically to like 20ms from 
 200+ms, but sadly, I noticed nothing was better. I think they just added a line to / divide by 
 a percentage whatever the true result was, because it seemed laggier than ever.
  
  Overall this is an ok game, I really wanted to love it and I did give it many chances. I have 5 
 characters 30+ in all different specialities so I did enjoy it at first, but the problems overcame 
 the fun factor.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erick2011
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  The best sci-fi MMO ive played hands down. This is the change that the MMO genre needed. No more 
 orc's an elve's. This game is great an will grow nicely down the road. Imporvements an bugs are 
 being worked out at a a nicely rate. This game has good gameplay, good story an great action. The 
 graphics in the game are sweet. Finding a group was cake. This game executes the action sequences 
 nicely. A must have in my eyes. If you are looking for a change are are bored of your tipical cookie 
 cutter MMO, this is the game to look for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertafox
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  A new mmo with nothing in it.
  
  -Crafting system is garbage. Do not waste your time with it.
  -Group system is 3rd rate. No group 
 search or tag. Just start spamming LFG and hope for the best.
  -Chat is 4th rate for a MMO. 
  -Quests are boring. Kill or deliver. 
  -Rewards for quests are 
 out of touch. Why am i getting lvl 11 rewards at lvl 20.
  Biotech quest rewards. Got three items I could use out of all the quests up to the end of the divide. 
 Meanwhile I get purple rewards for the other classes.
  -Travel is a pain in some area's. Be ready to run for 20min to find the right path up a hill.
 
  -Items are bland. Everything is preset to lvls. You will not find a sales house. The trade channel 
 is empty. Probably because the chat interface is about 8yrs old and clumsy.
  -UI is alright. But for a game to come out in this day and age and lock your game windows and is 
 mind boggling.
  -Controls are weird. You cannot move your camera if you have ANY window open. Yes that is right. 
 Open your bag up to see that new armor. Well you will be looking at a tiny little picture in your 
 bag to view your character or else you have to pre-adjust your view to face your guy. Cannot target, 
 heck do anything with a window open.
  -In a group it seems whoever does the most damage gets the item drops. Forget about healing anyone. 
 Four runs through instances and I got a whole six items because I was healing/repairing.
  
  There are some good things but the game is borderline remedial in all aspects of it. Other MMO's 
 offer more bang for the buck. 
  The world runs like Guildwars. Everything is nearly a instance. Meaning you select world 1 through 
 6, but other players are outside. Just not the dungeons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyRico
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I've played most MMORPGs that have come down the pike (EQ, EQ2, DAoC, WoW, FFXI, SWG, PlanetSide, 
 LotRO, AO, etc.) and with the exception of PlanetSide, they are all basically variations of the 
 same game. Sure, they each had their own little features that differentiate them from each other 
 but they're all cut from the same cloth. Anarchy Online and PlanetSide were at least novel in that 
 tried to bring Sci-Fi to the MMORPG genre. SWG couldn't make up its mind what it wanted to be and 
 when it introduced the pseudo-FPS feature most people bagged on it for being too different. I kind 
 of liked the concept of having to aim and click the button to shoot in an MMORPG but the SWG implementation 
 felt tacked on and didn't work very well.
  
  Enter Tabula Rasa! This game does the FPS in MMORPG clothes the way it should be done. The combat 
 is thrilling and immersive and I frequently forget I'm playing an MMORPG. You can still see the 
 basic MMORPG structure underneath the surface but it feels totally different and fresh. I haven't 
 had the game all that long but I've played it enough to know that I don't need any other pay-to-play 
 games for the time being. I cancelled my EQ2 account and my LotRO account to focus on TR.
  
  Highly recommended!
  
  JohnnyRico 
::::::

::::::
UserName: das_butcher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Once you play TR you can't go back to WoW it just feels so slow and boring. I think that with all 
 the cool updates the devs are talking about Personal Armor Units which sound like mounts with GUNS, 
 there's just no way I'm going back to my old MMO's! I've had so much fun playing since it's been 
 out. Tthere's nothing like halting a Bane onslaught with your buddies, some of the battles are 
 so huge I've never seen anything like it. The control points, fast action, and engaging story are 
 just so well executed I'm totally hooked on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that has all the important parts working in harmony 
  A game that is "Stable, Fast and Fun", 
  a game that "Easy to learn but hard to Master" 
  an 
 Epic battle where the player actually feels part of the war, immersed in the gore of battle, a 
 battle to save humanity. 
  
  The combat system is such an innovation, so far in every other game the target would be picked, 
 and a queue would be formed for the attacks, making the player some kind of spectator of his own 
 combat, 
  
  well not in this case, here even with all the Lag and chaos associated with MMOs the combat actually 
 gives a great FPS feel to it, 
  using a form of "sticky" targeting when hovering over a MOB, eliminating the "lock-fire-and-forget" 
 that is all so common in the market, all the while making location and movement effect combat. 
 Cover works like cover, movement makes it harder to both aim and be hit.
  
  Another innovation that is very cool, is money, 
  money in the game comes as easy as 1,2,3, making 
 it practically worthless to "gold-farm" to get good equipment you'll actually need to do missions 
 and kill the Bane, (that are kind enough to drop some nice useful weapons, armor and other interesting 
 things) ,
  
  More over that also makes it tons of fun to just share the equipment with your fellow AFS buddies, 
 
  not once I heard the line: 
  - "Hey buddy, do you have an Ice-Gun to take down these Uglies???" 
  and the answer would quickly 
 be: 
  - "Would you like fire as well to go with it?" 
  
  bam instant battle-buddies, and as any combat veteran would tell, 
  buddies from the field are 
 closer then brothers.
  
  What is there more to say, AMAZING Gameplay, 
  not a dull moment, way to go! 
  Others should be learning from this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javapookers
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  I beta tested this 3 weeks prior to launch and was mildly surprised that I actually enjoyed this 
 game. Shoot -em up games have never been my preference but found this game to be intriguing because 
 of its pace, chaotic feel (eg trenches, defending Control points etc) made somewhat of a departure 
 from most PVE environments. Even looking at your quest log while exploring the countryside can 
 be dangerous because alien ships are constantly transporting previously killed mobs all around 
 you, so you have to be aware and alert at all times. I enjoy the Logos power features and the continuous 
 weapon switching that has to be utilized to wear down different types of mobs. Cloning characters 
 I think is a brilliant idea making levelling alternate characters less tedious and task.
  
  I did read some other reviews making the all too familiar comparison to WOW saying how technically 
 perfect WOW is. WOW has been out for 3 years and has a huge head start to a game that is graphically 
 inferior that can be played on the poorest of systems. Making comparisons to really is quite unfair. 
 Further to that comment, technical glitches on an all too familiar boring repetitive theme, of 
 course are not present on that tired game. REPETITIVE, CAN I MAKE MY POINT ANY MORE OBVIOUS? So 
 all you present day WOW ers out there go ahead and play your money sucking boring graphical, grind 
 /time consuming TIRED game. I did for over a year and I must say I do not miss it along with scores 
 of people who have followed suit.
  
  We shall see if TR has any legs. Only time will tell. Glitches are to be expected we all know that. 
 I give this game an 8/10 for now and do hope that this games' shelf life can be kept fresh and 
 exciting because longevity will also be the true indicator of a game's overall score which I begrudgingly 
 will have to give Blizzard their due credit to.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharky1533
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have tried many of the new mmo's coming out these days and it seems like most are basing there 
 game play and mechanics of WoW. The real pleasure in this game is that it's not a WoW imitation 
 nor copies any other mmo i have played to date.
  To give a overview of the plot. You start out as a new recruit in the AFS army (think like starship 
 troopers when they say only you can make a differance become a citizen now lol) . Earth has already 
 been conquered by a alien force called the bane but humans were able to escape when they discovered 
 ancient alien technology. This technology is called logos. Most of the game you spend looking for 
 logos abilities hence the more logos you have the more abilities you can unlock and learn. 
  Let's start with graphics. The game even on low settings still takes a good computer to run. The 
 game graphics i would rate a 9.5 out of 10. Everything about the game's graphics is for the most 
 part polished. I mean i run it on low settings and the game still looks great. The real problem 
 is that the graphics require alot of ram. Since the areas are not instanced like Guild wars but 
 more like WoW or FFXI then alot of other players will be on there as well. I had to turn my settings 
 down so my 1.5 gigs of ram could deal. They did a good job with the character design and area design 
 as well. You really get a feeling that your on a bane frontline. 
  Gameplay. Here is where the game truly shines but shows that its not fully polished. Instead of 
 hack and slash mmo's this game finally puts a new spin on the genre. It plays like a third person 
 shooter while your development is just like a normal mmo. The controls are just like a shooter 
 as well so if you don't click to shoot then you aren't shooting. If your not moving, you will get 
 hit more. My only complaint is that they could have gone a step further and really incorporated 
 the enviorment more like if your behind a rock you won't get hit. Sometimes it happens and sometimes 
 it doesn't so dont count on not getting hit by a turret because you got behind a tree. 
  When fighting they took some steps to really make the battle action fast paced. You have to bars 
 on your screen, both with five slots. One is to put weapons and one is to put abilities and you 
 can put items in either as well. the cool thing is that you can hit a number 1-10 on your keyboard 
 and it will instantly go to that weapon making changing from a shot gun to blow people back to 
 a rifle to keep your distance or then to a healing device. This however comes with a problem its 
 still a little glitchy. You can use q or e to cycle to the corresponding tray but sometimes it 
 skips over one or glitches so instead of getting that shotgun when it gets bad you have your armor 
 repair tool out. That's pretty annoying when you die cause of that lol. 
  There are still glitches with in the enviorment itself. I have played for a week now and i have 
 gotten stuck at least seven times. /stuck gets you out but sometimes it drops you back in the spot 
 your were stuck so watch out. Another thing is that i don't feel like they programmed all the trees 
 that well because sometimes you can't just walk by a tree going under the branches its like you 
 get caught you have to take a step back then you can keep going. Buggy thats all. I am sure after 
 a couple of updates they will fix some of that hopefully. 
  Of course leveling up is a big part of this game just like all other mmo's. You pretty much do 
 quest and grind your way up. A cool innovation they use though is the character cloning system. 
 Where say at level 5 when you choose your first career path change to specialist or soldier you 
 can clone your character and then you dont have to do the first five levels again. Its nice and 
 simple. You also do quest for more clone credit so questing just like other mmo's is good for you. 
 There are character class changes at certain levels of the game to make your character into what 
 you want. At level 5 you can choose between a specialist (someone who can use tools and repair 
 ) and a soldier ( start getting abilities to attack higher and use more lethal guns) . At 15 those 
 classes split off again to two more choices then again at 30 so you have a variety of ways to play. 
 As you level you get points at every level to put towards your attributes and then some points 
 to put towards you abilities. It's really cool cause a medic can still be a master at using a shotgun 
 so they get bonuses like stun chance. 
  Another area where they take leveling up in this game is it's experience system. The game promotes 
 you to go on killing sprees by increasing the amount of experience you get when you start going 
 on sprees. So at first you get 125% but you can go all the way up to 250% of the experience you 
 gain from mobs. It makes the leveling easier. Still quests give alot more experience but if you 
 feel the need to shoot some bane it promotes you to do so. 
  Partying is fun and easy. You will mostly do this either for instances or Landing point defense 
 or assault. 
  Let me talk about instances first. They are just like other mmo's when you go in you are just with 
 your party however there is a differance is that you don't get slamming gear by doing them you 
 have to do them for logos to unlock higher abilities. I like that, finally its not all about gear. 
 You get really good gear for the quests you complete so it's not that much of a worry anyways. 
 
  Landing Points. These are fun fun fun. At certain points in the game they have places where huge 
 swarms of bane will try and take over a base. When you defend the base you get defense tokens which 
 buys really good gear, then if the enemy took over you get assault tokens for killing the mobs 
 at the base. It's fun and challenging cause if you are not careful you can go down fast. It's alot 
 like FFXI's besieged if any are familiar with that.
  Sound. I like the sound effects and sometimes in certain areas music will come on to get you in 
 a fighting mood. To be honest i don't really listen to the music in the games i play i put on itunes 
 in the background because to be honest the millionth time you here a rifle go off or the same music 
 come up for a area i would be rather listening to led zeppelin. I dug the music and the sound effects 
 at first but to me with other mmo's too they always get old after a week or so. So the sound is 
 just average to me.
  I really enjoy this game from it's new take on a mmo battle system. The overall game in some instances 
 just doesn't feel polished but that doesn't make it not fun. It's fun to just be sitting there 
 in battle going on killing sprees and not even notice that you are actually leveling up. Tabula 
 Rasa definitely made the grin to the top fun. I would recommend anyone to play this game for a 
 period of time to see if it's the mmo for you. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  having spend the last few days plays Tabula Rasa, I can say without hesitation I'm enjoying myself, 
 for several reason, the mobs, unlike other generic mmorpg's such as world of warcraft, do not spawn 
 at the same point like a herd of sheep waiting for you to attack, it is sporadic, they attack bases, 
 as soon as you are within eye distance, they will come after you, the AI is very good also, they 
 will try to flank, retreat, hide under a shield as opposed to simply whacking you, the world feels 
 very alive and very active, something is always going on.
  
  Secondly, the combat system, the simple case of walking up to an enemy, wacking them repeatedly 
 and waiting for them to die, isn't the case with tabula rasa, it feels like a third person shooter, 
 using cover, distance and so fourth effect damage, the game does have an auto-aim, but I honestly 
 believe it would have been better off without it.
  
  The class tree system is really interesting along with the clone system, as you reach certain levels, 
 for example, level 5-15 you choose new career paths, unlike other mmorpg's you cannot reset them 
 when you please, you can however, clone yourself, which is sort of like a save progress, exacpt 
 you can change you avatar and gender, and progress from were you left off to select diffrent career 
 paths.
  
  The game seems to lag a little at time, this hurts the games, they need to sort this out or people 
 will be turned off, another EU server wouldn't go amiss, the crafting system is alittle bemusing 
 at first, the lack of information in the game manual doesn't help matter, there are alot of items 
 that will have you scratching your head at firstl
  
  The game has above average graphics, but nothing that is going to blow your mind, it's still alot 
 better than other mmorpgs, the quests, or missions, are fun and interesting, the instances outside 
 the main zones, are also interesting, however, some demand group, but the games doesn't classify, 
 which can be a timewaster.
  
  The main important question, is it fun? Yes, I hated world of warcraft, it was a watered down everquest 
 that got more praise than it deserved, company's like steam try to simply clone and emulate the 
 simplistic world of warcraft to appeal to a larger crowd, this game appeals to a larger crowd, 
 but does something diffrent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I love the game a lot, but the game just can't compete with WoW. I agree it is a really unique 
 and different type of game that takes place in the future against an alien army. Of course you 
 are going to be the person to turn the tides of war and save the Human race by finding some strange 
 alien magic. It's pretty straight forward and easy to play creating your character is really fun 
 there are many different looks they can have, but the game has no classes until later on when your 
 levels grow and it will show if you will use more Alien magic or Use guns and weapons. The combat 
 system is really easy to use and very addicting. The graphics are quite good for the game and it's 
 no joke. The lag can be really bad and it ruins the game sometimes. I will be trying to kill something 
 with my friends and we will all get disconnected by the lag and all die or randomly spawn somewhere. 
 The quests are fun to take on and work for money and new items. The monsters really look like aliens 
 which is good. The game has some ups and downs, but it is still a good game and worth the times 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierce_Sparrow
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  MMO's tend to ride on a lot of luck when opened to people. Most are the same with a few original 
 elements here or there. We've seen examples of ones that work, and ones that don't. However, they 
 all pretty much remain the same when it comes down to it. Tabula Rasa breaks this mold by presenting 
 new gameplay that is consistently fun and other elements that keep the world of TR alive and give 
 it a bit of an epic feeling.
  
  The gameplay, as mentioned before, is fun and exciting and very active. It utilizes third-person 
 style controls that you have to actively control by taking cover, crouching, and switching weapons 
 at a whim in order to take down your enemy as best as possible. Unlike most MMO's which merely 
 require you to click and attack your enemy, with the occassional spell/skill casting, TR requires 
 that you constantly move, switch weapons and skills based on your enemy's weaknesses and strengths. 
 This is coupled with an actively changing world where enemy's consistantly drop into combat, attack 
 human controlled bases, and do small skirmishes with NPC's throughout each planet.
  
  While a lot remains the same, from stat building to lvl'ing, the game makes the traditional grind 
 fun and the story gives it an epic scope that makes you feel like you really are fighting for humanity 
 and not just playing a game. This is the best new MMO and should be given a try by those looking 
 for something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Well for me i'm someone who rather play a medieval time based MMORPG with swords, Armor , shields 
 , bows , ECT. And im not really into Futuristic stuff but if this game used more swords like lightsabres 
 then guns I would probaly enjoy it. But there is really only a few type of dagger/swords. 
  
  Here is my review.
  
  Graphics 9/10 There really nice.
  
  Community 8/10 seems to have 
 alot of nice and mature people.
  
  Gameplay 4/10 Its fun just im not a gun sort of guy.
  
  Sound 7/10 Music and sound effect are pretty good.
  
  Quests 9/10 Fun.
  
  
  So if 
 you like guns and some dagger and futuristic stuff this is the game for you if not you might not 
 like it.
  
  And me i dont really like guns besides for a FPS and im not into futuristic stuff. Thats why i 
 give it a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReesRacer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  As a veteran of massively multiplayer online games for several years now, I came into my experience 
 with TR with some expectations, hopes, fears, and did my best to clear my own slate before playing. 
 I began with the beta, which was a first for me, even though I have been an avid gamer for many, 
 many years. The prospect of a sci-fi based MMORPG was extremely exciting to me, and I found my 
 initial impressions during beta quite promising. After a couple weeks, I set aside the game to 
 return to the rest of the games on my hard drive (WoW, EvE primarily) , and waited for the release 
 to see if some progress had been made. I was very pleasantly surprised at the improvements and 
 changes made in the last couple of weeks leading up to release, and I believe this bodes well for 
 the future in the form of patches, enhancements, and expansions. So here is my review of the released 
 version...
  
  The gameplay has some very nice innovations. I appreciated the fusion of FPS and MMO mechanics. 
 The combat can get extremely frenetic and exciting, especially at base control points and in instances. 
 Make no mistake, this is still a game that needs certain conventions in the genre so that it as 
 accessible and playable to both veterans, and newcomers, and in this, it succeeeds. The class system 
 is really well-implemented, at least from a standpoint that all of them seem to have value and 
 something to offer all kinds of players, and for goups. The forums already seem to think the spy 
 will be quite a fun class to play, but I'm thoroughly enjoying the specialist line so far. Some 
 will say the combat is repetitive, but there are literally many, many ways to kills the various 
 mobs, and often times, more than one way is most effective to kill only one. Switching weapons 
 constantly can be be quite challenging and rhythmic when done correctly. It is really a very visceral 
 experience that has in no way become tiresome. 
  
  The logos system which most closely resembles a kind of magic equivalent in fantasy games, is... interesting. 
 The specialist line is much more dependent on the logos powers, and to that end, it is a necessary 
 supplement for discharging dozens of rounds to kill more powerful enemies. There are parallels 
 in other games in wanting to collect even the ones your chatacter will never need. I know I am 
 looking forward to using some of the tier IV powers to devastating effect.
  
  The quest system is fairly standard, and I am not complaining. The so-called ethical quandaries 
 presented in some are novel, but in reality do not seem to carry consequences that I can decipher. 
 The only complaint is that I seem to run out of them in a zone before I'm really ready to move 
 on the next, which means I need to grind out some kills to level-up appropriately. 
  
  I admit I am struggling with the social system. There does not seem to me to be an intuitve way 
 to speak to someone directly without typing in more than I want to, and the lovely manual gives 
 no clues. For now, the chat window is absolutely jammed with questions, answers, comments about 
 the game, and other things, but it's very hard to scroll up to see what was missed, because it 
 will resume as soon as you stop. Also, I would like ot be able to inspect other players gear, which 
 at this point is impossible.
  
  I know there a lot of people complaining about the lack of an auction house/system, but it is promised, 
 and in fact, the military surplus building is already in place awaiting the new patch to start 
 it, so I am not concerened. For now it is much more meaningful that the servers are always up and 
 stable... a real achievement. Also, the crafting system is not fleshd-out yet. It is extremely time-consuming, 
 not terribly intutive, and honetly just obtuse at the moment. I do, however, see great promise 
 for it in the future. I trust in the developers based on the progress made before release.
  
  As far as some other important details, graphics are great if you have the system to run it, 
 and simply okay otherwise. Dynamic shadows will kill your framerate unless you've got the goods 
 under the hood of your system. As far as audio goes, the gunfire is extremely gratifying, there 
 are appropriate sci-fi effects for the other weapons, logos powers, ships, teleporters, and ambient 
 background noise. 
  
  My final note is that this game is extremely polished at launch for an MMO... has enormous potential, 
 and the bottom lne is fun to play. Any fan of MMO's and/or sci-fi should give it a try and judge 
 for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faith256
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Not a bad effort just not ready for release, loads of bugs, very laggy as to be expected with one 
 server for the whole of Europe.... if it laggs it must be your machine right. WRONG everyone laggs.. very 
 frustrating being told no intention of supplying additional servers.
  
  Not enough thought went into supply and demand, too many copies sold without thinking about how 
 they are going to support the game.
  
  This game might actually improve once all the free 30 day subscriptions lapse and people have to 
 start paying monthly subscriptions, at this point either they will fix all the inital quest bugs 
 and add more servers or they will SINK!
  
  With fewer free customers on there will be less people playing and less lagg, with less bugs it 
 could be fun... but lets face it, there is little to work toward, no other races to play or pvp 
 against, no real lvl to lvl training, except a few distributions of points in attributes and skills 
 and little effort towards end instances with loot drops.
  
  An auction house, or a shop to buy vehicles, or even a bank, or somewhere to store items other 
 than your trunk seems a likely thought.
  
  Bag items and trunk items do not auto stack, materials share the same image but have different 
 names... really ludicrous, this is moving back in time with a dungeon siege type look, though the 
 system is pre-dungeon siege without even the auto stacking or filtering of items/loot, very disappointing.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjacob1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I've played em all and Tabula Rasa brings something fresh and new to the game - fun without the 
 grind. Every MMO I've played starts out a little confusing, you find your ground and then some 
 fun sets in. But wait there's more! - Hold on there fella you can't make max level tooo fast or 
 we'll run out of a paycheck so here's a grand slam lagarifict set of oh about 20-30 levels of boredom 
 until you hit max level. 
  
  This has been my experience with MMO's up until Tabula Rasa. I played the Beta and yes it was buggy 
 as hell but what Beta isn't? I started over at release and thogh I was bummed to have lost all 
 the work I put into my Beta character, I never felt punished to have to do it over again. 
  
  Every zone in TR is better than the previous, the instances are more complex and the story 
 is well weaved. You can log in for an hour or for twelve and enjoy yourself either way. 
  
  I just wish they would do a 14 day trial period so the lurkers can actually give it a shot with 
 little to loose, the player base would triple overnight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duzedon
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with basic game mechanics. First of all Combat starts off very novel but after a couple 
 weeks youll learn something its just plain boring and even more reptative as RG put "Sparring with 
 you opponent" all you ever have to do in TR is match the elemental weakness to the mob and them 
 1 shot them rinse and repeat 1 trillion times till you level up. Also the quest system is exactly 
 like every other MMO's kill X mob collect Y heres Z. There is no community auction house of any 
 kind to spark a market of items but in turn it would be useless anyways the highest rarity items 
 have no damage difference from the crap store bought item the only difference is a higher chance 
 for a rarer stat ive found greens better than purples. Finally is the touted logos system which 
 all it ever does it power your logos powers no special uses thats it and finding some of them can 
 be a major pain, and on the note of abilitys theres very very few abilitys which adds to the bore 
 factor in my opinion as youll never use past 3 abilitys so theres no real progression after you 
 learn some end skills congrats your done. 
  
  On some other things Richard Garriot tells us his new coloning system will help reduce the boredom 
 of rerolling but instead it makes it worse there are no new starting zones to make it feel fresh 
 instead your just the same soldier with different armor graphics and doing the same quests you 
 just did all over again but instead being lvl 5 15 or 30 instead of lvl 1 whoope id rather experiance 
 20 levels of something new that the same stuff with a level bonus.
  
  Finnaly I'd like to talk about their PvP system and balancing issues first of all pvp is a anywhere 
 kill anyone PvP system that sounds good in theory but is taken down to clans declare war on eachother 
 clan kills clan you get points repeat. Which to me is dull all i have to do is take out my beam 
 saber walk up behind anyone and get a free point not a high downfall but not a plus to the game 
 either. But the main kick to the nards is balancing RG has NO IDEA how to balance a weapon or class. 
 Take the rocket launcher for example it went from a good usefull weapon, to a overpowered nuke, 
 to essentially hitting with a stick would be more effective, then finnaly to worse than the first 
 model but useable.. except the fact that you now shoot yourself if you fire from too far away. 
 And one final things id just like to throw in there is that there is NO endgame content whatsoever 
 and none on the horison so hardcores may as well count themselves only.
  
  My rating
  
  Gameplay 4.5 *too repetative inovations fails*
  Graphics 8.0 *very well done for a mmo* 
  Final 
 Rating 5.0 "Sci-fi junkys only" trybefore you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitsuj_488
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The Bad:
  
  - FPS should not have auto aim
  - Clunky controls should not be present in an action based game
  - Graphics are just plain terrible
 
  - Character creation is severely lacking
  - Quests are basic; find item, kill monster - go there do that
  - Lag prone
  
  The Good:
 
  
  - Great Idea...
  
  Summary:
  
  This game has a great concept, and tries to accomplish this, however fails miserably in attempting 
 to do so. It literally feels like they just took Gunz and turned it mmo. Greatly disappointing, 
 and certainly not worth the monthly for it. If you want a shooter, buy Counter Strike Source or 
 Halo. If you want an mmo buy FFXI. And finally, if you want to play Tabula Rasa, download and play 
 Gunz instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skj71
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa is a solid MMO concept that just needs a bit more to push it over the edge into the 
 must play category. Having said that, it has come a long way since when I joined Beta in late August 
 and hopefully DG will continue this upward trend. Since the industry trend seems to be publishing 
 partially realized game concepts and adding on-the-fly , it would be unfair to compare TR to an 
 established MMO that has had several upgrades since launch, so I won't.
  
  Some of TR's strengths: It is very accessible for new and casual players, is easy to learn and 
 guides you along fairly well without a constant, tedious grind. The combat model is pretty solid 
 and gives the player plenty of options to tackle the bad guys. The cloning system is handy to check 
 out different classes without rolling a new character. A bevy of weapons to wreak havoc with.
 
  
  Areas of concern: Nasty lag when the action gets really heavy. I highly suggest 2 GBs of RAM. No 
 in-game mail system. In this day, I find that flat out strange. The game could kick up the difficulty 
 a notch or two. As it stands now, it seems you can out-level the zone you are questing in (however, 
 I have heard that the 30+ content ups the ante a bit.) The character creation is kind of bland. 
 So far, I really haven't found a need to be social with other players. The social interaction is 
 needed to give the game staying power. The current classes could get old fast. Hopefully the new 
 playable race and classes will come sooner than later.
  
  On the whole, DG has set a decent foundation to build on. The game is fun and you don't have to 
 sacrifice your social life to make a successful character. Hopefully they will continue to add 
 more and make this a solid MMO and not a memory of unrealized potential. I'm going to stick around 
 and see where this goes.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa means, Clean Slate , but first impressions would seem to indicate otherwise. There's 
 still experience bars and levels. There's still quests and killing critters. There's still loot 
 and trade skills. Basically, Tabula Rasa is a MMORPG, and its execution is meant to please players 
 of MMORPGs.
  
  At the same time, however, Tabula Rasa is not the MMORPG you might be expecting. Despite the presence 
 of experience bars and levels, it's not yet another EverQuest/World of Warcraft clone. Despite 
 the fact that it was made under the executive direction of Richard Garriott (a. k. a. Lord British) 
 this is not an Ultima Online clone. There's a good chance that, despite the similarities which 
 make Tabula Rasa a MMORPG, this game does not play like any MMORPG you've ever played.
  
  Tabula Rasa differs from most MMORPGs in that it is unusually actiony and visceral. There is no 
 auto-attack here, and instead you equip up to five weapons that you switch between, put your crosshair 
 over an enemy, and left-click to blaze away. There's sort of a quasi-FPS thing going on here, and 
 you'll occasionally need to reload your weapon. Despite the visceral feeling, don't expect Auto 
 Assault simplicity: Each type of weapon has a unique application, thus the need for 5 weapon slots 
 to rapidly switch between. There also a variety of support items and abilities that are activated 
 with the right mouse button from a series of 5 slot banks.
  
  The depth of the combat comes mostly from how damage is resolved. If you have higher accuracy (by 
 stopping, crouching and/or being in optimal range with your weapon) you'll do more damage. If you 
 use cover against your enemy (for example by crouching behind a barricade) you'll much take less 
 damage. The difference between using tactics or just firing away is the difference of whether you 
 find the combat shallow or not.
  
  At its best, you'll find yourself facing off against absolute hordes of Bane soldiers and their 
 genetically modified creations, sometimes many levels above you. That you can get away with this 
 is a pretty good indication that here is a game where player skill matters more than the time you've 
 spent grinding away on getting levels. This kind of battle is most often encountered at control 
 points. These are outposts that can either be held by the players or the Bane. While they're held 
 by players they're staffed by friendly NPCs that often offer missions and services. It's quite 
 an experience to witness the massive assaults against control points, and I think everybody should 
 try that at least once.
  
  Tabula Rasa has some other cool features such as cloning (saving your character as a separate character 
 so you can come back and try a different thing later or respec your skills) , kill streaks (up to 
 250% bonus experience for killing several foes in a row) , and overall emphasis on worldliness in 
 Tabula Rasa. This is quite the game and, while it may not be a completely blank slate , it innovates 
 enough to partly earn that title.
  
  Despite this praise, Tabula Rasa isn't perfect. The game itself runs runs quite stably and, for 
 the most part gameplay, feels bug-free. However, the deeper you get into the game, the more problems 
 you will find: Some capture points (like in The Divide zone) aren't set up to be attacked by enough 
 Bane, a few skills (like Crab Mines) do not operate as they should, and there's some general housekeeping 
 issues like redundant waypoints steering players to the wrong place to recover a Logos icon. The 
 higher you level, the more lack of polish you'll encounter, with Wilderness (levels 1-10) seeming 
 like where the game should be and the Palisads (levels 20-30) seeming like the game was a month 
 ago. At the time of this writing, some instanced dungeons are simply unable to be completed due 
 to bugs.
  
  In the end, I can only recommend this game for players who are patient. I'm still subscribed and 
 planning on staying subscribed because I believe the problems with Tabula Rasa will eventually 
 be fixed by the developers. If you want to wait 6 months first, without paying for it as I am, 
 then that may not be a bad idea. Tabula Rasa could potentially be something great but, thanks primarily 
 to the lack of polish in the mid-to-late game, it's not all the way there yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I think this game has promise, but the state today is so-so. It feels a lot like Guild Wars to 
 me. There's a lot of fun action, but not much depth. Good things:
  
  * Combat - it's nice to break the typical MMO combat mode. * Easy to get around
  * Nice weapons
 
  
  Not so good things:
  
  * Quests are not that interesting
  * UI needs a lot of work. Windows can't be moved, text size can't be changed, etc.
  * Environment 
 is very bland and non-interactive.
  
  I doubt that I'll continue to play this one unless there is a dramatic update coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim22x7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game needs a solid high speed connection to play well. Game play was really easy. The tutorial 
 is pretty in depth though I would have liked a shot at crafting before jumping into the full game. 
 I wasted a lot of good stuff that way. Logos powers are really nice too. Saved my ass when the 
 gun jammed. Highly realistic game play in that regard. I was running a 6800GS GPU and the game 
 still ran pretty well and looked pretty good even on lower settings. Had I had a better GPU I would 
 be even more impressed with the graphics. One thing that disappointed me was the character creation 
 system it seemed like it needed some more polish it was a little chunky. In the game world character 
 customization is limited to painting your armor. Some pieces have very little customizable color. 
 I would have liked to see 2 colors possible on each piece and more than 70% colorable on each piece 
 of armor too. The enemy AI was not bad but it still didn't seem like they were extra intelligent. 
 I would have liked to be able to walk while crouching or go prone and take cover that way, since 
 there isn't a mechanic for that in the game. Also getting a buff for crouching no matter the range 
 and type of weapon didn't make a lot of sense when using machine- or shot- guns at effectively 
 point blank range. Getting multiple targets with the M-gun would be nice too. Customization of 
 weapons was fun too if a little confusing and difficult to figure out at first. Overall a game 
 that is definitely worth the money you pay for it. I just don't have enough money or time with 
 school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_gamespot
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This based on beta play, but I got the impression that player participation or lack there of, made 
 a difference to the ground that became available for players to explore. On the surface this makes 
 it appealing, because it forces the players to work as a grand team to clear large areas of land 
 and forces players to stick around in order to keep it.
  
  But what turned me off was the lack of substance beyond this key ground acquisition concept. This 
 is a science-fiction game ... which made me want to have grand space battles to blow up those mother 
 ships circling the planet we're attacking. What's the point in having ground battles if there isn't 
 a larger orbital battle going on as well. The beta never gave me the sense that this kind of interaction 
 was possible, so the game would be relegated to a ground-based assault. Why have endless ground 
 battles, why not attack the source?
  
  Which brought me to the conclusion that the game expansion is nothing more than more planets to 
 conquer; we'd never actually ever win the war we are supposed to be fighting. It would be an ever 
 growing number of worlds, with no real end.
  
  This doesn't mean the game is bad. Far from it. It was fun to play and it gives you a sense that 
 your activities, though small on the grand scheme makes a difference. The problem for me, is for 
 me to shelve out a monthly fee, the game has to have a deeper concept. I want to be able to win, 
 or participate in a world where winning is a possibility ... along with losing too. I just didn't 
 get the impression Tabula Rasa would give me that kind of satisfaction or disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well to be fear youl have to have a pretty awesome computer to run this baby smooth the 8800 will 
 run it prettty good but with some lag and bugs it; s still a brand new mmo tho so wel have to wait 
 till many pacth and maybe a expension to c is full potential ahead . still the game is pretty good 
 you have all the good point of other mmo combine into this one and challenge is pretty balanced 
 sound and graphics are amazing too and the control are just well made for the game and i can go 
 one and on but just get a pretty good internet connection with a amazing comp and go run this game 
 in full just to amuze yourself youl c it then ... gl and c you in game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Have been playing it for one week, and found some of the controls to be cumbersome, the characters 
 moved jerky and turning was definitely not as good as it could be. The quests are just like all 
 quests in other rp games, but the redeeming factor is: The setting in a future time. I think it 
 should have stayed in Beta for a longer period of time, before putting it out to the public, that 
 was a major mistake. As most players will compare it to Blizzard's Wow-there is no comparison. 
 This game has a long, long way to go to compete with wow. I have been playing wow for over 2 yrs, 
 and never have had the learning curve as I have had with this game. Hopefully, the management will 
 work on smoothing out the rough edges so we all may enjoy it. The story line is fine and the quests 
 are also good. I will continue to play in hopes it gets refined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendel
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  In no particular order:
  Character creation customization: Other than hair style, face, and height, everything else you 
 customize here is gone within 15 minutes of making the character as its replaced with game items.
 
  
  Graphics: The game graphics have changed several times from beta to now. Personally the latest 
 graphics change lowered the quality IMO.
  
  Tradeskills were supposed to be revamped before release, instead they got pushed back to a later 
 Operation . Combat: About a month before beta ended combat was really, really fun. Why? You were 
 encouraged to keep fighting with a multiplier that increased exp by 6x (600%) . Monsters were easy 
 one on one, but you could quickly get overwelmed. Exp was changed to 250% multiplier, monsters 
 were made harder, at the same time most weapons/armor were nerfed. Logos abilities used to actually 
 actually useful in combat. Now they are just another key press to get the same damage as you get 
 with a click of a gun. Overall characters are now just like any other MMO, finding a monster, kill 
 it, find another repeat. You rarely want to engage a larger group as you will die. All these changed 
 did was encourage WOW playstyle, get quest, complete, repeat, avoid extra combat at all cost as 
 it just slows you down. Grouping is more of a pain that it should be. The chat interface is HORRID! 
 VOIP support is ok. This game is a huge let down from what fans were promised. Sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The game plays different that its an RPG - but it shooter controls. One must aim to hit anything 
 (standard ASWD and mouse look) Crouching and taking cover are key. Most mmo's you just select a 
 target and the hit a series of numbers. This one is all left click (primary fire) and right click 
 (secondary fire) - secondary fire can be filled with anything from magic like skills to grenades 
 to healing kits.
  
  Another difference is the world. The game does not force you to group. I haven't hit a mission 
 yet that requires it. However - team play ends up important - you are on an alien world and the 
 Bane (the bad guys for this romp) are constantly trying to take over - which includes full scale 
 assaults with wave after wave landing in drop ships at towns. If your in town - well - start firing 
 otherwise as you are trying to shop you are likely to get shot. These assault times are frantic 
 and a blast to play. Bane seem to come from every where. The towns must be held if you want to 
 use them, and there are quests around defense tokens to encourage further participation. Players 
 seem to form defensive lines - support class are running around healing an buffing whoever needs 
 it in order to hold the line. Its a very cool dynamic and different. Even playing the game mostly 
 solo it puts you smack into the work and a part of a larger effort.
  
  There is crafting in the game - honestly I haven't looked much at it. You get schematics in some 
 of the loot drops (or you can buy them) and make about anything in the game. The parts you can 
 salvage or find in loot drops. - Speaking of looting is fantastic - you just run over your kill 
 and you pick up everything. No special keys needed. anther interesting twist is cloning. After 
 finding a clone credit, you can then make a copy of your self say before making a choice on the 
 class advancement tree. This lets you play out two different skill trees from the same character. 
 Save doing the base intro sections over and a lot of rework on early quests.
  
  Negatives? Nothing that really hampers my fun. I find my self wanting to use Q and E to strafe 
 - however those cycle primary and secondary weapons. Sometimes the state of war gets annoying because 
 you are looking for a quest or a place or something and suddenly war erupts around you or something 
 is taking pot shots at you and you'll need to spend 5 or 10 min in battle. Sometimes its more like 
 a squad ambushes you and it may be only 3-5 guys and take a min or other times suddenly you are 
 in all out war. Fun but distracting when you are trying to do something specific.
  
  Graphics are great for an MMO and really set the atmosphere. If you are looking for something different 
 this is a great game. It is an MMO - so there is a fee. - 1st month is included when you buy the 
 game. Not sure how long I'll play - probably until mass effect. But I needed something other than 
 a standard shooter in my gaming and this fills the bill nicely.
  
  Overall I'd say 8.5 to 9 as a rating. A fresh twist on MMOs for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaaz69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  This would be a decent to good single player experience, but I find it hard to justify charging 
 $15 a month for this. It brings nothing new to the table in the way of a MMO. The game was touted 
 as being revolutionary in the way of next gen MMO's, but there's nothing in this game that isn't 
 already in all the other MMO's out there. The combat system is a rip from Neocron/SWG's NGE, the 
 new way creatures spawn is just..... well spawning, except instead of materializing out of no where, 
 a drop ship swoops in and well causes them to .... materialize out of no where.
  
  Crafting is a joke, itemization is horrible, the enemy AI that was highly touted is nothing to 
 get excited about. Over all this is just another over hyped MMO that turns out to be nothing more 
 than what is already out there. Again, maybe if it were a single player game, it would be serviceable, 
 but as an MMO there's no justifying paying a monthly fee for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a good Sci-fi mmo for awhile now, and Rasa really comes through. Big fun 
 to be had here, this is a very good mmo, and with a high end gaming rig I bet even great. With built 
 in voice chat this game is screaming for you, and some friends to go on a wicked bug hunt! DO NOT 
 try, and play Tabula Rasa with the minimum requirements, or less than 1gig of ram, that will get 
 you nothing but pain, and frustration. I am saving up my pennies because I can't wait to play this 
 game in all it's glory. I'm giving this game an 8, even though i think the minimum requirements 
 are false advertisement, but when I get my high end system this game will most likely rate a solid 
 9 or higher. Sci-Fi fans should not miss this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eternal15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first booted up Tabula Rasa I had my doubts. But, after playing the game for more then three 
 days now I have to say that the game does a great job of pushing itself into the mmorpg mold. It 
 has a similar questing system to World of WarCraft and has the action of first person shooter. 
 Calling a game a first person shooter doesn't do the game justice though. It has heavy rpg elements 
 with a UI that you get used to after a few hours of gameplay. It doesn't have as sharp of a learning 
 curve as some mmo's (Thinking Anarchy Online...) and regardless of level makes you feel like your 
 not some pathetic weakling who has to get to lvl 70 to make a difference.
  
  The leveling system is nice with a focus on completing quests rather then mindless grinding. The 
 pvp system is existent but haven't had much experience with it. It has a dueling system that needs 
 some work but has great potential. As for world pvp the only thing that comes close is clan vs 
 clan wars. Assaulting and defending bases is something that you should definitely see in more games 
 and is an amazing feature that makes you feel part of the ongoing war between the Bane and everyone 
 else.
  
  The cloning system is a nice touch and allows you to experience different tracks without leveling 
 up a brand new character. The ability to change your armor color to something that better suits 
 you is definitely something that allows for a good range of customization. The only thing really 
 holding the game back is the considerable amount of bugs existent in the game. This can be remedied 
 after a few months of patches however.
  
  For those of you who are getting bored of your current mmo I would definitely suggest trying out 
 Tabula Rasa. It's a game that in a few months I can see hitting up the top spots in the mmo charts. 
 It's not a WoW killer..... yet, but it definitely has some great potential and amazing concepts 
 that will keep it around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rankmar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  First, let me say that there is hope: I don't expect perfection in any game -- although it would 
 be nice. The bugs, lag time, whimsical fps detract from the game.
  The lags at some points (usually before an event) are so long I wonder if the game froze. This 
 reduces the fun factor badly, especially since the run-up to some events and battles are exciting.
 
  For instance, when I hear the wailing siren of an attack on a Control Pt, I scrambled from medical 
 and run through the door, placed myself behind cover, and...
  and...
  and...
  and...
  
  Needless to say, I was overrun and killed (the game ran smoothly after I was rez'd back at 
 medical. That sort of thing is disappointing, especially because despite the casual gamer tag placed 
 (by the company) , you can really get into the game.
  It sucks to worry about such issues when you are fighting, and if it continues higher level play 
 will simply not be enjoyable.
  
  I'd give the game an 8.5 (or higher, if it continues to be as good as it's beginning) once they 
 can solve the online issues.
  
  If such issues drive you nuts, postpone buying the game for a couple months: it's not a WoW race 
 to 70th lvl game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelso23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I leveled my spy to 50 in 2 months, there were some boring parts. The instances were all very good. 
 There is some grinding to be done, but its not to bad if you can get your bonus to 250% experience 
 with a good kill streak (easy to do in descent where any 40+ in a group can rack up the exp) . I 
 am pretty excited about leveling another clone. Any MMORPG fan that has played a shooter or two 
 would at least enjoy leveling to 30, if they really liked it they might see playing to 50. I was 
 pretty much sprinting to 50 and I found the players to be thin after hitting 40 but a new wave 
 of players are filling up the servers. I am seeing that some of the other areas not just the first 
 zone have copies. When a zone is full they have others like, wilderness1 wilderness2. 1-30 is awesome 
 not sure if you will stay on, I see a lot of players quit in the early 30's. The charm of the early 
 levels is the fast pace and it comes and goes after that but the dev's are addressing this issue. 
 I am going to play till operation 1 comes out and see what they add and how good it is. Every patch 
 has been pretty good but the operations are supposed to add a good amount of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djedi_nos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I have never been an MMO fan. Most MMO's cost lots of money and have people addicted for years. 
 As a 33 year old gamer, I am very picky about what I play. I've been playing video games since 
 I first could wrap my hands around an Atari joystick, so I've earned the right to be picky. Anyway, 
 I noticed the user score on Gamespot for this game is 7.7. I guess all of the World of Warcraft 
 junkies had their say, but this game kicks the crap out of it. It has all of the great qualities 
 of other MMO's and it has better action than the SWG. The developers worked really hard at balancing 
 the level of play. Early in the beta, I was able to solo most instances. A few patches later, and 
 I need a group of 6 to help me through Atta Colony. These games are meant to be team oriented, 
 and that's what makes this MMO live up to it's name. People have to work together to take back 
 humanity (living up to it's potential there) . Regardless, if SWG missed the mark for you, and WOW 
 is a little to hokie for you, this should be right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The action is fierce, fun, and exciting. With your array of weapons and magical powers 'Logos' 
 your character becomes imersed in a war that is not of this planet.
  
  The game appears like it can be very deep, and while I'll try and stay away from refering parts 
 of it to World of Warcraft, sometimes it just can't be helped.
  
  First off the control scheme will take a little getting used to for someone that has not gotten 
 involved in any other MMO than WoW. It's different, but it works well, and while nothing is without 
 it flaws, the short tutorial shows how easy it is to get into the fray.
  
  The story is a little only semi-unique, but it is a dark one, and has a good background story. 
 My favourite part actually is how rich the manual is in the normal edition (couldn't bring myself 
 to buy the special edition...) for the manual has tons of backstory, concept art, and weapons/classes 
 descriptions that I have not seen in any game manual for almost a decade!
  
  The graphics are rich and lovley. It's a very pretty game with great lighting, shadows and textures. 
 The water effects are cool, and it can even run half decently with decent settings running a min-spec 
 machine. However it is very choppy, and I have yet to decide if thats the server or the game engine 
 causing the slow downs.
  
  I do feel this more of an action game though. There is a lot of ephasis on 'run, duck, and cover'. 
 And while I can sort of expect this from a 'future game' mroeso than a traditional fantasy game, 
 it is a really nice departure from the 'norm'.
  
  I've been waiting for a good sci-fi RPG, and I think this will keep me going until Mass Effect 
 is released later in the month. I'll probably stick with this though, because the 'mid game' looks 
 really really fun! I'm in a lul in WoW, and this looks like the breath of fresh air to get me away 
 for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamasita17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa doesn't strive to be revolutionary, but it does succeed in breaking away from the terribly 
 boring gameplay offered by EQ, WOW, AO, and DaoC. The combat system is more involved then other 
 MMO's I have played. Before, I attacked by tapping a single button, then unleashed the occasional 
 special ability when it seemed prudent, players grinded away at the game in order to even have 
 fun with all the late game content. It isn't so in Tabula Rasa, combat requires your constant attention 
 as there is no auto-attack and auto-loot functions. You have to aim, draw a bead on the target, 
 and snap off your shots while doing your best to find cover behind anything from sandbags to falled 
 trees. The Bane don't just appear, but they arrive via dropship or, in some cases, fall from the 
 tree limbs above to get the jump on you. You will constantly have to adapt your tactics to deal 
 with mobs of different enemy types, droids and cyborgs will fall quickly to EMP and Pulse weaponry 
 but your rank and file Bane Trooper won't be killed by it, instead you have to switch to weapons 
 such as Sonic or Laser to finish them off. Some of the bigger threats on the field like the Kael 
 aren't phased by normal weapons but Sonic weaponry will put them down quickly. You can choose from 
 shotguns, pistols, rifles, chainguns, propellant guns, polarity guns, rpgs, rocket launchers, hyper 
 velocity torqueshell weapons to bring down your enemies. But what is the most important to a gamer 
 such as myself is the simple fact that the game is fun. Too often MMO's ask you to dedicate ridiculous 
 amounts of time to them before you can raid or experience the real depth of the game, with Tabula 
 Rasa, you start having fun the moment your boots hit the field. While the game launched without 
 things like an Auction House or player-controlled vehicles General British understood the necessity 
 of an Auction House to MMO's. AH's help to create a more involved community of players and achieve 
 greater interaction between them. Already the General has promised that future patches will include 
 an AH system and vehicles. Even now you can see the future home of the AH in the Wtin Pillars outpost, 
 and in divide empty vehicle hangers await the arrival of the promised wheels for the AFS. Adding 
 further to the game is the Cloning system. No longer will you have to constantly level up another 
 character in order to experience the different classes in Tabula Rasa, before you commit to a profession, 
 simply make a clone of your character. Now you can save yourself the hassle of constantly starting 
 up new characters to experience the different classes in Tabula Rasa. - While TR is not necessarily 
 a WoW killer, it certainly represents the progression. Tabula Rasa is a clean slate, a fresh start 
 for MMO's. Hopefully more game studios will look at Tabula Rasa as a symbol of change, and change 
 is exactly what MMO's need right now to escape the current status quo of online games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daeftan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  I'll make this straight to the point and first address the 2 most common issues that is the basis 
 for TR discussion and complaint:
  
  FPS??? ---- TR is not a FPS. It's an MMO with a unique gameplay interface that gives it the feel 
 of a shooter while your leveling and growing your character. People who love FPS are complaining 
 that TR is not a real FPS (who lied to you about that?) ; and people who love MMO's are a little 
 bewildered by the fast paced, shooter action. I'll I have to say is, Thank God someone decided 
 to do something different with MMO gameplay than the one button stand and fight. It's very addictive 
 running around with your rifle and smoking aliens. If you're like me and tried to play the game 
 like WoW/EQ, where you run up and stand and fight, you will quickly find this to be sub-optimal 
 on the ranged battlefield. The equivalent to having many abilities/spells is switching weapon types 
 and using Logos powers; you need to move, duck, find cover, reload, move more, get position, fight, 
 kill move on... I still see tons of people never doing this... it takes a rethinking for the MMO 
 crowd to catch on to this, and because of it I suspect many will go back to their one-button warriors 
 and warlocks.
  
  So what about WoW??? --- I've heard the normal group of idiots on the General channel yelling - 
 WoW is better! . I think this is accurate if you change it to - WoW was better. Now, WoW is just 
 OLD. I mean, face it... the game was released in 2004... If you never played it, go give WoW a 
 spin, if you've spent the last few years in it like alot of us, just forget about it... it's spent 
 like a worn out car from the 80's. After playing three days of TR, I went back and logged my epic 
 shaman on WoW to participate in a guild raid... the game has lots of charms, but let me tell you... 
 after a couple of days on TR it felt like WoW was in slow-motion. I couldn't believe how boring 
 and slow the action was by comparsion. On the downside - TR needs TONS MORE CONTENT. I've been 
 having great fun at the beginning, but there is only one playable race and a relatively shallow 
 character progression tree. These are not deal breakers (especially since it supports the games 
 mythology) , but they need to compensate that with an insane amount of broad in-game content as 
 you get to higher levels. Some alien factions with new gear sets (for instance) would be sweet 
 (might as well steal what WoW got right) . And this talk about not having epic end-game instances? 
 That's just silly - put them in IMMEDIATELY. Some people will play them, some won't, but everyone 
 will want to, casual gamer or hardcore... by the way that wasn't a WoW idea, it was invented by 
 the original EQ with the Planes. It didn't matter if only 1 in 50 people ever saw the Plane of 
 Fear on the original lvl 50 game, everyone talked about it and wished they could go. When you saw 
 that one person on your server with Cazic Thuuls Robe, you looked at that person with awe and wonder 
 and wished that it was you that had gone a fought the gods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedmk
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  after hearing and reading alot before months of its arrival , tabula rasa was for me like a No 
 No ... reading how bad it was , how boring it was , how bad the gameplay and the action in it ... 
 as if every one was just fighting for the sake of fun or i rly dunno .
  
  after its arrival in shops ... i saw it in the shelvs and i asked my self if its worth paying the 
 39euro ... with one month subscribtion , i rly thought that i was just throwing my money in the 
 bin ... i choiced not to listen to all the people who wrote about it ,and to buy it just becuase 
 i was little bored and i wanted to spend some of my free time at home with a new mmorpg .
  
  After installing and registering ... First thing i noticed was The good graphics ... i guess 
 no body can really complain about ,yes its not a five stars super graphic game ... but it does 
 the job well .
  i just wanted to start playing ... the npcs taught me how to play the game and first thing u do 
 in the game was to fight of a raid of banes that were attacking our base ... well some how i started 
 laughing i was really saying to my self ... What is boring with this ?????? . it was SIMPLY plain 
 fun just shooting at those banes with a nice action gameplay system , crouch to shoot at a maximum 
 dmg , hide to make it less worst to be hit . or just be a warrior and jump on those banes with 
 your arsenal .
  
  the only thing i just want to say to the people ... this is not Thee next gen-game ... but its 
 an awesome game if you want to spend some of your free time REALLY having fun :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gike987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  After getting bored on WoW and some other MMO's i decided to get this game, and im happy i did. 
 The tutorial in the start is really good its full of action and you get to learn little more of 
 the story that you saw in the cinematic then you started the game. After that you get shipped out 
 to a region called Wilderness. In this region you going spend the first time in the game so it's 
 important it is well made, Right? And fortunately it is it has a lot of quests and all of them 
 make you feel important in the big war against the bane. Here you also get to meet an allied alien 
 race that live on this planet. The landscape is great done whit lots of forest and on some places 
 dead fields filled whit human fighting against the banes. One of the good parts is the control 
 points which are bases that the banes ( or you if the banes hold it ) can take its really helps 
 making you feel you fighting in an big war. You also going to collect logos which you need to have 
 for some spell-like abilities. The combat is filled of action, you can have five weapons and five 
 abilities at a time so you need to think whats worth putting in the quick bar slots. You shoot 
 whit left mouse button and use abilities whit the right, and the best is you actually going to 
 aim on your target. The graphic are good but nothing revolutionary. In short its a great game that 
 I like to recommend to all that getting bored of all those normal MMO's or just looking for a great 
 game. At last as whit many MMO you need to pay a monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatmj2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this is a review for the initial first few hours of Tabula Rasa. Since 
 I have only played for about a dozen hours, I have only seen a glimpse of the content in this game.
 
  
  I have been waiting for a good Sci-Fi MMORPG for as long as MMORPGs have been around. All the ones 
 ive tried so far have been more or less letdowns, some being a torturous glimpse of what a Sci-FiMMORPG 
 could be. Its inevitable that give the lucrative pay-to-pay system that there will be a a publisher 
 that puts the time andy money into making a popular sci-fi MMORPG. This is especially true considering 
 the extremely popular and well developed intellectual properties in the Sci-Fi universe (I will 
 quit life when the Warhammer 40k MMORPG comes out) . Tabula Rasa might be the game that brings Sci-Fi 
 MMORPGs to the masses. However, it falls slightly short of it's potential. The major stregnth of 
 Tabula Rasa is its action oriented nature. The core of this is the action based combat system. 
 While essentially still based on the tried and true blueprint for RPG combat, it does a better 
 job seamlessly moving into and out of combat, and more importantly, keeping the combat exciting. 
 Quests also seem more straightforward than other MMORPGs Ive played. In Tabula Rasa, I don't feel 
 the pressure to level up as fast as possible. The quests give me a chance to take my time and really 
 explore my surroundings. The dialog and nature of the quests also helped me understand the setting 
 and drew me into the story.
  
  I really wish I could like the story. However, so far it is like one big sci-fi cliche. The characters, 
 alien and human, seem generic for any sci-fi game that has come out in the last decade. This is 
 unfortunate because a great story and unique setting would only enhance the well executed battle 
 and quest system. The world I've seen so far is beautiful and seems as if a lot of effort was put 
 into the details. However, these environments still seem somewhat dead. Unfortunately for fans 
 of the MMORPG genre this is a problem that also plauges almost all of Tabula Rasa's competetors. 
 Despite the inability of the environment to engross me initially, it did grow on me. The stability 
 and performance of the game are hit and miss. Since I run on a modest computer (not great, definately 
 not bad either) , im not expecting this game to run great. Initially it will run fairly well, but 
 as the server gets more populated, and an alleged memory leak takes its toll, the game slows down 
 and freezes constantly. Thankfully, tweaking some of the graphical settings, and going to a more 
 sparsely populated instance helps this immensely. Despite these problems, I am impressed by the 
 playability of this game considering that MMORPGs are legendary for their launch-problems. Compared 
 to the initial performance of MMORPGs that have launched before it, I would definately rate Tabula 
 Rasa as one of the most polished and playable
  
  Overall, I give the game an 8.5. If I could give it an 8.9 I would, because the game is very good 
 and so very close to being great. If the story had gotten as much attention as the excellent battle 
 system, superb graphics and performance (reletive to other MMORPGs) , this game could have been 
 a landmark experience in computer gaming history. As it is now, its an evolutionary game that takes 
 steps forward in the battle system, but gets dragged back by the same old sci-fi rstory rehash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk-Master
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Man! I got to say, if you were looking for a MMO, different from everything you have seen before.... 
 You&acute; ve found it!
  
  I have tryed a lot of MMO&acute; s lately. But Tabula Rasa Is surprising it&acute; s fast paced gameplay, 
 realistic art and sound hooked me up. The game get your attention from the very moment it begin. 
 You make your first character without the need of selecting a class. Good, because you don&acute; t 
 know nothing about classes yet.
  Everyone starts as recruits and make selections at lvl 5,15 and 30. You have a class tree basically 
 divided into fighting classes and support classes. The cool aspect is that you can clone your character, 
 so if you wanna make another class character you don&acute; t need to start all over again. A very 
 handy thing. The missions are divided into two kinds the ones you do on the common battlefield 
 with other players and the ones you do on controlled maps alone or with your party. The game in 
 the beginning is very fast after the tutorial u get to the main land and get all the map free to 
 explore, a cool thing is when the Bane the alien enemyes of the game come to attack an outpost 
 you are in, It&acute; s when a good battle begun. The outposts could be taken so one day you could 
 go there and buy supplies and the other day you could be shoot by bane turrets at the entrance, 
 nothing a good party can&acute; t take care off.
  The combat isn&acute; t like most MMO`s that you click on target and he stops and begin attacking 
 or casting spells... You really need to move get cover and shoot the part of the enemy to kill 
 it quickly, some weapons don&acute; t work on certains monsters so it&acute; s another thing to takecare 
 of...
  
  That are the most significant spot&acute; s of the game to me.
  If you want an advice of a experienced MMO Player: It&acute; s something as good as you have never 
 seen. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  The game is a great and refreshing game to all Sci-Fi fans. The gameplay is fast and action-packed. 
 A lot may be turned off because of not being able to get past past their previous experience with 
 similar type MMOs like SWG. And as always, people make comparrisons to WoW, though this is a totally 
 different game. Tabula Rasa will captivate Sci-Fi fans of all ages thru its compelling storyline. 
 The action is really non-stop unless you locate yourself within the safety of a base. There really 
 is nowhere to just "Stand around" without something eventually spawning close to you. The Missions 
 are fun and the instances are well designed. There are several ways to level up that make TR so 
 fun. You can rush to complete missions, though that rushes the story; or you can find an area to 
 your liking and grind away. Grinding is fun since it not only gets you XP but also gives you credits 
 and loot.
  TR does have several flaws that have not been fixed since Beta. None of these are critical mission 
 stoppers but are still frustrating nonetheless. I thought for sure that these bugs would have been 
 fixed prior to the actual release but they have not. I have been playing since August and have 
 enjoyed every minute despite the bugs. There is still a lot that needs to be done so lets hope 
 the Devs haven't decided to go on vacation just yet. 
  UPDATE:
  It is sad that this game is still broke. Even after the recent patch, there are still major bugs 
 and balancing issues with this game. I still feel that this game is under development. The Dev's 
 are constantly adjusting the balance in the game and are periodically stress testing the servers 
 under the guise of major attacks in Eloh as conducted 11/17. I am glad that I have two months of 
 play before paying because I will more than likely kill my account due to one major bug that still 
 has not been fixed - Logging into the game. When you log in and choose the Server (and I've tried 
 numerous times on all servers) you either get disconnected or you get stuck at "Sending Server 
 Request". I have patiently waited like I did during beta when they asked to just wait a few minutes 
 "and you should connect". I waited an hour after numerous failed attempts and didn't ever get into 
 the game. Well, thats partially true, I did manage to get in once after about 15 or so tries but 
 didn't matter, I was automatically disconnected. I even tried to create a new toon on a diferent 
 server and once my toon was suppose to enter battle, I was immediately disconnected. I maintained 
 contact with a couple of friends that I met during beta and they periodically have had the same 
 problems. Some may have it, and some may not but the issue is still there and has not been fixed. 
 The total lack of support has me questioning the games completion. Every game has it's problems 
 during release but ones that keep you from playing are unaceptable. With the lack of an official 
 forum, issues like this are hard to find resolutions for. With all the games problems, it's probably 
 wise that they don't have one for fear of chasing off smart buyers who read about games before 
 buying. It's also funny that they are already searching for more recruits. Is the game suffering 
 that bad that it's already asking players to find more? It hasn't even been a month since offical 
 release. For those of you that can play and enjoy, More power to you, for those still wondering, 
 You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madman5222
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  graphics - 8/10
  Vary good graphics for an mmo but some of the textures are jest plain bad even on high settings.
 
  
  detail - 10/10
  Fight along huge battlefields with this much detail has never bine better.
  
  game play - 10/10
 
  This is the first mmo I have ever seen that actually makes grinding fun and that is saying something. 
 (That is with so many quest if you ever grind)
  
  AI - 10/10
  Probably the best AI i have ever seen. and I have seen a lot of both good and bad
  
  If you 
 haven't already bought this game go and do so now. It is truly awesome and is realy the first mmo 
 to give you the feeling of actually fighting in a battle. The ai can make things difficult for 
 players unless the work together to hold points. All over the battlefield there are massive battles 
 going on at both control points and other areas all around were player with npc support throw down 
 with the bane (bad guys) and there alleys.
  
  So long as you find a good place to fight on a medium population server both grinding and mission 
 running is a blast, with the combat in large fights being the fastest and most intense i have ever 
 played. With bullets and lasers flying everywhere, lightning bolts and other abilities going back 
 and forth between bane and players. That is if you ever decide to grind there are enough missions 
 to keep even the fastest players busy for a LONG time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XVerveX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say that you can't bash this game for having a monthly fee that you didn't expect. 
 That's not their fault.
  
  Beyond that, it is a well crafted, polished, ambitious, well thought out game.
  The combat is 
 fast paced and visceral, especially since release. It appears that since beta, they pushed the 
 game speed up slightly and turned the base assault dial up to eleven. Shortly after arriving at 
 the second outpost, I found it assaulted by no less than 30 mobs, with another 30-40 landing within 
 minutes.
  
  This is something that no other MMO has pulled off. It went from me running into a base to turn 
 in a mission to an all-out war in a matter of moments. Sure the missions may be standard MMO fare 
 for the most part, but the battlefront like combat is a chaotic and exciting element.
  Let's face it, no MMORPG is doing anything new mission wise because there is nothing new to do. 
 The crafting system is robust. Weapons and armor progress nicely. The cloning system is genius. 
 Combat is well designed. Most of all, the development team is fantastic. I've never seen a dev 
 team so involved, open, and available in a game, and that means a hell of a lot. A friend made 
 the perfect statement about this game, It's a class act. Circle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  So, after reading loads of mixed reactions from beta players, I have to conclude this game is great, 
 awesome, fun, and good. Period.
  Yes it has flaws, but didn't WoW have those on release? Every mmorpg has bugs and stuff which will 
 be patched rather quickly in the first few months. I've played WoW since beta up until last month, 
 and I got so sick of the community and bg/instance/arena farming, soI tried something else. Boy 
 am I happy I did that. Tabula Rasa isn't revolutionary, but it's refreshing with a lot of promising 
 options and content. I really think that will also improve even more over time. People keep comparing 
 every new mmo to WoW, and I got sick of that until recently. I say, bring it on! Compare it. WoW 
 is nothing more then HK or epic grinding which isn't even fun anymore. And the story? Does anyone 
 keep track of even know about the story anymore?
  
  I'm not going to go over the standard graphic, gameplay, story, sound points. I'm just saying that 
 this is a awesome mmorpg to play now, and it will be even more awesome in a few weeks/months.
 
  
  If you're bored of WoW and your WoW guildies are telling you to stick with WoW.... then come to 
 the conclusion there are jealous and start playing TR. It's what happened to me, and I'm happy 
 that I didn't listen to them but tried this game.
  
  Zerodemo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantant
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  As a beta player for months before release I have to say it is a great game. Not perfect, but neither 
 is ANY MMO, most especially when its launched. However the fighting involves multiple enemies at 
 once, its action packed, has a great inventory system, upgrades, etc. It is quite a bit different 
 and breaks a lot of the MMO standards. For example, when you are looking for a drop off a mob.... you 
 get it in 1 or 2 kills..... not the standard 'kill 55 boars to find 3 boar intestines' junk. And 
 in response to dollomite704 I have to say LOL in big old caps. He recommends Guild Wars over any 
 MMO with a monthly charge, but I disagree. Guild Wars is great, but ill pay 15$ a month to actually 
 see other players playing, unlike Guild Wars which divides everything up into instance so it feels 
 like a single-player RPG more than an MMO. Just my preference. But either way, 15$ is hardly a 
 rip-off if you consider the rooms of computers and techs it probably takes to keep the damn thing 
 running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tookieman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  These reviews depend on every gamer's choice of a good game. In the sense of this game I personally 
 believe its worth the monthly fee. I also believe that in a short amount of time it would be a 
 WoW killer. WoW is slow and fighting is ... how do u say boring in my sense, and i explain the 
 boring point in my point of view as having to target something like an enemy and attack that way 
 which in most cases are slow and tedious and the fact that u have to sit through that for quite 
 a while to kill an enemy. Also the fact that u have a certain range like ahunter cant shoot anything 
 past 30yrds. or sumthin like that for example is completely unrealistic when he can deal their 
 strongest damange just 1 yard less of 31. Although I still like wow for the fact that it's a good 
 game i mean it has the most giant gaming community right now and that just says it's good but the 
 point is its getting really old. In Tabula Rasa the game is fast paced and u don't have to sit 
 through that crap like target an enemy before u start any form of attack (for example I see a group 
 of enemies and i grab out my launcher and fire at the ground in the middle of them i was able to 
 hurt all of them without having to target them (killed em all hehe GG) . It adds a variety and a 
 mix with the sci-fi genre i have never experienced before and I gotta say it feels pretty damn 
 good. See you all in game people. Surname: Tookieman Server: Orion Clan: Soon to be member of the 
 P. S. salute* General British I thank you for creating this game and if you don't mind I would like 
 to come to one of your parties hehe heard they were a real blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironeagle12_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  The game was pretty good from what I could tell. A little different then most MMO's out there. 
 You get that first person shooter feel to it even though the game is third person. The leveling 
 structure was a little different as well and you reach new tiers as you level basically selecting 
 a more concentrated profession in the game. May seem different at first because everyone starts 
 out as pretty much the same character stat wise. Which is good because if you haven't played before 
 or are just starting you don't have to guess where to put your points only to find out later they 
 are in the wrong spot. This gives way to a larger diversity as you level because it both opens 
 new paths to concentrate it and makes higher players more diverse in how they were set up. And 
 the clone system is a nice touch in case you want to try multiple paths... no more need to level 
 another character all the way up just to try a different class. The missions were quite diverse 
 too. They hide the 4-5 usually mission types very good and give them stories to go through. Good 
 if you just want to do a quick mission over lunch or go all the way in deep and read up on everything 
 everyone says in the mission. So it is good for everyone. Overall though it has a different feel 
 then most MMO's out there. Get the sense of the larger battle at hand and really makes it seem 
 like a war is going on. And what can I say... getting a shotgun and shooting some guy in the face 
 and watching him fly backwards a large amount will just satisfy me every time. Don't think I could 
 ever get tired of seeing that happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JephirDromulus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Tabula Rasa has undergone massive changes in the last five years. A look at the early screenshots 
 show some sort of fantasy knock-off of Everquest. However, five years down the road, a lot has 
 changed.
  
  In Tabula Rasa, you play as a human in the Allied Free Sentients, a military organization fighting 
 the Bane - a ruthless alien enemy. The game follows many conventions of MMOs, such as having levels, 
 classes and skills. There are many differences though, the main one being the combat system.
  
  Unlike the conventional whack-a-mole combat (as Richard Garriott described it - where two combatants 
 stand and hit each other until one of them dies) , Tabula Rasa features a real-time combat system 
 where combatants can move, shoot and use skills all at the same time. Combat is much for fast paced 
 that other games and puts more emphasis on tactics and skill than leveling. Taking cover in the 
 environment actually affects the amount damage you or your foes take. Even the skill system is 
 different; using skills (called Logos) requires a right click of the mouse instead of mashing buttons 
 on the keyboard.
  
  Another innovation is the character cloning system. Unlike other games where you have to restart 
 from the first level to play another class, Tabula Rasa has a system where you can clone your stats 
 and class to another character and then use that character if you ever want to go down a different 
 class tree. This feature adds more replayability to the game, although it does have limitations 
 such as when you are allowed to clone (you must have a clone credit - earned from quests and levels) .
 
  
  One of the most successful but most controversial features of the game is how it blends traditional 
 MMORPG gameplay with first-person shooter gameplay. For example, shooting and aiming is done with 
 the left mouse button, however the damage you inflict is still based on your character's attributes. 
 The game still puts more emphasis on the MMORPG component; for example there is sticky targeting 
 , where you only need to mouse over a target to lock on and not require precise aim. Another FPS 
 addition is the battlefield control system. Certain bases and cities have control points where 
 the ownership of the base can switch between AFS or Bane if it is captured. The Bane will actually 
 launch coordinated attacks on AFS bases, and if it is captured, the AFS will try to capture it 
 back. This system works very well, adding an additional layer of combat to the game, however can 
 be annoying if you are trying to finish a mission in a base that is under siege. However, the integrated 
 FPS and MMORPG gameplay may discourage some players, as the game only appeals to those who like 
 both MMORPG and FPS gameplay. A similar problem was suffered by the game Battlezone, where it attempted 
 to integrate RTS and FPS gameplay together. Unfortunately, it only appealed to people who liked 
 both RTS and FPSes together.
  
  Some traditional MMORPG concepts that are included are crafting, player vs. player combat and the 
 addition of integrated voice chat. Most of the emphasis has been put on the new innovations however, 
 so these features are somewhat bland and unoriginal. However, they still add gameplay to Tabula 
 Rasa and are not required to play the game.
  
  Overall, Tabula Rasa is a step away from the traditional MMO and goes towards what Richard Garriott 
 calls the next-generation of MMORPGs. Tabula Rasa is worth getting if you are tired of the traditional 
 hack and slash MMO, or if you want to try something different from the mass of fantasy MMORPGs 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docleyson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Hell yea. Tabula Rasa came up as a life-saver to me. Ex-WOW, EQ, FFXI player, used to grind, get 
 to max level, play the game like a damn work to get endgame items, months, years. I recently quit 
 FFXI after playing it for almost 2 years and I decided all I wanted in a new MMORPG was to be able 
 to play and enjoy the game at my own pace. MMORPGs have this problem of forcing you to group to 
 do even things for your character alone, making players to even humiliate themselves sometimes 
 for help. You want to group, you want to play with others, but when you want, not always.
  
  I got Tabula Rasa and decided to pay 5 bucks to try the beta. If it was the usual grind and 
 wait for others to do your own stuff I would just skip it. My First impression wasn't good, the 
 tutorial and customization keys at beginning made me spend a lot of time before playing.
  
  But after i customized all my keys (CTRL to shoot, hate using mouse for anything besides changing 
 camera angles) I went to fight the first wave of Bane. They spawned in front of me, like a Star 
 Trek teleport ,I popped my pistol and started to kill each one of them. It was fun. I thought that 
 would end sooner or later, but today I have the same feeling, sniping them with a rifle, blasting 
 them with a shotgun, or even looking cool with a pistol or the madness chaingun.
  
  The world is beautiful, the creatures are not cute like wow-carebears, nope they are meanie, they 
 look evil most of times. The fights are intense, fast paced, its easy at first, then they start 
 to come in greater numbers, from all places, with bosses, you try to hide and they come after you. 
 After a few, you realize you cant survive just rushing at them and blasting always, unless you 
 want to visit the hospital a lot.
  
  The game started to get improvements, less bugs, devs showing up to play with us and talk, wow 
 fanboys screaming to try to make the game look bad, useless. More and more people came, the game 
 started to shine more each time I logged in.
  
  Ok, enough talk, Ill resume this game and give you that score you want to see.
  
  Graphics: 
 They look nice, visual effects are great and help you keep your attention always in the battlefield. 
 Its not an Oblivion or Bioshock look, but its great too. Score 8.5
  
  Sound Effects: Its responsible for making you feeling at war. Explosions, beams, monster's screams... 
 Score 10
  
  Music: Average, leaning towards good. Some musics are nice, others are annoying. The sound effects 
 make you forget them though. Score 6.5
  
  Gameplay: Perfect. Shallow reviewers will say its easy, yea its its till level 5 when they returned 
 to their slavery games . Controls are precise but will require skills after the starter cities 
 . You have to constantly think about your position and looking around to avoid being flanked or 
 ganked. Its the number one attribute of this game IMHO. Score 10
  
  Slavery Factor: NONE. If you miss grinding you can always choose another game. You can grind in 
 Tabuka Rasa, yes. But its an option, not an obligation. If you want a game with score 10 in slavery 
 factor, try FFXI.
  
  Fun Factor: Just great. You log in, play it 30 minutes or 8 hours straight. You will have fun in 
 both situations. Its your decision. Finally its your decision. Quests, Instances, having fun with 
 enemies, defending an Outpost with others, chatting... You choose. Score 10
  
  Total Score: 45/50 (9/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baron1282
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The only problem that is really plaging the game is the Frame Rate issue. I got a 7800GTX and 2 
 Gigs of RAM, the only thing I don't have is the CPU, but I do have the minimal CPU. I love the 
 game, it's something different that the normal copy cat of World of Warcraft. It's something new, 
 and it still needs some work. But, once all the patches come out to fix this game, than there should 
 be no real problem with this game. The sound is not perfect, but it's good. The graphics in this 
 game, are outstanding for an MMO. I think this game will be an oustanding game, once all the bugs 
 get patched. Until than, enjoy the game for what it is, and if they deside to not fix the game, 
 than it deserves a 7.0. At this point, I give it a 7.0, BUT because I see what it can be, with 
 some issues fixed, I give it an 8.5. I believe once everything is fixed, and I hope fixed fast, 
 it will become an 9.0!!
  
  Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkyFlyChicken
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  After beta testing Tabula Rasa for a few months, and being in the 3 day head start (thanks to a 
 pre-order code) , I can now safely say that this is a fun game, maybe worth the box fee if there 
 was an offline mode, or a way to at least play the original content alone without a fee. It's a 
 fun game for the first month or two at best, but then the content is exhausted, and there are no 
 other races or starting areas, leaving you to regrind the same areas/quests over again, exactly 
 as you did before.
  
  This game is not worth a monthly fee as it stands. It's disappointing to know that they plan on 
 charging us for the typical expansion pack system, instead of following in City of Heroes footsteps, 
 and providing that extra content in the bi-monthly updates, instead of calling the addition of 
 features that SHOULD have been in at launch, Content Updates . That's a load of bs right there, 
 especially considering that the content available now, is nowhere near the content other MMORPG's 
 offer when going live.
  
  Bugs are still prevalent in the game, most minor issues, but there are still broken weapons/armor 
 in the tutorial section, a broken quest early in the game, and the content on the second planet 
 is unbalanced something terrible (which you reach at level 20+) .
  
  Yet again, the dedicated MMO die-hards will claim that this is how MMORPG's are, and that's a crying 
 shame that these people are so desperate to keep their Fix going with a new drug , that they are 
 willing to pay to beta test and develop the game, instead of paying for a working, Finished product 
 (yes, I am fully aware that MMO's are never Finished in the sense that it's never ending, but that 
 doesn't mean that they release broken, missing content that should be in from the start, etc) .
 
  
  MMORPG's have been around long enough now that a lot of these issues shouldn't even be existing 
 still, but they are. It's a business, they know there are people who are going to pay anyhow, so 
 they go ahead and release.
  
  The game is not worth a monthly fee now as it stands, based on the content alone. The Graphics 
 and sound design are excellent, but the questing system is no different than any other MMO (escort 
 this person here, kill 100 of these, etc) , and there is too little variety in what you do, especially 
 once you max your first character, and have to repeat the exact same content over and over again.
 
  
  If you are the type of gamer who, even with MMO's, is perfectly happy to spend 50 dollars and get 
 a month's worth of play out of it, and have no plans on paying the fee, then this game could still 
 work for you. The first month of play is the best, by far. But if you are looking for an MMORPG 
 with depth, lots of content and options, then you need to look elsewhere.
  
  Once they release the first PAID expansion, in a year, then the game will probably be where it 
 should have been now - multiple races, multiple starting areas, more than 2 planets, post 30 content 
 other than grinding, etc.
  
  As it stands right now, they have maybe half of the game done that should be there for launch. 
 End game content is non-existant, and it doesn't look like anything is coming, unless your idea 
 of walking around in a mech that took you 2 months to save up the money for, is your idea of a 
 good time. The devs say they want to avoid raids, but yet they haven't given any other option of 
 what is coming. My guess is, based on what I've played and seen so far, is that there IS NOTHING 
 ELSE. You will rinse and repeat (And the devs have stated themselves, that they THINK people are 
 going to want to replay to try other classes and such, and THAT is end-game content to them, to 
 re-roll ) .
  
  It's a shame, because the game has lots of potential. It just isn't anywhere near fully realized 
 yet, not even halfway there. What they have now is a game who's content can be shot through in 
 a month with grouping, two months solo (unless you rarely play, but then if you couldn't even play 
 often, then why would you pay a fee for a game you rarely play?) .
  
  My advice: Check back with Tabula Rasa in 6 months to a year. If the community has stuck around 
 long enough to sustain it, it COULD deliver some interesting things. As it is right now, it's not 
 worth a monthly fee. However, if you don't mind paying 50 dollars for a game that you will only 
 get a month to play before the fees kick in, then by all means, go for it - you will have a blast. 
 I ended up keeping my pre-order, I have 10 extra Free days of play thanks to being in beta and 
 having a higher level character before the wipe. But I will cancel my subscription to the game 
 if they don't add enough content within the first 2 months, and I am definately not happy about 
 their idea of paid expansions every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TopDomino
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  In a genre that's full of copycats Tabula Rasa shines as original. The combat system is top notch. 
 I have subtracted a point because as I understand it high level content will take some more time 
 to get fleshed out. Another point I have substracted because although the graphics are very good 
 for an MMO, they could be better for a game launched in late 2007. The communication system in 
 the game makes it a little less groupy than the one in most other MMOs. In this regard it resembles 
 City of Heroes/Villains. One bonus point is awarded for being soloable. A superb game and well 
 worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinfan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I originally wrote this earlier this week during the TR Beta but the game hasn't changed too much 
 since it went live last night. About six weeks ago I got an email about the new open Beta for the 
 Tabula Rasa online role-playing game. I have been following the progress of this game for awhile 
 and I was curious to see how it played and so I downloaded the beta client from Fileplanet. Ive 
 played it for about 90 hours over the last six weeks and here is a summary of what I think of it 
 so far. Aside from less than a week in City of Heroes/Villains, my only experience in MMORGs is 
 with World of Warcraft, so I will be comparing Tabula Rasa with WoW sometimes. Tabula Rasa will 
 going live on November 2nd. Those who pre-order the game can start playing on October 30th.
  
  Backstory/Lore/Story: A killer opening cinematic sets up the backstory about alien Bane invading 
 present day (or maybe near future) Earth and people able to fight back being evacuated off planet 
 with secret alien technology previously recovered from somewhere and developed in Area 51. Were 
 not told what happened to the people stuck back on Earth. This small force of people desperately 
 fighting aliens reminds me (in a good way) of Starship Troopers, The Forever War, Aliens, Stargate, 
 and the new Battlestar Galactica. Deeper parts of the story are revealed by chatter from npcs, 
 Quest storylines and videos at the beginning of some Instances. Very engrossing so far and free 
 from confusing multiple storylines from previous games like in WoW.
  
  Questing: Mostly typical World of Warcraft style quests: Kill X numbers of monsters, Collect X 
 number of things, Find X, Escort X to somewhere. But you also get some new ones like Defend or 
 Attack a base since the Bane can attack and take over bases. A few quests give you an ethical 
 parable and the choice of two different options to complete the mission. Choosing a different 
 option may mean different outcomes later but Im not sure how meaningful these quests are yet. 
 The quests dont have any indication of how hard they may be or if you need a group but at least 
 up to level 16 you can solo most things if you want, although there are a few boss killing quests 
 that pretty much require grouping. Most quests give you a marker on the map where you can complete 
 them and a waypoint with the direction to get there and you can turn the marker on and off, which 
 is neat and should save a good bit of consulting reference websites. Also there are multiple instances 
 of each zone on each server, so if you find the game overcrowded or you want to find a base that 
 is under Bane attack, you can switch to a less crowded instance zone. This does lead to people 
 having to port to different instance zones to group up, but I haven't found that to be a big deal 
 so far. So far there are 7 instances of the starting zone (Wilderness) and 4 instances of the second 
 zone (Divide) .
  
  Level System: You can advance up to level 50. It goes pretty quickly up to level 10 and then you 
 notice its starts taking a little longer each time to reach the next level, which is what WoW did 
 and is fine with me. You get new Attribute and Skill points to spend each level but you dont have 
 to pay for training or even visit a trainer until you hit levels 5, 15, and 30. At those levels 
 you get to make a choice about the specialization of your character. Everyone starts off as a Recruit 
 and then at level 5 you chose between Soldier or Specialist and at level 15 you make another choice 
 between two class and you make a final choice at level 30 for one of the eight end level classes. 
 Soldier leads to classes such as Guardian (tanks) , Sniper (hunters) , and Spy (rogues) and Specialist 
 leads to classes like Medic (Priests) , Engineer (Pallys with the transport ability of Mages) , and 
 Exobiologist (Warlock/Necromancer) . Before each career choice, you get the opportunity to make 
 a clone of yourself. That way you can pursue a different class or the same character with a different 
 build of skill points (you can't change your Attributes after cloning) . And you dont have to level 
 up a new character from scratch to do it. All of your clones share the same last name so people 
 can identify you. You get to chose a new first name and appearance/gender for each new clone and 
 your clones can make clones too at levels 5,15, and 30 and as a rewards for completing the big 
 Targets of Opportunity questline in each zone. Apparently you won't ever be able to re-distribute 
 your skill points once they are set, but since you can earn multiple clone credits for each end 
 level character, they should serve the same function as a re-redistribution.
  
  Transportation: There are plans to introduce some kind of vehicles in the game (garages are already 
 in place) at a later date, but right now you run or teleport everywhere. The first two maps arent 
 terribly big, so running isnt that bad and you can train in a sprint ability which makes you run 
 faster using Adrenaline gained from fighting, but some character abilities need that Adrenaline 
 for fighting moves. The first two maps have at least six bases or outposts with teleporters, but 
 you have to run to that base the first time in order to be able to teleport to it later. Teleoporters 
 save a lot of time turning quests in. Also after level 30, Engineers can train in a field teleportation 
 ability to transport themselves and others to bases.
  
  Death and Healing and Repair: You have Armor and Health to protect you from death. Once you Armor 
 is gone, your Health usually goes pretty fast, but Armor lasts awhile (at least up to level 16) . 
 Your Health and Armor do regen pretty fast, even during combat. So far it takes at least 3 or 4 
 normal enemies within 2 or 3 levels of you or some kind of boss to kill you most times. When you 
 die you can choose which Hospital on your map to respawn at. You have to run to a base and enter 
 the Hospital there to be able to respawn there. The only penalty for death is a 5 minute rez sickness 
 where your Attributes are lowered by 20% and it stacks for 5 minutes more each time for like 3 
 more times if you die really quickly. You can buy a rez trauma kit to get your Attribute points 
 back, but you can only use them every 2.5 minutes. You can also buy or make Health Kits but so 
 far they arent that useful because if your Armor goes away you are usually going to lose Health 
 faster than a Health Kit can replace. There are healing disks those who went do the Specialist 
 (not Soldier) path can use, armor repair tools tend to be more useful since your health tends to 
 go down pretty fast once your armor is gone. Im sure Healing abilities will play a big part in 
 the End Game because already some of the bosses are hard to kill and regen Armor and Health very 
 fast. You usually lose about one durability point on your items after 10 minutes of combat or one 
 death but they recently changed things so that each melee attack damages your weapon one point, 
 which kind of sucks in my opinion. You get into the habit of repairing frequently because your 
 Armor points actually get lower as you lose durability so they become less effective long before 
 they become broken. So far there has been a repair/medic npc inside every Instance, which is really 
 nice. Players can put points into training to make repairing and healing more effective or even 
 to rez fallen players. Players can repair their armor level lost during combat but they still have 
 to go to vendors to repair the durability damage done to armor and weapons.
  
  Economy and Looting and Expenses: You automatically get credits for every enemy you kill, so you 
 dont have to actually loot the bodies to pick up those credits. More than half the time other 
 loot will drop. The presence of loot is indicted by a white triangle so you dont have to run to 
 every corpse. The trash loot sells pretty decently and Armor, Weapons, Crafting Recipes, Ammo, 
 and Quest Drops occur fairly frequently. So far I havent had any trouble getting decent Armor 
 and Weapons for my level just from drops. You get better drops inside Instances. There are increasing 
 levels of quality for Weapons and Armor and nothing so far is bind on pickup or bind on equip so 
 you can trade with others or save for your clones, even after you use an item. So far there isnt 
 an Auction House, but a Military Surplus store will be in the live version and you will sell some 
 things on consignment there and which should presumably making crafting easier and improve the 
 game economy. Also there is no mail system yet and I havent read anything from the Devs about 
 that. There is a Trade channel but no one uses it in the Beta so far. But honestly at level 16 
 and below I havent really needed to buy or trade anything, but Im sure it will be necessary as 
 you get closer to level 50 and and also useful for twinking out your clones. Your main every day 
 expense will be ammunition. So far I spend about 50% of my credits on it. You do get ammo from 
 25% of your drops. You can make ammo from certain items you loot, but its not clear yet how many 
 credits that will end up saving you. You also have to spend credits to make certain items but they 
 are revamping the crafting system, so its not clear how much you will spend on it on average. At 
 least you dont have to pay to train, which was a pain in WoW. Not sure if you will have to pay 
 for vehicles when they get added. Im a packrat and keep most of my drops for crafting and my clones 
 and I still have a pretty decent amount of credits after paying for ammo. They recently increased 
 the storage space of your backbacks, so storage isn't that big of an issue, especially if you store 
 things on clones you aren't using.
  
  Combat: You have two main types of weapons in this game: guns and Logos abilities. Guns are similar 
 to real life models but more advanced. You have pistols, rifles, shotguns, chainguns (machine guns) , 
 leech guns (steals health from enemies and gives it to you and your friends) , rocket and grenade 
 launchers, biological injection guns, polarity guns, laser swords, and a staff. All weapons so 
 far (with maybe the exception of the sword) do ranged and melee damage. They also do different 
 types of damage so sometimes its best to switch your weapons around because some enemies are more 
 resistant to certain types of damage (laser, ice, virulent, electric, emp, sonic, fire) . Different 
 weapons are also more effective from different ranges and the different classes each have at least 
 one type of weapon only they can use. Logos are letter gylphs from an ancient alphabet left over 
 from an advanced race called the Eloh (aka The Benefactors) . You find these Logos at different 
 areas on the maps (often having to fight your way to them) and combinations of two or more of these 
 Logos along with class training points allows you to use different kinds of magic abilities. 
 Everyone can use the Logos Lightning attack ability and the different classes get specialized 
 abilities like a Damage Over Time attack or an Energy Shield ability. The Logos system is pretty 
 cool and adds a lot to the game story and mechanics and is also a functional language made up by 
 the games creator and his girlfriend.
  
  When you attack, you have a target reticule. There is almost, but not quite, auto targeting in 
 the game and also somewhat sticky targeting as you or your enemy runs. Combat tends to be more 
 fast paced than in WoW, but not nearly as quick as a first person shooter, so the sticky targeting 
 isnt really that big of an advantage. Sometimes it is hard to target a specific enemy or ally 
 within a group, which can things like healing tougher. Some guns and abilities do AOE damage, but 
 so far that damage doesnt seem to hurt you or your allies except for rockets which can hurt you 
 with splash damage if your target is too close. Some of the Bane will run around during combat 
 and sometimes you will want to move in order to target more enemies or to take cover. If you crouch 
 down behind something, your enemies do less damage to you and crouching lets you do more damage 
 with most weapons. The top three players to do damage to an enemy get increasingly lower levels 
 of Experience Points for damaging an enemy. This encourages you to help other players who are getting 
 swarmed or fighting a boss. Only the top person on the damage list seems to get any loot though. 
 That will probably lead to some kill stealing situations in the game, but also gives regular players 
 a way to fight back against professional gold farmers. Some Logos abilities depend on your Power 
 (i. e. Mana) and Adrenaline (i. e. Rage) levels and your guns will overheat after a certain amount 
 of firing and also jam when fighting slimers and this adds more elements of interactivity to the 
 game. Combat is fairly involved, especially against harder enemies but not a contest to see who 
 can aim and press the trigger first. Its a step up from the Click Once to Attack, and Wait feel 
 that much of the combat in WoW has.
  
  Social Interaction: The game has a fairly robust chat system and a friends list and you can form 
 squads with up to six members and also permanent Guilds. But people are hesitant group at the lower 
 levels in Beta. Ive only grouped a few times, the first time when there was 5 of us camping a 
 Quest boss. Im not sure yet how you can tell if someone is in a guild. I havent gotten any personal 
 offers to join one yet. Also you can only see someones name and level if you target them and sometimes 
 that is hard to do if they are moving so it makes it more difficult to talk to them. There is in-game 
 voice chat for squads that seems to work well. Some people are helpful in general chat, but a lot 
 of people seem to want to talk about World of Warcraft or other games so it is a good thing you 
 can disable the general world chat channel. Ive only needed to put one person on my ignore list 
 so far. Hopefully people will get more cooperative in the Live Version and as their characters 
 get higher in level.
  
  As it stands right now you can put training points into 4 different crafting skills. But most people 
 will probably want to save those points for other abilities since you only get about 104 total 
 training points and it would take over 120 points to train fully in every non-crafting ability 
 you have. As the system stands now, everyone will probably use a clone as a crafting mule to make 
 stuff for their main characters. But that could change if recipes or crafting materials become 
 bind on pick-up or equip or if they implement level requirements. Some of the raw material you 
 use for crafting drop from enemies and there are Salvage and Tissue extractor kits in the game 
 so possibly you can get more specialized material from corpses with training. Right now all crafting 
 recipes are one time use so you have to continue getting drops or buy or trade to make more items. 
 There is a tier system for raw materials like scrap metal&gt; electronic  
 grade electronics but its frustrating when you have the raw materials but cant get the recipes 
 needed to turn them into something higher in the crafting chain. You can make increasingly powerful 
 grenades in all the 8 damage types as wells as things like Health Kits. You also get recipes to 
 increase the bonus stats already present on some armor and guns (kind of like Enchanting in WoW) . 
 You have to dissamble armor and weapons with Attributes to get one of the 40 or so specialized 
 items used in the armor and weapon upgrade crafting recipes. You have from a 60% to 90% chance 
 to get an item from dissambly and from a 25% to 50% to successfully use that item in a recipe and 
 a 25% to 37% chance to destroy the item you are upgrading. You can also upgrade higher class items 
 more than once, so with the chance of failure and item destruction, the surviving best upgraded 
 armor and weapons might fetch a good price at the Military Surplus Store once your character and 
 their clones outgrow the item. Hopefully crafting will improve after Tabula Rasa goes live. Being 
 able to permanently learn at least some of the recipes would be a step in right direction I believe. 
 The better crafting turns out to be, the better the economy of the game will be.
  
  Instances: So far there have been at least four instances on the first two maps. There seem to 
 be at least 3 quests for every instance and they all add to the story behind the Instance as does 
 the video that plays when you enter most of them. The Instances on the first two maps seem to be 
 designed to take an hour or less for an average party and can even be soloed by persistent players 
 (although soloing has gotten harder since the last Beta patch) . There are some respawns in the 
 Instances but most of the hardest enemies dont seem to respawn so if you make a suicidal attack 
 and take out one or two you can eventually take them all out. But I have run into a few bosses 
 that I cant solo at my level so you may have to wait to level up a bit if you are a hardcore solo 
 player. It will be interesting to see if the higher level instances can be soloed and under what 
 circumstances. I read that in the World of Warcraft Beta, the Devs didnt like the fact that players 
 could slowly work their way through the Scarlet Monastery dungeon after many deaths so they increased 
 the respawn rate of the enemies inside the instance. The Tabula Rasa Devs seem to take a more relaxed 
 view of things. Time will tell if this leads to any problems due to exploits and/or professional 
 gold farming. Personally, I find it refreshing. I think running an instance with a party is interesting 
 and fun because so many abilities and some tools and weapons (like the Leech gun) lend themselves 
 to group play and this fun should increase as players get closer to level 50.
  
  Cloning and Respecting: So far there isnt a way to reset or change your Skill and Attribute points 
 once they are assigned. That could prove to be a problem especially in a new game where players 
 are unsure of which Skills and Attribute are necessary for the Build or type of character they 
 envision. The Cloning system can alleviate this problem to some extent. Say you are like me and 
 want to make an Engineer as your main character. You could groom one of your higher level clones 
 to be an Engineer and give them different Skills and then play both characters and see which one 
 you prefer. But some people will probably feel compelled to go through this process several times 
 and leveling up a new clone each time (even if you only have to grind 20, 10 or 5 levels) could 
 get tiring. I think the ability to change things around at least once would be a big help. I also 
 worry that having so many clones could lead to lots of players with Alt-itis or spending so much 
 time on Clones that they dont feel like they are really accomplishing anything. Some people can 
 manage their time and successfully level up different alts and some people have trouble with this.
 
  
  End Game aka Elder Game: I have seen a level 41 character but Ligos, the highest level accessible 
 zone so far is for 38 and higher and has only been accessible a few weeks. A couple of weeks ago 
 they made an announcement about some features of the game as you get closer to level 50. One thing 
 on the list were Personal Armor Units (PAUs) beginning at level 40. They will be somewhat different 
 for each class, but these armor suits will enhance certain abilities and make you more lethal. 
 Also you will be able to command a squad of friendly NPCs and you can increase their numbers and 
 effectiveness. Also in addition to the capturable Control Points, there will be Flashpoints in 
 the game where at least one squad is needed to hold off a Bane attack. And finally Clans will be 
 able to fight each other and get passive buffs while they do it and eventually have their own Control 
 Points and other objectives to fight over. This all sounds pretty good. Im hoping for a robust 
 PVP system but I hope it doesnt become the only meaningful endgame activity. Also Clans are supposed 
 to be more powerful in PVP the more members they have. Im not too thrilled about this for a couple 
 of reasons. Number one, I know from more than 6 years of running and being in Squads/Guilds in 
 online games that bigger is very rarely better. As a matter of fact both times my groups had a 
 big influx of new members, a large part of them left within a few months to form their own group. 
 Also if big clans have an advantage then this could lead to a situation akin to the Alliance/Horde 
 imbalance in WoW. In other words if you want to succeed in PVP you may have to join a big clan, 
 which is personally not a choice I would like to be shoehorned into. I guess well have to see 
 how this all works out, but on the whole it seems promising.
  
  The Future of the Game: Hard to tell at this point. But Richard Garriott and others have been working 
 six years on this game and you can tell a lot of the care theyve put into it. A few weeks I was 
 playing before work and saw Mr. Garriott log on as his General British character and ask everyone 
 who was playing how things were going and if there were any bugs they would like to report. He 
 only stayed online for 15 minutes before he had to go to a bug report meeting but its refreshing 
 to see that type of thing from a Developer. Garriott has the power of NCSoft behind this game which 
 should help a lot. I never played any of Garriots past Ultima games, but now that Ive read about 
 him, Im impressed at what he has accomplished in his career. Also I think its cool to play a Science 
 Fiction game from the son of an astronaut who is himself going into space next year.
  
  I think a lot of people are like me and looking for a change from WoW or other games. But there 
 are a lot of immature and fickle players out there. Hopefully there will be a big enough corps 
 of mature players to make playing on a Tabula Rasa server enjoyable for me. I dont think this 
 game will be a runaway hit like WoW but hopefully it will be a big enough hit to continue growing 
 at a fast pace. A MMORG doesnt have to have 8 million or even 1 million subscribers to be a great, 
 long lasting game. As a matter of fact, WoW got so big, so fas that new content was actually delayed 
 because they had to deal with building more infrastructure to handle the huge playerbase. The announcement 
 of the Stargate Worlds MMORG last year first got me excited about the concept of an action packed, 
 science fiction game. Who knows how long the Stargate game will take to develop or even if it will 
 ever be released, but I have feeling Tabula Rasa will fulfill many of the needs of myself and other 
 gamers even if SG: Worlds turns out to be a game truly worthy of the Stargate franchise. Hopefully 
 Tabula Rasa will be a game that myself and many others will come to love. It already has grown 
 on me a lot during six weeks of Beta play.
  
  I forgot to add a section about Music, Sound, and Voice Acting: The music so far is soft rock mood 
 music akin to something from Giorgio Moroder or Alan Parsons (which I love) . The tempo of the music 
 does get faster during Bane incursions and some quests and instances. The music is kind of modern 
 and I think it suits the game without distracting from it. The Sounds in the game are fairly distinctive 
 and realistic. Guns make satisfying shooting and reloading sounds and machinery and nature can 
 be heard, but it isn't overpowering. The Quest NPCs usually vocalize the first line of their quests, 
 which is pretty cool. The voice acting seems to be just average so far, except for the one guy 
 who does a killer Christhoper Walken impression over the loudspeaker of the main base of the second 
 main zone. The rest of the announcements are humorous ones delivered in a dry style taken from 
 the movie version of M. A. S. H. This is one of my favorite parts of the game so far and leaves me 
 looking forward to more witty humor further into the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killfest
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun and addictive its definantly a game to love. The grapics are amazing and its 
 really fun to get away from the standard Medieval style mmo.
  
  There are many things to do and the gameplay (being 3rd person shooter) gets really fast paced. 
 There are also very few bugs or glitches. Its not hard to start out or boring in the slightest 
 bit and takes you right into the action without having too kill a bunch of boars or giant spiders.
 
  
  This game is almost a mix of Halo setting with a BioShock style of gameplay (with the weapons and 
 powers) and an MMO approach making this one of the most innovative games to day.
  
  The server's different areas like the forest are set up into different realms (like wilderness 
 1, wilderness 2) to allow for more players per server. This seems bad at first but really its cool 
 because you can play with many more people per server and not have the lag spikes or issues while 
 still being able to play with the people you want. By no means will you be alone but this regulates 
 it so its not too packed as well, you dont want to be farming an area with 200 other people killing 
 your aliens...
  
  The guns are all different and fun to use with the many alterations of ranks as is the cloning 
 feature.
  
  I give this game a 10/10 for being one of the most innovative, fun, exciting MMO's to date. Being 
 one of the first of this years great line-up of MMO's (WAR, AoC, Huxley etc.) I think this one 
 has a good shot in staying on top. Dont let other reviews get to you, Try this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
