-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tachyon: The Fringe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/tachyonthefringe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 315 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Mar 31, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a fast-paced, colorful, action-packed space combat game with a branching campaign and an enjoyable 
 story, as well as a solid multiplayer mode. 

 Tachyon: The Fringe is fundamentally similar to other space-combat simulations, and as such it isn't 
 well suited to anyone who won't accept it for capitalizing on the popular imagery of deep-space 
 dogfights. However, fans of space sims will find that there's actually a lot to like about the 
 game. It's not a sweeping space opera or a hard-core simulation of what it might be like to be 
 an outer-space pilot - instead, Tachyon is a fast-paced, colorful, action-packed space combat game 
 with a branching campaign and an enjoyable story, as well as a solid multiplayer mode.  

 Tachyon's a good-looking game, but it's guilty of looking like most every other space-combat sim 
 to date. As such, you might have trouble picking it out of a lineup: The game's ship designs are 
 fairly typical of what you'd expect, despite the fact that the game's two prominent space-faring 
 factions have distinctively different styles of spacecraft. Tachyon's weapon effects are also fairly 
 bland, although some of the game's special effects, such as the reflective cockpits, the gloriously 
 bright ship explosions, and the inky, colorful nebulae look quite good. In addition, Tachyon uses 
 detailed 3D models and clean texture maps for the fighter ships, whereas larger objects, such as 
 space stations are positively gigantic, though they don't look very special aside from their scale. 
 Otherwise, Tachyon succeeds in making outer space inviting rather than empty, as you'll fly not 
 only through colored nebulae but also through scenic space junkyards, police-trafficked commercial 
 hubs, planetside stations, and more. However, Tachyon's interface and first-person heads-up display 
 look unpolished by comparison, and the motion-blurred streaks and stars don't create a very convincing 
 sensation of high speed, so in the end, the game looks somewhat inconsistent.  

 Unfortunately, Tachyon doesn't sound as good as it could have, either. NovaLogic made much ballyhoo 
 about Bruce Campbell providing the voiceover for the game's main character, the gun-for-hire Jake 
 Logan. Jake not only has the voice of the star of Evil Dead and Army of Darkness, but he also has 
 his likeness and his mannerisms. It might seem like a gimmick that Bruce Campbell's in Tachyon, 
 but in all fairness his in-game alter ego Jake is actually a pretty cool guy, as game characters 
 go. He deadpans one minute and makes up lousy excuses the next. He's funny and he's likeable, and 
 though he's a veteran pilot, his experience hasn't gone to his head - and he makes Tachyon seem 
 campy while it might just as soon have seemed generic without him. But other than Jake's, the voices 
 in Tachyon range from average to not so good, while the game's sound effects are pretty weak, particularly 
 the sound of your ship's lasers. At least the explosions are nice and loud, while the soundtrack 
 keeps the pace well - the techno and pseudo-symphonic tracks won't sound like anything you haven't 
 heard before, but they tend to cue up at just the right times, either when the action picks up 
 or the when tension rises.  

 Tachyon has a lot of missions and a lot of variety between and within them, while the missions themselves 
 are concise and tend to avoid the drawn-out downtimes and long-flying sequences often associated 
 with the genre. Instead, Tachyon typically lets you use your autopilot to skip straight to the 
 good parts, and when Jake isn't keeping you entertained, the space combat probably will. Tachyon 
 has a fairly simple but highly responsive flight model. The game's most interesting midflight feature 
 is that all the ships have the ability to slide, or to continue along the same heading while rotating 
 in place. Once you learn the trick, you can literally zigzag about the space battlefield, and together 
 with the ability to reverse your boosters and fly backward at the touch of a button, you'll find 
 that maneuvering in Tachyon is both fun and also quite challenging. The game lets you set your 
 ship's systems' energy levels and readily transfer energy to and from weapons, shields, and afterburners, 
 but aside from these energy-management functions, Tachyon's flight model is more reminiscent of 
 action shooters than of more complex simulations. Like its simulation of space flight, Tachyon's 
 branching campaign isn't especially complicated or detailed, but it works well and helps make the 
 game enjoyable. If Jake weren't the hero, you might not have cared for the game's familiar "freedom 
 fighters vs. corporate-swine" premise, but since he is, you'll find that Tachyon's story grows 
 on you and that most of the missions you'll fly will be fairly engaging. Furthermore, you'll get 
 a lot of time out of Tachyon, not because you'll have to repeatedly restart difficult missions, 
 but because there's a good amount of variety in the missions you can choose from and in what new 
 ships and weapons you spend your earnings on in between. There's also a fundamental decision you 
 make relatively early in the game that determines which side you'll take and which ships you'll 
 fly thereafter, so, if nothing else, Tachyon's worth playing through a couple of times to get both 
 sides of the story. However, all of Tachyon's missions are scripted, and oftentimes you'll need 
 to complete a particular series of missions to advance to the next plot sequence, so the game isn't 
 as open as it might first appear. Yet the game's campaign structure generally lets you call the 
 shots and determine the best course of action, even though you'll never lose sight of the plot 
 in doing so. It's an effective combination of what seems to be two mutually exclusive mission-design 
 philosophies.  

 You can recruit wingmen for a cut of your profits over the course of Tachyon's campaign, but you'll 
 probably find yourself flying solo most of the time. Jake's touted as a hotshot pilot right from 
 the start, and you'll soon find yourself living up to his reputation as you gun down scores of 
 enemy ships with little trouble. The game gets more difficult later on, but mostly because you'll 
 be up against highly unfavorable odds. Your foes have a few evasive tricks they'll use often, and 
 they have a nasty way of drawing your attention away from objectives you might be trying to defend, 
 but otherwise the enemy ships in Tachyon aren't that big a challenge. They don't make effective 
 use of their slide-and-reverse thruster abilities, and instead they just pitch and yaw while traveling 
 forward with occasional bursts of speed. Your wingmen will act similarly, and your communications 
 options with them are quite limited and generally trivial.  

 Like all recent NovaLogic games, Tachyon is also playable online on NovaWorld, the company's free 
 proprietary service that lets more than a hundred players compete simultaneously. Tachyon features 
 two different multiplayer modes: In the more conventional arena-match mode, you simply outfit your 
 favorite ship with all your favorite weapons (from pulse lasers to railguns) and with all your 
 favorite gadgets (from electronic counter-measures to combat scanners) , and send it online in a 
 huge multiplayer deathmatch. Tachyon's smooth control and action-oriented flight dynamics make 
 it well suited for deathmatch play. The other mode, base wars, puts you in league with one faction 
 in a pitched battle against the other. You fight to claim power-ups that you can bring back to 
 your starbase to make more technology available to you so that you can upgrade your ship. Eventually, 
 you'll gain the means of destroying the enemy's base, which is the only way to win. Base wars is 
 an enjoyable spin-off of many popular team-play action game modes, and it also helps show off the 
 different characteristics of the game's two warring sides.  

 No matter how you choose to play it, chances are you'll have a good time with Tachyon. It closely 
 follows most of the space-combat-simulation genre's conventions but deviates just enough to seem 
 different within a genre of mostly similar-looking, similar-sounding games. The game lacks the 
 polish and the epic scope of more ambitious projects like FreeSpace 2, but thanks to its quirky 
 hero, its attractive graphics, and its accessible gameplay, Tachyon is nevertheless competitive 
 with the genre's best examples, while it'll also help reestablish space-combat simulations in the 
 gaming mainstream.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bennetty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  Tachyon: The Fringe is fundamentally similar to other space-combat simulations, and as such it 
 isn't well suited to anyone who won't accept it for capitalizing on the popular imagery of deep-space 
 dogfights. However, fans of space sims will find that there's actually a lot to like about the 
 game. It's not a sweeping space opera or a hard-core simulation of what it might be like to be 
 an outer-space pilot - instead, Tachyon is a fast-paced, colorful, action-packed space combat game 
 with a branching campaign and an enjoyable story, as well as a solid multiplayer mode.
  
  Multiplayer doesnt work anymore which is a let down. I played it in the days when multiplayer was 
 very very good. No longer is it even available. If the mulitplayer works please inform me so i 
 can continue playing this fantastic retro game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IanMclintock
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Tachyon is a space flight sim game unlike most. while the graphics are not to great the gameplay 
 more than makes up for it, whether you like different ship options, having multiple ships to choose 
 from for each mission or having to earn your new weapons and ships there is something in the game 
 for everybody. The game starts out you just got a job with a ship fighter escort company, you have 
 about ten missions that you can do before you have to decide which path in the game to take. To 
 play through the full game without skipping any missions on the medium difficulty you can expect 
 to take about 20 to 30 hours of playing time on your first run, if you choose to play through the 
 alternate path (depending on how fast you got the controls memorized) you will probably get another 
 15 to 25
  hours of game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I had issues with the bink movie player which didn't allow me past the point where you pick which 
 story arc to go through, so I'll be brief.
  
  Flying: too arcadish. Things are out there somewhere, or in your face or screaming past you at 
 high speed. Possibly better later on, after all in the first few missions the enemies were pretty 
 small light and fast craft. Still, the feel and handling is too fast paced overall. Once you master 
 sliding (a matter of minutes' practice) , you shouldn't have trouble tracking most anything, and 
 I imagine this will be a huge leg up over the AI.
  
  Presentation: seems decent, and the protagonist is a likeable kind of chap. Still, I would really 
 have loved subtitles. Graphics are okay, but somehow feel sparse despite the abundance of colour. 
 Sound effects seem below par though, the laser effects were quite typical short-high pitched effects 
 you'd expect from a budget game, not meaty enough.
  
  Gameplay: no saving? Automated? Which means you can't undo previous decisions once you've flown 
 new missions. Meh. Also, you CAN'T take off unless you've picked a mission, and you CAN'T land 
 anywhere else if it isn't your objective. So there aren't really any decisions to undo, because 
 there aren't any to be made (aside from the story branching thing) . Speaking of which, I can't 
 believe a mere 2-story arc was enough to overlook the total linearity of everything else. Aside 
 from the missions, there's nothing else to do, or can do... which makes Tachyon, basically, an 
 adventure where you merely need to survive the fights in between cutscenes to get to the end. Sorry, 
 not my cup of tea.
  
  The story gives a good impression despite the wobbly start (you're dumped in a station with no 
 clue how to proceed, until you pick a mission and then discover the dialogue continue as you take 
 off) . I was sufficiently interested by the main character to see where the story was headed, but 
 not in the gameplay itself unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Got space errors? GamingPix4. com is your source for all things Tachyon!
  Focused on the enthusiast, this site has all you need for anything Tachyon.
  Forums, Mods, ships 
 packs, map packs, patches, tools, instruction on map making, much much more.
  
  Base Wars and Arena are the multiplayer type games offered.
  Arena is just that: head to head 
 Deathmatch where the winner has the most kills. great for learning how to fly, and learn weapons 
 outside of the more serious strategic variant of multiplay, called BASE WARS.
  In Base Wars, you mine crystals through 10 Tech levels.
  At each tech level, you gain access 
 to bigger and better weapons, ultimately ending up at tech 10 where you get the heavy nukes called 
 HELIOS .
  tTo win, simply fly repeated missions to your enemy's life suppport plant located at the heart 
 of their base, and drop 24 Helios bombs.
  flight speed is a tradeoff of weapons and slots for each weapon.
  so the Faster ships carry less 
 weapons, slower ships are more heavily armored and are loaded to the teeth.
  Base Wars games can last anywhere from 16 minutes to well over 2 hours dending on how hard each 
 team is playing to win.
  Tachyon has hands down the best flight model of any game on the market.
  stop on a dime braking, 
 and full afterburner thrust in reverse, as well as lateral thrusting makes the flight engine in 
 Tachyon very unique flight experience.
  if you crave fragging go for ARENA
  if you like a little more strategy in your game, then BASE WARS is just right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1990
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Tachyon is a well thought out, well designed space sim developed by NovaLogic. It is completely 
 original, and there are few other space sims that can compete with it. By far, its originality 
 largely contributes to quality. First, the game play is unique. It allows the player to fly a variety 
 of space craft that have never been seen before. These range from small fighters such as the Mako 
 Economy fighter, to medium class craft like the Orion and the WarHammer, to heavy bombers like 
 the Claymore and the Phoenix. In the campaign, the player stars as Jake Logan, just an average 
 contracted space pilot. When an unthinkable disaster occurs, the player is left to fend for themselves 
 in the "Fringe" of colonized space. This leaves the player with the choice of joining the GalSpan 
 corporation or the Bora. The graphics are some of the best ever seen in a space sim during this 
 game's release period. Debris flies past the cockpit as the player ventures off into the vacuum 
 of space, stars create reflections on the canopy glass, lasers look realistic and shields flash 
 when hit by something. The space fog is also rendered very well. In other words, the graphics look 
 great. This game features a dynamic soundtrack, though the usual theme plays over and over again 
 when the player is traveling between jump gates, it does not get repetitive. The music is still 
 exciting, and changes depending upon the situation. The sound effects, such as laser shots and 
 shields, are also very good. Voice-overs also sound great. Tachyon features the two long campaigns 
 in the story mode, but it also features multi-player. It supports NovaWorld, where many people 
 can get together to compete online. In a space combat sim, this works out great. Overall, Tachyon 
 is one an ingenious work on behalf of NovaLogic. No space combat sim during this time could compare 
 to the quality of this game. A sequel would be significantly appreciated by the gaming community. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phazon78
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Tachyon: the Fringe is a game about corporate spanning of the universe. It may not be the best 
 space simulator out there, but it is good enough ti hang with the big names. Too bad it couldn't 
 carve a niche out for itself.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Tachyon has an excellent gameplay mechanism on it. You are a contract pilot, and you take deals 
 according to your interest. The structure of the game is still very linear, because even if you 
 fail miserably for a company, they will still without doubt offer you contracts. Overall, this 
 game is still a good play.
  
  Graphics: 5
  This game boasts some of the largest structures I have ever seen in a space simulator. Nonetheless, 
 the sheer size of these objects does come at a hefty price in detail. As a result, Tachyon just 
 left me wanting more graphically from it.
  
  Sound: 8
  The Sound FX throughout the game were pretty good. However, oddly silent explosions from a destroyed 
 capital ship, and the overall weak weapon sounds did cost this game. Ironically, it is the voice 
 acting that saves this game, thanks to Bruce Cambell's voice acting.
  
  Value: 6
  Despite all it's errors, Tachyon: the Fringe is still a lot of fun to play. Even with it's multiple 
 technical problems. However, after you beat it with both factions, there really isn't much of a 
 reason to give it a 3rd go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  this is the kind of space sim we need more of. if like flying through space and shootin' stuff 
 up with out all of the puzzle solving bull crap of those other slow moving brain straining real 
 life want a be action games that are taking up all of the room on store shelves.............. then 
 TACHYON is for you. when i bought this game the price was down to $5 bucks. now its back up to 
 30 in some places.
  
  in the game your a space pilot who gets to choose the kind of jobs you want to do. once you learn 
 your way and how to play the game you get set up and the law takes away all that you've earned. 
 there is no way around this......... ive tried.
  
  after you start building up your assets back up you get to make a choice to which side you want 
 to be on, the poor tread upon miners or the boot stompin' evil corporation. i choose the Corp. 
 cause they have the coolest looking ships and i like stompin' on the bottom feeders of the galaxy.
 
  
  over all this is a fun game and you should check it out. 
  
  NovaLogic you need to make another space sim.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for a long time and I still think it is great. At first, I thought this 
 game will be bad, but I was supprissed, how good this game is.
  The story is about a war between GalSpan mega corporation and Bora colonist and their rival for 
 control of the Fringe of colonised space. You can probably guess, which is more bad, althought 
 you can play both sides, one of a time. And you play as Jake Logan, first a concractor of AGT, 
 that was exiled from Sol space for a crime, he did not commit.
  The mission selection is very good. You won`t have to play a typical war, but you are actually 
 mercenary - therefor, you can choose missions from different concrators - smuglers, pirates etc. The 
 regions and sectors will give you a feeling, that you are in one big town. There will be industrial 
 stations, gambling stations, shipyards, police outpost (Starpatrol) and so on. The next thing 
 is that you will have to buy parts for a ship: from weapons to system cards - you can modify your 
 ship with many things. There are a lot of different ships - from Luxury liners, medical ships (well 
 actually civilian vessels) , to carriers, destroyers etc. The only thing, that I was dissapointed 
 with was enemy AI. Altought it represents chalenge, they won`t randomly attack you - either in 
 easy mode, only one ship will attack you, in medium 2 and so on.
  
  Graphics in this game are beatiful and are very colorful. There are also number of space effects 
 like star blurr, sun, And while the smaller ships are good detailed, the big ones and stations 
 aren`t. Sounds are superb, especially the voice casting (the Jake Logan`s castor is an actor, Bruce 
 Campbell) .
  
  And the multiplayer is a story for itself. The gameplay is quite inovative, like basewars, deathmatch, and 
 of course there are many costum player ships .It is quite rare, that every person in multiplayer 
 will have same weapons and upgrades for a same ship - therefor, lots and lots of fun.
  
  My final thoughts are, that this is a very good game and I am dissapointed with information, that 
 this game is less appreciated. It trully deserves a sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Tachyon: The Fringe is - hands down - my favorite space combat flight sim. Others like FreeSpace 
 and StarLancer come close, but this wins the prize.
  
  Bruce Campbell makes Jake Logan come alive. This is some of the best voice acting I've ever heard 
 in a game. His brilliant portrayal of Jake sucks you into the story and makes you love playing 
 the part. The Fringe is a well realized, living world that's fun to explore.
  
  Gameplay is a tantalizing mix of arcade and space physics, making the game readily playable, but 
 with special moves (like slide) that take advantage of the outer-space setting.
  
  Graphics were good at the time, though they look a bit dated by today's standards.
  
  Novalogic's 
 multiplayer service and Base Wars game make on-line play a joy, too.
  
  Tach can still be found on the bargain racks, and I recommend it wholeheartedly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2004 6:05 am PT
Review:  This game is not quite revolutionary, but it still offers a pretty good space sim experience. I 
 am a huge fan of space simulators, and nowadays (2004) those are hard to come by. I still once 
 in a while go back to play the campaign on Tachyon, which is quite enjoyable, but very linear.
 
  Gameplay is fast and flashy with no real tactical side. I mean it is enjoyable to put that sucker 
 into Slide mode and just light up some ship as u pass by on afterburner, Pulsar lasers blazing. 
 But other than that there is no real hard gameplay. The campaign storyline is decent enough, but 
 once again extremely linear. Overall, good gameplay.
  Graphics, I thought were comparably pretty good. Overall the game looks great, but not fantastic. 
 The biggest gripe is one that haunts almost every space sim these days: THE CAPITAL SHIPS ARENT 
 CAPITAL; they lack size that they should have. Though I must say this game sports some pretty good 
 sized ones, and stations, they still arent as big as i wouldve hoped.
  Sound is average. The special effects sounds are decent, and the music is ok. The voice acting 
 is dry though, and lacks variety.
  Overall this game is good stuff, but not something that will entertain someone like me for too 
 too long. Im still looking for that totally authentic, hugely sandboxy/dynamic universe, with MASSIVELY 
 huge capital ships, and awesome story that just blows you away. Tachyon attempts but falls short 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2004 1:55 am PT
Review:  Tachyon is one of the least appreciated games, which is a crying shame. It missed the fame it deserves, 
 and so will probably not have a sequel, but it truly desrves one.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Tachyon rocks, really. It is very, very fast paced, and very, very intense. 
 You will be sweating as you battle against hordes of enemies, or struggle to destroy that single 
 annoying fighter taking out your ally. 
  The control set up is well done, but also extremely large. The massive amount of things you can 
 do is daunting. 
  
  The main thing though, is that it is fun. The missions are diverse and interesting, and the amount 
 of ships is very cool, you get to choose between two different factions at one point in the game, 
 which will open only one line of ships for you. I highly recommend playing both sides, because 
 it is worth it.
  
  Graphics: graphically, the game is behind on the times, but it is still suitable and well done.
 
  
  Sound: The sound effects of this game are some of the best. The sound of lasers, missiles, etc, 
 are all awesome, and the music is good, while not overpowering.
  
  Value: 10$, buy it now... go
  
  Tilt: I loved Tachyon and hope it someday gets the extreme 
 fame it deserves. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
