-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tactical Ops: Assault on Terror
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tacticalopsassaultonterror/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 26, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 311 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Kamehan Studios
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Apr 24, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Looked at as a free mod, Tactical Ops is an achievement its developers can be proud of, but taken 
 as a retail game, it still needs more work. 

 The recently released Global Operations has long been touted as a potential Counter-Strike rival, 
 though its design owes at least as much to the legendary Team Fortress mod and its offspring as 
 it does to Counter-Strike. In the shadow of Global Ops' big marketing push comes another "ops" 
 game, Tactical Ops: Assault on Terror. In one sense, Tactical Ops is more of a true competitor 
 with Counter-Strike than Global Ops is. That's because Tactical Ops is essentially just a clone 
 of Counter-Strike, built around Unreal Tournament instead of Half-Life. The basic game design is 
 strikingly similar in almost every important way, and while Tactical Ops has some strengths, it 
 isn't nearly as well honed as its model.           Tactical Ops is a team-based shooter much like 
 Counter-Strike.    

  Like Counter-Strike, Tactical Ops (originally called SWAT) began its life as a free fan-created 
 mod. Now MicroProse has released this enhanced retail version of the mod with some exclusive new 
 material, including new maps and skins. At the same time, the standard version of the mod is still 
 available as a free download, and Infogrames promises that both the free and retail versions will 
 be fully compatible. However, even with the latest patches, server rejections and dropped connections 
 are common because of version mismatches and other problems.   

  Regardless of which version you play, don't expect to be wowed by innovation. Anyone who's played 
 Counter-Strike before -- and by now that would seem to include every gamer and his grandma -- will 
 be struck with a huge case of dj vu. Gameplay is divided into rounds, with two teams, 
 the Special Forces and terrorists, trying to complete opposing goals, in addition to simply killing 
 the opposition. The Special Forces might need to rescue hostages, while the terrorists try to prevent 
 that rescue. In another mode, the terrorists try to detonate a bomb at a specific target, while 
 the Special Forces try to stop the attempt. Another mode has the terrorists trying to steal the 
 OICW (the US military's advanced objective individual combat weapon) , while the Special Forces 
 try to guard it. Then there's a mode in which one team tries to escape from the other. Unfortunately, 
 the maps aren't labeled according to game type, so you'll have to guess which map offers what mode 
 when you start a new session. As in Counter-Strike, you only get one life per round, sitting out 
 the rest of a round as an invisible spectator after you die.           The retail version looks 
 much better than the downloadable mod.    

  You'll earn money for achievements such as killing enemies, finding evidence like bags of cocaine, 
 and completing mission goals. At the beginning of each new round, you get to trade your cash for 
 new gear. Tactical Ops offers a good selection of the tools of the trade. Helmets, bulletproof 
 vests, and pads will afford some protection from all the bullets buzzing around. You'll get to 
 buy high-explosive, smoke, flash-bang, and concussion grenades, though the latter aren't that different 
 from the HE grenades. Everyone gets a default flashlight, but it's pretty dim. Happily, you can 
 also buy night vision goggles, which are useful on the many dark map sections.   

  Tactical Ops is one of those shooters that puts the emphasis squarely on shooting over any sort 
 of deep tactical thought or James Bond gadgetry, and the game features a big arsenal. In addition 
 to a knife, you'll get around 20 firearms, including pistols, submachine guns, assault rifles, 
 and sniper rifles. A number of the weapons are exclusive to one team or the other to help differentiate 
 the two forces. Both sides' weapons seem decently balanced against each other overall, though arguably 
 some weapons like the M60 are overpowered. Just as when Counter-Strike went retail, the names of 
 the guns have been confusingly changed. A MAC-10 is falsely labeled an Uzi. And just what is a 
 "9F2 Glorietta" or "Berg 509"? One can only assume a Beretta 92F pistol and a Mossberg shotgun, 
 respectively.    

 Tactical Ops' tiny, almost superfluous manual nicely sums up the game -- it's an "action-oriented 
 semirealistic first-person shooter." In other words, it's extremely fast-paced and happens to have 
 weapons based on real-world models. While it's certainly effective to work in concert with your 
 teammates and use flash bangs and the like to thwart the enemy, winning comes down to having the 
 fastest reflexes. Players run quickly, bunny-hop a lot, and can fall far without damage. Many weapons 
 shoot extremely fast, emptying clips in seconds.           The breakneck pacing of Tac Ops means 
 most rounds end suddenly.    

  This focus on lightning-fast action generates excitement, yet it's often too hectic. The game literally 
 plays even more frantically than Unreal Tournament deathmatch at times. This severely compromises 
 the core idea of offering real-world weapons and other semirealistic trappings. You get very little 
 time to appreciate them as you're zipping across the maps while everyone is dropping like flies. 
 Game rounds often end almost right after they begin. Make no mistake: Tactical Ops has more in 
 common with Quake III Arena than with other contemporary-weapon shooters like Ghost Recon or SWAT 
 3-- or, for that matter, Unreal Tournament mods like  Infiltration .   

  One of the things that often makes or breaks shooters is one of their hardest elements to define: 
 their subtle balance or feel. It's composed of many factors, like player movement rates, average 
 character survival time, weapon physics (both hard data like firing rates and apparent heft and 
 power created with audio and visuals) , and so forth. This "feel" is what Counter-Strike nailed 
 almost flawlessly. At least back in its early glory days (and arguably to this day) , Counter-Strike 
 had the equivalent of a master martial artist's grace and balance, whereas Tactical Ops is more 
 like a gangly teen at a first kung fu lesson -- enthusiastic but really clumsy.   

  The need for a more finely honed balance stands out not only when playing online, but also when 
 playing offline with and against the AI bots. They tend to make beelines for vital map locations, 
 resulting in instant bloodbaths at choke points. The bots are fairly competent where basic combat 
 skills are concerned, but they can lose track of mission goals or just mill around. Offline play 
 is mainly just useful for familiarizing yourself with the game, so don't buy Tactical Ops for the 
 single-player game, or you'll be disappointed. The dream of a true single-player Counter-Strike-style 
 game will have to wait.           There's a good variety of gear to choose from.    

  Whatever the shortcomings of the AI, the graphics in Tactical Ops have gotten a welcome overhaul 
 for this retail release, with new player skins, weapon models, and more. In terms of playability, 
 the maps vary widely, but most of them certainly look attractive, demonstrating yet again how far 
 ahead of its time the Unreal Tournament graphics engine was when it was first released. Many of 
 the textures look particularly convincing, and the lighting on many maps is atmospheric, though 
 often far too dark (a frequent vice among mapmakers, particularly on the amateur scene) . The visuals 
 certainly seem better than those of Counter-Strike, though visuals in their own right are only 
 so important. For instance, the player skins look impressive, but it can be very hard to tell them 
 apart at a glance, meaning players often end up shooting teammates.   

  Tactical Ops' audio comes off poorly when compared with the graphics. Most of the weapons sound 
 tinny, underpowered, and downright unconvincing, and most of the voice-overs sound cartoony. On 
 the other hand, the all-new music, which is sometimes pleasantly reminiscent of the Deus Ex soundtrack, 
 helps set an intense tone for the game.   

  Whatever the merits of Tactical Ops' music or graphics, the game is as far from original as you 
 can get and in need of much better balancing. Still, if you're searching for a Counter-Strike that's 
 not Counter-Strike, Tactical Ops provides an acceptable alternative. It's certainly rough around 
 the edges, but it at least offers something reminiscent of the exciting, straightforward team action 
 that made Counter-Strike such a hit. Looked at as a free mod, Tactical Ops is an achievement its 
 developers can be proud of -- but taken as a retail game, it could have used more work.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it: I never played Counterstrike. So if you wonder why I don't complain about what a 
 rip-off this is, then that's why! Instead I saw it just as a fun mod for Unreal Tournament, which 
 led to me buying it outright eventually. So was it worth the money?
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Intense: UT is a pretty intense game to this day, so for Tactical Ops to top even its parent 
 is quite impressive. The pace has similar intensity, but the big difference is just how loud and 
 powerful the real-world weapons are, sending you reeling with every shot.
  
  + Feel: The speed and movement of the game has the same perfect, satisfying feel of UT, which in 
 turn makes it more satisfying than almost any other FPS available.
  
  + Diverse Arsenal: There are a great amount of weapons to try out for both sides, all of which 
 are nicely balanced, giving you lots of stuff to play around with.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Idiotic AI: Tactical Ops has among the very worst AI of any FPS I've ever played, matched only 
 by its sequel and the Battlefield games. They won't follow orders or use any kind of tactics (while 
 still being frustratingly accurate at absurd ranges) , and have an annoying tendency to just stand 
 still after a while, meaning your team can't win if you're already dead. Given how remarkably smart 
 the UT bots were, this is deeply unimpressive!
  
  - Bitty Experience: There is no campaign of any sort, meaning all you can do are multiplayer matches 
 or the single-player equivalent. Because there isn't the same abundance of different maps and gametypes 
 that there was in UT, this severely dents the game's longveity; which is also a bit silly when 
 all they had to do was add a campaign to a game that modders had already created, which would have 
 given it something pretty significant over Counterstrike - alas, they took the lazy route instead.
 
  
  - Dodgy Value: I'm still wondering what exactly the significant advantage of buying this game was, 
 rather than just downloading it for free...
  
  ~
  
  Just to clarify, the actual gameplay of Tactical Ops is incredibly fun and satisfying, brilliantly 
 melding the realistic tone and setting of Rainbow Six with the intense action-fest approach of 
 UT. However, for a lonely bod like me who prefers to play things single-player, the game really 
 needed far better AI and more substantial content to be truly recommendable as a retail buy. Still 
 worth playing, but it could have been so much more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 3
Date: May 14, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  It makes me feel sad deep down inside writing this review.
  
  Ok first off, this is a straight rip off from one of the greatest FPS games of all time i. e. Counter 
 Strike. This game teaches a bitter lesson to all the other game makes out there that when you rip 
 off, you dont rip off your games from legendary or extremely popular franchises.
  This game overall could have been a game of 9 ratings. But things messed up. The AI sucks & The 
 guns are not so good and the aiming is haywire. The levels or the maps are so DEPRESSING that i 
 almost felt like commiting suicide.
  
  The Graphics are like some ancient 1990's DOOM. Doom was a great game for that era. But this game 
 is not. 
  
  Pros: Game is slightly bright and not dark.
  
  Cons: Every Other Thing. The Game Itself
  
  Sorry i did not like this game. If somebody wants 
 to play this game, i would only recommend dont expect much from this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The first thing online reviewers will state is that Tactical Ops (TacOps / TO) is merely another 
 clone made in the CS fashion. However the game mechanics and game pace can not be further from 
 the truth. Contrary to the semi-realistic strategy that the CS team had taken to create CounterStrike, 
 Tactical Ops is a far more fast paced and in your face affair. Due to the lack of certain nuances 
 such as jump stamina and 1 head shot deaths (often associated with CS) . Tac Ops takes a more action 
 oriented approach, one which is celebrated by the original Unreal Tournament audience. Though I'd 
 say I preferred the highly acclaimed TO 2.2 Mod version over the retail TacOps AOT version, the 
 highly modifiable nature of the Unreal Engine allowed fans add various weapons from previous Tactical 
 Ops, as well as incorporate new weapons and equipment to the game. This added an interesting mix 
 to the game. In addition the strong community behind TacOps has provided wonderful fan made mutators 
 (mini mods) and a wide assortment of maps, from CS classics to new and unique creations.
  
  Due to the fact that Tactical Ops is purely online in nature, the strong number of servers and 
 players (even after nearly 6 years) is a testament to the addictiveness and immersive nature of 
 Tactical Ops. The biggest drawbacks to this game could however to traced to its dated UT graphics 
 engine. While the engine still does the game justice, it could not be compared with the newer Doom 
 3, Unreal 2/3 engines. But it does do a passable job and scales extremely well for a big variety 
 of map situations.
  
  All in all TacOps has outlasted nearly a decade (since late 1998) and will get you hooked once 
 you give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 28, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  I bought Tactical Ops: AOT because the game looked like Counter-Strike and was pretty cheap, I bought 
 it and put the CD in and expected some good fun online, but theres NOBODY who even plays the game 
 online, not now and not 4 years ago when I bought the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  CS concept, you earn money by killing people, the problem is: when you kill people they drop money, 
 so if you are a sniper you have to walk, that whole end just to get the money, and even if you 
 kill the guy, theres a good chance you get killed before you even get near the money.
  
  Did I mention the maps are also from CS? You have Mansion, Office.. everything, the maps look either 
 extremely bright (yellow if you count the mansion map) or to dark, the maps you'll play in have 
 rather no spots for snipers to look out from since all maps are close quaters.
  
  The game should've been online, but it isn't, which is the downfall for the game.
  
  Graphics:
 
  Lame textures, characters design try to resemble Swat members, but they don't, they look sloppy 
 and the heads are bigger then their chests, when NPC's walk you'll laugh, since they pull up their 
 knee's to their nipples, it looks cartoony while it really try's to stand out.
  
  Story:
  What story? The game was just made for MP, theres no singleplayer, but if nobody plays multiplayer, 
 wth?
  
  AI:
  You can set difficulty, but it doesn't matter because bots always know where you are, if you walk 
 up to a enemy bot in the back, they'll turn around and kill you, even if you are crouching and 
 don't make any sound, when you enter the room, even if you're not in their vision, they'll kill 
 you.
  
  Is it a good FPS: No, its sloppy and a rip-off from Counter-strike, theres no MP because nobody 
 plays this game, don't play this game if you're really into FPS, buy it if you want to expierence 
 a true rip-off from CS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  I first downloaded his when it was a mod for Unreal Tournament. It was ok, a few good ideas like 
 how you can choose the way you look and the maps are nicely set out. However, you can tell it's 
 trying to be a Counter-Strike game. Everything is the same, even up to the Hostage and Demolition 
 game-types!
  
  The game is also too slow, unlike Counter-Strike which is straight to the point buying, shooting 
 and defusing, this game seems to drag on for a while, you walk at a slow pace and your weapons 
 arent balanced out too well.
  
  It's worth downloading for a mod on Unreal Tournament but if you wish to buy the retail version, 
 don't bother because you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehuty_86
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  The only reason i got this game was to play with a handful of my friends online who play it often.
 
  
  Before they told me about it, i had no idea about it, and i wonder why... cos its soo old!
  
 
  If my friends did not play it, i woudn't.
  
  And what can i say... hmm..
  
  It can be fun at times, but then it can be frustrating. Theres alot of glitches and rediculous 
 things happening on online play, and so many people use cheats, whats the point?
  
  The buying of weapons and armour etc is a good incorporation, and the hostages/bomb situations 
 are.. some what.. realistic i guess.
  
  Has a good online play, giving you stats of where you hit someone and how many times, and the best 
 scorer with a certain type of weapon.
  
  And being high up on the score board is based on how much damage you deal, not how many overall 
 kills you actually get.
  
  Graphics, erm... so so?
  
  Game play is fun none the less, and its alot better than CS 1.6.
  
  But there are just far 
 too many better games out there, so i'd say dont buy it, unless you dont mind spending 5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorwirepuppet
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  For a knockoff of another game, this one does surprisingly well for itself. I have found the quick 
 action and interface very enjoyable, well, at least with the patches installed. It ran smoothly 
 and the AI did have it's occasional burps of stupidity, like getting stuck in a doorway, but the 
 enemy did seem to effectively hunt me down after seeing me. The game is just straight-up fun, definitely 
 worth 10 bucks on ebay, pure action, now.
  
  I wish I was a pirate, I would be like, "YARR!" and I'd attack people with my hook hand, and my 
 parrot would yell obscenities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Like Counter-Strike, Tactical Ops (originally called SWAT) began its life as a free fan-created 
 mod. Now MicroProse has released this enhanced retail version of the mod with some exclusive new 
 material, including new maps and skins. At the same time, the standard version of the mod is still 
 available as a free download, and Infogrames promises that both the free and retail versions will 
 be fully compatible. However, even with the latest patches, server rejections and dropped connections 
 are common because of version mismatches and other problems.
  
  Regardless of which version you play, don't expect to be wowed by innovation. Anyone who's played 
 Counter-Strike before -- and by now that would seem to include every gamer and his grandma -- will 
 be struck with a huge case of dj vu. Gameplay is divided into rounds, with two teams, the Special 
 Forces and terrorists, trying to complete opposing goals, in addition to simply killing the opposition. 
 The Special Forces might need to rescue hostages, while the terrorists try to prevent that rescue. 
 In another mode, the terrorists try to detonate a bomb at a specific target, while the Special 
 Forces try to stop the attempt. Another mode has the terrorists trying to steal the OICW (the US 
 military's advanced objective individual combat weapon) , while the Special Forces try to guard 
 it. Then there's a mode in which one team tries to escape from the other. Unfortunately, the maps 
 aren't labeled according to game type, so you'll have to guess which map offers what mode when 
 you start a new session. As in Counter-Strike, you only get one life per round, sitting out the 
 rest of a round as an invisible spectator after you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spic202
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  i got this game because it was cheap and it looked kinda kool but when i went home to install it 
 and p0layed for a hour or 2 i thought to myself this is a ripoff of cs.. ive been playing cs for 
 about a year now and i never gotten bored of it because its so challenging.. but in this game its 
 pretty much the same exactt hing as cs except the sounds are horrible the mp5 sounds like needles 
 or something and there is no recoil so you can just spray and get like alot of kills... but atleast 
 it isnt sexist because you can be a female... and no other game will ever give cs a run for its 
 money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: little_hogan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is good fun, i only started playing it recently but i am now addicted. There are two 
 teams, Terrorists and Special forces you choose yolur team and then proceed to play about 15, quick 
 fire rounds of multi player action.
  
  At the start of the round you buy your ammunition, if you have survived the last round you continue 
 with your guns from then. There are about 15 different weapons to choose from, ranging from Knives 
 to sniper rifles. The action then begins, its called 'Tactical ops' for a reason with no basic 
 strategy you are like a pig to the slaughter and will last a good 10 seconds. Use tactics and you 
 satnd a higher chance of survival. You get 1 point for every 10hp you take off some one. At the 
 end of the 15 rounds the person with the most points wins and the team with the most points wins. 
 There are about 50 different levels so you never get board of the scenery.
  
  Overall this is a very good game i would highly recommend it, that is if you can find some where 
 which sells it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyday10103
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Tactical Ops is what you get when you breathe some fresh new air into counter-strike. The Graphics 
 are better, and it relys on skill alone. Though it may not have the weapon variety that counter-strike 
 mods have, it gives the player over 16 real world weapons to chose from (even though they dont 
 have all the proper names) . By the way, if you are big on weapon realism, this game has the most 
 realistic gun modles, sounds, and speed that I have ever seen, besides the fact that the M16 comes 
 with 30 rounds instead of 20, but the AK47 is fast and acurate, which it is in the real world, 
 and the Uzi is extremely fast, everything that seems as if it should move on the guns move. there 
 are adjustable speeds and you can even set the bots to auto skill adjust, so you dont have to quit 
 the game to make them harder or easier. 
  Overall, this game shines on every aspect, even though the amount of weapons is broad, you still 
 want to experiment with more, this game is the most realistic game when it comes to gun models, 
 and realism, a definate MUST BUY for any fan of tactical, team based or first person shooting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 28, 2004 9:26 am PT
Review:  If you would ask a little kid to make a game with the Unreal engine it would do better than Tactical 
 Ops. The mapping is terrible: Roughly hills, empty rooms and lots of bugs. The textures are stolen 
 or one-colored.
  
  Ironically enough this is the less tactical game ever. The bots go stand against their enemy and 
 then they start shooting. When they spawn they run, in a straight line- to the enemy's place :| 
 
  
  When you start playing you can chose a side: Terrorist or SWAT. You start with a little budget 
 to buy some firepower. When you lose, you will also lose money. If you win you will win money and 
 you will be able to get yourself some better stuff. With better stuff I mean: less bad. The shotgun's 
 power stays the same at really high range. The machineguns shoot in a straight line (no inaccuracy 
 or something) and can be used for really short range.
  Realistic = 0/10
  
  The graphicx aren't much better, the characters their faces are squares and the weapons are the 
 ugliest I've ever seen. A shotgun is just a cilinder with two strange things above it.
  
  And ... the sound. Or the weapons are all silenced OR the sounds also sucks. There are no effects 
 and the level's music is to get crazy off. In most levels there are some nuns singing or there 
 is some kind of idiot melody that returns every 5 seconds.
  
  *edit* about the comparison of Counterstrike and Tactical Ops. Tactical ops is 3 years older, did 
 the fanboy notice that ? Counterstrike is a cool game and it's a big blame to say it's even worse 
 than Tactical Ops. Btw, very Ironic to say TO is a tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysega
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2004 6:08 am PT
Review:  Many compare Tactical Ops and Counterstrike with each other. Both games are tactical shooters, 
 unfortunatly Tacticap Ops (TO from now on) never made it out of the shadows of Counterstrike.
 
  
  I played both of the games and must say that i enjoy TO more than Counterstrike, the reasons are.
 
  
  - better, faster gameplay than CS
  - mature players (CS has to many kiddies playing the game)
  - friendly atmosphere while playing
 
  - TO has all the elements of CS and more, for example you have some monster servers which lets 
 all human players play against monsters who become stronger with every round. The monsters are 
 directly taken from the unreal game. (TO was actually a mod for Unreal Tournament, its success 
 was the reason that the developers decided to publish a retail version.)
  
  So, if you are looking for a great game to play online and you like tactical shooters you should 
 try out TO, its a bargain for the price its being offered.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadres
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2003 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Many a nay-sayer has gone on to say about how this game is a terrible rip-off of Counterstrike, 
 and overall, I would have to agree. But when you clone a good game, and you do it well, you wind 
 up with another good game. 
  
  And that's what you have with Tactical Ops. It was great as a fan mod, and it remains great as 
 a retail product. 
  
  Its graphics are far superior than Counter-Strike, and an emphasis is placed more on the skill 
 of someone's aim and control of recoil than where the computer decides to throw your bullets.
 
  
  It's all a matter of flavor. If you like Tactical shooters, but get frustrated with Counterstrike's 
 slow pace, blocky, dated graphics and unintuitive interface, Tactical Ops is worth every penny, 
 as you can find it in bargain bins everywhere for $5 or so.
  
  In this reviewer's opinion, Counter-Strike is an overhyped dinosaur, and this game unfortunately 
 has withered in its shadow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2003 7:55 am PT
Review:  I know this is really a purely multiplayer game online, but when you have a gamevoice and a load 
 of mates online then it really doesnt get better than this. Where all part of a clan http://www. widowmakers. pwp. blueyonder. co. uk/ 
 and we play most nights. I have every console and a load of great pc games but the no matter what 
 happens we always play this game. so i think 6.2 is bit unfair for this game. i will admit that 
 im more biased towards it because i play it all the time, but there is a great game here that i 
 think people have overlooked. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
