-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Taito Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/taitolegends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The price is right.
 Most games re-created faithfully.
 Interesting interview segments.
 Zoo Keeper is totally awesome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No light-gun support.
 No Chase HQ.
 No Arkanoid.
 No online scoreboard.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.5, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 70 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Taito Corporation
Developer: Empire Oxford
Genre: Compilation
Date:     Nov 10, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The lack of light-gun support drags down Operation Wolf, but with games like Elevator Action and 
 Bubble Bobble on board, Taito Legends offers good classic arcade action at a budget price. 

 
  Taito's one of those classic corporations that, over the years, has been responsible for a lot 
 of great games. The crown jewel of the Taito empire is Space Invaders, but the company's catalog 
 goes much deeper than that. Twenty-nine of the company's arcade games are collated in Taito Legends, 
 an easy-to-digest package from Empire Interactive and Sega. While some control issues get in the 
 way in a couple of the games, the emulations are very sharp.  

          The Taito name isn't as prevalent as it used to be, but the company definitely put out 
 some real gems in the '80s and '90s.     

  Beyond Space Invaders and Space Invaders Part 2, the collection contains great classics like Bubble 
 Bobble, Elevator Action, Jungle Hunt, Operation Wolf, Phoenix, Rastan, and Zoo Keeper. There are 
 also some lesser-known games in the collection, like Battle Shark, Colony 7, Continental Circus, 
 Electric Yo-Yo, Exzisus, Gladiator, Great Swordsman, The New Zealand Story, The Ninja Kids, Operation 
 Thunderbolt, Plotting, Plump Pop, Rainbow Islands, Return of the Invaders, Space Gun, Super Qix, 
 Thunderfox, Tokio, Tube It, and Volfied.  

  For the most part, the games are very well emulated and play just as well now as they did in arcades. 
 The light-gun games are the exception. Operation Wolf, Operation Thunderbolt, and Space Gun all 
 place a gun cursor on the screen, which you move around with the mouse. It works well, but it also 
 makes the games incredibly easy. They get boring fast. Each game gives you a set of options and 
 difficulty settings that set your number of lives and other game-specific changes, and your high 
 score is tracked in each of the different difficulties. You can opt to control each game with just 
 the keyboard, but you'll probably enjoy the package a lot more if you have a decent gamepad.  

 
  It's nice when classic arcade games are properly honored with a slightly more in-depth look at 
 their creations. There are a few interesting video interviews on the disc with the people behind 
 some of the more popular games like Space Invaders and Bubble Bobble. The video content is brief, 
 but it's still a nice extra. You can also look at flyers for most of the games in the package. 

          An online scoreboard would have added more lasting value to the package.     

  Graphically, Taito Legends has a very bare-bones look to it. The menus are plain but laid out 
 well enough to get you from game to game. The default settings have smoothing turned on, which 
 basically makes every game look as though you're playing it on a blurry television set. You're 
 better off disabling that and enabling the proper aspect ratio setting if you want it to match 
 the arcade originals as closely as possible. In addition to the music and sound, which both match 
 up with the arcade originals just fine, the game's got a bit of decent music on the menus.  

  The games are re-created faithfully enough in this collection to warrant a purchase by anyone 
 already excited about the classic games included. Operation Wolf and the other light-gun games 
 aren't perfect, but they're still playable. And the budget price is perfect.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sensei_Pong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I'm sure Taito could've added more games to this compilation, but (almost) as always, they've done 
 a superb job producing A-class entertainment. Kudos to Sega Corp as well in producing this baby. 
 But since Sega helped in producing this collection, I was hoping to see Congo Bongo, but whatever...
 
  
  If you want to taste the feeling of what it may of been like in the Age of Arcades, or find the 
 forefathers of what made video games today; then find this, and buy it.
  
  I found it a while ago in the discount bin for only five bucks (I'm disappointed in the gaming 
 public, they underestimate the pure entertainment that can be bought from these games versus neo-arcade 
 spins like: Diner Dash, Bejeweled, Collapse, etc.) . Sure, you can find shoddy clones of these games 
 on the internet, but to be honest; they don't match to the quality of anything on Taito Legends.
 
  
  The true beauty of this collection though is the audience it can collect. ANYbody can have fun 
 with these games. A whole family can compete between scores on and off. I actually got a friend 
 of mine who's only played neo-systems get addicted to Super Qix and play it for about three hours 
 before realizing it was two o'clock in the morning. These games are THAT good. Who cares about 
 graphics. Nobody plays a game strictly for graphics. You play it because it's fun.
  
  The best way to play these games though have got to be attaching your own PC controller to your 
 computer and setting the controls to your own liking. These controls can come pretty cheap if you 
 look in the right store.
  
  Unless you really want to jump into the early 80's, then play with the keyboard and get Space Invaders 
 Syndrome... I don't recommend that -- I heard it's painful.
  
  The list of games to chose from is amazing. There's plenty of games almost every gamer knows on 
 this collection; and probably several some have never even seen.
  
  It also seems that this collection moulds to the players mood. Sometimes you just don't want to 
 play Operation Wolf, so you go to something more mindless but puzzling like E-Yo-yo. Maybe you 
 have a Bubble Bobble craving. Maybe you want to play Rainbow Islands, then feel a little gay at 
 the same time -- later regaining your manhood with Operation Wolf.
  
  This is my favorite game (s) on my compie to date. It's great to play and doesn't have the trouble 
 of being forced to remember character names, etc. It's great to relax to and great to binge on. 
 It's pure gameplay. Something a lot of games don't concentrate on anymore.
  
  The only problem I can see arising may be the dated nature of certain games. Jungle Hunt and Plotting 
 may not be up to par with what some people expect from legends. There's a reason why Space Invader 
 remakes have finally stopped (for the moment) . And there's a reason why nobody's heard of Great 
 Swordsman. But that's okay. The not so great games are easily covered by pretty much any other 
 game you decide to play. This game collection is definitely worth more than you pay. You'll find 
 yourself coming back to it a ton of times when you want a quick gaming splooge. I almost guarantee 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krindor
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a good collection of games, but the support of game controllers is not as great. Online 
 Tech support is focused on providing patches, but when contacting them by phone (when I finally 
 got through to them) about the controller support, they were less than concerned about it. A few 
 games (Continental Circus in particular) won't start using certain game controllers. The only two 
 controllers I have had success in using with Taito Legends PC are Logitech Dual Action Gamepad 
 (not a very versatile controller) and Saitek P9900 Dual Analog (which I use now, a much better 
 controller) . From my findings, many other consumers were bothered by the company's callousness 
 in helping their customers; hopefully, they will improve ther tech support.
  
  My favorite games in this collection are Elevator Action, Gladiator, and Continental Circus. Space 
 Invaders is an oldie, but a goodie, and the other games have their nice charm to them, especially 
 Jungle Hunt, though, if not for legal reasons, it would have been nice to have the original Jungle 
 King included. Emulation is done very well, though I was disappointed to not see Digital Eclipse's 
 name for the emulation; I am a huge fan of Digital Eclipse and own every PC arcade compilation 
 collection with their name on it. Still, Empire (the company responsible for the emulation) does 
 fine.
  
  Aside from the so-so tech support and the trial-and-error controller support, Taito Legends is 
 a good set worth playing and a good addition to the PC arcade compilation addict's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Taito Legends hearkens back to a time when games were created to be easy to get into and as fun 
 to play as possible. Since every game developer back then was competing for the average gamer's 
 quarter concepts like realism and backstory took a backseat to pure gameplay. Arcade games may 
 not stand the test of time well in the graphics dept., but most of the Legends titles show that 
 making games fun and compelling is becoming a lost art. Games like Phoenix , Operation Wolf , Space 
 Invaders , Rastan and Bubble Bobble have elements that are still being revisited today to the point 
 that they are cliches. It's easy to sit back and say things like been there, done that now, but 
 when these games came out over twenty years ago they were revolutionary. With Taito Legends you 
 are getting the exact versions of these games that were in arcades (an anachronism in it's own 
 right with home video game consoles dominating the casual gaming market) . I can't knock these games 
 now for not being as pretty as the games of today. Nor can I compare these games to the games of 
 today developed for consoles and their captive audience tethered to a controller or key board. 
 Taken for what they are, the games in Taito Legends are just as good today as they were back when 
 dinosaurs roamed the Earth.
  
  Oh and another thing... Operation Wolf plays just fine with a good laser mouse, so stop whining 
 about lightguns and buck up for decent gaming mouse. Welcome to the 21st century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryehngeocef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  ... and I'm not talking about Space Invaders, Elevator Action, or Bubble Bobble.
  
  I was 8 to 12 years old when these games were in their prime. I picked up this compilation primarily 
 for Bubble Bobble, but blown away when I found a couple of those games I see in fuzzy memories, 
 whose names I could not remember and pumped countless quarters into right in front of me.
  
  Said games are Ryga.. er.. Rastan, Gala... Phoenix, Jungle Hunt, and one of the oddest racing 
 game titles ever, Continental Circus. "CC" has a Pole Position feel to it, but feels just like 
 a more current racer. I was very, very suprised at it's sense of speed. I hate old racers, so I 
 was more than pleased when I spent more than 30 seconds with it.
  
  A few of the games just plain suck. Great Swordsman gets my vote as the lamest game on the collection. 
 Gladiator is a close second. The Space Invaders sequels just didn't work as well as the first, 
 and The Electric Yo-Yo has a good chance of giving you a headache. As a contrast, New Zealand Story, 
 Thunderfox and Ninja Kids are some hidden, and forgotten gems that will keep you interested. Zoo 
 Keeper is addictive.
  
  The gun games are well emulated, and very playable, but not fun at all without the actual guns.
 
  
  It was cool of Sega and Digital Eclipse to include the original sales sheets and selected interviews. 
 No classic compilation should be without them, and it's a shame more companies don't treat their 
 back catalog with as much respect. The recent Namco and Tecmo compilations fall flat compared to 
 this one.
  
  The games all run quite well, and although I can't remember them frame by frame, I'm pretty sure 
 they're arcade accurate. The controls are responsive, even in the gun games. The graphics are lame 
 and the sound sucks by today's standards, but Taito really did have some legends way way back in 
 the 1980's...
  
  ... and one or two in the 90's. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
