-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Take Command: 2nd Manassas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/takecommand2ndmanassas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outstanding historical accuracy and little details provide a &quot;you are there&quot; feel.
 Realistic battle pace allows for time to strategize.
 Easy-to-use interface and camera system make it a snap to give orders.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very slow in comparison to typical RTS gaming.
 Presentation is generally lackluster.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.7, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 225 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: MadMinute Games
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     Apr 26, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wargamers and Civil War buffs will love the easy-to-play, historically authentic Take Command: Second 
 Manassas. 

  Self-professed hole-in-the-wall game developer MadMinute Games made quite a splash at the start 
 of 2005 with Take Command: The Battle of Bull Run. Although the company may be a tiny outfit with 
 just two core designers in Adam Bryant and Norb Timpko, both the game itself and the War3D engine 
 that powered it got raves from hardcore wargamers and Civil War buffs. That success apparently 
 wasn't a fluke, either, since the recently released sequel, Take Command: Second Manassas, does 
 an equally good job at depicting another key battle in the war between the states. Although everything 
 will feel a touch "been there, done that" to those who played the original game, hardcore wargames 
 are rarely this approachable and enjoyable. Casual strategy gamers might find that MadMinute has 
 too much of the real Civil War in its Civil War game, as the design has more in common with an 
 old Avalon Hill board game than the typical strategy computer game, but you can't quibble with 
 either the playability or the historical accuracy.  

          Ah, so this is where Bo and Luke got their idea for painting the roof of the General Lee. 
     

  All 18 formal scenarios, plus those whipped up with the open battles sandbox mode (there is no 
 multiplayer) , focus on recreating how Confederate general Robert E. Lee and his Northern Virginia 
 Army broke out of Richmond in August of 1862 and pushed the Union to the brink of defeat at Second 
 Manassas (also called the Second Battle of Bull Run) . Even though these engagements play out during 
 a single month, sides are regularly swapped and battle scenarios from offensive to defensive to 
 a blend of the two are depicted, so you get a broad view of the character of the entire Civil War. 
 One moment you're brigadier general Jubal A. Early propping up Confederate artillery in "Holding 
 the Center," and the next you're seizing Groveton as federal brigadier General John P. Hatch in 
 "Push Him Like the Devil." Historical accuracy appears to be dead on, at least if we can recall 
 what we read in those Shelby Foote books many years ago. There are a handful of speculative scenarios, 
 but they don't take the "what if?" formula beyond the boundaries of the credible.  

  Combat feels authentic beyond the basics of ensuring that regiments and commanders remain true 
 to the textbooks. Positioning is crucial. You need to get your artillery into the right position 
 and place your infantry in the ideal spot to both gain a good firing height and an ideal location 
 for an enemy-breaking bayonet charge. This isn't particularly easy. Maps are sprawling affairs 
 (which get the job done nicely despite being pretty dated, with blurry troops and choppy animations) 
 filled with battle-affecting physical features such as forests, roads, walls, and farmhouses.  
 

  Keeping tight rein on your men is also difficult. While the interface and graphical engine give 
 you excellent command of camera views and units, there are a lot of troops to manage. Scale is 
 stepped down from reality, with columns of a couple of dozen soldiers representing brigades, so 
 you don't have to deal with battles on par with the confusing majesty of something such as Rome: 
 Total War. But since there are still swarms of little red and blue guys out there to manage when 
 the guns go off, the proceedings can get fairly hectic fairly fast. The bigger battles during the 
 final two days of the Manassas campaign are absolutely huge, albeit still manageable.  

  Also, Command &amp; Conquer-style maneuvering didn't happen in Virginia in 1862, and it doesn't 
 happen here. Keying battle strategy on precise maneuvering and timing is a recipe for disaster 
 because soldiers simply don't move that smartly or that quickly. You have to adopt a general plan 
 based on a general strategy no more specific than, say, fending off Johnny Reb' by firing from 
 the protection afforded by a stone wall and not pile all your hopes on clockwork unit positioning 
 possible in other real-time strategy games. This nicely brings to life the chaos of the average 
 Civil War battle, but it also leads to a certain level of frustration in gamers used to the pinpoint 
 movement of armies across battlefields.  

  Battles are much more orderly than you would think, though, largely thanks to immaculate artificial 
 intelligence. Brigade commanders do a solid job of issuing orders in your stead when the shooting 
 starts, so you don't need to concern yourself with micromanagement. Forget to put a brigade into 
 a proper firing line when moving into firing position -- which is almost inevitable in larger battles, 
 as you tend to be dealing out orders to at least a half-dozen brigades at any given time -- and the 
 commander takes over and does it for you. He also shifts the line into ideal firing position, swings 
 in around to target a new enemy column if the first is dispersed or destroyed, and is quick to 
 order his men to respond if ambushed. Essentially, the urge for self-preservation kicks in smartly 
 whenever you drop the ball. Control freaks might not appreciate this, as it can fairly be said 
 that aspects of the game run on autopilot. But this does add to the authenticity of being involved 
 in a real battle, with real human commanders taking and interpreting your orders.  

  Pace is also an acquired taste, with slow battles that play out akin to the methodical, steady 
 grind of a tabletop wargame. The smaller opening skirmishes take between 30 and 45 minutes to finish, 
 while larger climactic battles that in real life sent the Union army fleeing across the Potomac 
 can take a good three hours. Major engagements usually begin with you settling in to listen to 
 a good five minutes of boom-boom-boom artillery barrages (battle sound effects are well done, at 
 least, if a bit repetitive and almost totally devoid of human cries and screams that would have 
 added emotion to victories and defeats) while brigades lumber into harm's way. And then you need 
 to wait a considerable while longer for infantry columns to get into firing range, as the developers 
 seem to have a fetish for starting troops as far from the shooting as is possible.  

          Wait 'til you see the whites of their eyes.     

  Fast-forwarding is offered, although 
 it isn't all that useful. It doesn't speed things up all that much and is unavailable outside of 
 battle preambles, as it shuts off as soon as the first shot is fired. Again, the slowness is a 
 lot like what it must have been for the real bluecoats and greycoats back in the 1860s. This sort 
 of sluggishness can be a little on the tedious side in 2006, though, even while it builds tension 
 and allows players plenty of time to consider strategies. (Maybe it provides too much time, actually, 
 as it is hard to resist tweaking orders and rethinking entire battle plans while watching troops 
 move into firing position.)  

  If you're a wargamer with an interest in the Civil War, you will love Take Command: Second Manassas. 
 The only caveat is that the rigorous attention to historical detail makes for such a leisurely 
 pace that casual gamers might be scared away. Then again, the casual crowd isn't apt to be interested 
 in a hardcore Civil War reenactment sim in the first place, so MadMinute's target demographic isn't 
 likely to care.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Take Command: 2nd Manassas is the latest strategy game to come out of Paradox Interactives 
 gates. 2nd Manassas puts players into the second year of the American Civil War, during the 2nd 
 Manassas campaign, naturally. The campaign, which lasted from July to early September in 1862, 
 was host to several major Civil War battles, like Cedar Mountain, Chantilly/Ox Hill, and of course, 
 2nd Manassas. In total there are 18 missions to play. You take commend of regiments of men to fight 
 against each other. You can control 100 up to 60,000 men in a fight, depending on the battle. You 
 can play as either the Union forces or the Confederate Army. Combat feels authentic beyond the 
 basics of ensuring that regiments and commanders remain true to the textbooks. Positioning is crucial. 
 You need to get your artillery into the right position and place your infantry in the ideal spot 
 to both gain a good firing height and an ideal location for an enemy-breaking bayonet charge. This 
 isn't particularly easy. Maps are sprawling affairs (which get the job done nicely despite being 
 pretty dated, with blurry troops and choppy animations) filled with battle-affecting physical features 
 such as forests, roads, walls, and farmhouses. Unfotunatly there is no multiplayer in this game 
 which is missing in this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are okay, but certainly wont flex your PCs muscles in the slightest. The 
 game is composed of 2D sprites over a 3D battleground, and while the movement of soldiers and such 
 fluidly enough. Also, the backgrounds are pretty much lacking in detail. There are a few elements 
 like houses and trees to try to give the field a bit more realism, but the terrain is devoid of 
 realistic details and the explosion effects arent too great. The coloring in the game is allright, 
 I would say it is colorful and accurate to the time.
  
  Sound: The sound fares pretty well, with a nice score that fits the mood of the game nicely. The 
 battlefield sounds are what youd expect from large-scale battles, with cannons firing, guns popping 
 and troops yelling.
  
  Value: All in all this is a great Civil War RTS game to play. It has a great deal of realisim to 
 it focus on the move strategic elements of the battlefield. Thought it may be a litter slower in 
 pace, I would say that it is one of the best ones i've played in recent years. Unfotunatly there 
 is no multiplayer which I really hoped there was and thats that only bad thing it does not have, 
 though the graphics could of being improved a little bit. I just wonder why this game was not as 
 well known.....
  
  I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micah1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Take Command: 2nd Manassas is the latest strategy game to come out of Paradox Interactives gates. 
 Developed by Mad Minute Games, Take Command: 2nd Manassas is a Civil War based strategy game that 
 allows you to recreate large-scale historic battles and command your troops realistically around 
 the battlefield. The game is very meticulous with the realism levels, putting you in charge of 
 ordering thousands of troops per battle. While the game is quite the undertaking and takes some 
 getting used to (the slow pacing may turn away strategy gamers looking for something along the 
 lines of Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War or WarCraft III) , hardcore strategy fans and Civil War buffs 
 should enjoy Take Command: 2nd Manassass deep level of realism and historical accuracy. 2nd Manassas 
 puts players into the second year of the American Civil War, during the 2nd Manassas campaign, 
 naturally. The campaign, which lasted from July to early September in 1862, was host to several 
 major Civil War battles, like Cedar Mountain, Chantilly/Ox Hill, and of course, 2nd Manassas. You 
 are put into the role of the Commander, ordering around troops and regiments ranging from 100 up 
 to 60,000 men, depending on the battle. You can play as either the Union forces or the Confederate 
 Army, exploring the battlefield and determining the best possible offensive or defensive venues 
 to guarantee your side success. Gameplaywise, 2nd Manassas feels pretty similar to Mad Minutes 
 previous entry to the historical Civil War battles sub-genre, Take Command: Bull Run. There are 
 a few additions and changes to the formula, like new units, but generally the game feels very similar. 
 The main focus of 2nd Manassas is on the strategy of the battlefield as opposed to the actual battle. 
 You arrange your units and set them up to win the skirmish, as positioning is key to victory in 
 this game. The game is painfully meticulous in this regard, and the pace is actually quite slow 
 and deliberate. While gamers who are very into the idea of a deliberate war sim will definitely 
 enjoy, most players whove been weaned on more action oriented fare will probably get a little 
 frustrated with the long battles and slow pace. The graphics are okay, but certainly wont flex 
 your PCs muscles in the slightest. The game is composed of 2D sprites over a 3D battleground, 
 and while the sprites move fluidly enough, the look feels very juxtaposed. Also, the backgrounds 
 are pretty much lacking in detail. There are a few elements like houses and trees to try to give 
 the field a bit more realism, but the terrain is devoid of realistic details and the explosion 
 effects arent too great. The sound fares pretty well, with a nice score that fits the mood of 
 the game nicely. The battlefield sounds are what youd expect from large-scale battles, with cannons 
 firing, guns popping and troops yelling. Take Command: 2nd Manassas is a very deep Civil War sim, 
 with a great degree of realism and a focus on the move strategic elements of the battlefield. While 
 the slow pace may turn off a few gamers, those who the game is geared towards will certainly enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadEye2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  I've played alot of RTS games but none compare to this one. Take Command: 2nd Manassas puts you 
 in command of which ever army you like best wheater it be the Federal or Confederate. What makes 
 this such a great strategy game from any others is the fact that you need to watch EVERYTHING you 
 do with your army. EVERYTHING and i mean **EVERYTHING** decides how they fight in battle. One example 
 of this is If you march a brigade to the other side of the map to fight they will be weary or too 
 tired to fight making the fight harder for them to win.
  
  One of the unique factors of this game is that your brigades have grades. The grading system shows 
 how well they are doing through easily + and - if they are getting a good score you will not see 
 the - symbol, however if they are doing bad you will see the - and you may want to re-think a strategy.
 
  
  Another great thing about this game is that the battles last a long time and each engagement must 
 be planned out very carfully. You need to watch your army very closely and watch it's morale, grade, 
 ammo, etc. However the enemy has to watch this too. You also need to watch your flanks your enemy 
 is constantly trying to out flank you which brings us to the enemy AI. This is probably the toughest 
 AI i've faced in a long time. The enemy constnatly tries to fool you in causing diversions and 
 flanking and out flanking you over and over again, this makes for a VERY great challenge. I remember 
 in one battle the enemy started to stack 3 brigades infront of my defensive line but did not attack, 
 drew my attention out to their brigades however i didn't see the 2 brigrades trying to circle around 
 my flank tengage me from the rear.
  
  I recommend this game to any person who loves RTS you will not be disappointed trust me. I can 
 not stop playing this game and the replay value extreme you can replay battles over and over again 
 with several differnt outcomes.
  
  The only downfalls to the game are the cartoonish characters and some sound issues. I would of 
 also like some classical music played in the backround of each engagment but that's not a big issue.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkomen3148
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is based around the American Civil War. Past Civil War games have been quite badly designed 
 and not at all desirable, but that is all over since the release of Take Command: Second Mannasas.
 
  
  MadMinute Games has combined a mixture of historical accuracy, immersive gameplay, tremendous replay 
 value, and downright enjoyment. It is a masterpiece to behold for such a small team of developers.
 
  
  Anyone who has the slightest interest in the Civil War will enjoy this game. Anyone who doesn't 
 even have any interest in the Civil War will enjoy this game. 
  
  You are the actual commander, with actual decisions. You are placed in a very historically accurate 
 environment and almost anything can happen. 
  
  Overall you must get this game if you have any interest in strategy or playing as the general! 
 Download the demo and you'll see what i'm talking about. Even the demo is an understatment of what 
 this game is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beancrate
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  The focus is on GAMEPLAY.
  
  Anyone interested in the Civil War (or any type of statically warfare) should invest in this game. 
 Once you play the game you will realize the difficulties in becoming a true leader. Anyone in a 
 leadership position, or wanting to learn of such responsibilities, should play this game.
  
  I commend the developers on such an ambitious creation. It is amazing to see the vision of 
 one Programmer and one Designer combined with the effort of a small art team come to life. 
  
  When you buy this game. Be prepared to play something real.
  
  Thank You for this piece 
 of ART! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  It has been awhile since I got addicted to game. The last time was when X-COM defense came out. 
 This one provides alot of game play. You can go back and start over set different stratgies and 
 it will be a totally diferent game.
  
  The battle fields are indeed just gorgeous, aswell as the UI. It's simple to learn and navigate 
 in the game. Some say its slow pace and maybe it is, but what war is fast pace especially when 
 you are trying to out smart your enemy. Kudos should be given to the guys at MadGames. They truly 
 did an excellant job of making this an outstanding civil war game. 
  
  The AI is superb I have yet to see any real weaknesses with it, Batteries will unlimber at the 
 right time and retreat when they have too. Got a good aray of shots to fire aswell. Morale and 
 fatigue play a big role here also. 
  
  You can hide you units in the forest and come out and surpise the opposing forces ( if yas r good 
 enough) LOS does work in this game.
  
  I can go on about this game on how good it is, but I have to say whoever reads this needs to see 
 it for themselves to fully appreicate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stakelbr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  While I could go on and on about the great graphics, superb game play, and most excellent AI (that 
 is as good as, if not better, than a human opponent) , I am instead going to focus on the replay 
 value of this gem.
  
  First of all you get a whopping 48 historical scenarios that cover the battles of Cedar Mountain, 
 2nd Manassas, and Chantilly. In these battles the force under your direct command will range from 
 a tiny 3 regiment brigade of 800 men, all the way up to an entire army of more than 60,000 men. 
 Most of these scenarios have branching decision trees in them that introduce variations with each 
 replay that range from very subtle, to extreme. 
  
  Even if you play a scenario twice and it takes the same branch, the game will still play differently 
 because to the personalities of the AI commanders. Thats right, I said personalities. Each and 
 every commander in the game has a personality that is rated for such things as initiative, ability, 
 etc. Therefore, a commanders actions will be influenced by his personality. A timid commander 
 will tend to hold back, while an aggressive one will take the battle to the enemy, which is all 
 well and good if he has mad skills, but that is nothing quite as bad a an aggressive leader who 
 is incompetent, and believe me, you will find some of those in the game (General Banks for one) .
 
  
  So, after playing, and perhaps replaying all 48 historical scenarios, you still have Open Play 
 to explore. Open Play is just that. First you pick a battlefield from one of the eight maps that 
 come with the came. Next you pick what type of battle it will be with options ranging from meeting 
 engagements, defensive, offensive, or set-piece battles. Then you pick what order of battle to 
 use such as Cedar Mountain, 2nd Manassas, etc. (side note: there are already several custom OOBs 
 created by users that you can also download and enjoy) . Next you select which particular commander 
 you want to be, and this can be anything from the commander of a single artillery battery all the 
 way to army commander. Finally you decide how long you want the battle to last. Then the game will 
 start with you units placed at variable (yet sensible) locations on the map and the battle commences. 
 There are literally thousands of possible combinations for open play, and you will most likely 
 never exhaust them.
  
  In conclusion, for your $40 bucks you not only get an outstanding game, but it will keep you playing 
 for many months, if not years to come. Sounds like a pretty good deal to me!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomesDoom
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Civil War universe will never be the same. With Take Command: Second Mannassas, you ARE the 
 general, commanding your troops to victory. The graphics are outstanding, with most of the 3-D 
 effects making you feel like you are really there! The sound effects are really great, too. The 
 firing sounds really make you feel as if a real regiment of men is firing at you!!! This game has 
 excellent gameplay. You will not find any game that has tougher and more realistic AI. Great graphics, 
 gameplay, and sounds all combine to make this challenging yet addicting game a winner for all those 
 war strategists! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 93daenon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  My experience of this game is from the BETA version.
  
  If you have been waiting for a CW game that challenge you 2nd Manassas have most of that compared 
 with others CW games out there. Command battery, infantry, cavalry as a brigade, division commander, 
 or be the army commander and control either the Union Army or the Confederate. Get orders and make 
 own decisions.
  
  But beware the AI is outstanding and plan every little move you make so think twice before you 
 give orders or plan an assualt.
  
  If you think your subordinates cant handle the troops just take command of the troops. 
  
  
 2nd Manassas gives you a feeling that you can do what desires you.
  If you dont want to play just start a open play and watch the battle. 
  
  This BETA of 2nd 
 Manassas of MadMinute Games is worth to wait for the game to show up.
  
  This Game Rock! 
  
  Daniel Davidsson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to control the broad strokes of a massive army while your subordinates interpret and 
 execute your orders? Or just take charge of a division or brigade, and impact a small area of a 
 massive battle all around you? 
  This game does a masterful job capturing every chain of command. If you chose to play as a general 
 you feel like a general. You command massive armies, which prevents you from micromanaging. You 
 have to rely on the wits and abilities of your subordinates as you execute grand strategy. As a 
 division, brigade, or regiments commander you control a smaller portion of the battle, but you 
 are in much more control. Each style is like playing a totally different game and is very rewarding!
 
  
  2BR is the 2nd installment in the series, and the game already has a significant modding community 
 in place. Tons of new uniforms, interfaces, scenarios, and historically accurate tweaks to the 
 game engine are some of the things that we've seen already, and you can expect to see more. 
  
  There has to be plenty of people, like me, who loved the wargames of old... but yearned for 
 something realtime, realistic, but most of all.... FUN. This is it. The game I've been waiting 
 for, and I highly suggest anyone with an interest in wargaming to give it a try! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
