-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Takeda
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/takeda/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 19 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xicat Interactive
Developer: Magitech
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 14, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although Takeda is original, a combination of questionable design decisions and serious technical 
 issues make it tough to play, let alone enjoy. 

 Takeda is not a rip-off of Shogun: Total War. Magitech's real-time epic might share a setting with 
 the reigning daimyo of medieval Japanese military sims, but it isn't a slavish copy. Unfortunately, 
 it might have fared better if it were. For although Takeda is original, a combination of questionable 
 design decisions and serious technical issues make it tough to play, let alone enjoy. While there 
 are a few high points, the presence of so many rough edges makes this game one for the "could have 
 been" bin.           Takeda's battles may run sluggishly, even if you have a fast system.    

 
  Many of Takeda's problems stem from its unfinished state. This fact is openly acknowledged in 
 the troubleshooting section at the back of the manual. Unbelievably, the designers admit here that 
 the game for which you just plunked down $44.99 "is still under development" and that "current 
 versions are not fully optimized." As a result, "slowness may be a problem on many systems." Ours 
 is one of them. The Athlon XP 1700 used to play the game, which incidentally sports 512MB of RAM 
 and a lightning-fast GeForce3 Ti 500 video card, had trouble running the game at all. Choppiness 
 makes it very difficult to scroll across the battlefield. Animations are similarly afflicted, turning 
 battles into jerky affairs more appropriate to marionettes than flesh-and-blood soldiers. Disabling 
 the environmental effects and drifting fog speeds things up a bit, as does hitting "0" to maximize 
 the frame rate, though stuttering remains a serious encumbrance to smooth play. Strangely, you 
 can't change the fixed screen resolution of 1280x1024.   

  Other barriers also exist. The overall presentation is devoid of extras, some of which we've come 
 to expect in real-time strategy games. For instance, there is no way to alter the default camera 
 angle. This setting is locked in a position that is of sufficient height to turn individual soldiers 
 into tiny colored blobs, but not high enough to provide a complete overview of the battlefield. 
 A lot of scrolling is required, even when dealing with the smallest conflicts. Seeing as scrolling 
 is such a challenge, this limitation adds frustration to every battle. It can be somewhat difficult 
 to even make it this far, as Magitech omitted both an in-game tutorial and tooltips. The manual 
 is helpful, although some of the information about the interface has been shunted to a .pdf file 
 included on the game disc. Such skimpy production values can also be heard in a title song that 
 wouldn't have been out of place on the Sega Genesis. Sound effects are similarly retro, consisting 
 of clanging steel, horses' hooves, and a lot of accent-tinged voices screaming "Arrggghhh!" One 
 Japanese command is shouted over and over again during every battle.           You can arrange 
 your armies in a number of complex formations.    

  If you can get past these obstacles, Takeda does have a few good things to offer. Magitech has 
 a solid grasp on Japanese history, telling the fascinating story of the nation's 16th-century civil 
 war in a deep and involving campaign. As the title suggests, you assume control of Clan Takeda 
 in the middle of its battle for survival. Command your forces well and you'll soon go on the offensive, 
 eventually battling for control of the entire island. Though the campaign is scripted, how you 
 succeed or fail on the battlefield does set up your position for subsequent combat. A victory usually 
 places you in good shape for the next battle, while being slaughtered can be so disastrous that 
 subsequent battles are all but unwinnable. This dynamic element lends a lot of drive and realism 
 to the campaign, in that you can get on a roll and rip through four or five clashes without breaking 
 a sweat, or you can screw up and find the consequences of that mistake following you around. Historical 
 battle mode offers a further 13 authentic engagements from the civil war and three fictional ones 
 based on "what if?" speculation. Most of the significant events of the period are available, including 
 the siege of Katsurao and the climactic battle of Sekigahara.   

  A multiplayer option is provided as well, though Magitech really missed the mark there. Instead 
 of allowing combat between multiple clans -- a natural considering the civil war backdrop that pitted 
 faction against faction against faction -- LAN and Internet battles are head-to-head only. GameSpy 
 Arcade support is included, though it can't be accessed from the game itself, which features only 
 direct IP connections. Online opponents were few and far between as of this writing, at any rate. 
            The focus is on combat, though you'll make a few choices in the campaign.    

  Gameplay is almost entirely about combat. The lone exception involves occasional events during 
 the campaign that call for you to supply a yes-or-no answer to marriage alliances, pacts with other 
 clans, and the like. However, it's hard to tell what effect these actions have on your forces, 
 as feedback regarding the wisdom of your selection is limited to vague notes such as "Some of your 
 generals are unhappy." Much of the time, you'll be free to concentrate solely on organizing your 
 forces. This is done via a deployment screen where you look over the available divisions and slot 
 them into center, flanking, headquarters, and reserve positions. There are also three detachment 
 slots available if you want to hold a battalion back for either a strike mission to flank the enemy 
 in the later stages of a battle or a delay mission to counter an enemy strike force.   

  Divisions are composed of battalions featuring up to five different unit types -- spearmen, swordsmen, 
 archers, cavalry, and (eventually) riflemen -- that are under the authority of generals and officers. 
 These commanders are rated in terms of leadership ability, and this score trickles down to the 
 troops in their charge in separate skill, experience, morale, and bravery stats. Battlefield results 
 also play a part in how these numbers are calculated. Showing Magitech's respect for Japanese history, 
 the game also builds a battalion's bravery score by tracking the number of rival flags cut down 
 and the number of enemy officer heads that have been cut off (for display to the clan lord as a 
 token of respect) . Once your basic lines have been set, you choose from more than a dozen formations. 
 These include a variety of designs good for general offensive (wave, spear, and so on) and defensive 
 (open wing, circle, and so on) purposes, as well as for specific objectives like a siege or a quick-strike 
 assault. Formations can also be changed on the fly after the battle begins. This is occasionally 
 necessary to deal with terrain or changing weather. Rivers, dense forests, hills, and mist all 
 affect battlefield conditions, sometimes seriously. Giving an enemy the high ground, for example, 
 can be suicidal.           Takeda is promising, but it's also incomplete.    

  More problems emerge after the battle begins. Battalions are commanded en masse with eight orders 
 that run the gamut from simply moving to a new position to all-out attacking, regrouping, and retreating. 
 This list is remarkably complete, though units often don't respond the way they should. It can 
 be very difficult to position troops effectively in large-scale battles or during sieges. Attempting 
 to concentrate your forces on a single objective -- such as a castle gate or a vulnerable flank -- often 
 results in confusion. Orders to smash through one gate, for example, always lead to soldiers thinning 
 out and attempting to get through another entrance or even the supposedly impregnable wall. That 
 this happens is noted in the manual, though why it should be taking place is left a mystery. It 
 happens even with the most experienced, courageous men, so it seems to be a flaw in the artificial 
 intelligence. Part of the cause could be the lack of commands for specific actions, like breaking 
 down a gate or cutting an enemy flag to harm their morale. Such events are supposed to happen automatically 
 whenever your soldiers are in the right area, though this obviously isn't occurring a substantial 
 amount of the time.   

  Despite these bouts with chaos, Takeda can occasionally be quite gratifying. Establishing and then 
 operating from killer formations, with cavalry in the perfect positions to devastate the enemy, 
 is very satisfying. Breaking into the opposition's headquarters and cutting down its flags provide 
 an undeniable sense of achievement. Even the lofty camera angle is good at showing the devastation 
 wrought in battle. Still, these moments just don't take place as often as they should, and technical 
 problems shroud the entire experience with the feeling that you've paid to play a beta. And that's 
 unforgivable, good moments or not.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
