-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tanarus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/tanarus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 8.5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 25 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Interactive Studios America
Genre: Tank Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Superficially, Tanarus is sort of a cross between M1 Tank Platoon, Multiplayer BattleTech, and capture 
 the flag. 

 It took me a week or so, and I'm not even sure what compelled me to do it, but I finally managed 
 to track down the meaning of Tanarus: It's an Etruscan acronym for "today's confused newbie will 
 become tomorrow's gleeful death merchant."  

 That's malarkey, of course, but it pretty much sums up what it takes to begin grooving on the intense 
 action Tanarus has to offer. Death - or at least a temporary, virtual facsimile of it - will inevitably 
 dog you as you struggle to get a handle on the vehicles, weapons, and tactics in this multiplayer 
 tank-combat simulation. It can be bewildering at first, and the learning curve might seem steep 
 compared with what you''re getting out of it.  

 Fortunately, every day is a good day to die in Tanarus - if you heed the lessons each failure has 
 to offer. Do that, and it won't be very long before you'll begin not only to acquit yourself with 
 honor on the field of battle, but actually start dishing out some punishment of your own.  

 Superficially, Tanarus is sort of a cross between M1 Tank Platoon, Multiplayer BattleTech, and 
 capture the flag. The action takes place online in one of eight arenas, nearly all of which contain 
 four teams that can consist of up to five players each (the exception is ten on ten, which lets 
 two teams of ten square off) . Getting into action is a simple matter of selecting the team you'd 
 like to join, choosing a tank and outfitting it with various weapons and modules, and then plunging 
 into combat.  

 Your obvious mission is to force your will upon the enemy - in plain English, to blast them to smithereens. 
 With each kill you earn points needed to advance in rank (private, corporal, etc.) , which in turn 
 determines things such as what arenas you can play in and whether or not you can form your own 
 team. But the ultimate goal is to capture the flag of one of the other three hostile forces: It 
 not only shames them, but also rewards you with beaucoup points toward rank advancement.  

 You might be thinking this is all pretty straightforward stuff, but the beauty of Tanarus lies in 
 the details. Naturally, each tank has a unique set of specs for armor and speed, but each also 
 comes with a default weapon and some sort of special capabilities. The Chameleon, for instance, 
 is armed with a lancer laser and has devices for both stealth (invisible to radar) and cloak (invisible 
 to the eye) , while the Devastator packs a cannon and a nano-repair device that repairs damage from 
 enemy fire.  

 But choosing the tank that's right for you isn't as simple as grabbing the one with what you feel 
 is the best basic equipment. Each tank has a certain number of bays you can fill with all sorts 
 of goodies, from missile launchers and proximity mines to remote satellite control and battery 
 superchargers.  

 Speed, firepower, stealth, and maneuverability all must be delicately balanced for you to achieve 
 your maximum kill count (and highest survival rate) , and coming up with the right tank AND the 
 best configuration for your style of combat definitely takes some time. The good news is that you 
 can experiment with all the tanks and their myriad configurations in one of the practice arenas 
 where kills and deaths don't count.  

 To make things even more interesting, each team has a home base where you can head to undergo repairs, 
 make equipment changes, or even pick a new tank. Because all tanks draw their power from internal 
 batteries, how far and fast each tank can go depends on how close it is to a power source: your 
 home base, friendly satellites, and captured recon stations (almost identical in function to your 
 home base except they can be captured, and tank switches aren't allowed) .  

 You might have the biggest, baddest tank in the world, but if you get outside the range of a power 
 supply your battery will eventually lose its charge and you'll be reduced to a crawl - and a slow 
 tank is a dead tank in Tanarus' arenas. Lose all your power at night (yes, there's a constant cycle 
 of night and day) , and you won't be able to activate your night-vision module. This dependence 
 on power supply keeps the arenas from degenerating into scattered skirmishes and forces each team 
 to coordinate its movements carefully, adding yet another layer of strategy to the mix.  

 Arenas dedicated to mano-a-mano battles are a good place to teach a braggart a lesson, but there's 
 no doubt that Tanarus's real appeal lies in team play. It's hard to describe the satisfaction of 
 pulling off a bloody ambush or the feeling of thanks you feel when a buddy saves you from inevitable 
 destruction, but believe me when I say it's extremely rewarding. Play with the same teammates for 
 a few battles, in fact, and you'll feel almost as if you know what they're thinking - provided, 
 of course, that they aren't foul-mouthed hotheads - and once you join a team, that sense will only 
 grow as you compete against other squads in league play.  

 I've always been willing to sacrifice graphics for better gameplay, but that's not even an issue 
 in Tanarus if you've got a Direct3D card. You won't see every visual trick in the book here - firing 
 a laser at night in close quarters reveals there are no lighting effects, for instance - but the 
 game looks plenty good enough to help you suspend your disbelief. The frame rate can take a pretty 
 big hit when you get five or six tanks onscreen at once, but the same is true of other online games 
 that aren't nearly as visually impressive as Tanarus (Multiplayer BattleTech comes to mind) .  

 
 Tanarus has been in beta testing for several months now, and it appears that the problems of latency 
 have been reduced about as much as possible - which means how good the gameplay is for you depends 
 mostly on how good an Internet provider you have. I tested the game through three different major 
 providers and experienced satisfying results about 90 percent of the time on each.  

 But don't take my word for it: Download the shareware version and try it for free. True, you can 
 only compete in practice arenas, have access to only one tank and one slot to save a preferred 
 configuration (registered users can save up to three configs for each tank) , but it should give 
 you a good idea what sort of play you can expect. When you check it out, though, don't be surprised 
 if the language occasionally gets coarse: There are a lot of younger players here, and some think 
 nothing of letting fly with some pretty foul insults. There's an option to report offenders, but 
 usually a simple "watch yer mouth" will remind them they're dealing with real people who just don't 
 want to hear it.  

 Should Tanarus deliver the sort of action you crave, you're faced with the choice of downloading 
 the game or buying it at retail; the retail version carries a $19.95 price tag, but with it you 
 get one month of' free play, a soundtrack, an extra tank, and a map editor. (Because of Tanarus's 
 design, though, the only way to play someone on a user-created map is if Sony Interactive accepts 
 it and puts it on the server) . Alternatively, you can download the game for free, but you'll start 
 paying a monthly $9.95 fee for unlimited play from the get-go.  

 Some might think $9.95 per month is a little pricey for a single game - that's what Kesmai charges 
 for all of its sundry online-only games on GameStorm, for example - but they need to remember that 
 there's really no other game online like this one. And if it gets its hooks in you, you'll probably 
 consider the price a bargain.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JTR_IceBerg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  1997... wow. I was high school, 36.6k modem packing beta tester back then. Tanarus was my very 
 first online gaming experience and I couldn't have had better. The beautiful thing about Tanarus 
 was its simple concept. Four teams of 5 battling it out on a grid-based map. I found the human-controlled 
 enemy units much more exciting than any AI could possibly be. My first encounter got me hooked. 
 From that point on, I studied the enemy, studied the equipment, studied the battlefield, studied 
 team tactics... to make the battlefield my personal playground. Few things were more satisfying 
 than outsmarting the enemy to his demise.
  
  There were five types of tanks, several types of weapons, but limited weapon hard-points. Energy 
 management was critical. Energy was life. And speed was life too. I found myself using the Lightning 
 for team support and to ensure my retreats so i could live to fight another day.
  
  Soloing was possible to a degree, but teamwork was a defining feature of the game.
  
  I quit 
 playing when they released the game and started charging for it.
  
  To this day the best games are the ones that pit humans against other humans in strategic, real-time 
 action. Tanarus was an innovative step in the right direction, and will always hold a special place 
 in my game hall of fame.
  
  It's a shame no one has revamped this concept for 2005. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
