-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tarr Chronicles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/tarrchronicles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Attractive space scenery.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unintelligible storyline.
 Incredibly peculiar dialogue.
 Dull, linear missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 6.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GamersGate
Developer: Akella
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Sep 18, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tarr Chronicles is the painful combination of incomprehensible and insipid. 

  English teachers should stay far away from Tarr Chronicles. Actually, let's go a little bit further 
 and extend that caution to, well, everybody. Mangled English is probably the least of the problems 
 afflicting this arcade-style space simulation from Russian developer Quazar Studio. Dull, repetitive 
 missions make this one tough game to endure for very long, even when you're not puzzling over what 
 the hell is going on due to the absolutely bizarre dialogue.  

  Despite Tarr Chronicles already being published in Europe earlier this year with the subtitle Sign 
 of Ghosts, publisher Paradox Interactive put no effort into cleaning the game up for the English-speaking 
 marketplace. This isn't the usual Russian game with garbled adjectives and no concept of how to 
 properly use pronouns, though. On the contrary, the game's grammar is generally pretty good as 
 far as these Russian translations go. Most of the words seem to be in the right place. But they 
 often don't make any sense. So you get surreal descriptions like the one calling one race of creatures 
 "anisotropic" and "multiplied in Mirrors and antiquantums." Um, yeah. Unintentionally funny phrases 
 litter the text, too. Good luck keeping a straight face when you're assaulted by lines like "The 
 Executioner got us all out. Like puppies from a boiling cauldron." Sorry, but, uh, yuck.  

           Another one bites the space dust.      

  Not surprisingly, this makes the story in 
 the solo campaign (there are no multiplayer options) impossible to follow. You're a human pilot 
 stranded a long way from home in the far future, and the big enemy is some sort of "anti-elemental" 
 force called the Mirk that is consuming all life in the galaxy, but beyond that the plot amounts 
 to an alphabet soup of goofy sci-fi words like "De'Khete," "Sia'Nues," and "Varkarru." Events are 
 hard to comprehend even when the bizarre terminology is skipped for stuff you can actually find 
 in a dictionary. It's as if Quazar forgot to translate every second sentence, leaving you adrift 
 in a sea of anecdotes and comments for which there is no point of reference. Pilots constantly 
 drop names you've never heard of before and talk about unidentified "he's" and "she's" as if they 
 were your best pals. It always seems like you're being dropped into the middle of conversations. 
 Even the background information accessible in your cabin between missions is nonsensical. The encyclopedia 
 refers to factions and events that remain otherwise unexplained, and your own personal log-book, 
 presumably a journal of your experiences in the war against the Mirk, cites events that never happened 
 and gives "war is hell" emotional heft to what seem to be lighthearted arcade furballs.  

  Given the head-swimming story, it's kind of a blessing that the actual gameplay is so simplistic. 
 Tarr Chronicles is essentially a minor update on the old-school space combat sim where you pilot 
 various fighter craft in linear battles against ever-increasing numbers of bad guys. There isn't 
 anything new introduced here. It actually takes away at least one old amenity in joystick support, 
 although the mouse-and-keyboard controls are smooth enough (if a bit sluggish during hard turns) 
 that you'll never miss it. So if you pulled a Rip Van Winkle and went to sleep right after the 
 release of Wing Commander in 1990, rest assured you could sit down and start playing this one without 
 so much as a glance at the manual. If anything, the mission design is even more elementary than 
 that in the nearly 20-year-old Origin classic. Virtually every assignment is a generic "destroy 
 all enemy ships" jaunt, occasionally livened up with afterthought side objectives like escorting 
 a capital ship, taking out weapon generators, or detonating mines.  

  Even when there is a specific purpose to your sorties, you still don't do anything more than zip 
 around blasting enemy craft with energy beams and missiles. This all gets extremely mind-numbing 
 in short order, due largely to the excessive number of opposition ships and the subpar artificial 
 intelligence. While it's dreary enough to have to destroy a dozen or more enemy fighters in each 
 and every mission, the bad guys make your task even more annoying by flying about in circles waiting 
 for you to target them. It seems like the only way you can lose is when objectives are partially 
 out of your control, as in the missions where you have to protect an allied capital ship from withering 
 enemy fire and simply can't blast the baddies to bits fast enough. Thankfully, these moments aren't 
 all that common, although they do occur often enough to make you curse the save system that stores 
 your progress only at the end of what are typically multipart mission segments. Since the tougher 
 objectives always occur at the tail end of these sections, failure typically means a lot of backtracking. 
 Overall, there isn't a great deal of challenge on offer here, just endless repetition. The game 
 tries your patience more than your flying skills and marksmanship.  

           Pretty scenery, but the yawns begin not long after the oohs and aahs stop.      

  
 Ship configuration is really the only interesting aspect of the game design. Different types of 
 hardware are added to the hangar-bay loadout choices before every mission, giving you the option 
 to trick out your ride with various reactors, guns, missiles, shields, hull armor, and the like. 
 Choices aren't really explained very well, though. A talking-head clip of an engineer pops up to 
 give you some highlights of one or two of the new goodies, but these brief descriptions never give 
 you a full run-down on how such goodies help or hinder you in combat, or outline what you should 
 equip for the task ahead. So it can be easiest to take the path of least resistance and just click 
 the auto-configure button. Not that it's all that difficult to figure things out on your own. Stats 
 for each modification are fairly bare-bones, and all you really need to do to custom-craft your 
 ship is make sure that you keep the weight and energy requirements within operating parameters. 

  At least Tarr Chronicles looks pretty good. Although it lacks the cotton-candy nebulae that turn 
 some space sims into galactic amusement parks, the backdrop is crammed with stars and superb lighting 
 effects. Vessels are just a touch too dark. Many objects seem backlit by nearby suns, planets, 
 and the bright starfield, which obscures a lot of fine details unless you get really up-close and 
 personal. Audio is just as repetitive as the mission objectives, though. Wingmen repeat the same 
 canned comments during furballs. You'll hear "Group, hold it together!" about once a minute. And 
 the music seems to be a 30-second clip that loops incessantly and is so clumsily inserted into 
 the game that there is often an audible tick when the loop restarts.  

  There are some things that man was not meant to know, and Tarr Chronicles is clearly one of them. 
 But unlike so many other awful games, at least Quazar Studio doesn't hide this fact. On the contrary, 
 it pretty much wallops you over the head with its incomprehensibility from the very moment you 
 load it up. So, you might want to thank the developer for not wasting too much of your time, if 
 not for anything else.  

    Editor's Note: This review addresses the digitally distributed version of the game.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: X3Warrior
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I know Tarr got 4.0. I think it's a little bit better. It may be short, but being able to customize 
 your fighter is a great idea, and its fun to build your own fighter systems. While the story can 
 be tough to follow, its sets a gritty feel for the game, adding some atmosphere. The combat is 
 frantic and tough, but it can be hard to beat the enemy starfighters which seem to have turrets. 
 (No fair!)
  
  Some of the missions can be annoying, but give it a few tries and you'll beat it. This game has 
 some good ideas (the customization again) , but its the implementation that matters. Buy it if you 
 want some quick action, but don't expect a super long and meaningful game. If you want a non-linear 
 sim, you might want to check out X3. Sure, Gamespy gave it a low review when it first came out, 
 but things are different now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Tarr Chronicles has a lot of potential, but bad choices in gameplay and upgrading your ship put 
 it down. Let`s start :
  
  Good points
  - Beautiful universe
  - Easy interface and game controls
  - Fine looking ships
  - Good wingmen
  
  Bad points 
 
  - No open game and this is a problem because any simulation require some time to get used with 
 the flying mechanism, shooting, diving away from enemies, etc. Since all the mission are prescripted, 
 is no freelancing on your own and no chances to explore the universe.
  - Automatic save game. A common problem for all simulation games and Tarr doesn`t go away from 
 the tradition. I want to save my game whenever I wish, not after each succesfull mission. People, 
 this is 2008. I want some freedom !
  - Ship tweaking. First there is a maximum loading capacity, so the game start with you trying to 
 balance reactors, shields, engines, hulls, etc. weight in order to tweak properly the ship. Next 
 every offensive weapon have an energy consumption, even missiles ! I understand guns need to be 
 controled somehow, but missiles ?! Every step of the way using missile will deplete the energy 
 bar (overheating) and guns can`t be used until the bar get above 50%. Bad choice, isn`t it ? Not 
 yet, no ! You cannot install 2 guns and 2 missile type in the same time, without the energy consumption 
 going high sky ! That `s true , instaling one more gun and missile will reduce the energy capacity, 
 not their actual use in combat ! If somehow your reactor don`t produce enough energy, the energy 
 bar go red and you can`t jump in the ship to fly from hangar ! Come on !
  - Upgrading weapons, shields, etc. This is even uglier than before. Low level tech require a normal 
 level of parts, even that weapons damage work only with electronics, found - you guess ! - by dismantling 
 weapons ! Enhancing your energy bar requires monstrous amount of parts, not even near the trouble 
 you took to advance so far. For example 1400 more points to energy bar equal 23000 condensers, 
 600 regenerations and 50 nanomodules. The other opgrade are far more easy to acomplish, but ....
 
  - Missions designs. Everybody in simulation games have an obssesion with protecting convoys or 
 using stationary turrets ( Darkstar One hint ! ) . Beside the usual chatter between wingmen - really, 
 who have the time to do this under heavy fire ?! - you`ll get orders like destroy the generators/engage 
 enemy scouts before they kill some transport vessels. I didn`t get it - why bother tweaking up 
 your ship while some stupid transporters, always with lousy pilots on the helm, will be shoot in 
 no time and die . Failed mission ! Really ! This is a simulation, not a strategy game ! I use my 
 reflex and my ship to get some fun, not to replay over and over the same mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gciochina
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I needed my FreeSpace2 shot so badly that when i heard about Tarr Chronicles my hear almost stopped. 
 The first thing you get is a pretty nice Homeworld style movie. Even better! Then you go into the 
 pre-flight stages (archive/journal/hangar) and here you find a deep nicely plotted story. Superb. 
 And just when you enter the game, eager to shoot the red blips on the radar, the hole thing crashes. 
 And this breaks your heart. And this is only the beginning... the game will break your heart several 
 times if you are stubborn enough to keep on trying... I personally kept on trying. Because of the 
 black and white Homeworld style movies and of the story that was unfolding with every mission.
 
  
  A fair game in my opinion... good space combat is hard to find these days... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M__N__M
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I've been following this game for quite some time before its release and was actually looking forward 
 to it. However I was quite disappointed with it having just finished the game. Here is an indepth 
 take on the game.
  
  Unlike your regular space sims out there, Tarr Chronicles doesn't try to be an open-ended space 
 sim with varying missions &amp; goals. Instead it strictly aims to become a linear space shooter 
 that is very mission driven. While this in itself isn't quite bad, it does mean that replay value 
 of this game is small as there is little room for change. But what really brings this game down 
 is the story telling, awful is too weak a word to describe it. Unlike other games that usually 
 take the time to explain the past &amp; the present so you can connect with the storyline, Tarr 
 chronicles thrusts you deep into the game's universe with very little to go on. You constantly 
 feel like you're trying to make sense of your surroundings and where you are in the storyline as 
 you never really feel like you know whats going on. The game's universe does seem to be well developed 
 and seems to have a lot of detail put into it, however since you're not familiar with this universe 
 to begin with its hard to relate to the game or get a feel for the story at all. It's like trying 
 to get someone who has never seen any Star Wars movies to play a star wars game, it'll be hard 
 for him to learn the game's universe unless the game helps him. However Tarr chronicles doesn't 
 even try which further complicates the situation. The intro &amp; your cabin encyclopedia briefly 
 explain a little history about the game and tells you about this ever-expanding material devouring 
 entity that is called the Mirk. There seems to be several alien factions as well but how they fit 
 into this game is never really explained. As soon as you begin to make sense of your position in 
 the universe, the game takes a huge leap forward and puts you back into the middle of ignorance. 
 With so little understanding of the story, the game fails to immerse you in its universe if not 
 alienate you altogether.
  
  The missions themselves are quite linear, however they do try to seem more fluid as you get new 
 objectives occasionally according to your progress in the mission. These new objectives can differ 
 greatly from your original mission objective like getting diverted to escort some other NPC ships 
 or squads like missile frigates and other ships that are usually vulnerable to enemy fighters. 
 However all the missions are plagued with so much meaningless NPC chatter during combat that you 
 unconsciously start tuning out, missing out on sometimes important details that can affect the 
 mission. The game's save system also complicates matters further as failing an objective (or dying) 
 means you'll have to redo everything since your last completed objective.
  
  About the only things this game has done right is the graphics &amp; gameplay. The graphics are 
 quite appealing and rarely disappoint you while the gameplay is fun and engaging. While the AI 
 can be a bit dumb and the missions can seem repetitive, the good graphics &amp; controls help in 
 making the many dogfights a pleasant experience. Another of the best features of this game is the 
 hangar which lets you customize your ship with various hulls, reactors, engines, weapons... etc 
 as long as they meet the weight &amp; energy requirements. Although this area isn't really well 
 explained and might feel daunting at first, it should be really easy to quickly get into on your 
 own and adds a lot of much needed depth &amp; character to your ship and this game in general. 
 The hangar has a separate area called the workshop which isn't even mentioned anywhere at all. 
 The workshop can be used to manufacture devices that can be attached on your ship, these devices 
 usually offer some boost to the ship statistics. However with so little explained about this feature 
 and much of the statistics, its hard to figure out what you want and how to get it.
  
  If thats not all, the game is quite buggy. Although some of these bugs have been fixed since the 
 patch, there remains quite a few issues including a terrible memory leak that can reduce the most 
 powerful systems to skeletons. This effectively forces you to shut down the game every once in 
 a while, otherwise it eventually crashes as it slowly grinds to a halt.
  
  In conclusion its obvious that this game could've used a bit more time in the design &amp; development 
 stage. It seriously lacks on the storytelling area &amp; fails to immerse the player in its universe. 
 However it is a fun diversion and a decent space combat sim so it might be worth a try if you have 
 nothing else around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2t2s
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  The games cut scenes as well as the in game dialogue is always been cut (the patch fixes that problem 
 i guess) , but the main problem (for me at least, is that, at the end of mission 7.3 (the one at 
 guardian space where u need to find and escort back 2 missing ships) , while i finish escorting 
 the 2nd ship back to the rendezvous point the game always crashes saying something about missing 
 files (if i understand well that is) . The problem is always at the same point, regardles the version 
 of the game (i have tried with the v1 and with the patched one.
  Its a pity because it looks really nice and the upgrading feature is a good touch too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadfall
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I got the oppurtunity to download the demo for this game and it's a masterpiece. You really have 
 to admire the work that went into the making of this game. No other Space type sim game has such 
 an incredible, detailed look as Tarr Chronicles. The battles are very cool, and navigating targets 
 is very easy to do, making it easy to jump right into battle. The way space looks in this game 
 is very well done, gases come alive, the way the stars look, asteroids, planets, suns, all the 
 way space should look. If Star Wars Galaxies would make an effort to make Space look and play the 
 way this game does, they'd revive their space layer as they call it. If you enjoy playing space 
 shooters, or sims, download the demo for this and be wowed, this game is right on queue for how 
 space shooters Should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Just finished playing a quick little mission in the demo version and determined that while it's 
 ambitious, it falls a little flat. The graphics aren't bad at all, they're pretty sharp considering 
 the relatively low system requirements. The gameplay is pretty much your straightforward flight 
 action fare. There's nothing too fancy to get caught up in as you're going after the baddies and 
 shooting them up. What is unfortunate, however, are the uninspired explosions. When you make a 
 kill, you want a satisfying and colorful burst accompanied by a perfectly good explosive sound. 
 Here, after you make a kill, it feels like a pop gun going off, and a weak one at that.
  
  The controls aren't too shabby, as they made it available via either joystick or mouse for the 
 casual gamer. I tried both and the mouse controls are surprisingly responsive. I have a force feedback 
 joystick and was disappointed that the game didn't include force feedback as it certainly enhances 
 the experience of the game. Also, despite having rudder controls on my joystick, I could only use 
 the rudder via the keyboard. Perhaps there's an option to change that binding, but I didn't bother 
 finding out.
  
  The story and voice acting, to be honest, is hokey. The whole chatter with confirm, zeta alpha! 
 kind of kills the sci-fi feel as it's too overwrought. Like I said earlier, ambitious, but falls 
 on its face.
  
  Maybe it's because I'm spoiled in X-Wing Alliance, Tie Fighter, and especially Freespace 2 that 
 I expect so much out of Tarr Chronicles. If you HAVE to get this game, I'd wait until it was in 
 the bargain bin so it's not much of a ripoff. Actually, speaking of ripoffs, I think Tarr could 
 be described as a poor man's Freespace 2.
  
  Bottom line: There's better games out there, but given the dismal state of the sci-fi sim genre, 
 this is about as good as it can get for a modern game. I'd recommend Freespace 2, except it's next 
 to impossible to find, and don't ask me if I'll sell my copy, it ain't for sale! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been following TC since I first heard about it a few months ago and with all the crapolia 
 games in the space genre coming out lately (DS 1, SF 2) are a few to mention I was hesitant in 
 purchasing TC but after finding it online I gave her a try. To my surprise I liked the story and 
 ship combat but the weapon sounds are dismal at best. However, voice acting this time is decent 
 and nothing like Rogue Universe's disastrous NPC voice work. So here's my break down for Tarr Chronicles:
 
  
  Gameplay: The mission structure so far is solid and there are several objectives to complete within 
 each level. Mostly escort, dock with ships and fight space thugs but with only being halfway through 
 TC this might change.
  
  Graphics: Very good and compared to other space genre games it's right up there. I like the background 
 with different shades of colors for nebulas and suns. The planets look amazing as well and you 
 really get the sense of piloting a ship in space from the cockpit. I still think X-3 has overall 
 better space graphics but TC is not to far behind compared to some of the most recent titles.
 
  
  Sound: The voice acting is decent as I mentioned earlier but the laser and rocket sounds are dismal 
 to me. It's nothing that can't be fixed with a sound mod but as is it's not that great.
  
  Replay Value: I haven't finnished TC as of yet but I can't see a whole lot of replay so far with 
 the game. There are objectives and secondary objectives like with any game of this type and the 
 game keeps track of your kills and profile status in general so there is always a chance you might 
 want to improve your skill set, upgrade your ship's or try different strategies but other than 
 that I don't see many people playing TC a second or even a third time through other than for the 
 thrill of simply playing a great looking space combat game in an science fiction rich atmosphere.
 
  
  Overall: Tarr Chronicles is a decent but linear mission based space sim that does exactly as advertised. 
 Even with this fact it's a nice ride through space and the story is creative if not a little too 
 typical for this type of game. The game has great space visuals, decent voice acting and a solid 
 story plot to follow but with these features aside problems arise with mainly weapon sounds and 
 a losely knitted mission structure. If you can look passed it's faults and relax a little Tarr 
 Chronicles will surely give you many hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
