-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Taz Wanted
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/tazwanted/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.3, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 25 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Blitz Games
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Oct 1, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All the authentic cartoon characters in the world couldn't make this game fun. 

 The voracious Tasmanian Devil (or "Taz" for short) , who's famous for his loud, incoherent gibbering, 
 his ability to turn into a hyperactive brown whirlwind, and his love of eating pretty much anything, 
 has been a member of Warner Bros.' classic Looney Tunes cartoon cast for years. So it would make 
 sense for him to eventually become the star of his own game. And Taz Wanted gets off to a good 
 start: The game features colorful, cartoon-style, flat-shaded graphics, a decent soundtrack, and 
 voice acting ripped straight from the cartoons. But after you play Taz Wanted and struggle with 
 its terrible camera angles and repetitive tasks, you'll probably agree that all the authentic cartoon 
 characters in the world couldn't make this game fun, even if Taz Wanted does come packed in with 
 an extra free game.           That ornery varmint Yosemite Sam has put Taz in a zoo...    

  The "story" behind Taz Wanted, such as it is, involves Taz and his hapless girlfriend, who are 
 both captured by the rootin'-tootin' cowboy Yosemite Sam and placed on display in a zoo as prize 
 exhibits. Taz eventually escapes, but not before the ornery Sam grabs his lady friend and flees, 
 so it's up to Taz to chase him down through the game's 15 levels and save the girl. But you find 
 out about this story only after you start the game. In the introduction sequence, you'll actually 
 see Taz accidentally crash into such Looney Tunes luminaries as Sylvester the Cat, Daffy Duck, 
 and Elmer Fudd -- but you'll see hardly any of them throughout the actual game. In fact, other than 
 the game's tutorial, which is given by Tweety Bird, and an occasional cameo from Yosemite Sam, 
 the appearances by other famous Looney Tunes characters are few and far between, so if you were 
 looking to pick up Taz Wanted in hopes of visiting all your favorite characters, you'll probably 
 be disappointed.   

  Unfortunately, Taz Wanted's actual gameplay is worse than disappointing. The game is a third-person 
 platform-jumping action game that has frustratingly bad camera angles and repetitive, boring tasks. 
 In each of the game's levels, you play as Taz, and you must destroy seven "wanted" posters, as 
 well as complete optional goals like collecting 100 sandwiches, destroying 50 percent of the destructible 
 objects in each level (which come in the form of crates, treasure chests, or lunch boxes, depending 
 on which level you play) , or collecting a secret golden Yosemite Sam statue. Regardless of the 
 task at hand, Taz Wanted's camera follows Taz much too closely -- it's practically glued to Taz' 
 back and doesn't let you zoom in or out to get a better view of your surroundings. The camera also 
 jerks about wildly whenever you try to make any kind of turn.   

  And the camera just doesn't work in Taz Wanted's multitiered levels. Taz has to run up walkways, 
 drop down sinkholes, climb through tunnels, and jump up different series of stairs and platforms, 
 and the camera tends to get stuck behind walls or high over his head, sometimes completely obscuring 
 him from view. Many of Taz Wanted's tedious jumping puzzles, which involve Taz simply jumping to 
 the next platform to reach the next wanted poster (or the next springboard to boost him to the 
 next wanted poster, or the next cannon to shoot him at the next wanted poster) , aren't even that 
 challenging. But the clumsy, spastic camera makes them needlessly difficult, so much so that you'll 
 find yourself repeatedly walking around that same corner, climbing up those same steps, and hopping 
 up to that same ledge until you finally make the jump. You can stop everything and rotate the camera 
 around Taz when he's standing still, but you can't successfully do this while he's jumping or when 
 he's trying to avoid getting captured by Yosemite Sam's goons.   

  Luckily, if Taz gets captured or falls in a lake or gets gobbled up by a passing shark or alligator, 
 he doesn't die -- he just reappears nearby, and if he's captured by an enemy, he just loses money. 
 For some reason, Taz earns thousands of imaginary dollars for destroying wanted posters, which 
 he can use to unlock such uninteresting secrets as storyboard drawings of himself and of some of 
 the buildings and platforms he jumps on. Taz Wanted also has several minigames that you can unlock 
 either by collecting 100 sandwiches in a level or by fighting the boss of each area, but none of 
 these are especially fun, and several of them (especially the ones that require you to smash a 
 number of items within a certain time limit) have the same camera problems as the regular game. 
   

  It's too bad that Taz Wanted plays so poorly, because the game actually looks and sounds surprisingly 
 good. Taz Wanted is a very colorful 3D game that uses cartoon-style graphics for its characters, 
 like Taz and Yosemite Sam, and Taz's movements, mannerisms, and his trademark whirlwind look very 
 authentic, even though the game's environments, and some of its enemies, look plain in comparison. 
 Taz Wanted's music generally consists of generic, upbeat pop-music-style tunes that turn into electric-guitar 
 remixes when Taz uses his whirlwind ability, while the game's voice actors are the same ones that 
 are used for modern-day Looney Tunes' cartoons. Some of the voice samples do tend to run together, 
 and in other cases, the sound at the end of a voice sample drops completely, but by and large, 
 Taz Wanted actually looks and sounds as you'd probably hope from a game like this.           ... and 
 maybe that's not such a bad thing.    

  Normally, the review would end right about here, but in this case it must be noted that the retail 
 PC version of Taz Wanted also packs in a free bonus game -- a port of the 2001 PlayStation game Sheep 
 Raider, which stars Sam the sheepdog and Wile E. Coyote as Ralph the wolf. In this game, you play 
 as Wile E. (who plays as Ralph) and use stealth and gadgets to get past your burly sheepdog nemesis. 
 As you'd expect, Sheep Raider for the PC looks and sounds like a spruced-up PlayStation game, featuring 
 simplistic flat-shaded characters and environments, generic music, and sound that has a tendency 
 to skip, mainly because you don't even install the game on your hard drive, but play it off the 
 CD instead. Then again, it's a free game, and considering that solving Taz Wanted's repetitious 
 puzzles tends to be pretty time-consuming, you've got a suite of games that can actually keep you 
 busy for quite some time -- if you can actually stand the games themselves.   

  Who should actually get Taz Wanted? Parents who want to occupy their very young children -- children 
 who are so young that they don't know enough to find Taz Wanted's poor gameplay to be frustrating, 
 maybe. Or fanatical Looney Tunes fans who have to collect every last little Warner Bros. souvenir, 
 maybe. Everyone else would probably be better off giving it a pass.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Well... This game would have been much better. The creators could have done some improvements on 
 the graphics and the camers. The camera is worst of them all. The controls are bad too. I'm not 
 saying it is that bad. I liked this game very much. I liked playing as Taz and smashing all the 
 wanted posters. I liked the music, the sound, Taz's attitude and everything that Taz does. He was 
 very funny. The boss levels were fun to play and the last boss level too was fun. But I did'nt know 
 that the 'little bird' was the main villan, not Sam. So, this game is not that bad. You will get 
 used to it when you will play on and on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 19, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Taz Wanted tells the story of the World Famous Tazmanian Devil called Taz. He is trapped by the 
 evil cowboy called Yosemite Sam, and he is sent to a zoo, while his girlfriend (or at least, that 
 is what it looks like) is sent somewhere. Taz escapes, and must now rescue his girlfriend and return 
 home.
  
  That's the basic storyline. Yet Taz Wanted of almost the same in each level. Taz must destroy the 
 signs that say "Taz Wanted" (The name probably comes from that) , destroy 50% of the boxes, crates, 
 chests, pots, etc., collect the Golden Sam, and collect 100 sandwiches. Gets pretty boring after 
 a while, doesn't it?
  
  Yet to save this boredom, the levels come in various styles, from a construction site, to a museum 
 as well as many others, which fit in a looney tunes style: colorful and exaggerated. 
  
  After at least completing two objectives in each level in each stage, you get to fight the boss, 
 which consists of a task of beating one of Sam's henchmen.
  
  Graphics. Well, the best graphics are the one of Taz, and some of the other henchmen. The rest 
 of the graphicsare poor, ranging to bad.
  
  And so, to end this review, Taz Wanted is probably not a game you want to play, yet, if you don't 
 have anything else to do, play it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
