-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Team Fortress 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/teamfortress2boa/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique, well-balanced classes and maps.
 Team dynamic can yield immensely satisfying moments.
 Appealing visual aesthetic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heavy reliance on other players can make or break the experience.
 Strategic depth can be daunting.
 Price pushes boundaries of reasonability.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 3,194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Valve Software
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Team Fortress 2 sets a brilliant stage for its signature brand of class-based multiplayer mayhem. 
 

  As one of the first shooters to pioneer team- and class-based gameplay, the first Team Fortress 
 quickly became a favorite among the online community, inspiring devotion and spawning innumerable 
 user-created modifications that many still play today. Team Fortress 2 was announced almost a decade 
 ago as a sequel to the original mod, and went through many transformations and design iterations 
 before its release last October as part of The Orange Box. At heart, TF2 remains true to its roots, 
 pitting two teams against each other in objective-based competition. Players on both teams select 
 one of nine character classes, each with their own unique abilities, strengths, and weaknesses. 
 TF2's cartoon aesthetic and stripped-down classes belie its complexity, and the dynamic interplay 
 of abilities and strategies is nuanced, hectic, and challenging. The result is a fantastic multiplayer 
 experience that proves itself a worthy successor to its seminal ancestor.  

  As a purely multiplayer game, Team Fortress 2 has no need for a storyline. Instead, it has characters. 
 Each class is a uniquely styled character with his own amusing personality (some of whom have been 
 featured in hilarious "Meet The..." video features that are readily available online) . These classes 
 come equipped with three weapons, generally classifiable as a primary gun, a secondary weapon, 
 and a melee weapon. For example, the soldier class comes armed with a rocket launcher, a shotgun 
 secondary weapon, and a shovel for close quarters combat. Classes are grouped into offense, defense, 
 and support, though their actual roles in combat are far more fluid.  

           If you think the heavy and medic won't join the soldier on offense, you got another thing 
 comin'.      

  The offensive group includes the scout, the pyro, and the soldier. The scout is lean, fast, and 
 nimble (he can double-jump) , but light on health. He can capture points twice as fast as other 
 classes and can quickly gun down less robust classes, but his relatively low health makes him highly 
 susceptible to sentry guns and the Heavys minigun. The pyro wears a black flame-retardant suit 
 to protect himself from his flamethrower, which can light opponents on fire. While deadly at close 
 range and in enclosed spaces, the pyro is much less effective in open areas. The soldier wields 
 a powerful rocket launcher that is effective at any range, though its small clip and slow reload 
 rate can be a hindrance.  

  In the defensive group you'll find the demoman, the heavy, and the engineer. Demomen have grenade 
 launchers that can ricochet shots around corners, and remote-detonated sticky bombs that are great 
 for setting traps. Heavies have the most health, but are also the slowest since they carry a giant 
 minigun that can shred nearby opponents in seconds. Engineers have the unique ability to build 
 structures, like sentry guns, ammo/health dispensers, and teleporters. Though they are armed with 
 shotguns as well, their primary concern is building and maintaining their machines in strategic 
 locations.  

  Support characters are an eclectic bunch: the medic, the sniper, and the spy. The medic's primary 
 gun restores his allies to health, and can charge up to release an ubercharge, giving him and his 
 target temporary invulnerability. The sniper is deadly at long range, able to charge up his bullet 
 by remaining zoomed to the point where a headshot will instantly kill almost any foe. The spy is 
 able to disguise himself as a member of the opposing team and can deliver one-hit kills by stabbing 
 enemies in the back. He also has devices that can destroy the engineer's structures, making him 
 very dangerous when behind enemy lines.  

  Though different classes clearly lend themselves to different roles on the battlefield, the strategies 
 each can employ are far from limited, and it can be difficult at first to decide which class to 
 play. While certain classes seem more straightforward than others, they all have their nuances 
 that can only be learned over time. Fortunately, you have the option to switch classes every time 
 you respawn, or any time you run back into the spawn point. This gives both teams the flexibility 
 to change strategies on the fly, and it's one of the key elements that make Team Fortress 2 so 
 dynamic.  

  This flexibility can also cause problems, especially for teams that aren't communicating properly. 
 If half the team decides to switch it up while the other half decides to stay the course, the resulting 
 disarray can scuttle your chances of victory. There are useful hotkeys that allow you to send quick 
 messages, and many players use voice chat to stay on point. Still, many a team has fallen to defeat 
 due to dissonant strategy, and as such Team Fortress 2's biggest strength is also its biggest liability. 
 Your success is tied to your team's success and, in part, so is your enjoyment of the game. Just 
 as being part of a fluid, coordinated team is truly excellent, so too is being part of a fractured, 
 dysfunctional team truly frustrating. These are two extremes, to be sure, but such is the inconsistent 
 nature of a game experience that depends so wholly on other players.  

           Without that ammo dispenser, that heavy will run dry in no time. Thanks, engie!      

 
  Fortunately, most of the TF2 experience falls somewhere between those two extremes. Every game 
 mode demands a cooperative strategy (there are no Deathmatch modes) , but the basics aren't hard 
 to grasp. In the Capture the Flag mode, players must grab a briefcase of intelligence from the 
 opposing team's base and return it to their own. In the Control Point mode, teams fight to capture 
 all the control points on the map. The Attack/Defend mode challenges one team to capture the control 
 points while the other team defends, and teams switch roles between rounds. Each of the maps is 
 designed for one or two specific game modes, and all are meticulously designed to create numerous 
 strategic approaches for both teams.  

  Since the game's release last October, Valve has released a few new maps and game modes, slowly 
 expanding the somewhat sparse catalog. They have also recently released three new weapons for the 
 medic that you unlock by completing achievements. These weapons feature slight stat tweaks and 
 new abilities that add a new element of customization to the class, and no doubt herald future 
 weapon deployments for the other classes. While this did cause a (hopefully) temporary imbalance 
 in the number of people playing as medics and a rise in overtly self-interested tactics, it offers 
 new challenges and goals for players. This new content helps extend the replay value of TF2, which 
 makes the high price point a little easier to swallow.  

  Valve has done a fantastic job creating and balancing the maps, classes, and other game elements 
 that are within their control. Still, Team Fortress 2 is a purely multiplayer game and, as such, 
 lives and dies by the team. Most of the time you'll find yourself well matched, but the inherent 
 uncertainty of the game can make for some vexing sessions. Your best move is to seek out friends 
 and servers that are least likely to yield such sessions, and then enjoy the fertile battlegrounds 
 that Team Fortress 2 so expertly cultivates. You'd be remiss not to reap this harvest.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (144 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wallie1994
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  Hi, this is my review about TF2.
  
  TF2 is the best multiplayer ever, period.
  TF2 is easygoing, competitive and absolutely fun.
  The concept is that there is a RED and a BLU 
 team. Those teams compete and there are 9 classes.
  Here are they whith a short discription:
  Scout: FAST!
  Soldier: Strong rockets
  Pyro: best 
 at close range
  Demoman: trap people whith sticky bombs!
  Heavy: Spray your minigun and win!
  Engineer: has the possibility to build guns, dispensers, 
 teleporters
  Medic: healing!
  Sniper: headshots are fatal!
  Spy: cloak and stab.
  In my opinion, the spy is best and the heavy is the most powerful.
  If you dont have TF2 buy 
 it now! its worth it trust me.
  
  Playing TF2 is also funny.
  If you kill someone all the time, the character will taunt and say funny things, for example, if 
 you kill a heavy whith your baseballbat as a scout, he will say: EAT IT FATTY! or IF YOU ORDER 
 NOW, ILL GIVE YOU A SECOND BEATIN ABSOLUTELY FREE!
  
  That makes playing a lot more fun
  There are also steam achievements.
  and if you get a certain amount of achievements you will 
 get a gun/lunchbox item for a particular player. This isnt whith all classes but its worth doing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 2:35 am PT
Review:  In years of game play, one thing you can be sure; there are few games that have a more devoted 
 following then Team Fortress. A game that has no story, no objective other than killing the other 
 guy shouldn't really be that successful should it? Well, don't try telling that to anyone who loves 
 it because they might shoot you with a grenade launcher.
  
  Fast paced, easy to play, Team Fortress is a scramble. Each map features certain map objectives 
 like capture the flag, hold the flag, advance the map and many user modified maps and once you 
 enter it's a bitter battle that universally is won by whoever has the best "team".
  
  A well balanced team can usually triumph due to the class choices. Scouts for speed, pyros for 
 flame and spy checks, spies for covert maneuvering and ambush, soldiers for range rockets, snipers 
 for up close head pinging, medics for healing, heavy gunners for machine guns, demos for grenade 
 launching and ambushing and finally the engineer for building defensive sentry guns.
  
  The interesting thing about each class is no matter how good you are, there is always one class 
 that will be your nemesis because they offset your greatest strengths. What makes Team Fortress 
 2 especially fun is it's free to play, requiring no monthly fee and the like. 
  
  Most user servers do ask for donations and if you plan on playing extensively then it's suggested 
 you pony up a few donations to keep the servers running. The usual is $10 a month but some are 
 even less. For the especially busy servers, you're guaranteed a slot. Most of the stock map games 
 are usually limited to 32 total players so popular servers can stay full many times.
  
  The graphics are fun. All classes have their own type of character and the ability to screen shoot 
 and taunt are fun ways to claim dominance without being a spoiled sport. The one complaint with 
 the TF2 maps that set them apart from the old style TF1 maps is that there are few hiding spots 
 provided.
  
  TF2 is all about the free for all and how you work as a team. Unlike the classic Team Fortress, 
 the new edition has had class upgrades since the opening. Thus far scouts, heavies, pyros and medics 
 have received the only upgrades and fortunately the perks don't seem to throw the game out of balance.
 
  
  All in all, this is a mindless game that offers tons of fun. Not being a thinking man's game, it's 
 just a fun and exciting way to wile away a few hours and possibly many more compliments of the 
 rather addictive qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny8_0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't have much to say, but here goes.
  
  Game play: It's okay. Everything seems to be going good just until the point where you experience 
 something that is not suppose to normally happen. That something involves balance. This game is 
 highly unbalanced, and I'll show you an example.
  In the previous TF games, classes were equally balanced, or somewhat. Classes such as the Scout, 
 the fast, agile, weak class that's designed for capping runs, or the soldier, who's job is defending 
 the main part of the base, is a heavy class, and is the backbone of the defense. Now, compared 
 to TF2, these two classes plus a estimated more I didn't include have been beaten more than a dead 
 horse by Valve over the months. The Scout is now more powerful than the original versions, and 
 now is capable of killing any class with ease. That's a bad thing. He's not suppose to be Rambo. 
 Same as the Soldier, his rocket launcher makes him be at an advantage over many of the classes. 
 I cannot back this up, but I've heard that he's the new dominator class. Say Hi. to my rocket.
 
  
  Sound: I ain't got much to say. It's solid for the most part.
  
  Graphics: It's not too shabby, but not so great. It may not be as some people hoped, but it's something. 
 It's not as bad as their major unbalance. This is actually one of TF2's positives, because without 
 it, the whole personality of the classes wouldn't fit in.
  
  Story: Huh? It's a first person shooter, team based. Why am I saying story... Well, I'll just say 
 that this game is largely team based. I dunno. People shout medic too much. Lotta' communities.
 
  
  Overall: It's a fun game to play if you can get through all this mumble jumble balance crap, and 
 actually give the game a chance. It may seem easy though. Final score - 7.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky551
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game, easily one of the best games valve has ever made. The sequel to Team Fortress, 
 TF2 is even better than its near-perfect predecessor.
  With the new scout update, this game has become even more in-depth. Also, about every 3-6 months, 
 a new class update comes out, replenishing the game of any lost luster, as if it could ever lose 
 luster.
  This is the kind of game you can spend hours playing and not even know it. I once played this game 
 for 12 hours nonstop! Even after all that time, th game was still amazing. This game is all multiplayer, 
 but there are no shortage of servers to join, and this game will be going strong for a very long 
 time.
  
  PS: For a very fun server to go to, try finding a server with the tag (DDR)
  
  PSS: For n00bs, heavy is the easiest class to be, but you should try all of the classes, to find 
 out what you are best at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Team fortress 2 is one of the greatest online fps in the buisness. For example, there is 9different 
 character class, put into three categories of attack, defend, and support.
  
  The graphics are very, very unique and entertaining and adds personality to this game. Each class 
 has it's own uniqueness like the Demoman being a druken scotish to the scout being a guy from the 
 bronx. The sound also adds some variety and humor.
  
  The 9 different classes are scout, soldier, pyro, demoman, heavy, engineer, medic, sniper, and 
 spy. Each class has a strong point and a weakness. For example, the scout is very fast and agile 
 but cant substain to much damage, while the heavy has tons of health but is slow. It is very rock, 
 paper, scissors here.
  
  There is about 9 official maps and each supports a different gametype. 2fort for example is a capture 
 the flag [or capture the intelligence] while dustbowl is capturing a set area and holding it. There 
 is also other things like moving a mine car from and to the other side of the map so you can blow 
 up their base. Each map also allows arena mode which is a deathmatch mode with one life. It's all 
 very fun and varied.
  
  What also is very unique is the addition of achievment [without gamerscore though] Achievments 
 are like milestones and very unique situations. Say you get 1000kills with this weapon or another 
 example is like lighting 5enemys on fire within 30secs. Their is currently 170achievments, all 
 of which are quite difficult and will make you come back for more.
  
  Some achievments also unlock upgrades for classes like getting 3 achievments dealing with the heavy 
 [heavy pack is what they are called] you get boxing gloves for melee.
  
  This is a valve game so there is alot of modding which also adds a whole nother layer of great 
 fun multiplayer! 
  
  So if you like multiplayer, check this game out! If you want to contact me, my xfire is sk8erpilot 
 and my steam account is roflazer, cya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemonystuff
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:10 am PT
Review:  This game has no difficulty, as there is no story mode. but it's all fantastic online. if you're 
 new, then you should play on some beginner servers, or make your own, some people i play keep on 
 headshot-ing me. though that's annoying, just jump around where there's snipers in the area.
  
  graphics:
  i love this game's cartoony style. reminds me of TV. i like tv. it's a change 
 as valve makes serious graphic games.
  
  gameplay:
  this game, as i said earlier, is very fun, you can get trophies and show them off in your steam 
 account! (you must have steam, i think you have to buy it from steam to get trophies) 
  
  Customisation:
  as it is class based, there is no character customisation. but when you get the 
 pyro, medic and heavy milestone awards (10, 16, 22 trophies) you unlock new weapons. some weapons 
 are worse than what they're replacing. the only true reason to use the flare gun is for the trophy, 
 which i have :D
  
  so i rate this game 10/10. perfect, bye for now, going to play TF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinH147
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Everything this game has to offer is just perfect and fun. Everyone I know who plays RPG, SImulation, 
 FPS.... and everything else has loved this game. No matter what game you've played, this one just 
 has an undeniable charm that will stay with you for a long time.
  
  Now, I love this game so much because of how funny it is. It's just such a masterpiece with amazing 
 graphics, gameplay, presentation, and intensity. It occured to me when I first played the game, 
 that I just started cracking up when I heard the "Heavy Weapons Guy's" voice. The sense of humor 
 the game offers is just amazing, no matter what class you choose.
  
  Oh yes, the classes. You can choose from the Scout to Soldier, Pyro, Demoman, Heavy, Engineer, 
 Medic, Sniper, and Spy. They're all perfectly balanced and will never get you frusterated or having 
 to give up after some trial and error. The game puts you at the edge of your seat for hours with 
 begging for more.
  
  In conclusion, this multi-player shooter game should never be missed by anyone. It is worth every 
 penny and will never make you want to shut off the game by any means.
  
  Also, the new updates for the PC version of the game just never stop. Don't miss the acheivements 
 you have to recieve to get new weapons for different classes. Plus tons of new maps and extras 
 that make the game more fun than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyowns
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best games of all time. All nine classes are balanced because there 
 is a counter to every class. Such as the spy counters the heavy. There are in lot of weapons to 
 choose from (my opinion not a fact) . Each class is a whole new experiencing because they all of 
 there own weapons mostly except for the shot gun or pistol, but they all have something they can 
 do that the other classes cant do. The graphics are great and it gets updated with new weapons 
 and maps. Great game for team work. All around an amazing game that will will play for a long long 
 time. Some people have over one thousand hours on it. There are weapons you can choose between 
 for some classes and the ones you cant because they haven't been updated yet, however they will 
 get updated. There are 4 game modes and you can make your own maps. There are some great fan made 
 maps and there are also great valve made maps. You can choose between 24/7 servers that only do 
 one map or you can a server that only does one game mode or a server that rotates between maps 
 ether from a list or a vote . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultramalakian
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  I got it with my Orange Box, and TF2 alone, is truly an ACHIEVEMENT. 
  I could spend lines and lines worshipping the art direction, but let's talk ber the game.
  As 
 you may already now, there are no weapon sets or something scattered around the level.
  You chose a certain class (1 of 9) and join your fellow comrades in the battlefield. 
  From the 
 fast-as-hell-scout; the sadistic, dangerous Soldier, to the Killing Machine Heavy Weapons Guy (My 
 favorite, hehehe.) all the classes have their own style, and requires some time to master it properly.
 
  Each class is, as I said, is unique, with it's own weapons, attacks, pro's and count's... no matter 
 your style, theres a character for you.
  
  As the title suggests, the most important point of the game is the TEAM-work. There are no Deathmatch-one-versus-all 
 modes, you always team up with one or more buddies. 
  There are many modes and maps, and you can always download custom content from other users.
  
 Another of the great features, is that time by time, Valve launches updates for the game, with 
 new achievements, weapons, maps, modes, etc.... There's plenty of game to be exploited yet...
 
  
  The only thing that I want to point out that should be corrected. is the servers... You may find 
 many, but you can't access all of them. Without explanation, the server seems to be "inactive", 
 even with 8/10 players in, and with a decent ping; and still, you can't enter. Valve: heads up 
 with this...
  
  But still, this may be the best multiplayer game ever made, you just simply won't get bored to 
 play.... IF you can play in any server... Do like me: Try all the servers you can, and if you connect 
 to one, put it into "Favorites".
  
  "We make good team!!!" - the Heavy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowhawk000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is a masterpiece game made by Valve.. well worth the wait and it is a truly Great 
 game..
  While it has no Singleplayer the Multiplayer More then makes up for the lack of it..
  It has 
 9 completely different classes which is great as it will suit any kind of player some of theses 
 are the Pyro a awesome extremely fun class to play with as Burning people with a Flamethrower is 
 great fun..
  The Heavy Is for the those who want the most powerful gun in the game the Minigun! However with 
 this comes the slow and not very mobile bulk of the Heavy.. 
  Or if you don't like those you could try and help your team with the Silky skills of the Spy.. 
 who has the ability to infiltrate the enemy base and back stab the other team as well as sabotage 
 the opposition Engineer structures.. with the help of Invisibility and disguises.. 
  Even through Ive only touched on 3 of the classes the other 6 are all extremely fun to play too.. 
 
  Although This is great team based First person shooter it is also a double edged sword.. as the 
 team is only at is best is when your playing on a team which communicates with it each other.. 
 and work together with teamwork... However if they don't your team could suffer defeat after defeat 
 causing a lot of frustration..
  Another great point about Team Fortress 2 is its unique cartoon art style and its humorous chracters.. 
 which Valve have started to update with new Weapons and items as well as new Achivements which 
 will extend the life of the game by alot longer..
  To Sum it up this is great awesome game.. And Any PC gamer should get it and try it out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empire153
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  TF2 is by far the best online game to ever be released and is an absolutly amazing. There are nine 
 classes to choose from: Scout, Heavy, Medic, Soldier, Pyro, Spy, Sniper, Engineer and Demoman and 
 each of them have three different kinds of weapons. The Scout uses a a double-barrelled shotgun, 
 a pistol and a baseball bat and The Heavy uses a minigun, a shotgun and his fists and The Medic 
 uses a needle gun, which if you shoot your own team, they gain health. He also uses a medi-gun 
 used to heal people and a bone-saw. The Soldier uses a rocket launcher, a shotgun and a shovel 
 and The Pyro uses a flame-thrower, a shotgun and a fire axe. The Spy has a revolver, a electro-sapper, 
 which is used on the engineer's buildings, a knife and a disguise kit which lets the spy turn disguise 
 himself as any class on the opposite team. The Sniper uses a sniper rifle, a submachine gun and 
 a machete and The Engineer uses a shotgun, a pistol, a wrench and a building PDA, which lets him 
 build a sentry, a dispenser and a teleporter entrance and exit and The Demoman who uses a grenade 
 launcher, a sticky grenade launcher and a broken bottle. My personal favourite class is The Pyro 
 because he is a really good class and has great weapons. There have also been 3 major updates which 
 gave another 3 weapons to 3 of the classes which can be unlocked by getting achivements. In my 
 mind, it will take a amazing game to beat Team Fortress2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Now, I love online shooters such as Counter-Strike and Unreal Tournament, simple, equal gameplay 
 based on skill rather than classes. I never was interested in class-based shooters. They risked 
 the equality, the  method. There is ought to be one class 
 preferred over another, and a class that noone wants to pick.
  
  This game is different, however. After you play for a while and see what potential each class has, 
 it takes a while to pick one. This is when you know the classes were created EQUAL. Each class 
 has his advantage and disadvantage. 
  
  Scout - Is fast, but doesn't take that much firepower to take down.
  
  Soldier - Is powerful 
 at close range, but has no real long-range weapon.
  
  Pyro - Once again, powerful at close range, but has no long-range weapon.
  
  Demoman - Has 
 great explosive weapons, but once again, no long range.
  
  Engineer - You can build useful machinery, but you don't have much firepower.
  
  Heavy - Powerful, 
 but doesn't move that fast.
  
  Spy - Has nice disguises and cloaking advantages, but doesn't have that much firepower.
  
  
 Sniper - Great at long-range, so-so at close-range.
  
  Medic - Healing people rewards you, but you don't have that much firepower.
  
  The way the 
 classes work together, how one depends on another, and how one can dominate another, but get dominated 
 by another class, is an amazing little cycle. The very cycle that drives the gameplay to greatness 
 and will give you more friends and rivals than almost any other game.
  
  Next we have graphics. Valve is famous for always using new technology and making their games look 
 and feel very real, but in this game, they take a break from realism. The characters and weapons 
 are 3D cartoons with exaggerated human features, but are rendered beautifully and smoothly. 
  
  The voice acting in this game fits wonderfully with each of the characters. Each of them representing 
 a basic stereotype, being:
  
  
  Scout - New Yorker.
  
  Soldier - well... a soldier.
  
  Pyro - A mumbling pyromaniac.
  
  Demoman - A well-trained 
 Scottish demoman with "battle-scars" (his eye) .
  
  Engineer - A calm and easy-going southern-American.
  
  Heavy - A big, tough Russian guy (yay 
 motherland)
  
  Spy - Some sort of European "secret agent" type.
  
  Sniper - A friendly Australian.
  
  Medic - a German doctor.
  
  Before I wrap this review 
 up, I have one real negative with this game, the stats. They are slow, and will sometimes glitch. 
 It took about two nights to finally recognize my sniper top score being alive, being something 
 40 or 50. And once, my engineer score just got wiped. My teammate and I eliminated all the other 
 teams sentries in jail (took a long, long time) and built our own. Then, the rest of our team came 
 down and we dominated the other team. I had 80 something points one life, and the score got saved, 
 and the next day it got wiped! The pain!
  
  Now, I have only had this game for a few days, and I put 20.1 hours of my life into this game and 
 made some friends along the way. This game is very addictive and very fun and shall be played for 
 years to come. A real successor to the original Team Fortress.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  "Say goodbye to your head, wanker!" - Sniper. (So many great quotes but meh)
  
  What is there to say? You spawn in your team room and then go and kill people on 9 different classes 
 with different purposes and great fun!
  
  Story:
  The Good: Meet the Cast (or Team dunno) trailers were great and much entertaining. Great voice acting! 
 Each class has a different nationality! Funny Taunts! Valve has done it again! 
  The Bad: Meh, seriously there is nothing wrong, not much multiplayer games have a story so this 
 is something special already!
  
  Gameplay:
  The Good: Nine different classes for a different personality and gamestyle, thus increasing the 
 time spent playing and replay value. Very satisfying co-op play and numerous strategies you can 
 use as a solo player in different classes. Different game types. Nice Achievements items makes 
 the game longer.
  The Bad: In servers with small number of people one team may get overpowered thus breaking the 
 fun. Crit system may get annoying and you may hear some people scream - 'Omg HAX!' just because 
 they were critted on too much. Maybe there could be a bit more maps than that.
  
  Graphics: 
  The Good: Cartoony graphics + Intense violence and gibs = Great Satisfaction and 
 it also greatly fits the gamestyle. Small or No lag due to the games graphics style. No graphic 
 glitches.
  The Bad: Some people are not into cartoons hah. (yeah, some are not) .
  
  Overall: The game was greatly inspired by it's Meet the Cast trailers that were cute enough to 
 make me play the game! Various classes with various purposes and great personality in each of them! 
 Very good gameplay but has some downsides due to the quantity of players in each server, it is 
 not much of a problem cause you can always join a crowded server anywhere. Great co-op gaming! 
 Extraordinary graphics for a game of 2007 that really feels right on this kind of multiplayer. 
 I would recommend this to anyone.
  
  Score - Story - 10
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Do you ever get tired of just run-and-gun first-person shooters? Are you ready to put down the 
 Halo series for a little bit and expand your horizons? Well, Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer 
 action you've been looking for. Building its core gameplay around squad-based teamwork, you will 
 have to work as a unit to win. With a selection of nine different classes, ranging from Scout to 
 Medic, there's something for everyone. Initially, I played this on the Xbox 360, but when I began 
 playing it on the PC, I found there was so much more! New levels, gametypes, even weapons, TF2 
 was even more fun! I've found that even when I'm losing, I'm having fun. Not too many games can 
 actually have that effect. Now don't get me wrong, it is extremely competitive gameplay, and there 
 are times when I want to punch my desk. Yet, I keep on coming back. Each class has its own personality 
 that's as vibrant as the unique visuals of TF2. Overall, you can't go wrong with Team Fortress 
 2. I find myself playing 2Fort for hours on end, for a while it seemed like it was the only map 
 the game had, and if that were the case, TF2 would still be worth it. Must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  What is so great about Team Fortress 2? Well the answer is simple; it just sucks you in. Once you 
 get a hang of the game; you simply can't let go of your mouse and your keyboard; YOU JUST HAVE 
 TO PLAY because this game is extremely fun and addictive. 
  
  What I like best about Team Fortress 2 is the extremely, and I mean; extremely good class balance. 
 I have never seen such an excellent class balance in any online game until now. In TF2 you can't 
 find a class that is useless. Every class has it's own strengths and weaknesses and weapons and 
 tactics. The class balance is also an answer to the question why do you want to keep playing TF2 
 all the time; you want to try out new classes and find out what class is particularly good at the 
 moment for the situation on the battlefield. Should you choose the stealthy Spy to destroy the 
 enemy Engineer's devices with an electronic sapper or the swift Scout to go and get the enemy intelligence? 
 Nevertheless, no matter what class you choose in whatever situation, it will not be completely 
 useless. 
  
  All of TF2's maps are well designed, except that you might get lost in some parts. Many of the 
 game's maps are symmetric, though, so you really shouldn't worry about getting lost. The classical 
 "2FORT" map is one of the funniest, well-designed and ultimately the best online shooter maps. 
 You will find yourself playing this map after hours. 
  
  Weapons in TF2 are ingenious, and by achieving achievements you can improve some of the classes 
 weapon's abilities. The best thing about the game's weaponry is that there are no hand grenades 
 - thank the Lord! What I hate about most of the FPS games out there is the freaking grenade rain, 
 no matter where you step someone always tosses a grenade at your feet and then KA-BOOM - back to 
 the respawn area. There are some weapons in the game, however, that could be compared to grenades, 
 such as Demo's grenade launcher (duh) and Soldier's bazooka. They're both better than a never-ending 
 grenade rain, though. 
  
  The difficulty of the game is also one of the best things ever. Team Fortress 2 is not too hard, 
 but not too easy - easy to learn, but hard to master.
  
  All in all, Team Fortress 2 is ultimately the most fun online shooter out there. Due to funny yet 
 beautiful graphics, ingeniously designed maps and an extremely good class balance, you will be 
 spending countless hours with this game for years to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UserMY
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  When I saw both of the trailers around 2006, I'd a feeling this game is gonna be promising like 
 the video. When it came out, the fun begins.
  
  I used to play TFC way back. To be honest, I didn't like it very much because the gameplay was 
 pretty much into snagging the first positions with scores of kills. I sucked in playing most classes. 
 However, TF2 changed the whole perspective (I didn't know TF2 took a painfully long period to emerge 
 due to engine changes) . The whole maps remake were astonishing. TF2 added plenty of detail and 
 lush into each map that really inspired me to remember the map well. In TFC, map designs were really 
 bland with only rocks and platform.
  
  Thanks to the class balance, I felt that every class (especially the Demoman) have their own strength 
 and weakness. It's seriously annoying where everyone started lobbing concussions, gasses and MIRVs 
 into corridors which creates a havoc. God bless Valve for scrapping their early plans. As a Medic, 
 I really would've been blown to smithereens if each class holds grenades (Medics are often targeted 
 in battles) . This made the Demoman stand out as the explosives expert. Others like Medic heals 
 his teammates for survival while teaming up with Soldiers, Heavy or Pyro to infiltrate enemy lines. 
 Engineers build sentries, teleports and dispensers to defend bases, Scouts rush into enemy bases 
 to capture points/ enemy intelligence without worrying too much about being hit, Snipers stay in 
 back lines picking out targets one by one while the Spies can wreak havoc in enemy bases by disguising 
 as an enemy and backstabbing them. The gameplay revolves around every class, pending on each one 
 of them for winning. Each class boasts their respective taunts to let off some steam from players 
 after managing through a battle.
  
  TF2 differs much from Counter Strike especially in battles. In CS, you'll probably hear complains 
 from your teammates especially if you accidentally kill-steal their one. TF2 encourages unity from 
 all players; no matter who kills who, it's only one team that gains victory over the other team 
 through cooperation. Voice commands in TF2 are essential for teamplay especially calling out for 
 Spies, pointing out a sentry or requesting healing from a Medic. Sounds are pretty decent too. 
 They're neither too loud nor too soft.
  
  Last but not least, I would like to say that TF2 offers a variety of modes such as Capture the 
 Flag, Deathmatch, Arena, Control Point capture and also Payload where the attacking team pushes 
 a bomb cart to the enemy's base while the defending team scurries and desperately fends off the 
 attacking team's advance. It refreshes the whole mindset and it's hilarious when the losing team 
 jeers to one another.
  
  Overall, TF2 deserves a 10 due to it's renowned gameplay and brilliant ideas. I recommend this 
 to any FPS lovers out there. It's not repetitive like other shooters where you die and wait for 
 the team to win/lose. Me and my cousin bought this game and never regretted playing it ever since. 
 Trust me, anyone that doesn't have TF2 currently reading my review should buy the game. It's a 
 game of it's words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is a team-based multiplayer game where two teams of people can slug it out in an 
 intense match of crazy shooting. Of course, there is much more to it than meets the eye. There 
 are different modes where there are different objectives for both teams. There is the 'payload' 
 mode, where one must guide a train-like structure to the end to win the game. One team will have 
 to defend and prevent it from reaching the end and the other has to guide the train along. There 
 are also 'control point' modes where one team must capture all the control points to win. There 
 is a slightly different version of the capture the flag mode found in a lot of multiplayer shooters. 
 Instead of a flag, this time, you get to carry a briefcase. 
  
  What's so addictive about this game is the feeling you get when you win a game. A game in Team 
 Fortress 2 is never slow. Bullets will be fired every second. Hell, the game subtly encourages 
 players to keep shooting. Ammunition can be found almost anywhere. It is possible to pick up fallen 
 players' weapons as ammunition by just walking over them. There are ammo crates everywhere and 
 engineers' dispensers to ensure a never-ending supply of ammo. Though you'll find out, how sniper-rifle 
 bullets can translate into rockets, I have no idea.
  
  Another great aspect of this game is the different classes you can choose to be. Instead of Unreal 
 Tournament and other games like that where both teams are essentially the same people in terms 
 of stats, Team Fortress 2 offers 12 classes to choose from. Each class has their own advantages 
 and areas where it might not excel at. No one class is perfect for winning a game. The catch is 
 to find a well-balanced team. Perhaps that is the reason why it gets really annoying sometimes 
 when no one on your team wants to pick a class that might help turn the tide of the battle. This 
 act of selfishness is common and it's best to find a group of friends that you can work well with. 
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 doesn't require jaw-dropping hardware and mid-ranged ones would do just fine. The 
 sounds are also great and it is fun to taunt with different classes just to check their expressions. 
 Each class is really unique. 
  
  The only gripe about this game or any other games from Valve is the need to use Steam. Steam has 
 known issues with different software and sometimes it is really annoying to know you cannot play 
 a game you bought just because you have to use a program that incidentally clashes with another. 
 However, if your computer works well with Steam, you might find Steam a handy program.
  
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a great game. It has high re-playability and it is really hard to get bored 
 of it. I would have gave it a 10, if not for Steam screwing up with my computer. 
  
  
  Peace
  
  Lokyou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac3upmysleeve
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth playing for any fan of the online multiplayer FPS genre. The action 
 can be fast-paced or gradual tactical strategy building culminating in a devestatingly explosive 
 assault. There are laughing scottsmen beating you with broken whiskey bottles, and German medics, 
 temporarily rendering you invulnerable. The artwork is original and entertaining. The broad range 
 of 9 very different classes keeps the gameplay fresh, as does the constant updates by Valve and 
 a large collection of fun maps, many produced by the modding community. 
  Most of the gameplay revolves around the target of capturing bases, by standing on them for a while 
 without an enemy joining (or destroying) you. Other modes include capture the flag (aka intelliegence/briefcase) 
 and standing next to a cart as it rolls down some train tracks. Its more fun than it sounds. Rounds 
 often last a mere couple or minutes, but this ranges to hour long battles on certain modded maps. 
 
  This is a great game that will have you staying up far too late in a very good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  After getting the game on Tuesday, I loved playing Team Fortress 2 and spent a lot of time playing 
 it. TF2 is a First-Person Shooter that is only a Multiplayer game. But, before you can actually 
 play the game, you have to download a little Multiplayer system called Steam. This will make the 
 game run and your able to access the Multiplayer action in the game.
  
  Story - The Game has no story, just killing and playing Multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5: You 
 have 9 classes to choose from the Heavy to the Pyro to the Spy. Each has their own unique abilities 
 and weapons to use. The Multiplayer games are great, but since there are hackers in the game, it 
 drops the Gameplay score from getting a 10.
  
  Graphics - 9.0: The Graphics are cartoonish, which is very unique for this game. You don't see 
 many bloody cartoonish games every now and then. The weapons look pretty good, as well as the charecters 
 and blood. Most of the surroundings could be a lot better than it is.
  
  Sound: 8.9: Hearing the sounds of Flamethrowers, Machine Guns, screams of pain and people calling 
 for a Medic every 15 seconds makes the sound realistic. One thing that droped this score down was 
 the Voice Chat. Many people take advantage of the abilities by putting their phones or MP3's up 
 on to their mic's where you are not able to hear what most of the surroundings are. And, it makes 
 it very hard to concentrate, especially when your using the Sniper Class.
  
  Overall: 9.5 [9.3 is the original] : Team Fortress 2 is a great Multiplayer game that should not 
 be passed down. The great gameplay and wide vaierity of different classes with cartonn-like graphics 
 makes this game Unique in it's own way. It's fun for everyone. This game can be bought by itslef 
 for $20.00 or in the Orange Box fro $30.00 with 4 other games! This game is recommended to play 
 for a lot of FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehBoognish
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  That really says it all. This game is loads of fun. You can sit down and have a blast for 1/2 an 
 hour or get on vent with some friends and make a night of it. I recommend adding some booze to 
 make it even more hilarious.
  The ever vigilant eye of valve keep things fair and competitive. The more you play, the better 
 you will get. All the character variations make sure theres a toon that fits your play style. Spend 
 some time to learn them all. I recommend starting out with the soldier so you can get a feel for 
 the game and get a few kills. The more compex toons like the engineer and the doctor will really 
 get your brain working .The addition of achievements (ala xbox360) makes it even more addicting. 
 
  There are loads of different maps being added by users all the time and valve even releases content 
 for free. Something that I don't see from other companies these days. Adding content to keep a 
 title valuable instead of stripping content so it can be sold to you later makes valve a truly 
 unique company that deserves your support. Download it now.
  
  I'm going to check out Left4Dead now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  team fortress 2 like team fortress classic is a cartoon style first person shooter game that will 
 bring hours of enjoyment to your household with over 15 maps and 5 gametypes this is a great game 
 for you and you family.
  
  in team fortress 2 you can play 3 roles defence attack and
  support
  
  in defece you can play as engineer heavy or demoman
  attack you can play as scout 
 soldier or pyro
  support u can play as sniper medic or spy
  
  each role has 3 players and each player has a primary secondary and blunt force mallee weapon eg 
 scout has a scatter gun a pistol and a baseball bat
  
  there a re many maps and game types including payload , intell and many more ,
  some of the maps 
 are a little bit confusing considering theres only 1 way out of a spawn and some times the other 
 team sets up sentury guns and camps the s$^t out of your team and you cant get any where
  
  this game is avalable on pc as a stand alone game or as part of the orange box witch also includes 
 halflife 2 and portal and th orange box is avalible on xbox 360 for around 60-75 dollars and the 
 stand alone game can be found on ebay for about 30-40 excluding postage
  
  this is a highly addictive fun game and i recomnd it to any one who has children above the age 
 of 7 or so or if you a fun loving adult that isbt really into the newer high quality games
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemas10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 was good. The game was great fun and still is. There a lot of map choices, and 
 valve keeps adding more so yeah. There aren't that many game type choices, it pretty much goes 
 down to move bomb to target, capture the flag, and capture the base. The game is balanced but please 
 don't be prick by only choosing... Pyro, Heavy. I hope you do realize there are more classes. Also 
 don't be a music spammer. i hate music spammer or more rather noise spammer they get really annoying. 
 Which can ruin the game experience. Back to the classes thing there are three main groups support, 
 offense, and defense. There are 3 classes in each group and each class is equal to another, it 
 may not seem so at first but it really comes down to player skill. Also if you sign up for steam 
 it is worth it it will make a game like this more rewarding and longer. Also it is free so what 
 are you waiting for. If so add me as a friend my name is gamemas. See you out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmickey2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  First time you look at this, you would be thinking, "Cartoons with guns? LAME." 
  
  But as cartoony as this looks, it is as fun as Call of Duty 4. 
  
  You start out like any other 
 multiplayer-only game with picking a server. These vary from 2-32 people per match, and around 
 3,000 servers during afternoons. Next you have to wait.
  
  Waiting, waiting, and waiting more. 
  
  This is one of the things that bring down my score. 
 Load times can sometimes take around 5-10 minutes on your first time connecting to the server (per 
 session) . But once you're done waiting, the fun begins.
  
  Choose your team and one of nine classes, each varied. The Heavy, with a big machine gun, walks 
 slowly and is an easy target for headshots. Scouts are fast, but fail at long range shooting and 
 heath.
  
  The game itself is very gory, and sometimes even show you where your liver is on the bridge. This 
 is probably the sole reason for it's M rating, Blood and Gore. But hey, we're men, we can handle 
 this awesomeness.
  
  This game is very good on teamwork. You all must do your job correctly in order to win, whether 
 it be defending or attacking, that person next to you may be your key to winning. Or the person 
 in front of you.
  
  After a few matches, you may want to move to a different map, which is pretty hard because it's 
 pretty addicting as it is! 
  
  So, I would highly recommend this game to anyone (over 17) to give this work of art a try. Kudos 
 to you Valve for reviving this series!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bletzinger
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game's a great sequal to TFC. One must enjoy the growing achevments and unlocks. Overall, 
 the game will make anyone who plays addicted and will play so much their computer will spark. The 
 maps are great and the new payload maps are interesting because blue team tries to blow the sh** 
 out of the other teams base. CTF maps are fun because Engineer classes can get alot of points building 
 up sentries. Snipers can get the advantage on 2 Fort in the battlements. Buy the game on Black 
 Friday and it'll be 9 bucks. Thats all I got to say. s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaaaris
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  
  This game I incredibly interesting. All the classes play differently and the shape of the maps 
 allow for different play styles of the same class. 
  There's a few different map types which certainly change game play. If you get bored of one you 
 can just switch to another.
  When you first start playing the game you might find it cramped and hard to keep track of what's 
 happening. After you play for a little while you will get used to this and really start to realize 
 what you can do.
  The game is introducing achievements for classes which allow you to unlock weapons which can really 
 change the way you play that class. 
  Also this game is has a lot of replay value in that you can't just get really good a one class, 
 since this is TEAM fortress 2 you need to be able to use the class that is most beneficial to your 
 team at the current time. 
  The game also has a damage falloff, and a chance to hit with a critical strike. The damage falloff 
 stops some classes such as the soldier or the heavy from just constantly shooting at a choke point 
 to make it impossible to get through. The critical chance allows new players to get some kills 
 and it also allows a skilled player to easily stop a charge. Also it rewards better players in 
 that the more kills you get the higher the chance you have to get a critical hit.
  All the classes in this game are extremely well balanced and can all be countered by another class. 
 While a rampaging heavy may be intimidating he can easily be taken out by a skilled spy.
  Though the spy can be easily stopped by the pyro and the pyro can be taken out by a longer ranged 
 class etc etc etc.
  Overall this is an extremely interesting and fun game with a lot of depth to the gameplay while 
 rewarding good players but making it friendly to beginners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the Half-Life series , I kept track of the "Orange Box" news . So I heard about 
 an online multiplayer FPS called "Team Fortress 2" , it was the first time i hear about a such 
 game and wasn't interested in it at all .
  
  After the great reviews I read about the game I decided to buy the game , plus it had a low price 
 . At the moment you start the game you're going to realize the amazing "catoony" styled graphics 
 which is surprisingly not childish ! In fact it adds a great atmosfier to the game . 
  
  When you enter a server , you will see the list of characters available and choosing any them will 
 give the game a different prospective ! Gameplay style and controls feeling just change largely 
 when switching between characters , it's like playing a new game each time .
  
  You might think that the above isn't enough to make a game last enough in your computer , you will 
 be wrong . As a matter of fact , the hundreds of maps that are being made daily by the community 
 and the constant updates and patches made by Valve (the game's developer) will make this game a 
 lasting experience for years to come . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ED_Legend
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  So after two weeks i decided to make my review of TF2. This is my first review (and hope to make 
 more)
  
  I bought the Orange Box two weeks ago just because of this game! As I started playing it I didn't 
 knew which server should I play, which class should I use, etc... So I just entered a random server 
 and went Pyro (the one I liked more) . After some hours, you start to get used to controls (same 
 as any Valve game) and feel comfortable.
  
  Comparing this to CS (which shouldn't be done) , I can say that this is much better because it has 
 some features like:
  
  - class balance, everyone has a function, no one does nothing because all classes have their objectives 
 and goals
  
  - assistance points, which is points that you win for helping killing (at CS the one that shoots 
 the last bullet that kills the opponent wins the point while the one that made most of the job 
 on killing him exits the game) ;
  
  - achievements, which are bonus tasks to make the game funnier (e. g.: "Nemesis - Get five Revenge 
 kills")
  
  - nemesis and revenge kills. After you get "owned" (killed 5 times by one player at that server 
 round) that player will be your Nemesis and will be pointed as such. However, you can preform a 
 Revenge kill when they kill a Nemesis. A Revenge kill is worth double the Points you would receive 
 for a regular kill.
  
  Bad things? Well, maybe the achievements servers, which are server that have Bots and where you 
 can do achievements easily, which is completely not fun (this servers are NOT valve made) .
  
  Well, this was my review. I hope you liked it ^^ Hope to make more reviews. Now go to a store 
 and buy now TF2.
  
  ,hasta... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  TFII is an amazingly fun game for reasons that I'm still not sure. Starting from Day 1, I saw a 
 shooting game that was a bit cartoony for my interests. However, over time, I began to see how 
 silly I was.
  
  The game is actually incredibly fun, and for good reasons. Like DOTA from Warcraft III, this game 
 benefits from having a strange 'fun-factor'. The classes are EXTREMELY well balanced, and all are 
 equally fun to play in their own strange way. Certain types have their counter-types, and with 
 new items being released through steam-patches, we know the game won't get old anytime soon.
  
  TFII delivers a certain freshness with its presentation that grows on you over-time. You may, 
 like me, be surprised with how fun this game is. Don't worry, you're not the first one. TFII, aside 
 from the fact that maybe you get dizzy playing first person shooters, will be your next Counter-Strike 
 'heaven' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsta
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best multiplayer fps's out there. With both an interesting set of class's and 
 level/character design, this is definitely worth the $20 price tag (actually thats a steal for this 
 type of game.)
  The design gives the game a cartoonish kind of look, giving players an enjoyable experience just 
 running through the levels, something not easily done with todays monotony of level and character 
 design. It's also interesting watching what look like cartoon characters being blown to pieces 
 with blood spurting which ever way. It's almost ironic to me to see blood coming out of these characters. 
 With the great character design, it is quite easy to distinguish certain players classes, giving 
 player the security and advantage of knowing there enemies before they get to close. To run this 
 game well you will need a decent graphics card and processor though. Im running off a 6800 geforce 
 graphics, enough to play the game at a decent rate with pretty good graphics.
  The gameplay itself is quite satisfying, with a defense for every offence. There is no way that 
 another team will ever be unstoppable, becuase all classes are pretty rounded with no certain class 
 having advantage over all other classes. You just have to learn what weaknesses and strengths each 
 class has, and that is half the fun. The different modes of play also make the game quite enjoyable, 
 because there is something always different to do, from classic teamdeathmatch and capture points, 
 to newer modes like payload, where the objective is to move a cart with a overly exagerrated bomb 
 to the enemies base. Also the achievements and unlockables made possible by the Steam community 
 give the game an addictive aspect as you try to unlock every achievement. Finally the community 
 makes the game even better as you play and get to know other players, being able to talk to others 
 as you pwn them, or just joking around with them, and with the steam program, players can create 
 and join their own groups if they want. 
  In the end this is an excellent addition to any hardcore or average gamer looking to have a different 
 kind of experience in the fps multiplayer community. With many different aspects to the game, it 
 has a very high replayability. The price is excellent if you just buy TF2, unless you purchase 
 the whole orange box, which i think is also a great deal. And who knows, you might make some new 
 cyber friends... or foes. And if you do buy the game, join my group on the steam community.
  
  Group: The Homestarmy (HSA)
  player name: (HSA) HOMESTARGUNNER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gattsu20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is brilliant and definitely produces replay value. Everytime I exit the game, I often 
 feel like starting it back up again to play. This can be rare in a game, so I'll tell you what 
 makes the gameplay so fantastic. Again, the classes create a big role in the gameplay mechanism. 
 With a game like Counter-Strike, you're either good or bad at it, as the options are quite limited. 
 Now that there are nine unique classes in TF2, there's a higher chance of you dominating with one 
 class and failing at another. It's all about finding the class (es) right fot you! It's quite hard 
 to explain, but buy the game and you'll see what I mean. Yet another feature that adds to the 'replay 
 value' are the statistics. When you play TF2, you'll automatically create a TF2 Stats Page for 
 yourself. It will show you how many kills you've made and how you made them. For example, you have 
 a total for backstabs, sentry kills, etc. The stats page will also show people how long you've 
 been playing a certain class for, and specifically how many kills you have made with that particular 
 class. No, it doesn't stop there! There are also achievements. Valve have set a list of goals for 
 you to complete, such as setting five people on fire in 30 seconds and getting an enemy medic to 
 heal you, while playing as the Spy. So yeah, those will make you want to pick up and play.
  
  Now sadly, no game is perfect. Believe it or not, there are some bad things about this game. 
 Valve have stated that the classes are evenly balanced, but to be honest, I think the Pyro is inferior 
 to the others. Valve either need to increase either his flame range, damage or health. The Pyro 
 is supposed to be 'the king of close-quarter combat', but it seems that everytime I see a Pyro 
 take on a Soldier, the Soldier will come out on top. Another thing that grills me about this game, 
 are lack of bots. I don't know why Valve didn't include them. Maybe it's because it takes time 
 to program every individual class, but usually, bots are a necessity these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpher251
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Great game to play for the PC or any other console. Unfortunately only real issue is that for the 
 X-Box360 and PS3 there are no great updates or new maps. However they both deliver just like the 
 PC. Great different kinds of maps and classes. Your own way of playing can really take shape with 
 the nine different classes they have. There all very unique and fun to play. Sure there are some 
 classes that you can just pick-up and play, but there are more tougher classes, the Spy, that take 
 longer to get used too and master. Once you start playing more veteran players you will notice 
 different techniques used. Overall great war game. Different classes, different maps and updates 
 periodically. One fun update is that they have updated three classes so far: Medic, Pyro and Heavy. 
 Also adding new maps like Goldrush. Overall this game is great fun. You will get addicted and then 
 try to master your favorite class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  team fortress 2 is ah video game wich is ah sequel to team fortress classic from the half-life 
 franchise now if your not familiar with counter strike or any other multiplayer based games but 
 this is ah game that you want to see you play as nine classes.
  
  1. heavy or heavy weapons guy
  2. demoman
  3. soldier
  4. spy
  5. medic
  6. engineer
  
 7. scout
  8. sniper
  9. pyro
  
  these classes have very unquie abilites like each class has and abiltiy to outsmart or snipe i 
 hade to say this game was good on the orange box if its on orange box you can play it on 360 or 
 ps3 and even on pc and its own case but this is the game that if your not famliar with team fortress 
 classic but the only thing that i didnt like was that there was no bots if there only be bots if 
 you dont want to play it on other servers if your computer has problems if your lagging or any 
 of that but theres this thing called report bug then your problem is solfed there diffrent types 
 of maps you can play on with its own gameplay type there is no single player or any of that but 
 this is ah multiplayer type game wich youll have to play im giving team fortress 2.
  
  8.5 out of 10.
  
  The Good: great classes and gameplay the graphics are soild and awesome great 
 music and voice-acting some of the best engines are still making this game strong and funny.
  
  The Bad: there is no bots or any of that.
  
  The Ugly: nothing.
  
  well if you guys 
 want to play the most top-notch multiplayer your goanna love team fortress 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwert1_2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. Counter-strike source brought us the game play that everyone loved, but where was 
 the teamwork? As much as i love the free for all aspect of it, Team Fortress really brings out 
 the whole reason of online game play. Without your team, you really can't win, so you have to learn 
 how to play as a team. (Yay for social interaction!) Not only is the game play smooth and addicting, 
 but the characters are hilarious and unique. Unfortunately, if you do buy it, it might just take 
 over your life but that's a risk i am willing to take. Its like rock paper scissors with 9 characters. 
 Trust me, there is a character for everyone and like counter-strike, its fun from the beginning 
 but takes a very long time to master. As more and more levels are added to the server this game 
 continues to progress as the best online team game out there to date. It is definitely worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Well it valve for a start so it; s good quality like always they know what they are doing for one 
 in video game indutry lol well no lag etc etc you get the point but the gameplay is very limited 
 and the class are sometime and most of the time unbalanced make the game some time no fun at all 
 there actual tactic to play but noboday to do with lol at the end you play for 1 hour or so and 
 that it i hope they could had vehicule are more weapon or even weapon customization but will c 
 in the future again the game it; a great but could be better in some ways the emote of the characther 
 are kind of cool but it end there tho i hope they could had more too buti want now it hal life 
 episode 3 or half life 3 lol men my computer is gonna jump for that game lol but i was suprise 
 how team fortress 2 run so smoothly on low end computer too big surprise but like i said it; s valve 
 good work guys and good games mates 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  This comes with the orange box but its worth the money of the orange box all on its own. There's 
 no single player mode so you're thrown right into the team play. There are 9 very different characters 
 to play as and you can switch at any time as many times as you like. My favourite to date is the 
 Engineer, who can build teleporters, dispensers (to provide ammo and health to fellow team mates) 
 and sentry guns. The Engineer is very much a crucial element in a team's defence. I've found the 
 medic quite fun - it is possible to rack up the points without killing anyone by healing those 
 that are. And the almighty Ubercharge grants invulnerability to both the medic and the person the 
 medic is healing, allowing you both to push your team forward. In fact, all the characters have 
 their specialialities and with a huge achievements list which grants new weapons upon completion, 
 you'll find the best gets better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABBAtoir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I bought the Orange box around Christmas 2007, mostly for Portal and the Half-Life 2 series. I 
 didn't try out TF2 for a while, but once I did, it was all over
  
  This is the most addictive game I've ever played. The balance is just about perfect, but on top 
 of that Valve releases regular updates (FOR FREE) with balance adjustments and new content. 
  
  Gamespot's review mentions the Medic update (with unlockable weapons and achievements) , but 
 since then we've also seen the Pyro and Heavy classes receive updates, as well as about a half 
 dozen new maps and a new gameplay mode. 
  
  Valve releases updates about every 2 months
  
  If that wasn't enough for you, there is an avalanche of user-created content out there. Literally 
 hundreds of maps, and a few unique gamemodes that aren't official (yet) . Sure, most of the user-created 
 maps aren't great, but some are really unique and worth checking out. Valve is highlighting some 
 of this user-created content by releasing custom maps in their official updates. 
  
  On the down side, the community is fanatical about teamwork and performance, which can be intimidating 
 to new players. You'll get flamed for sure when you build your sentry in the wrong spot, or join 
 a class that your team already has 3 of... but really that's to be expected in any online multiplayer 
 game. For the most part, other players are supportive and just there to have fun. 
  
  One more thing... this game is hilarious. The characters say ridiculous things at unexpected times, 
 and some craziness happens in every match that will make you roll on the floor
  
  I say, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Paragon: model of excellence or perfection of a kind; one having no equal; a perfect embodiment 
 of a concept.
  
  This is the only word I can think of that describes how Team Fortress 2 handles online gaming. 
 Team Fortress 2 takes the best parts of online FPS, blends it into a unique package and makes a 
 game which is fun, addictive and challenging. It's a blast to play with your friends and alone 
 and the game never forces you to do anything. You can either be a lone wolf as an engineer or scout 
 or choose to work with someone else as a team by being a heavy, medic, or sniper. Team Fortress 
 is a gift that keeps on giving as well because there are monthly updates often specializing in 
 one class which adds new weapons, achievements, and maps. 
  
  From a technical standpoint, Team Fortress 2 is a marvel. It simply looks amazing and has some 
 of the best visual design seen. The cell shaded graphics are perfect and look great. The lighting 
 and motion blur is done to the perfect degree and it's an aesthetically pleasing game to look at. 
 I love the style of graphics and it's something you don't see often in games these days. It also 
 sounds great and the dialogue is funny. Each character has a different voice and you can taunt 
 with them and do other cool things. Often they say pretty funny things which makes the game a lot 
 more fun. The weapons all sound good and the game has some pretty good music. 
  
  Gameplay is the strong point of Team Fortress 2. Though the presentation would make it appear easy 
 to grasp there is a lot of depth. Each class plays totally different from eachother and depending 
 on the map, mode, and whether you are attacking or defending your choice of class will be effected. 
 There are three basic class types, assault, defense, and support. Some classes have to work together 
 to succeed for instance Heavy and a medic while some can go alone like the scout and engineer. 
 The team based gameplay is a lot of fun but it's also great to play by yourself. The game never 
 punishes you for playing how you want and this is great as it gives the player a lot of freedom. 
 
  
  The game itself has three four modes at this present time. You can play payload, an escort mission 
 in which one team escorts and the other defends. This is a fun mode which is quite challenging. 
 There is also capture mode where the other team has to capture points and one must defend. This 
 is also great, teamplay comes into play here and I've never found a server where people don't work 
 as a team. There is also arena. Surprisingly the weakest of the bunch, it's alright if you like 
 team deathmatch but very few play it. The last mode is capture the flag which is one of the best 
 modes. Teamwork comes into play here and every class can be used by either side. All the modes 
 are great in the end and help make this game an amazing online experience.
  
  The cherry on top of this great sundae (Bad metaphor, I know) is the fact that Valve constantly 
 updates this game with new class specific add ons. Often you get new achievements, weapons, and 
 maps which helps make the games value go up. This keeps the game fresh and fun. Another thing about 
 the game which keeps the value going is the achievement system, for all your achievement hunters 
 it is a lot of fun and these are challenging achievements. They're all fun to get though and just 
 playing the game normally will get you them. Valve puts a lot of thought into these achievements 
 and new ones come out often which is awesome.
  
  In the end Team Fortress 2 is a game you must play, it's a lot of fun and if you're a fan of online 
 gaming you owe it to yourself to try it. This is an online experience like no other this generation 
 and it's one you won't forget in the long haul. It also has a great and mature community with some 
 of the best people I've met in all my time spent gaming online.
  
  The Good: Great modes, excellent visual design, great sound, funny, awesome music, constant updates, 
 long lasting value
  
  The Bad: The arena mode is sort of weak
  
  The Bottom line: Get it now
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  Can a game ever be more fun? And I mean REAL fun. TF2 oozes fun, no other word really describes 
 this game other than FUN. And this is coming from a very competitive person, everything I play 
 I play to not exactly be the best, but strive to become better than most and certainly better every 
 time I play.
  
  TF2 on the other hand makes me laugh so hard, and makes me just enjoy playing that I rarely if 
 ever whine at the screen, If I have ever moaned about dying in this game it must have been 1 time 
 only... ever.
  
  The reason for this is a mixture of mechanics orchestrated (beautifully) together to enlighten 
 the senses and escalate a gamers perception to that of a budhi... MEDIC!!!!!!!!!!!!! A SPIES SAPPAN 
 MAH TELEPORTAH!!!  As I was saying. Everything comes 
 together really well, simple looking graphics, fast paced action, silly stereotypical characters, 
 hilarious lines of dialogue, crazy cartoon like scenary and great missions. All of these boil down 
 to what the game is programmed to do. What YOU as a player do with them is where the real genius 
 comes in.
  
  Many times you play and aim to do something to an opponent, that goes horribly wrong and you die 
 OR it goes really well, better than well and infact makes you laugh out loud. The times where your 
 normally quite passive medic becomes a killing machine, unstoppable and relentless only to be stabbed 
 in the back by the spy you were healing! You don't see your death coming, and it is always by some 
 great accident or some very cunning play. Not once do you become angry or frustrated however, as 
 the respawn timer is very fast sometimes instant (depending on the server) instead again, you laugh 
 out loud or smile like a fool and go again.
  
  TF2 also brings something to aim for in the way of achievements. Rather than just mindlessly killing 
 (which is fun) you can aim for some achivement such as, killing 3 opponents with your axe in 1 
 life, or 5 oponents with your axe in 1 life, fire off $200,000 of ammunition in 1 life, kill a 
 disguised spy you had previously healed, get a medic on the opposite team to heal you etc etc the 
 list is very huge and all are very inventive. Some you can aim for and some just happen as you 
 play. You shouldn't make it the be all and end all of your game in TF2 though completing them does 
 unlock weaponary for your classes (at the moment only Medic, Pyro and heavy) It is just more fun 
 to let them happen naturally as you play otherwise you might end up frustrated and annoyed and 
 that is not the point of playing TF2.
  
  The gore factor is quite ridiculous, there is lots of it but it is not so graphic as to make you 
 hurl. It is done comically enough so you just have it in there while not being too serious like 
 other games. If your body is ripped into pieces by a rocket, the death shot will usually say "a 
 bit of you... another bit of you... bit's of you here" so it kinda takes the shock away and replaces 
 it with, "oh I get it, this is not to be taken seriously". I think that is playing it safe and 
 wisely so, the fanatical religous no sense of humour mothers/jack thompsons of this world probably 
 would not take too kindly to the blood and mild gore if it was given it's extra realistic polish. 
 And it wouldn't be needed either, people play this game for the fun, not the sense of realism it 
 doesn't offer.
  
  And that is another reason why this game is great. You are playing inside the cartoons and recent 
 pixar movies that see on TV. It looks silly and fun, it plays silly and fun and you laugh all the 
 time. What's not to like? 10/10 easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxamonium
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is pretty much the best game I have played to date, with 9 unique classes to play 
 as (Scout, Soldier, Pyro, Demoman, Heavy, Engineer, Medic, Sniper, Spy) , and each with their own 
 amazing design quirks, the game is instantly a classic in my view.
  
  Each of the classes is completely different from each other, unlike COD4, which just gives you 
 different guns, these classes have different speeds, looks and powers! The Scout is fast and can 
 double-jump, the Soldier has a rocket and is well balanced, the Pyro (Guess.) , the Demoman has 
 bombs, the Heavy has a mini-gun, the Engineer can build a sentry gun, dispenser and teleporters, 
 the Medic can do more than heal - if he heals enough he can turn himself and a team-mate invulnerable 
 for a few seconds, the Sniper (Guess again, again!) and the Spy (My favorite!) is very special. 
 The Spy can disguise himself as an enemy team-mate and sneak into the base and run around like 
 and unless you give yourself away as a spy, you have full access to the base, so you can sap the 
 sentries the Engineer built and while he's removing them, stab him in the back for an instant kill!
 
  
  Not only is this game fun, this game is beautiful, with some of the best graphics around! They're 
 good even at low quality!
  
  The only think I would say that is bad is the fact that when you go into an achievement server 
 (To unlock new weapons from achievements) almost every one will be full of morons who camp and 
 don't let anyone do achievements to ruin the server and make the map pointless.
  
  Though apart from that, there is nothing about this game I can complain about, so, if you Like 
 FPSs and you don't want to buy the Orange Box (I didn't, I don't like Half Life :o) , buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: First-Irish-Lad
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just fantastic. If anyone were to get a steam game this is the one. The class is are 
 all balanced. But I must admit that the spy is the hardest class to play. Some are amazing at it 
 others aren't, like me. My favorite classes are the sniper, pyro, and heavy. There is nothing like 
 roasting a scouts ass. The upgrades and the achievements make the game more fun because it gives 
 you a goal. Now the guns or upgrades that you get don't necessarily make your upgraded class better 
 but different. There are some upgrades that reach out to you so thus they are great for your style 
 of playing. Eg. the Backburner (pyro's second main gun) does crit hits when hitting someone in 
 the back. But is not able to deflect rockets or grenades. They sill have 6 more classes to upgrade. 
 Im sure that you will have a ball playing the game and there will be a class right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  Valve brings there signature style gameplay to TF2 with great success. TF2 is the most enjoyable 
 online shooter i have ever played and it never gets old. Thanks largly to the unique and quirky 
 humor that the game has. Theres also a great balance between the classes and team work is a must 
 for success.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The art style is ingenius and the technical side is also superb though at times there can be some 
 lag and slight glitchs. But none of the small problems will get in the way of you enjoying the 
 game fully and completely.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Crisp sounds and nice lttle sniplets of voicework make the games sound shine. It also helps that 
 the game has some nice tunes as well.
  
  Value 9/10
  New maps are being realeased and the ones that come with it are extremely fun. As long as Valve 
 keeps up with updates and players make and mod maps i can see TF2 lasting a good decade or more.
 
  
  The good 
  Endless enjoyment, unique and briliant art style, its bloody in a comical way.
  
  The bad some 
 slight lag and glithces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Online games ever. This game has some awesome music, great graphics, and great gameplay. What 
 more can I say? In the game you pick your class and you then continue to play online. The classes 
 include: pyro, engineer, spy, heavy, sniper, scout (My favorite) , soldier, demoman, and medic. TF2 
 is built around two opposing teams competing for an objective. These two teams are meant to represent 
 a demolition and a construction company: Reliable Excavation and Demolition (RED) and Builders 
 League United (BLU) . The game overall has a very good look to it along with great controls and great 
 gameplay. The game also had a very interesting and funny marketing, The game used a series of ongoing 
 machinima advertisement series entitled "Meet the Team". Constructed using the game engine and 
 slightly more detailed character models, the series consists of short videos on individual characters, 
 displaying their personalities and tactics. If your looking for a good online game, then this is 
 the game for you. By the way, don't forget that this is included in the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verysneaky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Good:
  - A total of 9 classes with unique abilities and weaknesses so most people couldn't get bored fast.
 
  - A variety of modes including custom maps.
  - Valve patch the game frequently so there is never a glitch to exploit for too long to ruin the 
 game
  - No friendly fire (otherwise all the explosives and bullets going everywhere would kill the game)
 
  
  Bad:
  - One class at a time gets the unlocks, meaning everyone starts being that class (an example would 
 be when medic ones first came out and suddenly from 0-2 medics on a team, there would be 4) , but 
 this isn't TOO much of an issue.
  - Some of the classes take real practice sometimes, but this is what prolongs the lifespan of the 
 game. This is only a minus because newer players may feel overwhelmed.
  
  Valve released TF2 with the Orange Box and it was a great addition. The classes are very unique, 
 with classes like the scout able to move very fast and double jump, while the spy can cloak, disguise 
 and backstab for instant kills. It can seem overpowered at times, but when discovered, he dies 
 very quickly.
  
  The gameplay is fast, addictive and fun. The variety of maps mix it up, and the aspect of teamwork 
 is what wins the games, while the single person can win the game, it is easier if the team works 
 together with tactics and a good mix of classes.
  
  The graphics, while cartoony, look fresh and bring life to the game as if it looked realistic, 
 it definately wouldn't have the same uniqueness and style to it and Valve have used this uniqueness 
 to great effect.
  
  Team Fortress 2 has great value for money, by itself and even if it was by itself with HL2 and 
 episode 1. The messages telling you if you've come close to, or beaten a record when you die or 
 switch classes feels pretty good and the achievements are pretty fun too. The 9 classes and a number 
 of maps prolong the life of TF2 and make it one hell of a game. I would recommend this to anyone 
 who is into FPS and wants to try something fresh and very well made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItalianBoyPhil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  The sequel to 'Team Fortress Classic' has arrived. Team Fortress 2 is a squad based FPS, Multiplayer 
 only. There is a total of nine classes:
  Scout
  Engineer
  Pyro
  Demoman
  Spy
  Sniper
  Heavy
  Medic
  Soldier
  You play these over and over again, My favourites classes 
 are the Scout & the Engineer, each classes has a primary, secondary normally a pistol and a melee 
 weapon, i. e. for the Scout a baseball bat. Graphics look amazing for a cartoon like game and most 
 bugs have been either fixed or being fixed :) . The only bad thing about the game is that there 
 is no bots to practice strats against. A well deserved 9.5/10
  Amazing.
  If you get the chance to buy this, do so, you certainly won't be disappointed, not frustrating 
 at all, you'll get used to the controls aswell :)
  Immersive
  A lot of thought has gone into making this game and it has payed off. 
  You'll have a lot of 
 fun & laugher, teamwork will be needed. You won't be able to catch your breath after only one game. 
 The varieties of weapons are amazing, flamethrowers, sniper rifles, meat cleavers, shotguns, grenade 
 launchers and baseball bats. We all have our favourites :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-m92
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  TF2 is a brilliant FPS which carefully balances tactical squad organisation and all-out mayhem 
 as both teams fight to complete tasks and attack control points etc. This is the first FPS i have 
 played that is cartoony but at the same time quite gory, but the graphic and sound detail are spot 
 on. There is a variety of characters to choose from and each one can be a crucial part of a teams 
 strategy whether they are attacking or defending. The better team is the one that best identifies 
 each characters strengths and weaknesses and communicates between players properly. 
  
  One issue with TF2 (to agree with the gamespot reviewers) is that it depends heavily on the quality 
 of player you are playing with. If the teams are well balanced and the players co-operate, this 
 is where this game really shines and is at its best. However if one team is so much better than 
 another, or there is childish behaviour (petty squabbling, mic spamming, cheating, swearing etc) 
 the whole experience can be affected for those who just want to get on and enjoy the game together. 
 However with the wide selection of servers and various filters available, it seems only a matter 
 of time until you find a server that caters to your individual needs.
  
  There is quite a large asking price, usually around 30, but i would recommend that this be bought 
 as part of 'The orange box' set because for 40 you get this game as well as the whole half life 
 series, a puzzle game called Portal with many extra downloadable options, so in my opinion it is 
 money well spent.
  
  TF2 gets the balance just right, mixing tactical based combat with the kind of run-and-gun shooting 
 that i just love. If you manage to find the right community of players that suit you, expect to 
 come back to this game again, and again, and again. Just make sure it doesn't take up too much 
 of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 fits for everyone. 
  So yeah, there's a lot of cartoon gore, bodies blow up in a blood filled explosions and it may 
 not be suitable for the lower ages (though you may find 8 year olds playing it and cussing severly) , 
 but mainly this game is for everyone.
  While playing the game, anyone can find his own gameplay style and favorite class, While I prefer 
 Pyro and Medic, you might excell at being a spy, or soldier or any of the classes.
  As the game offers, the game indeed has unique gameplay for each of the nine classes- Engineer 
 (which builds teleports, sentry guns, and dispensers) , Demoman (Plants stickies, which are Pipe 
 bombs that attach to walls and ceilings, and also shoots grenades) , Heavy (Uses Mini-gun and basically 
 the most powerfull class In-game, but very slow) , Spy (Uses disguises and invisibillity to infilitrate 
 enemy lines and backstab/sap their Engineer structures) , Pyro (Burns, Burns, Burns) , Soldier (Uses 
 rocket-jumps and basically blows up stuff) , Scout (Extremely fast and used to capture Intel, which 
 is the flag, and capture points) , Medic (Heals stuff and has a special ability to go invincible 
 plus another team member for couple of seconds) , and Sniper (Bewm Headshot) .
  Several game modes are included, the classic CTF (Capture The Flag) , CP (Capture points) , and Payload 
 which is a game mode in which you drag a cart, and the red team has to stop it.
  The game also has achievement system (At the time of writing only two, Pyro and medic) that earns 
 the happy achievers new weapons for their class.
  All this is nice and good, but there's only one way in which your team will win, and it's co-operation, 
 if you won't listen and go solo, it'll be lot harder for you, but of course, some can manage by 
 doing that also.
  to sum it up, if you like online co-operation and humor, TF2 is the best choice for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbarkeri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Plot:
  There is no real plot to the game as it is a multiplayer only; however there are several game modes, 
 CTF, Capture Points (2varieties) and Payload. CTF is just a basic capture the flag however the 
 flag is replaced with the intelligence. Capture Points has 2 varieties, 1. Each team starts with 
 2 points each and there is 1 neutral points in the centre of the map the winner is the team with 
 the most points after the time is up, 2. There are 2 nodes controlled by Blue team, red team will 
 try and capture both points, Blue win if they have 1 node left after the time limit, Red wins if 
 they manage to capture both nodes before the time limit. Payload there is a bomb on a train track 
 which starts at the Red base and 2 or 3 capture points along the track, the aim is for Red to push 
 the bomb to the final capture point.
  
  Gameplay
  This is arguably one of the best games I have ever played, the fun factor in my opinion is higher 
 than any other game out there. The balance between all 9 classes (Soldier, Pyro, Scout, Demoman, 
 Heavy, Engineer, Medic, Spy and Sniper) is 100% fair, Valve have done a great job in ensuring no 
 class is very overpowered and any class can defeat any other class in a 1 v 1 situation. The most 
 played of all the classes is the Soldier which at times can be very annoying especially when they 
 start to rocket spam. This game is very "n00b" friendly and is very easy to master, pros from games 
 such as Counter Strike or Call of Duty will feel alien at the start when playing this game as accuracy 
 is not always the key. Critical hits have a big influence on the game, these occur randomly when 
 a character has inflicted quite a lot of damage on someone else and a critical hit with classes 
 such as Soldier or Demoman will almost guarantee a 1-hit-kill however a Scout or Pyro may have 
 to shoot 3 or 4 times to get a kill. Despite the game been called Team Fortress very little teamwork 
 is actually involves, everyone goes off and does their own thing, however despite this medics and 
 heavys seem to stick together however this is only if you have a decent medic who know how to play 
 the class well. The game is designed to be as fun as possible with things such as Sprays, Taunts, 
 Freezcam etc. It really adds a sense that this game is not to be taken seriously and is something 
 you can come on just for a laugh with you mates.
  
  Graphics:
  You have got remember this game is not supposed to be realistic the cell shaded graphics give the 
 game its cartoon style graphics which have been rendered excellently, the game combines some amazing 
 particle effects with the textures to create another a great looking source game. When you die 
 your body explodes into small pieces which are still recognisable such as the head and legs, the 
 game also points this out to you in freezcam with labels such as "Your Head". The game does not 
 really add needless blood however when you shoot someone blood does emit from their body and again 
 it adds to the cartoon style graphics.
  
  System and Performance:
  Like many source games you do not need a brilliant system to run this game, an 8600GT and an Athlon 
 X2 64 4200+ can max this game with 8X AA whilst still keeping a good 60 FPS, so I wouldn't say 
 an integrated card would run it however a cheap PCI-E card probably could
  
  Overall:
  Team Fortress 2 is a great game and is a hell of a lot of fun to play, it shows almost no resemblance 
 to the original Team Fortress Classic so gamers looking for a new type of gaming experience should 
 look towards this game. Also this game is very easy to get into and can be very addictive, it is 
 very "n00b" friendly so even people who have only just got into PC gaming should not have such 
 a hard time bearing in mind you know how to shoot. This game is very worthy of a 9.5/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halogearshitman
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  It's funny Gamespot feel heavy reliance on other players and incredibly in depth strategy are something 
 that make a game bad. If there is one thing true in the video game universe, it's that nothing 
 beats this game. That is, for the FPS genre. Made by the best people, Valve of course, the animation, 
 gameplay, dialogue and over-all feel of the game are groundbreaking. Each class has a personality 
 all it's own, with a different accent and sense of humor in most cases. The RED vs BLU gameplay 
 takes a new spin as each team is RED and BLU, two seemingly rival companies. As if the game wasn't 
 good enough, Valve gives it's players free updates that could easily be bundled into costly expansions, 
 although I'd probably pay $100 for this game without them. Never has a game been more balanced, 
 and it's unlikely there will ever be on like it. There's a level of re-playability that is unrivaled. 
 This game is a must have for any action game lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is after all a team based game, however what the game attempts to deliver is not 
 well executed in most on line multi player match ups. 
  
  There are different type of maps with various objectives, for example, capture the "intelligence" 
 or better known as capture the flag, pits team red vs team blu against each other. If you're a 
 seasoned online FPS gamer, this game mode plays exactly like any CTF you've played and really has 
 nothing special to it. 
  
  Another popular game mode has one team on the offense and the other defends wile the offense team 
 pushes a cart to a checkpoint to win. I found nothing exciting with this concept and it gets boring 
 very quickly as the rounds don't last long.
  
  To the subject of maps now. The play area is usually very tight, I had a claustrophobic feeling 
 most of the time when about half a dozen of my team mates all crunch up together and we lose track 
 of who's who and what's happening, this happens frequently and really is no fun at all. 
  
  The character's abilities feel very useless on their own but are increased with modifiers from 
 your team, for example a medic will heal a machine gunner while other team mates rush in for a 
 kill. The engineer can build support items for the team to replenish ammo and health, and also 
 defend map areas with a sentry gun. Those are just a few examples, the game mechanics function 
 to encourage team play and discourage rambo-one man-army types. This is the aspect of TF2 that 
 makes it what it is and can be easily broken if a couple of people on the team are not doing well, 
 causing the team to lose a game fairly quickly.
  
  
  The graphics and sounds are nicely done, the characters look aesthetically pleasing and are fun 
 to play with, the textures are very soft and easy on the eyes. Sounds from weapons and speech are 
 also fun to hear, the ambient in some parts is well made.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  TF2 is basically a fast action version of CS: source cartoonized. Never playing the first Team Fortress, 
 i was not familiar with the objectives, but didn't matter as you jump into action and capture control 
 points, flags (intelligence) , or move and protect a moving cart. The game is fast passed and highly 
 addictive. Allowing you jump in and play a game in a short amount of time if need be. The use of 
 VOIP works well and is actually used but allot of players. 
  There is a working upgrade system, which steam updates periodically giving achievement goals to 
 be able to upgrade certain characters. Currently there has been 2 upgrade characters release, with 
 more to come. 
  
  If you got this game with the orange box, good for you, after you defeated HL2, and played thru 
 Episode 1 and 2, finish portal, then your ready to get lost in this fast action multiplayer. It 
 a good bargain. The game is fun and entertaining, and don't worry about dieing.. you will do allot 
 of that, but you will also take allot of enemies with you. 
  There is strategy to employ in this game, and it does take team work to gain objectives or defend 
 goals. Over the game play is fun, making it well worth your hard earned cash. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hokies1313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Well this is my first review so, bear with me.
  
  At the time of this writing I've spent around 20 hours playing this game and honestly the game 
 is pretty addictive once you get into it. There are 9 classes or roles to choose from, each having 
 their own pro's and con's. 
  
  The scout is fast and agile, yet can sustain very little damage. He is equipped with a baseball 
 bat, shotgun, and pistol. The scout also has the ability to double jump in the air. His speed make 
 him useful for getting to points on the battlefield quickly. The soldier carries a shovel, shotgun 
 and rocket launcher and has the ability to shoot a rocket at his feet in order to jump higher. 
 The soldier is effective at both offense and defense, your unit of choice for many people just 
 starting the game. My personal favorite is next, the Pyro. The Pyro is equipped with a flamethrower 
 that will cause damage to another player over time as they burn, so even if you kill the pyro assaulting 
 you, you may already be dead. They also come with a shotgun and axe, and the shotgun can be switched 
 with an unlockable flare gun that will set people on fire. The Pyro also has the ability to deflect 
 projectiles with their compression blast, allowing them to clear the path of sticky grenades.
 
  
  Speaking of sticky grenades, the Demoman is the one that unleashes this weapon. Equiped with a 
 grenade launcher and sticky grenade launcher, as well as a jug of some sort, the Demoman can send 
 explosives hurling toward the enemy. The sticky grenades are a lot of fun, placing them in just 
 the right spots and blowing them up at the right moment can turn battles and get you a lot of points. 
 Heavies are large characters equipped with miniguns, shotguns, and fists. They're pretty slow but 
 make up for that in firepower. When teamed up with a medic in the right situation, the Heavy can 
 dominate an area and repulse an enemy assault. The Engineer is the last "defensive" class. Equipped 
 with a pistol, a wrench, and can build teleporters, sentry guns, and health dispensers. The engineer 
 can shore up any defense with well placed sentry guns. A well placed sentry gun can stop a whole 
 team in it's tracks long enough for your team to win the game. I have to say, those sentry guns 
 are vicious on most payload maps.
  
  The Medic is the healer of the battlefield, keeping teammates in good health with his medigun. 
 He can also deploy an "Ubercharge" that will make the medic and the person he is healing invincible 
 for a short period of time. But don't think Medics are defenseless, they are also equipped with 
 bone saws and syringe guns that can make any overanxious enemy reconsider attacking a medic. The 
 Sniper is another self explanatory class, equipped with a sniper rifle, SMG, and large knife, the 
 Sniper is the sharpshooter of the team, taking enemies out at extreme range. Heavies should avoid 
 going into the open if snipers are present, but if you manage to get in close with one, you should 
 come out the better. The sniper rifle also charges the longer it is in zoom, allowing the sniper 
 to get a more powerful shot off. Finally there is the Spy, equipped with a revolver, a knife, and 
 electro sapper. The Spy can disguise himself as a class on the other team, allowing them to slip 
 in the back and preform "backstabs" and "sapping" enemy engineer's constructions. Backstabs involve 
 stabbing an enemy player in the back, while sapping is putting an electro sapper on an enemy dispenser 
 or sentry emplacement in order to drain power and health from it, causing it's destruction. However, 
 once the spy uses his revolver or knife, he is instantly uncloaked. It is always better to kill 
 the engineer before placing electro sappers on the sentry gun and other buildings.
  
  What is cool about these characters is they all have different strategies and even come from different 
 locations on the globe. The Medic is German, Sniper is Australian, Demoman Scottish, etc. Gives 
 the game a little bit of atmosphere.
  
  There are several gametypes, control point (cp) , payload (pl) and capture the flag (ctf) . In control 
 point mode you attempt to capture control points in a tug of war type style. Generally there is 
 one neutral point at the start of the game with both sides other points locked. Once the middle 
 is captured by a side the other team's next control point is unlocked allowing for capture, and 
 so on until all CPs are captured. Another version is a offense/defense type in which one team attempts 
 to capture 2 control points, 1 at a time, while the other team attempts to stop them. These game 
 types are probably my 2nd favorite out of the three.
  
  In Payload, the blue team is charged with pushing a cart from one side of the map to another along 
 a track. How fast the cart moves is tied to how many players are pushing the cart. "Pushing" is 
 basically standing near the cart, you can still fire your weapons and everything. The Red team 
 is tasked with stopping the cart before it reaches its final destination. If the players pushing 
 the cart are killed, the cart stops and after 20 seconds begins to move backwards slowly. It will 
 only stop moving backward when the blue team pushes it again. Honestly this is my favorite game 
 type. There are so many things going on, trying to gain the upper hand so that the cart gets to 
 where it needs to go, and many times it devolves into a massive melee of people attempting to defend 
 the cart or push it farther. This is the most exciting part. Its kill or be killed at it's finest.
 
  
  Lastly there is the classic Capture The Flag, but instead of a flag it is a briefcase with important 
 documents in it. Once the case is stolen it leaves behind a trail of papers that can help the hunt 
 to find the person holding the case. This is my least favorite but still a lot of fun. It just 
 doesn't have that wild "anything can happen" feel about it that the other two gametypes do.
  
  Factor in the ease of learning the game, cartoonish, yet wonderfully done, graphics and general 
 fun and this game is one of the best Multiplayer FPS games out there on the market today, which 
 is why I give it a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  To start off, Team Fortress 2 has been in development and is the sequel to the full version of 
 an original mod for Quake II. The game is strictly multiplayer only and offers the choice of nine 
 classes to pick from. The first is the Scout who has a scatter gun, which does massive damage when 
 shot from up close, a pistol, and an aluminum baseball bat. The Scout is also the fastest class 
 and is the only one who can double jump. Secondly there's the Soldier who carries a rocket launcher, 
 which when shot at the ground can give you the ability to rocket jump to great heights which makes 
 him one of the two classes to get to great heights via explosion, a shotgun, and an entrenching 
 tool (shovel.) Then, my personal favorite, the Pyro who features a flamethrower, a shotgun, and 
 an axe. Then the Demoman is the second class to get to great height via explosion and carries a 
 grenade launcher, a remote sticky grenade launcher, and a bottle of booze that he beats people 
 with. The Heavy is the slowest of all the classes but has the highest amount of health and carries 
 a heavy machine gun, which costs over $400,000 to fire for 12 seconds, a shotgun, and for melee 
 he uses his fists. The Engineer features a shotgun, a pistol, and a wrench that is used to repair 
 all of his buildings and upgrade sentry guns, a toolbox that he uses to make teleporter entrances 
 and exits, dispenser that gives out health and ammo to you and all teammates and metal that is 
 used for your Engineer to make buildings, and an upgradable sentry gun, and finally he has a remote 
 to detonate any building he makes. The Sniper has a sniper rifle, a light machine gun, and a big 
 knife. Really big knife. Then the Medic features a syringe gun, a medigun capable of healing friendly 
 targets and enemy spies up to 150% plus deploy a brief moment of invincibility to their target, 
 and a bonesaw. Then finally there's the Spy who has a revolver, a electronic sapper which can drain 
 energy out of any engineer building, a butterfly knife capable of killing in a single hit if used 
 from the back, and a cigerette case that allows you to transform into a disguise of any class on 
 either team but you blow your cover if you get caught on fire, attacked enough by an enemy, run 
 into an enemy since enemies can't walk through each other, or by attack with anything besides the 
 sapper. There is also the choice to choose a random class.
  
  In addition to the weapons mentioned previously Valve has started releasing new class packs which 
 contain 36 achievements and 3 unlockable weapons. Examples of these new weapons are the Medic's 
 Ubersaw which increases their ubercharge meter with every hit, and the Pyro's flare gun which can 
 be used to ignite enemies from afar. Selecting one weapon will require you to swap it out with 
 another. For example the flare gun replaces the shotgun with the Pyro.
  
  The graphics are beautifully cel shaded which gives the characters a great amount of character 
 and personality. Each class is from a different part of the world, the Scout is from New York, 
 and the Demoman is from Scotland and their accents show this. Speaking of which all of the voice 
 acting in the game is well done and provides much variation with certain voice commands. The music 
 is also well done even though you don't hear much of it except for when starting up the game and 
 listening to various winning or losing themes.
  
  There are several types of gameplay variants. Control Point (available on maps with cp_ in the 
 name) can be that there are five control points and the two teams are in a tag of war esque struggle 
 for dominance, or there are two points, red defends them, blue tries to capture them. If red wins 
 game over. If blu wins three times in a row then they win. In Payload (pl_) players on blu stand 
 by a cart with a bomb on it and that causes it to move forward. Red tries to prevent blu from accomplishing 
 this. Then of course there's Capture the Flag. (ctf_) Of course you take the enemy intelligence 
 and take it back to your base. This mode was altered slightly from the last game as there is no 
 flag but an intelligence briefcase that emits a shower of papers to show the trail of the one who 
 stole it. There is always room for additional game modes as shown when Valve introduced Goldrush 
 which became the first payload map.
  
  As far as map variety goes it's endless. There are several maps that come with it and then there 
 are many user created maps. Starting with the Pyro update Valve started taking user maps and throwing 
 them into official rotation. Maps can be anything. There was one called MARIO_KART which was just 
 a team deathmatch style game on a bizarre map that features many many themes such as Haruhi Suzmiya 
 and No More Heroes. That's right I made a Haruhi reference in a FPS review.
  
  All in all this is a quality game with excellent support from the developers. Unfortunately console 
 gamers cannot experience the full quality of the game as Valve and EA has yet to release the new 
 content on the 360 or the PS3. This is mostly because of Sony and Microsoft's guidelines. On Microsoft's 
 part you can't continually add achievements till the end of time like you can on Valve's Steam 
 service. And of course the PS3 doesn't have support for achievements although the trophy system 
 probably won't see updates for The Orange Box due to the fact that it's published by EA and they're 
 not known for going out of their way to help out gamers and add new content when they really don't 
 have to and that's a shame. This is a addictive competitive game that will be played and supported 
 for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProSmeg
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  i bought the orange box off my mate the other day, he laughs in my face and says its crap, and 
 then he says he wants 15 quid for it. i smile and say 12. deal. i get it home from school and put 
 the disc in, my attention is ammediatly turned to this game called team fortress 2? mmmm... it 
 loads up.... my first impression looks kinda bland i play one game of it and im blown back. WHEN 
 WAS THIS REALEASED AND WHY DIDNT I KNOW.
  
  ok first up multiplayer
  
  team fortress 2 is just plain multiplayer and when i say plain it isnt, teams consist of 9 classes 
 and divided into three groups, offense, defense and support. First up offense each class has at 
 least three weapons, a unique primary weapon, a secondary weapon such as a shotgun or pistol and 
 a distinct melee weapon in keeping with the character, such as a liquor bottle for the demoman (who 
 by the way is a black one eyed scotsman!!! you couldnt make this up) , a kukri for the sniper and 
 a fire axe for the pyro.
  
  The three offensive classes are the scout, the soldier and the pyro. The scout is some arrogant 
 baseball fan (and likes to say boink) and is a fast, agile character armed with a scattergun and 
 capable of performing double jumps; however, the scout cannot sustain much damage (which is fair 
 whoed want some really fast super healthed maniac hitting you with a baseball bat) . The soldier 
 has better health, but is consequently slower in his speed. A trigger happy american, the soldier 
 is armed with a rocket launcher which can be used to rocket jump to higher positions. The final 
 offensive class is the pyro, which is one of my favorite. Clad in a fire-retardant (lol retard) 
 suit and a gas mask that muffles the pyro's voice (i reckon hes mexican) , the pyro carries a flamethrower 
 that can set other players on fire.
  
  next defense 
  
  The demoman, the heavy and the engineer make up the defensive classes. The demoman is a black, 
 one-eyed Scotsman Armed with a grenade launcher and a sticky bomb launcher, The heavy can sustain 
 more damage than any other class, but is slowed down by the weight of his minigun. (also one of 
 my favorite) The heavy is a Russian guy, who has plenty of brawn but no brain and a heavy accent 
 who is obsessed with his gun to the extent of even naming it sasha. The engineer is the last defensive 
 class, who is a relaxed and intellectual "good ol' boy" from Texas. The engineer is capable of building 
 a number of structures to support his team: a sentry gun to defend key points, a health and ammunition 
 dispenser and a teleporter system.
  
  and finally support
  
  The medic, the sniper and the spy. The medic is a German doctor (why i dont know) , and is responsible 
 for keeping his teammates alive (durr) The medic is armed with a "medigun" which looks like a ghost 
 busters gun-of-which-i-forget to heal teammates, and can make teammates temporarily invulnerable 
 or uber and enhance their firepower after it has been used for a little while. The sniper is a 
 cheerful Australian character who enjoys his line of work, (killing people) equipped with a laser 
 sighted sniper rifle to get them all important head shots and a submachine gun for close combat. The 
 last support class is the spy, who has a revolver and with covert tools, such as a temporary cloaking 
 device, an electronic sapper to sabotage engineer's structures and the ability to disguise as enemy 
 players. The spy can also use his butterfly knife to backstab and instantly kill enemy players. (im 
 all ways spy)
  
  the classes are very balaced each has a defect and a plus side, which makes the game more fun.
 
  
  the only things wrong were the maps i found only one interesting and that was 2fort a map which 
 i cant explain to you
  
  team fortress is fun and a new style to the modern fps and has changed DRAMATICALLY since team 
 fortress. 
  
  i reckomend you get it a long with orange box (but thats another story)
  but on the PC the xbox isnt as fun.
  
  have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress first began as a modification game for Quake 2. But soon after, VALVe came and decided 
 to create Team Fortress: Classic! This game was well good, and many people played it. Then, many 
 years later, people where stunned at the announcement and trailer of Team Fortress 2.
  
  If you ever played the first Team Fortress, the first thing you would notice is that they kept 
 all of the character classes from the original. But, to make gameplay fair, they had each class 
 have their own special abilities and their own weakness. The game has 9 character classes to chose 
 from, ranging from Offense characters, who are specialized to move to the enemy base and complete 
 objectives, the Defense characters who mainly protect the objective from attacking enemys, and 
 the Support class, who help in both offense and defence purposes.
  
  The first thing you may notice about the gameplay is the huge change of weapons. In Team Fortress 
 Classic, each class could throw grenades. Now, they replaced that for a special ability each class 
 has. Here is a short description of each classes abilitys and weapons:
  
  Scout: The scout is for rushing in and getting objectives quickly. The scout is fast, and can capture 
 Control Points twice as fast. He carries a scatter gun, a pistol, and a Baseball bat. The scout 
 is weak and can't survive long against enemy fire.
  
  Pyro: The pyro has a flamethrower that can burn enemys for about 10 seconds with one burst. The 
 pyro is good for clearing and weanening large groups of enemys. The pyro is great around corners. 
 He carrys and axe and a shotgun. He is also good for spy checking. 
  
  Solder: The solder carrys a rocket. He has about 200 health and can take down large groups of solders. 
 The solder carrys a rocket launcher, a shotgun and a shovel. The solder is slow, but very tough 
 in battle
  
  Demoman: The demoman has a grenade launcher and mine gun, which are good for taking out large groups 
 of enemys and buildings (Engineers contraptions) The demoman runs at a fair pace and carrys a bottle 
 to smack people with.
  
  Heavy: The strongest, but slowest of all the classes, carrys a Mini Machinegun (why do they call 
 it mini?) that only holds 200 bullets. The heavy is also good for taking out large groups of enemys 
 and can take a beating. He also carrys a shotgun and has fists.
  
  Engineer: The engi has a shotgun, pistol and wrench, though weak, carrys a powerful tool called 
 the Sentry Gun. Using your wrench, you can upgrade your sentry to light machine gun, to heavy machine 
 gun, to HM and rockets. The engi can also place teleporters and dispensers, which give ammo and 
 health (and metal)
  
  Medic: The medic has a srynge gun. Weak, but can do some damage to light health enemys. The medics 
 main weapon is his medi gunich restores health, and give an extra amount of health to whoever your 
 healing until you stop healing him. He also has a bone saw, with some extra kick to it.
  
  Sniper: The sniper gives support from long range. With his Sniper RIfle, he can instantly kill 
 anyone he sees, but only if he gets a headshot. the sniper comes with a machine gun for short range, 
 and a machete. 
  
  Spy: My best class, the spy carrys a Revolver and his main weapon, a knife. With the knife, you 
 can backstab enemys from behind for an instant kill. The spy can change to either an Ally or an 
 enemy. Most enemys will be fooled, and sentrys wont shoot you. The spy also carrys a sapper, to 
 disable the bulding, leading to destroying it.
  
  
  On of the new additions in Team Fortress 2 is the Critical Hits. Once in awhile, you will come 
 across a Critical Hit, shot. Changing it's colour to blu or red (depending on what team your on) 
 and can deal twice as much damage, give you an opporatunity to flee or to kill.
  
  The one big problem in this game is spawn camping and glitches. There are too many glitches (skybox 
 in Dustbowl, blu respawn in 2fort) and can get in the way of fair gameplay. Some glitches are fixed, 
 but most of them are not. 
  The next big thing is spawn camping. You can have a group of friends come on one team and place 
 10 sentrys at the other teams respawn and have one Pyro spycheck. This happened to me once, and 
 I got very annoyed. I even made some people crash from this thing i learned (im not telling you)
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is an amazing multiplayer shooter, which is fun and should not be played for competition, 
 like Call of Duty. Team Fortress allows you to show off funny taungts and just plain fool around. 
 But if you want a game with good lighting and graphics, great sound, and a lot of replay value, 
 Team Fortress 2 is for you, and when you win, it just makes you scream, "Can I have some more!!!" 
 Have fun playing this well known and fun game. This game has a great meaning of teamwork and shows 
 how multiplayer games can be fun and competetive at the same time.
  
  (sorry if it's long) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeponjammin08
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Was tons of fun... But the pyro is pretty overpowered. So lets give them better weapons! Screw 
 off for ruining it! Play counter strike if you're a huge fan of the source engine. I had alot of 
 fun being a spy if that says anything. The medics deserved the upgrades they got because they were 
 really weak when it came to defending themselves but I'm just really upset that everyone is getting 
 new stuff and you have to waste hours upon hours of your time in achievement servers just to have 
 a fair chance in the regular matches. I don't know why I have to write one hundred words to enter 
 a text review when I can describe in three. Waste of time. asdfk ljw eroi ud kngewl; kjasdfk ljdion 
 kndslk jdfnkeoijlk d nsfkld fencx m, ncvl k js dieas df; lkja sdfionks dlknfdklnco v iskwnelkn sdoin 
 fdlsknc vlkdosi nflncmx lkjdfoi nsdg klndf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is part of the Orange Box set and in my opinion at first i loved the way it is 
 animated and all but soon raged and quit because of HP etc. But my mates started playing so i got 
 back in now im fairly good but anyways. TF2 puts the Source engine to good use and is a very entertaining 
 game. The physics and graphics both are funny. The physics allow you to blast yourself across an 
 area with a rocket or grenade. It gets pretty insane when your whole team are Pyros and you just 
 charge like its WWII. The game is definatly a must buy. it is VERY entertaining. i played 7 hours 
 straight without looking from the screen. There is a wide choice of classes ranging from Demoman 
 to Spy, Scout and Heavy. Pyro flames everything, Heavy miniguns everything and Spy clones the enemy. 
 TF2 now has 2 classes with acheivments: Pyro and Medic. Both with challenging but possible goals. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is a multiplayer game. So for those who don't usually play games over the internet 
 or via LAN, this is not a game for you.
  The game has quite a nice feel to it. The game looks pretty good eventhough the textures could have 
 been done more carefully. The sound effects are great and all the guns sound very real and make 
 you feel sometimes as you were a part of the real action. But the game has a very cartoonish look. Everything 
 looks like in cartoons. The guns, the characters and even the explosions. I would say that the perfect 
 comparison to a cartoon would be with The Mask. The characters look just like in those cartoons 
 eventhough the game has nothing to do with those animated series (as far as I know) . It all depends 
 of your first reaction to the game. If you like it you like it, if you don't then you don't. As the 
 other great title from Valve, Portal, this game doesn't really take itself seriously at all. You will 
 have this sensation after playing it for the first time. This game is pure fun and that's probably 
 the most important value of a game. It has to be fun.
  A downside of the game is the lag and the framerate which drops sometimes during online play. The 
 game alsoo freezes sometimes as well. This is a big problem and untill now Valve hasn't done anything 
 to repair this problem.
  I would recommend this game to FPS fans and for those of them who just want to relax in something 
 a little more "relaxing". I could also say that this game is a pretty good game for beginners in 
 FPS's. This game is worth checkin out.
  
  My Score 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noodle001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This is one that will be remembered just like it's predecessor TF classic! The cartoon style is 
 one of the thing's that make this game so fun for playing. It combines colorful backgrounds with 
 fast action! The classes are really well balanced, though on some custom map's some classes become 
 virtually useless. The action is just right because it is fast, but then again not that fast. Though 
 it might need some time getting used to by newer player's, it is a must have if you always liked 
 class-based shooters! I must say that this is a highly addictive game for those people. Also this 
 game is being frequently updated with minor updates but also with big updates such as the medic 
 achievement pack and the coming pyro achievement pack (both contain new unlockable weaponry) that 
 give another good boost to the gameplay! The environment where all this is going on is mostly some 
 sort of battlearea where the blu team has an more industrial looking base and the red a more farmlike 
 base. The classes receive their one "Meet The" movie in witch there background and character is 
 more explained. A must have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  ------------
  +Intense multiplayer gameplay that will surely keep you playing for a long time.
  +Unique and 
 refreshing graphics that give a unique style and feel to the game.
  +Classes are extremely well balanced and diverse.
  +It's great fun when you have good teammates.
 
  ------------
  The bad:
  ------------
  -If your teammates aren't as good, your experience won't be either.
  ------------
  
  
  
 When Valve announced "Half-life 2: The Orange Box" the game raised eyebrows to shooter fans everywhere. 
 When they found out that the game would include an online multiplayer game, the hype started to 
 pile up. "Team Fortress 2" was released in October of 2007, both as a game in the Orange Box and 
 as an individual package. The class based multiplayer game's unique style and sense of humor, not 
 to mention the crazy intense multiplayer, make it one of the most refreshing shooters I've seen 
 in a long time. It all boils down to the fact that you really need to play this game, whether you're 
 a fan of the genre or not.
  
  The objectives of the game are quite simple. There are two teams that face off against each other 
 in 3 different game types. The three modes are capture point, capture the flag and the newly added 
 payload. In capture point, you try to stay on your enemies point for a certain amount of time (or 
 defend that point if you're on defense) . In capture the flag you try to steal your enemy's intelligence 
 (flag) from their base. In payload, you try to stand next to a cart to move it, and push the cart 
 all the way into your enemy's base. Every mode is really fast paced, chaotic, and one hundred percent 
 team based; so you won't be bored no matter which mode you play. 
  
  As far as the characters to play as go, there are 9 in total that you can choose from. The classes 
 (characters) are divided into 3 categories (offense, defense and support) each containing three 
 classes so 9 classes in total. The offensive classes are usually the guys who run out and capture 
 the flags or move the cart. The defensive classes usually are the ones who stay back and defend 
 the point. Support serves a special purpose, which includes healing and sneaking. Each individual 
 class has its own strengths and weaknesses, which balances out the game extremely well. Of course 
 you don't have to use a defensive class for defense, you can use the classes anyway you want. I'll 
 get into the individual characters next, so here we go.
  
  The first offensive class is called the Scout. A scout has the unique ability of being almost twice 
 as fast as everyone else. He can also double jump to reach high places that nobody else can jump 
 to. You'll use him when you really want to get back into the fight fast, and he sure does that 
 good. His weakness is that he doesn't have to much health, and his gun doesn't dish out to much 
 damage. He's really weak against more powerful defensive characters, so he is only used best in 
 special situations. 
  
  The next offensive class is the Soldier. The soldier's main weapon is his rocket launcher. It deals 
 out a bunch of damage, and causes enemies to go flying all over the battlefield. He can also use 
 his rocket launcher to propel himself to high places, even though it does hurt him a little. The 
 soldier is really good for long range and dishing out tons of pain. His weaknesses are that he 
 has to reload a lot, which forces you to back out of the fight frequently. Overall, the soldier 
 is a very good class for offensive type people.
  
  The final offensive class is the Pyro. The pyro has a very unique weapon, a flamethrower. He can 
 use his flamethrower to set his enemies on fire, which deals damage even after you stop attacking 
 your enemy. The pyro thrives in close corridors where he can set his enemies on fire with no problem. 
 Really his only problem is that he has hardly any range with his flamethrower, which doesn't help 
 him at all in the open battlefield. Overall though, the pyro is a very good class if you can master 
 it.
  
  The first class in the defensive category is the Demoman. The demoman is sort of the grenade specialist 
 in the game. He has a grenade launcher ricochets explosives off the walls to cause havoc all over 
 the battlefield. His other weapon is the sticky grenade launcher. He can use this to set bombs 
 anywhere he wants, and then explode them at the click of a button. The sticky bombs are great for 
 surprising enemies around corners, and you can use them to make yourself jump higher onto ledges. 
 The demoman real doesn't have much of a downfall, other than the fact that he doesn't have much 
 ammo. He is one of the best classes available in my opinion. 
  
  The second defensive class is the Heavy. The heavy has a huge chain gun that can shred enemies 
 apart in seconds. It dishes out tons of damage, which can be really useful in tight situations. 
 He also has almost twice as much health as other classes, which means he can take a lot of punishment 
 on the battlefield. His only problem is that he is very slow, which hinders his ability to dodge 
 bullets from the enemies. He is great for defending things overall, and is a character that can 
 cause tons of chaos on the field. He's really fun to use as well, if that mans anything.
  
  The third and final defensive class is the engineer. The engineer has the ability to build things 
 like turrets and teleporters. The sentry gun (turret) is extremely useful for guarding you base, 
 since it dishes out tons of damage. The teleporters he builds are essential to getting your team 
 back into the battle quick, and are very important to winning the game. His main downside is that 
 if he is caught without a sentry, he is a sitting duck for any class. His shotgun is average, but 
 he won't survive do to his lack of health. He is a very important class none-the-less, so you should 
 certainly try him out.
  
  The next class is class is under the support category. The "medic" is used to heal your teammates 
 on the field. His medi-gun can heal anybody at anytime, which really helps out the team for staying 
 in the battle. If he heals people enough, he gets something called an uber-charge. He can use the 
 uber-charge to make other people "super-powered" and invulnerable to damage. His downside is that 
 his damage gun sucks, so his only real purpose is healing. The medic is essential to victory though, 
 so you'll need to make sure you have a few if you want to win the game.
  
  Another class in the support category is the Sniper. His gun has a scope, which he can use to zoom 
 in on people from long range. The sniper can sit back and kill people before they know what hit 
 them, which makes him deadly to people in the open field. His main weakness is that from short 
 range he really struggles do to his lack of health and firepower. The sniper is a very good class 
 for clearing out the field of enemies. You'll need some snipers on your team if you want to be 
 successful, and you'll need to watch out when you're out in the open if you don't want to be sniped.
 
  
  The final class is the spy. The spy is the most unique character in the game by far, and if used 
 correctly can be one of the most deadly. He can transform his appearance to make him look like 
 a member of the enemy team, so he can sneak up on anyone without being shot at. He can then backstab 
 them with his knife, which is an automatic one hit kill. His only weakness is that when he attacks, 
 his cover is blown and he can be attacked. He is one of the hardest characters to use in the game, 
 but if mastered he can cause havoc all over the battlefield.
  
  Those are all the nine classes, so surely there is something that you found interesting in there. 
 The classes are really well balanced, so it's not like one class completely dominates the others. 
 Each class can be very important to winning a game, so you'll have to be strategic with your team. 
 The core gameplay of Team Fortress 2 is extremely fast paced and addicting. It's really, really 
 fun to play when you have good teammates at your side. If you don't have the best teammates, you'll 
 still have fun, maybe just not as much. Most of the time you'll have good players in the game though, 
 so you shouldn't have problems with that to much. 
  
  The graphics of Team Fortress 2 look like something taken out of a comic book, but that doesn't 
 mean they're bad at all. The graphics give a very unique feel to the game, something that feels 
 refreshing and new from the typical shooters we have lately. The game looks really good, from characters 
 to the water. It runs quite smoothly too, only dipping in frame rate when you get in a huge battle 
 that doesn't occur frequently. If you thought the game looked childish because of the graphics, 
 think again when you see your opponent explode in a fire of blood that looks both amusing and technically 
 great. The graphics give a new fell to the genre that you really have to experience to feel how 
 good they are..
  
  The maps of Team Fortress 2 are limited, but that doesn't mean they aren't good. Only six maps 
 are available at first, but after downloadable content there are no more. Each map also has different 
 versions of itself, which makes up for the lack of maps in total. The maps are greatly designed 
 so that you're never save from fire no matter where you are. Once you find a map you like, you'll 
 always be able to find people to play with on that map do to the tons of servers, so even the worst 
 maps will have at least one good game going.
  
  The sounds of Team Fortress 2 are also very good. The only time you really hear voice is when someone 
 taunts or calls for help, so really there is no voice acting. The sounds you do hear are the burning 
 of your enemies, which sound quite realistic, the shots of your gun and all the chaos of the battlefield. 
 The sound might not play a big part in the experience of the game, but it is very good for all 
 of you people who pay close attention to detail.
  
  That's all there is to say about Team Fortress 2. The game's gameplay is some of the absolute best 
 you'll find in any game, on any console. Back that up with technically great and refreshing graphics, 
 very nice sound, and smooth controls; and you've got yourself one of the best games of the year 
 hands down. The heavy emphasis on the "team" factor of the game is the only thing that can be even 
 thought of as bad when you have a bad team. This is one of the best shooters of the year, hands 
 down. It really is one of the most unique and refreshing games we've seen in a quite a while. If 
 you own a console or PC that can run this game, you owe it to yourself to play Team Fortress 2.
 
  
  
  
  I give Valve's "Team Fortress 2" a near perfect score of 9.0 out of 10.
  
  
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedDragon111
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  When i first saw this game, i thought it looked dumb because of the cartoonish graphics. Boy was 
 i wrong. Its easily the BEST class based multiplayer game ever created! For starters, it has a 
 wide selection of classes. They are the Scout-the fast, jumpy guy, the Soldier-who moves slow but 
 carries a rocket launcher, the Pyro-who, hence the name, uses a flamethrower, the Demoman-who carries 
 a launcher and a stickybomb launcher, the Heavy-who carries a huge 6 barreled minigun that literally 
 mows people down, the Engineer-who can build sentries (Turrets) , dispensers and teleporters to 
 help his teammates, the Medic-i dont really have to describe a medic, right? The Sniper-who, uhh, 
 snipes people, and lastly theres the Spy-the stealthy guy you never see coming, who can disguise 
 and sap enemy buildings. There's also a nice variety of maps, depending on your playing style. 
 My personal favorite is either the Sniper or the Spy. So, basically, BUY THIS GAME NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mj-Healy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is addicting. While writing this review I want to play it right now. The gameplay 
 is that good. For those who don't know, Team Fortess 2 is a sequel to a mod which came out out 
 way back for Quake 3. It is a class based online multiplayer shooter. You can choose beetween nine 
 different classes, from the speedy Scout to the all-offensive Heavy Weapons Guy. You play across 
 7 different maps each with their own special mode. With modes like Capture the Flag and Control 
 Points.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a pleasure to look at. With each class and map having a wacky cartoonish look. 
 The graphics are also very detailed. Great water effects, detailed environments and realistic shadowing 
 all crop up if your running on a good computer. The classes themselves are varied and each one has 
 their own back story. The online in this game works quite well without too many lag issues. The 
 matchmaking is done via Steam and is easy and simple to use. TF2 is also quite a good sounding 
 game with some nice music in the menus and good sound effects in game.
  
  There are one or two small issues in the game. I may have said that the game is very addicting 
 but to some only having six or seven maps will mean you will see everthing pretty quickly. Also 
 most maps are usually Control Point which when played over and over again can become kinda repetitive.
 
  
  None the less Team Fortress 2 is a great experience. With gameplay that may be shallow in places, 
 but still always find a way to bring back from more. You won't enjoy this if you don't work as 
 a team, when using teamwork this game is far more enjoyable. If you want solid multiplayer action 
 look no further than this.
  
  Gameplay: 9.4
  Lifespan: 9.1
  Sound: 8.8
  Visuals: 9.5
  
  Overall: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Well well well, I cant tell you how long I have waiting for an online only shooter that really 
 blew me away, but now I have found one. TF2 is a fantastic blend of action and humer all rolled 
 up into one package. 
  
  The game has no story to it except kill or be killed and thats totaly fine. The first thing you 
 know notice about the game is that it looks just like some kind of cartoon, you may be (Like me) 
 put off by this the first time when you see it. But haveing played XIII a lot when that first came 
 out I have always been interested in these kind of looking games. From the second I turned it on, 
 I just fell in love with the whole thing, it's simple out of this world.
  
  The characters in the game are very good and funny at times. You can be a number of classes ranging 
 from a Heavy with a Minigun, a Medic, a Scout and a Spy. There are pros and cons to all classes 
 so none of them can be considered "Unbeatable" on there own. There are so many great thinks about 
 this game I could never say them all, but belive it or not there is, as far as I can tell nothing 
 wrong with this game. It's perfect, litrally.
  
  So if online shooters are your thing and you dont mind cartoon graphics and some humer here and 
 there... TF2 is perfect you like it is perfect for me.
  
  10/10 without a second thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ozzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I myself am a huge fan of Counter Strike Series, but I think that CS has one "letdown". Its not 
 fun, except maybe when you make fun of noobs over the radio XD. If you agree with me on this, you 
 will also agree that Team Fortress 2 is the most fun multilayer experience that u will ever get 
 on your PC. 
  No wander it took Valve so long to release "The Orange Box", because all the games there were so 
 well polished. TF2 has the most balanced classes, and maps. There are no classes that are just 
 simply left out. Every class has its pros and cons. Ex - Sniper- Low health, not enough fire power, 
 but at the same time, he can easily take out a heavy with a simple head shot.
  Also a big (and i mean BIG) part of this game is TEAM WORK. This is not a game that you can go 
 solo, it doesn't matter how good you are, for example, NO PRO SCOUT can overtake a nooobish Heavy. 
 Or no engnie can take down a highly experienced spy. But if he teams up with a pyro, spy has no 
 chance of surviving, no matter how good he is. 
  If you don't have friends that play this game, you will probably not get the full experience, cuz 
 its hard to build a together working team out of people you don't know. But sometimes if you are 
 in a bad team, you cannot win the round. 
  Thats why I took off that 0.5% XD...
  But overall the game looks nice, and fresh. Gameplay is solid, its a MUST have game for those fans 
 of fast paste action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Praetor
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  What is great about Team Fortress 2? How to begin? As TF2 has so much going for it.
  
  The Art: The most noticable component of the game, the art of Team Fortress 2 reflects an exaggerated 
 50s architecture design, and does it perfectly. 
  
  For this game, Valve dropped the dark and gloomy backdrop of Half-Life or the stark and boring 
 air of CounterStrike for something bright, cheery, and absolutely hilarious.
  
  The Characters: The nine classes in the game each have their own character, and every character 
 is completely unique, likable, and incredibly funny. 
  The Heavy is a blood-hungry Russian. 
  
  The Demoman is a drunk, Black, One-Eyed Scots. 
 
  
  The Scout is a punk from Boston, that yields a sawed-off shotgun and a steel bat. And all the characters 
 have many taunts, cheers, and in-game voice messages that you can use for easy chat.
  
  The Gameplay: Team Fortress 2 doesn't need a story. There's no reason for BLU and RED teams to 
 blast away at each other. They don't need one.
  But if they did, it wouldn't be Team Fortress.
  
  Team Fortress 2's gameplay is the BLU and 
 RED teams facing off on numerous maps. 
  
  2Fort is the simplest and most-played map, a capture the flag game with (wouldn't you know it) 
 two forts on either side of a bridge.
  
  Dustbowl is one map, with three stages, resulting in long, enjoyable, and satisfying battles. The 
 always offensive BLU team tries to capture six points from the eternally defensive RED team. There 
 are two points for each stage, and each stage is a bit harder for BLU to capture.
  
  Also, there's an in-game statistics system, but it only keeps up with the BEST you do, instead 
 of piddling around with Kill-Death Ratios or Death Streaks. Parallel to this is an achievement 
 system, which serves little purpose other than to show personal experience in the game.
  
  Your future with TF2:
  6 great maps shipped with the game, but many custom maps have become popular 
 with the TF2 community. Valve has also begun to release new maps, along with new class-specific 
 achievements (that are in the near future) that will unlock weapons.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the best, most addictive multiplayer game on the market. For only $30, it's 
 a FANTASTIC deal, but to be able to buy the Orange Box for $40-50, it's INSANE.
  
  You need this game. Now go out and buy it.
  
  Play on = (eGO) = servers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiller53
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Countless games have tried to venture into the world of objective oriented games. Regular gamers 
 are in no way unaccustomed to the idea of class based play. First person shooters like Halo 3 or 
 Call of Duty 4 have a huge selection of maps. So what can a game like Valve's Team Fortress 2 bring 
 to the table? Everything.
  
  Right off the bat, TF2 distinguishes itself by its different and in many respects, daring visual 
 design style. Each of the nine classes stands competely distinguishable from any given distance 
 due to the drastically unique profiles and brightly highlighted color schemes. TF2's "Pixar-like" 
 graphics make the game immediately feel like a cartoon, its vintage feeling and old-timey map introductions 
 give the impression of an over the top 1960's spy film, and its fast paced, team driven gameplay 
 lets skeptics know: Team Fortress 2 is not a game for babies.
  
  The game originally launched with 2 different game types: Capture the Flag and Control Points. 
 And since late April, Valve has released a game mode known as payload, all of which can be explained 
 in all of the hundreds of articles written on the game. The important thing that needs be said 
 is this: while at first glance TF2's limited number of gametypes and set of about 8 Valve created 
 maps may seem barebones, the experience almost never seems dull, repetitive or lacking. 
  
  Valve went above and beyond when it came to balancing each of the nine playable classes. Each class 
 has its stated purposes or play styles (Offense, Defense, or Support) , but each class, when played 
 in the right hands, can be used for practically any job. Every class can be defeated at the hands 
 of any other if played correctly, which makes for a continuously challenging and fun play that 
 almost never suffers from teams full of all soldiers or demomen. 
  
  Speaking of classes, each has its very own unique and completely different playstyle. For those 
 who prefer the "run and gun" kind of play, the Scout would be a good choice. Those who like to 
 play sneak and ambush might check into the Pyro or Spy. Soldiers and Demomen might be good choices 
 for anyone feeling particularly destructive. The list goes on and on, but needless to say, anyone 
 could find a class to play.
  
  The name of the game is TEAM Fortress 2, and rightly so. This is a title for those who like the 
 idea of working on a team to achieve an objective, not to see who can "pwn the most n00bs." While 
 particularly skilled individuals may shine, if the team fails, EVERYONE fails (and most are promptly 
 mercy killed as payment) . The game supports a multitude of in-game chat options for team communication 
 and coordination, but if you want to really get the most out of the experience, voice communication 
 is a must. The game has decently reliable in-game voice support, which makes coordinating and making 
 on the fly tactical decisions easy and rewarding. The game encourages, nay, demands being able 
 to switch strategies on the go, with the ability to switch classes between respawns and multiple 
 paths to any given objective.
  
  On top of all of that, Valve is consistently making patches and updates to both fix any bugs, exploits, 
 or hacks discovered in the community as well as to add new content such as maps, gametypes, and 
 class achievements and alternate weapons. In addition, Valve takes the time to personally reply 
 to and address any issues brought to its attention. All of this together makes for a customer service 
 that outdoes any seen by practically any other game developer. 
  
  As with any decent team-based games, the team you have can make or break any given experience. 
 There are literally thousands of TF2 servers out there (its a game running on the source engine, 
 so of course there are) , many with various and ridiculous mods a la Counter-strike. But put in 
 just a few minutes of searching (maybe a Google search here and there) and you'll be able to find 
 plenty of reliable, fun servers full of rational, skilled players that make for an irreplaceable 
 experience. There's nothing like having a back and forth match, seeing your team beaten back to 
 its last control point then somehow punching through and retaking ground. Having a team of other 
 players that can respond and coordinate better than any "bots" ever could is something that TF2 
 takes full, bloody giblet-filled advantage of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slingblade100
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Even with all the changes it still manages to keep some of the old-school charm while bringing 
 it into the next gen.
  
  The classes are pretty well balanced offering a different class for each play style and personal 
 taste. They took out the grenades of the classic teamfortress but the effect on the game play is 
 negligible with the other changes they made to the classes.
  
  The new changes to the 2fort map are well done and add to the fun of playing on this classic map. 
 The new map types and maps add a whole new level to this game. The new maps certainly have me coming 
 back for more especially with the contend updates that they are releasing with each new map being 
 as good if not better then existing maps.
  
  If you loved teamfortress on the quake or half life engine you will certainly love this game with 
 its unique graphics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prafulk
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game will surprise you with its cartoonist looks and seemingly simple textures. . but believe 
 me , once you get into the game it really catches on to you. . the classes are So balanced with 
 each n every class having its dominance over some other class. . and the characters have been smoked 
 life into. . they are not just characters you are playing ,. .they speak , taunt and wat not so 
 you really start to relate to them
  
  Unlike other "class-based" games that offer a variety of combat classes only, Team Fortress 2 packs 
 a wild variety of classes which provide a broad range of tactical abilities and personalities, 
 and lend themselves to a variety of player skills.
  
  
  Possibly the best FPS shooter [But COD4 came out] so you'll have to settle with the UNDOUBTEDLY 
 THE BEST ONLINE SHOOTER YET !!!!
  
  PS : It kicks CS's Arse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naturerider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  You really do need a mic to enjoy this game to its fullest. It's impossible to alert someone to 
 an intruder, or point out an enemy's location fast enough with text (and you need your hands to 
 play, not type) . Oh, and buy a decent mic. I tried the cheap route, they don't work. Most maps 
 require teamwork to win, and the game play greatly improves when you (or someone on your team) 
 have a plan. Definitely one of the best games I've played... ever. 
  
  Some maps can be difficult to navigate, especially when using a transporter. But again, this becomes 
 easier the more you play. My only problem is getting to play as often as I would like. This game 
 can be quite addictive. Enjoy.
  
  
  Difficulty: The classes range from easy to play, to difficult to master. Try them all till you 
 get used to the game and its controls. Then master other classes as you get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bzero_uk
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  TF2 is an online FPS focused entirely on team gameplay. If you do not work as a team you will not 
 succeed in completing the mission and as result you shall lose, and be blown to streds by the opposing 
 team; unarmed and nowhere to hide. 
  
  Like I said, TEAM WORK. You can be the best TF2 player in the world but if the rest of you're team 
 sucks then your skills will matter not.
  
  You get to choose which one of the nine classes you want to play either at the start of the map 
 or in you're team base. You can change anytime but your class will suicide if not in the base. 
 Every class is unique. 
  
  Every class has their own distinctive appearance and personality. You'll find yourself sometimes 
 spamming the voice commands just to hear every classes own take on "medic!" "positive" "spy!" and 
 many more commands! Also sometimes the classes talk to each other without even the players intention, 
 like when a medic heals you and your class thanks the medic, or when you dominate an opposing player 
 and your class bawls into hysterical laughter. These are only two examples, and the idea is to 
 make you feel like you're apart of something, and useful to your team.
  
  Onto tactics every class has their strengths and weaknesses which are all counteracted by the other 
 classes. A bit like paper, rock, scissors. Example, 
  the demo is very powerful with explosives, he can detonate his stickies at any time he wants, but 
 on an open battlefield something as weak as the scout (fast but tiny health) kicks the crap out 
 of him. The demo just cannot keep up with the speed and randomness of an experienced scout. Another 
 example is the heavy. His strength is that his weapon is by far the most fastest automated gun 
 in the game, meaning he hits what he aims for with no delay. His weakness is his shots don't count 
 for much at far distances (but still injure) and in this situation he's vulnerable to all explosive 
 classes. A heavy has the most life of all classes in the game but it doesn't count for much unless 
 he has a medic. The biggest problem for a heavy-medic combo is the far away haven sniper, or, backstabbing 
 spies and pyros up your ass. Howerver if the heavy and medic work well together, using movement 
 communication, both will remain alive and reak havoc on pretty much anything in sight.
  
  I could spend all day explaining scenarios and useful class combos but when you're in game you 
 just gotta decide which is best tactic/combo to use in the right situation. And like I said before, 
 it requires TEAM WORK. If you're team are idiots and choose the wrong classes in the wrong situation 
 it won't matter how skilled you are, you will lose. So everyone needs to do their part.
  
  Bad things about the game. Tf2 can seem like a crap game if you're team isn't trying. All classes 
 are simple and weak by themselves and if you don't use team work the game can feel pretty fustrating. 
 In times like these, it's easy to see why some people wrongly feel the game has no substance and 
 has been rushed by game developers. Many reviewers, but not all, join crap servers and write their 
 reviews based purely on their bad team experience. To those reviewers I would suggest finding a 
 good server with a good team play and perhaps rejudging or reviewing the game again.
  
  You will find TF2 probably requires more tactics and team sync than most other games out there. 
 The amount of scenarios which can be played out is daunting. I've played for more than 100 hours 
 and everyday I see different ways of playing out a map.
  
  Another hate of mine is TF2 is the new medic weapons. IMO this goes against everything the old 
 TF2 stood for. On some servers the whole unique point of the medic has completely gone out of window. 
 Especially with the new melee and needle gun weapons. IMO medics should always be healing rather 
 than attacking; except when they need to.
  
  One of the achievements to unlock weapons is... "bonesaw 50 scouts" 
  A medic should never be 
 taking on scouts, let alone 50 of them. 
  
  Thankfully since the update most medics have gone back to their healing jobs but you still see 
 some combat medics not healing at all.
  
  Anyway despite those bad stuff I give the game 10/10 cause it's probably my all time favourite 
 game ever. I recommend everyone that likes to be a part of the team to play this, and it caters 
 to almost everyone that has played an online fps before. From the old sniper vet to the camping 
 aimbot like engineer, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress is simply an amazing game. Nine wildly-varying classes and a great cartoony graphics 
 style help make this one of the best online shooters around.
  In Team Fortress, there are several game-modes, including attack and defend - where each team takes 
 it in turns to attack and defend, control points - where two teams fight to control all the control 
 points on the map, and payload, where a team must push a cart to the enemy base. Whichever mode 
 you're playing, you're in for an unforgettable and extremely enjoyable experience. 
  Team Fortress 2, as the title may suggest, is centered around team-work. Every class and player 
 must support each other, and using your microphone to organize your team can be rewarding. However, 
 a disorganised team will never win.
  As I have said, there are nine classes, which are split into three groups - offensive, defensive 
 and support.
  In the offensive category is the scout, who has superior speed and agility, including the ability 
 to double-jump. He wields a deadly scatter-gun for close-range combat, and a pistol for more accurate 
 fire at range. His baseball bat acts as a melee weapon. 
  The next offensive class is the soldier. He is slower than most other classes, due to the fact 
 that he carries a large, powerful rocket launcher, which is useful for both long and short range 
 attacks. His shotgun is his secondary weapon, with a shovel for close-quaters.
  The final offensive class is the pyro, who uses a flamethrower as his primary weapon, adept at 
 close combat. The flamethrower not only causes great damage, but sets the target alight for several 
 seconds, to burn away the last of his health. Pyros are often used to expose spies. The pyro, like 
 many other classes, has a secondary shotgun, as well as a viscous axe.
  First in the defensive section is the demoman. He can fire bombs with his first gun, which will 
 bounce around corners and detonate soon after impact. His other gun fires sticky-bombs. These stick 
 to any surface, and can be fired to great distances. The demoman must remote-detonate these bombs, 
 making them potent for traps. He also has a beer bottle for melee, which can be smashed.
  The next character is the heavy, or heavy-weapons guy. He is the slowest-moving character, but 
 also has the highest hit-points. His slowness can be put down to his large machine-gun (which the 
 heavy affectionately calls Sasha) . This gun is very powerful, but must be spun to be able to fire, 
 and this action slows the heavy even more. The gun has limited ammo for such a high rate of fire, 
 so ammo crates and dispensers will be required to keep the heavy going. He is a great "medic-buddy" 
 and will often be priority for ubercharges. He also carries a shotgun, and uses his fists to melee 
 his opponents.
  The last defensive person is the engineer. Instead of direct combat, the engineer builds structures 
 to support his team. These include the sentry gun, which is an automated defence system, and can 
 be upgraded for greater health and damage. The others are dispensers, which give health and ammo 
 to your team-mates, and teleporters, to send allies to the front lines quickly. Both an entrance 
 and an exit must be build for the teleporter. The engineer can destroy his machines at any time. 
 In terms of weaponry, the engineer carries a shotgun and pistol, as well as a wrench. The wrench 
 is used to upgrade and repair structures, as well as kill pesky spies.
  The support category holds the medic - someone who prefers to heal, not kill. (Hippie style!) His 
 medigun will restore team-mates health, and once the medic has done enough healing, he can unleash 
 an ubercharge, rendering both the medic and the person he is healing invicible. Alternatively, 
 the medic can choose to give the target all-critical hits. The ubercharge can turn the tide of 
 battle when applied properly, and will often give the team the chance to charge straight to a point. 
 He also has a syringe gun for ranged combat, and a saw for melee. A recent update gave the medic 
 the chance to upgrade his weapons, if he completed enough acheivements. This did kinda change the 
 medic into a make-shift offensive class for a while, but they're back to their good old selves 
 now!
  The next character is my personal favourite - the sniper. He carries a powerful sniper rifle, but 
 this rifle differs from those featured in other games. When the sniper looks down his scope, he 
 must wait for the sniper rifle to charge, or it will deliver only a small amount of damage. He 
 scores critical hits through headshots, and even a half-charged headshot will kill most classes. 
 He has a sub-machine gun for close range, as well as a machete. However, the sniper can barely 
 defend himself against enemies at close range, and spies will often target him as well.
  The final class is the spy. The spy's job is to score backstabs for instant kills, and place sappers 
 to disable and destroy enemy structures. But due to his small amount of health and poor weapons, 
 the spy must move discreetly to get behind enemy lines. He can cloak, rendering himself completely 
 invisible for a short period of time, and also disguise himself as an enemy. This disguise cannot 
 be seen-through, and can be worn forever, but if you're acting suspiciously, a pyro may well come 
 to check you out. When you backstab an enemy, your disguise is completely removed, so it's best 
 to hit an isolated enemy, or a group that you can wipe out quickly. The spy's knife will kill instanly 
 from behind or the side, but when facing an enemy head-on, he has no chance. His pistol provides 
 some ranged firepower, but not enough to defend against another, better-equipped class. When placing 
 a sapper, the spy can retain his disguise, but be warned; engineers are very wary.
  Each class has a different taunt for each weapon, as well as a host of voice-commands. You can 
 complete many acheivements, including 36 specialised ones for the medic. Valve constantly releases 
 updates via Steam, to stop hackers and keep players going. These include new acheivements, weapons, 
 maps and even game-modes. There are loads of custom maps, as well as Valve's originals, some of 
 which are excellent. 
  The cartoony graphics belie the depth of this shooter. It's all about well-planned team moves to 
 win the game, or setting up defenses strategically, in conjunction with each other. And above all, 
 it's fun, and definately worth buying, especially as part of the Orange Box.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolzlolz13
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  i definitely didn't like "the bad" in the review, first the strategical depth is good, i do recommend 
 you get a headset to really play however
  also the other players are normally good and well balanced, if not switch to a different server
 
  3rd the price is a good deal $30 for a game is good especially for the hours you can put into 
 this, also on steam it is $20 (i dont know how long this will last so hurry and get it :P)
  also the only downside of this game imo is that there's no single player however i think this is 
 ok
  the graphics are good (if you can turn them up) my pretty good comp is recommended to leave most 
 of them below average, which bothers me because i have a nvidia geforce 8600 gt a pretty good card 
 and a 2.8ghz dual core intel so the graphics take power although i do believe that u can amp them 
 up way past the recommended with any system (ive got them on high not quite the best though)
  also i find that it is very fun with the different maps coming out, such as gold rush and other 
 updates like the medic achievement packs
  like gamespot said currently lots of people are playing medics because of the achievements but 
 as they add them to other classes it will become more balanced
  great game!!!
  (the difficulty is variable but normally about right)
  also each class has its strengths and 
 weaknesses overall the game is very balanced though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I first got TF2 with the Orange Box the day it came out. Like most people, the first thing I did 
 was beat Portal. Then I beat HL2 E2. Then, I went back to my old games. The very concept of TF2 
 sounded stupid to me. Why play this brand new game with crappy cartoony graphics when I can play 
 an awesome online game like Call of Duty. Eventually, however, boredom overtook me and I installed 
 it.
  
  When the main menu loaded my opinion was instantly turned. You are greeted by a still picture in 
 the background, and an oddly amazing theme music. That in itself sets the atmosphere beyond words 
 already, even with steam's static menu interface. I loaded up a game and was greeted by a humorous 
 video explaining the map and how it should be played. I continued to play and was impressed by 
 the diversity of the classes. Over time I got a little more into it until I finally listened to 
 the developer commentary included with the game and my view about TF2's graphics changed forever.
 
  
  After you hear about the art design, every single little aspect; every light, every texture, every 
 pipe means something. It goes from being a cartoon to being a work of art to rival some of the 
 greatest works of the century. They didn't created an entirely new shader model just to make system 
 requirements lower, it was created to perpetuate the inescapable and perfect atmosphere of the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is outstanding. After over 100 hours on the game I have yet to get bored. I got bored 
 of Call of Duty 4 in about 40 hours. Every class has almost limitless re playability due to the 
 number of maps, the dynamics of every class, and how they are used depending on what the other 
 members of your team are. Sure, there are times when your team sucks, and that can ruin the experience, 
 but that is the case on any game (unless you are playing mindless DM action) . But even in these 
 cases the game can still be enjoyed. I have sometimes had more fun sneaking behind the far superior 
 enemy team as a spy and wreaking havoc on the unsuspecting dominators of my team than working flawlessly 
 with an excellent team. The experience with the other players is ultimately what you make of it, 
 and beyond that, TF2 is artistic and gameplay perfection. I have never found a game before this 
 one that I could find nothing to mod on.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is just another example of the limitless beauty that can be derived from the Source 
 engine.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  yeah... we've been waiting for this game for years. big fan of the original and this sequel doesn't 
 disappoint. it's actually a vast improvement over the original in graphics and gameplay.
  
  it's a simple enough game. learning curve is relatively low. anyone could pick up this game and 
 start messing around with it to have a good time. the difficulty of the actual battles depends 
 on the opposition. some are fresh out of the box troopers... others are battle harden veterans 
 with a mean streak and no mercy or patience. thankfully most are somewhere in between, going along 
 to get along.
  
  big fan of the spy class. little frustrating... the developers put in plenty of disincentives to 
 keep that class from being the best. invisibility isn't instantaneous, disguises aren't instantaneous, 
 cloak is pretty short, opponents will find you by bumping into you, no friendly fire so they can 
 spy check without harm. yeah...
  
  sniper is a popular class. it's easy, but typically not all that useful to completing objectives.
 
  
  scout is fun. pyro is fun. soldier is fun.
  
  demoman is tricky, but if done well it's the cheapest class to pick up kills. there's a glitch 
 in 2fort that'll let the demoman stickyjump way up on an invisible ledge above the battlements... 
 they should probably fix that.
  
  engineer is one of the most vital classes, but one of the most boring. sit around, build, repair, 
 build, repair, build, repair. heavy is pretty tough too... big target, hard to get any momentum 
 without a medic.
  
  medic is one of the least popular classes, but it's useful. it's got a mean reach with that bonesaw 
 though. haven't had a chance to play recently to get a first hand on the new gun or something the 
 medic is suppose to get. ugh.
  
  capture point sucks. think that cart moving map is going to suck too. capture the flag is the only 
 mode worth playing... and 2fort is really the best map for that.
  
  this game is a lot like counter strike in that it's a fantastic game, simplistic, no real strings 
 attached, plenty of replayablity, but yeah... ultimately limited in depth and scope. 
  
  no single player... but... yeah... it wouldn't have mattered.
  
  a VIP game mode would have 
 been fun, like from the original... possibly in a later installment. there isn't much to say to 
 encourage someone that doesn't like shooters to play... it's a shooter, pure and simple, with no 
 appy polly logies. 
  
  so yeah... if you see us around, say hi. we will only play 2fort so we're not that hard to find. 
 once we free up some time we'll definitely be playing.
  
  wait... we've clocked something like at least two weeks worth of game time. that's... unsettling. 
 there's a stat sheet that shows how long with each class. ugh... that's... sad... 
  
  we're wasting our life. = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodclots99
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This first person shooter game is made by Valve, also the creators of Half Life and Half Life 2 
 series. The online sensation Team Fortress 2 is now a new style for their games, the way the game 
 works is that there's two teams, red and blue.
  (by the way they are attacking and defending ) Three game types so far... capture point (maybe the 
 most popular) which involves you capturing a certain amount of areas in the map and whatever team 
 gets them all first wins, then theirs capture the flag (my personal favorite) but instead of a flag 
 you need to capture the intel, the theirs was a recent update which added one called Payload which 
 involves one team pushing a cart (payload) to another point.
  
  Now for the classes. There are nine classes, the Scout, the Soldier, the Demoman, the Pyro, the 
 Engineer, the Medic, the Heavy, the Sniper and the Spy. Each one has a unique personality and capability. 
 for instance the Scout runs the fastest and can double jump and the spy can cloak, disguise and 
 get single attack kills by backstabbing someone. The unique characters all make you feel like your 
 actually them because of their voices and their interview videos (meet the Engineer, meet the Heavy, 
 meet the Soldier, meet the Demoman and meet the Scout, thats all so far) Another great thing about 
 the recent update is that you can rank up weapons and even get new ones by completing achievments, 
 the Medic especially. 
  
  Finally the maps, 2fort (remember from the old game but this time... better looking) , Dustbowl, 
 Hydro, Granary, Gold Rush, Badlands and Well as far as i can remember. Incredibly good maps (most 
 of them) and i highly recommend this game to some really intense fps (first person shooters) out 
 there.
  
  I give this game a 10/10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Valve made the Source engine for HL2 and upgraded CS mod and I was waiting for TF2 mod. I couldn't 
 wait to get this game when they finally announced it after many years of waiting. One thing I am 
 really impressed is how good the whole package is. The voices are awesome (and quite funny) , the 
 graphics are top notch (with a twist of comic style) , and the gameplay is great. Trust me, when 
 you will get into your first game you will literally play it for more than an hour with joy.
  It feels good playing the old map from Team Fortress Classic (TFC) . This is one of my favorite 
 FPS online. Steam keeps on updating and tweaking the game every month, new maps pop-up, and soon 
 a new character will be introduced. The game is also pretty well balanced and you'll have fun playing 
 with a bunch of people! If you loved the first one, I highly recommend it. Now get going and get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  When TFC came out it was the first "Major" Strategic FPS on the gaming market, then came games 
 like the Battlefield series.
  About last year seeing all the videos and teasers on TF2, it looked like Valve took the best of 
 TFC and gave it a Animated Comedy makeover!
  Just started playing Team Fortress 2 and MAN have Valve gone for "Originality" here! For starters... 
 CTF isn't going after the "Same'ol" flag, instead you're stealing a Briefcase loaded with "Sensitive" 
 documents (that when stolen leak out from the case) . Then you have a new mode which gives Battlefield's 
 traditional mode of play a run for it's money! Capturing and holding CP's on the map to win the 
 game.
  But the one thing I love about TF2 is the cast of specialists and their personalities!
  My personal 
 favourite would have to be the Engineer...
  
  Not only do you get to unleash buckshots upon your targets... you also get to unleash an "Automated" 
 Annihilation machine (fully upgraded sentry) !
  
  And Team Fortress 2 has very good comedy element to it as well!
  
  Looking for examples of 
 the insanely hilarious moments that can happen...
  Search Youtube... (eg Heavy and Medic get it on) .
  
  Besides being bloody funny to play, TF2 
 is makes a seriously good multiplayer game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlag
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The best and worst decision that was made in creating TF2 was the elimination of grenades. I miss 
 my EMPs dearly but the omission of nades keeps the spam down to a comfortable level.
  
  My only minor complaint now that I am used to going without nades is the graphics. Let me start 
 by saying that the graphics are superb but, I just would have preferred the realism of a game like 
 Counter-Strike Source to these cartoon a la "Incredibles" graphic themes. For what the designers 
 are trying to accomplish in humor and model identification they do rock though. I read a thing 
 from Valve explaining in deep detail how the graphics were conceived and created and I was blown 
 away. I just like realism is all so that's why I would have preferred something less cartoony.
 
  
  This game is so replayable it isnt funny. If First Person Shooters are hard for you - start with 
 TF2 to overcome your incoordination. Unlike CS: S or BF2 you can actually sustain a lot of damage 
 before taking the dirt nap so firefights are not only comical but, lengthy (usually; see rockets, 
 butterfly knife, stickies)
  
  I am surprised at the blatant stereotypes of the characters. Their voice commands are hilarious 
 and can be a lot of fun once you memorize the 3 menus. Built in voice between gamers (with a mute 
 feature!) is handy too unless you get on an "all_talk" server.
  
  I played Team Fortress for years, ran servers, created maps and I have only played it a few times 
 since TF2 arrived. TF2 WILL STEAL YOUR SOUL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallofDuty4Vet
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
 Best Game on PC Best Game on PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popwar138
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well, for starters, Team Fortress 2 is an amazing FPS that has been long-awaited, very long, almost 
 a decade in fact. And if you're one of the one's who's been waiting, it's been worth it! =D At 
 first I was sceptical of the kiddy-ish graphics, but then you see body parts flying around, you 
 know it ain't E 10+. Team Fortress 2 is classed based, so you have a bunch of choices with different 
 perks, and no class is better than the other in any way, it's all a matter of preference. But because 
 all the classes are so balanced, it can seem a bit hard at times, like when you get the heavy because 
 he has more hit points, then get taken out by a scout, and that can get frustrating. The only downside 
 is that there are only 2 gameplay modes out right now, I hope they add at least deathmatch. Anyway, 
 this is a must-have for anyone who is a PC gamer that likes multi-player. -Popwar138 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeCJ2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Coming from a very heavy Team Fortress Classic background, I've waited for this game ever since 
 I was a young little gamer. Valve's TFC was a wonderful mix of multiplayer FPS and team-based fun 
 and craziness. Team Fortress 2 follows up wonderfully, adding a whole new update to this amazing 
 classic.
  
  Pick from 1 of 9 very unique classes and do battle against opposing teams of red vs. blue. Games 
 range form capture the briefcase (called 'intelligence') or capture points. The part that shines 
 about this game is unique variety of gameplay. No one class is stronger than the other but it takes 
 all members working effectively with their strengths to defeat the other team. 
  
  Another awesome feature is that sheer comedic value of each character and their mannerisms and 
 sayings. For example, snipe someone in the head and the Australian-esque Sniper says "Thanks for 
 standin still Wankah!" This game also has just the right amount of blood and gore, as seeing body 
 parts strewn across the floor rewards you with satisfaction. 
  
  The thing about Team Fortress 2 also is that the game doesn't stop when you've played all the original 
 maps a thousand times. The TF community has also been active in creating new and unique maps that 
 satisfy any single person. Even now, tons of old TFC maps have been ported over as well as some 
 new unique maps (hall_of_death portrays a capture the intelligence objective in a narrow hall, 
 hilarity ensues) . There are also various server mods, even some where people explode into balloons 
 and characters run around with party hats on. All for free at the expense of taking some time out 
 and downloading the add-ins and maps.
  
  In-game voice chat is easy to handle and modify and in-game sprays allow for some pretty funny 
 creativity (although some are raunchy and disgusting so beware) .
  
  In the end, this game is a must have. Even for the COD4/Halo/Unreal Tournament junkies, this game 
 actually brings me back again and again and provides a break from the oh-so-competitive and "realistic" 
 FPS multiplayer games out there.
  
  Oh, and prepare to hear "SPY SAPPIN MAH SENTRY" countless times, only to silence them with a swing 
 of a wrench. Good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veger77503
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Team fortress was a ICON of its time till hacking became the tell all.
  
  TF2 with Steam - Hack protections in place. This game rocks Better graphics, great classes, sound 
 effects, and explosions. What more in a game could you ask for??? This is a prize with the Orange 
 box, HL2 and Portal. This will blow you away or was that the Demoman with Sticky bombs? Very Few 
 problems and custom maps are popping up everywhere. My personal favorite is the Flood zone and 
 Toy maps. 
  
  Scouts double jump is not a toy you will take damage on a prolonged fall.
  
  Medics you can attack but becareful you dont heal the heavy.
  
  Enginners trying to repair 
 their Turrents from the gun side will be chewed up and spit out. 
  
  Heavies - head shots mean respawn becareful! 
  
  Snipers watch your back.
  
  Spies most 
 players flame those not acting properly.
  
  Demomen do not stick a sticky on you path they hurt.
  
  Pryo have fun watch out for ranged.
 
  
  Soldiers well you still overpowered but we love you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napp123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  It's was a Sunday Night... TF2 just stoped downloading... I started to play and I thought it sucks, 
 it was terribly unbalanced and everyone was using cheep tactics. So you might be asking why I gave 
 this game a 10. This is because it takes about 1 hour to get used to this game. Then use start 
 realizes how to use your own cheep tactics and this game becomes and incredibly fun, blanced shooter. 
 The maps are top notch and provide many ways to play them, my favorite new is the the new, "Badlands." 
 Of course since there are only 7 (8 if you count both of well's variants) you will get bord, especialy 
 if you like capture the flag, because all the other are a control point mode (like BF and frontlines.) 
 but this is where the community comes in. Like most mp shooters you download these maps when the 
 server loads them. Of course I prefer vanilla maps. The gameplay is very greusome and very satisfying. 
 It's a blast to watch an enemie to be blown to bits by a rocket. Each class is played a different 
 way some many people can find this game great and they will excell at there favorite class, although 
 other classes are easy to pick up, except spy. Since this game is so balanced, you won't get continously 
 pwned by that gamer who thinks he is so l33t for the time your on that server, but if some one 
 kills you three times in a row, the will be your nemsis, until you pwn them pack which is toatly 
 awesome. Any ways get this game! Buy the orange box or just buy it seperately if you're cheap! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  I love gaming online. The only reason I still upgrade my PC is to play online mutliplayer games, 
 otherwise I just prefer my Xbox 360. But when it comes to online gaming, PC is so much better.
 
  The infinite amount of mods, new maps, the sophisticated controls, communication, the teamwork, 
 the wars, the dedicated servers...
  
  you only get these on PC. So far starters, I just want to say that I've played most of the "good" 
 online shooters. 
  
  But Team Fortress 2... I think I can stop looking for new games, because this one is it. 
  
 
  It's the shooter I've been waiting for. 
  
  Balance, fun, balance, fun, fun, fun and more balance... and more fun. That's what this game is 
 all about. When playing Counter Strike, I often feel frustrated because of the outcome of the game. 
 Not because I play to win, but there are just so many furstrating aspects of that game, and basically 
 any other online shooter. Battlefield, Call of Duty... you name it.
  
  But TF2 overcomes these clichs. The first thing you notice is that it looks like a cartoon. But 
 don't be mistaken, it's a game for adults mostly. Unlike in Halo 3, or COD4, here, you won't hear 
 12 years old screaming in the mic all the time. Sure you will hear some, but the majority of the 
 gamers are mature, which is odd due to the cartoonish style of the game, but makes sense.
  
  This game is about TEAMWORK, not solo competition. The balance between the 8 classes are simply 
 phenomenal. Each class has pros and cons, and each class is useful on each map. You can't just 
 be soldiers, you can't just be engineers. You need balance.
  
  The weapons are very good too. Shotgun is the most common gun in the game, which ensures the game 
 is all about close combat rather than distance combat. Surely, sniper can take out oppenents from 
 a great distance, but then again, unlike in most games, snipers are easy to take out too.
  
  I'll give you an example of what teamwork looks like. Your task: defend the base, but at the 
 same, try to capture the enemy base. 
  
  You have 2 engineers with sentry guns at the base guarding the cap point. They are defensive. There's 
 one engineer who's offensive and goes with the rest of the team, mainly to help to supply them 
 with ammo and health using dispenser and to help them get back into the fight instantly with a 
 teleport. 
  
  There's a medic healing the offensive classes (soldier, heavy) who are constantly attacking. Once 
 medic gets "full charge" (happens after a while of healing) he can do an "bercharge" which makes 
 the medic and the person he chooses invulnerable for a small amount of time. Let's say he ubers 
 a Soldier, who takes out the enemies at their cap, and the enemy sentry guns. But since that's 
 hard, a spy disguised as the enemy saps their sentries and other engineer stuff to make it easier 
 for the soldier. Once the area is clear, the scouts step ahead and with their 2x cap skill, capture 
 the point nice and easy. Meanwhile pyros are "spychecking" everyone around the defensive and offensive 
 engineer so the spies can't backstab/ sap engineer stuff.
  
  That's just one example. With the proper people, it can get even more organized than that.
  
 
  The only thing that bothers me is "critical hits". They are random, but very annoying. For example 
 a critical rocket can take out anyone, even a heavy if not mediced with only 1 shot. It feels like 
 an aid if you are in a hot situation, but I think it's unfair. 
  
  As far as graphics go, it's perfect. EA's "Battlefield Heroes" tried/tries to copy TF2's visuals, 
 but they fail. It's not just that it looks like a cartoon, it's also that it has STYLE. Alot. The 
 characters are amazing - I want TF2 action figures! They are all characteristic. Their voices are 
 all amazing, with the accents (Sniper - australian, Pyro - barely understandable, gasmask, Spy - 
 spanish elitist, Medic - german.. and the list goes on) . The locations are also great, though some 
 are a bit dull (Well for example) . 
  
  It's one of the best pick up and play games. Even if you are a rookie, you can have alot of fun 
 with this game, unlike with let's say Counter Strike, where unless you have skills, you will get 
 nothing out of the game/fun.
  
  All considered, this game is a must have if you like online shooters. It's part of the awesome 
 Orange Box, but you can also buy it on Steam as a standalone for $30. 
  
  And don't forget... Spy is sappin mah sentry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Portal_Gecko
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  So everone is talking about how dramatic half-life is or how funny portal is, but noone seems to 
 have much to say about team fortress 2. well to set the record strait its a great multi-player 
 fps, and heres why.
  1. the nine charecter clases are so varied that it almost feels like a diffrent game every time 
 you switch.
  2. in addition to haveing great clases they all seem to balance each other out so that trere isnt 
 a "god" class.
  3. its funny. some games seem to forget that every now and then there has to be some amount of humor. 
 (dont get me wrong, im not asking gears of war to start tellin knock-knock jockes.) . 
  4. As the name suggests its a team based but not to the point of ranbow 6. meaning that you can 
 go your own way or help yur team mate.
  5. the cell shaded graphics, over the top guns, and level design add to the humor
  in conclusion 
 buy the game its only 10 fricken bucks!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezypigeon
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  i am a battlefield kind of man so i like to take things slow with a game
  
  this is just a bit too crazy 4 me, i dont like the hooj health that the classes r giving and i 
 think u shud b rewarded for quick and snappy sniping instead of long waits lookin down the scope. 
 The spy just gets annoying after a while unless of course ur in his shoes. I think the melee weapons 
 should b a bit more powerful too but then im too used the the knives in cs and bf giving a satisfying 
 immediate kill.
  
  it looks great and i do like the gameplay of holding the positions and moving forward all the time 
 but i just dont get that rewarding feeling when i kill an ememy its more of a thank goodness thats 
 over and he is finally on the bloody ground.
  
  If I played this game more I could probably get into it but its just too far from the norm for 
 me, never thought id ever say that was a bad thing.
  
  definitley worth a try if ur a hardcore multiplayer player like myself but steer clear if u like 
 more open terrain and a slower game style 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Instant action
  - Fun classes to play
  - Great sound effects and voice shouts
  - Solid FPS
  - Very addictive
  - Superb replay value
 
  - Superb artistic theme
  
  What you may not like:
  - Unrewarding Points System 
  - Few maps
  - No single player story / campaign
  - Valve's constant rebalancing
  
  
  
 Note: Review is based on 16 vs 16 (32 players) servers.
  
  
  Background
  
  Team Fortress is a Quake 1 mod that was created in 1996. Back then, it was very unique as it was 
 one of the first to incorporate different classes to the FPS genre. 
  
  Since then, Team Fortress 2 has evolved greatly while still remaining true to its original version. 
 In fact, Valve's version of TF2 has a very comical theme with very charismatic, yet stereotypical, 
 classes.
  
  
  Game - Type: Capture the Intelligence (Map: 2Fort)
  
  There are 2 teams - blue vs. red. Each team has an "intelligence" (referred to "Intl") , which is 
 a business case holding "secret information" deep in each respective bases. The goal of the game 
 is to capture the enemy's intelligence.
  
  Unlike Catch The Flag, the Intl cannot be recovered, i. e. it doesn't automatically go back to its 
 spawn point once the enemy Intl carrier drops it and you try to touch it. Instead, it has a timer. 
 If the enemy doesn't manage to pick it up before it reaches 0, then it respawns back in your Intl 
 room. 
  
  Another difference with CTF is that you don't need to have your Intl to capture the enemy's Intl.
 
  
  
  Game - Type: Capture points (Any other map)
  
  If you are not playing 2Fort, your goal will be to capture points. A point is simply a round platform 
 that you need to stand on for a while in order to capture it. The more people on the platform, 
 the faster the capture.
  
  Sometimes, a point is locked. This means that you can't capture it until you get another one first.
 
  
  Maps vary from 1 to 5 points to capture. Sometimes the enemy controls them all and your goal is 
 to get them back.
  
  
  Classes - Something for everyone
  
  Soldier
  The soldier is your typical Quake-like-grunt. His main weapon is the rocket launcher.
  Strength: 
 Great range and can do rocket jumps.
  Weakness: Slow movement, limited ammo (since Feb28 Patch) .
  
  Engineer
  The engineer is the 
 perfect support role and shines at defending points with his sentry.
  Strength: Defending a point, building Dispensers that heals and resupplies, and teleports.
  Weakness: 
 Can't do offense.
  
  Demoman
  The Demolition man throws bouncy grenades, and sticky grenades that detonate on demand.
  Strengths: 
 Can attack targets that are well hidden by bouncing grenades off walls and ceilings. The sticky 
 grenades are great to defend a spot.
  Weaknesses: Limited ammo, aim difficult to master.
  
  Spy
  The Spy is the Master of disguise. He can walk among the enemy undetected and even invisible 
 if desired.
  Strengths: Backstabs kill instantly. Can sap sentries, dispensers and teleports.
  Weaknesses: 
 Weak at range, not much hit points.
  
  Heavy
  The Heavy man is your ultimate attack weapon. He uses a portable gatling gun.
  Strengths: Devastating 
 power, high hit points.
  Weaknesses: Little mobility, not too effective at range, limited ammo.
  
  Medic
  The Medic 
 is the healing class. It is used in combination with another player with Uber.
  Strengths: "Ubers" make you and your friendly target invincible for a small time.
  Weaknesses: 
 Little firepower.
  
  Pyroman
  The Pyroman burns stuff at close range. He uses a Flamethrower as his main weapon.
  Strengths: 
 Can detect spies, hit multiple enemies and inflict damage over time burning.
  Weakness: No range.
  
  Sniper
  Pretty much self-explanatory. 
  Strength: Can one shot an 
 enemy with a headshot at very long range.
  Weakness: Weak in close combat.
  
  Scout
  Fastest class, great to steal the intelligence and complete objectives.
  Strength: Fast, can 
 double jump.
  Weakness: Weak in combat, but can still do good at close range.
  
  
  Crits - fun!
  
  Unlike most FPS', each time you shoot at an enemy, you have a chance to get 
 a critical shot. Critical Shots inflict a lot more damage than normal, usually killing your enemy 
 instantly. Those are fun to get and also give a better chance for any player to kill another player.
 
  
  
  Class balancing - Teamwork
  
  Many changes (patches) orbit around closing the gap between all players. The fact that the ammunition 
 for some classes has been considerably lowered from its first release is one good example of this.
 
  
  Previously, on a very crowded server (32 players) , an experienced Soldier could get through most 
 of the enemy's team in and out to retrieve the intelligence. Now, chances are he will run out of 
 ammunition on his way to it, cutting his offensive power drastically and his chances to be successful 
 much lower.
  
  So this has the upside of encouraging teamwork and making the game Fun for everyone, especially 
 for the newcomers.
  
  
  Point system - Needs rework
  
  One fault the current point system has is that it doesn't encourage players to go for the intelligence. 
 Sometimes players prefer to rack up kills and a higher kill/death ratio %. Considering this is 
 not a DeathMatch type of game, it has the downside of having just a handful of players that work 
 on getting the intelligence.
  
  This could easily be fixed by rewarding the players considerably more when defending or capturing 
 the enemy's intelligence while removing altogether any other statistic that makes no sense for 
 this type of game.
  
  
  Conclusion - So much fun
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a very addictive game as it can provide you with instant fun. The comic setting 
 and its overall presentation contribute greatly to the appreciation of the game.
  
  So go ahead and get it through the Orange Box, it's totally worth it.
  
  Considering Team Fortress 
 2 comes with the Orange Box (+) , I give it an 8.7/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I remember the days of the Team Fortress mod for Quake, and then later on for Quake II and then 
 later on for Half-Life. It was always an absolutely great idea that slowly developed into a better 
 and better game. Now we have the most recent iteration, developed as a standalone game. Does it 
 live up to its predecessors' resume though? You can bet your unmatched socks it does!
  
  The first thing to mention, and the thing that stands out the most, are the graphics. The game 
 goes by a completely cartoony look that is not cel-shaded. At first it sounds wierd, but when you 
 see it in action you will realize that it works beautifully. The game is a real charm to look at, 
 and because of the distinct cartoon look, it is very easy to distinguish between the unique classes, 
 teammates, bases, items and environments. Usually people don'e think of extremely vibrant color 
 palletes as being a good idea for an FPS game, but it works wonderfully here. The wonderful use 
 of the Source engine makes the game look great, so that it doesn't require high technical requirements 
 to keep your eyes well fed. The only downfall is that sometimes the maps seem to be a little overlysimplified, 
 and that is good and bad. Good because it helps keep you focused on what you need to do, but bad 
 because some areas feel exceedingly bland. It is the characters (the players) that make this game 
 stand out as being as good looking as it is. Something worth mentioning is the neat little feature 
 of having a post-death moment, where there will be a briefly frozen image of your killer and (possibly) 
 your body lying nearby, which you can screenshot if you wish, and also useful in seeing who did 
 you in.
  
  The game also sounds great, with appropriate announcer quotes and great sound effects. There is 
 minimal music which is good, and some servers give you a radio option to listen to music in-game 
 which is really cool. As far as the game stands though, it doens't do anything to particularly 
 stand out, but in the end you won't really be able to find much of anything to complain about. 
 The sound effects are distinct for each class so you can listen and know what is going on around 
 you.
  
  The controls are standard FPS, which is good. The thing that can make this game really fast-paced 
 or hectic is the class system. There are 9 classes (did I count right?) to choose from, each serving 
 its own unique purpose. The best teams are usually the ones that have a variety of classes working 
 together. Each class is fun to use (yes, even the Medic) , which is nice because that means you 
 can switch back and forth whenever you feel like trying something else. Speaking of which, the 
 game allows you to switch classes whenever you see fit, meaning if the strategy needs to be changed 
 you can do it on the fly (granted when you change classes you respawn at base, not counting as 
 a death but it does restart you) . The ability to voice chat is a very welcome feature in such a 
 team-based game (why oh why did you not include this Quake Wars?) , and there are appropriate quick 
 chat functions if you don't have a mic and no time to type. 
  
  The maps are all well balanced and usulaly include one offensive side and one defensive side, where 
 the teams switch off with some sort of CTF type game or similar game-type. I haven't seen such 
 good multplayer maps in a game since Quake III Arena, so this is definately a good thing.
  
  Now the bad thing is that there are only a handful of official maps to choose from (on PC this 
 is not a problem, since you can download more maps, but on the 360 and PS3 this can be a huge problem) . 
 You may get tired of playing the same 4 (I think it was 4... that's all I've played so far) maps 
 over and over again, despite the extreme fun the game itself has to offer. Now, on the bright side, 
 they ARE releasing patches with updates periodically. Recently a new map was released, and in the 
 near future there will be another patch that includes new subweapons for all the classes. This 
 continued support guarantees that as you continue to play, you will receive new content from the 
 developers. That isn't including all the user-made content you will be able to play around with. 
 
  
  Out of the box, this game has a limited number of maps in what is an otherwise extremely fun and 
 solid team-based (EMPHASIZE TEAM-BASED... if you are into pure free-for-all deathmatch, you better 
 look elsewhere) multiplayer game. Luckily, with continued support from the developers and all sorts 
 of fun user-content popping up, this game will definately last you a long time.
  
  The $30 price tag for this game alone might be a little steep for most, but if you are purchasing 
 the Orange Box, there is no reason not to play this game if you are into online play. The game 
 is solid, action-packed, and always full of insane fun. No bots are included, so if you aren't 
 going to play this game online, you'd better just turn your head away right now. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 (8.75/10.0) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeestOfTheEest
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Buying the orange box, I thought that the game that would make it spin it in my console would be 
 Half-Life 2. I was dead wrong. The first day, I sampled every game. I soon found this diamond in 
 the rough. The graphics, the classes, and the game play drew me to this magnificent addition to 
 the gaming world. Every class is just right all with their checks and balances. The heavy is powerful 
 but slow. The pyro packs a punch but only at short range. It allows you to enjoy any class because 
 you never feel weaker than any of the others. This also allows other teammates to be different 
 classes so there is a lot of variety. Another great addition are the maps. Each one is carefully 
 designed with certain platforms, buildings, and gates to effect the game you play. Everything about 
 thus game is perfect. It's pretty much the only game I play anymore and if you give it a try, I'm 
 sure it'll be that way for you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weeliljimmy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Since the original Team Fortress, it took nine years for Team Fortress 2 to be released. That's 
 a long time, but it was definitely worth it.
  
  Valve's new First-Person Shooter is a class-based game with a total of 9 classes. Each class plays 
 completely differently. The Scout runs faster than anyone else to capture the objectives; the Soldier 
 has a powerful rocket-launcher; the Pyro has a flamethrower to set enemies on fire; the Demoman 
 has a grenade launcher and a sticky-bomb launcher; the Heavy has a massive minigun for mass destruction; 
 the Engineer builds sentry guns to kill enemies, dispensers to heal players and give ammo, and 
 teleporters to bring teammates closer to the front; the Medic heals players and can turn himself 
 and his partner invulnerable for 10 seconds; the Sniper can charge his shots for more damage; and 
 the Spy can disguise as either team, backstab enemies for an instant kill, or destroy an Engineer's 
 buildings.
  
  The visual style should be praised as not only being very unique, but also useful, as it allows 
 players to immediately analyze which players are which classes. In other class-based FPS's, it 
 can be difficult to differentiate the classes, but in TF2, it's easy to tell between the giant 
 Heavy, the tiny Scout or anyone in between.
  
  The classes have a specific use and they offer very different ways to play the game. There's something 
 for everyone. Someone who doesn't have very good twitch skills might play the Heavy or the engineer; 
 someone who does might play the Sniper or the quick Scout. Someone who likes to play stealthily 
 will undoubtedly play the Spy, or wait at a corner to flame loads of enemies as the Pyro. The large 
 amount of classes and game-styles leads to a lot of replayability. Since each game can have a different 
 balance of classes, each game can be played differently. This also leads to to a lot of potential 
 strategies.
  
  A lot of classes can play together, so you can have a lot of fun when you're playing with a friend. 
 A Medic+Heavy combo can completely destroy a team. Since the Engineer's sentry guns can easily 
 destroy a Scout, the Demoman should destroy the sentries before the Scout can capture the point. 
 That said, classes can also easily be played solo.
  
  Since Valve released the software development kit (SDK) , there's a large amount of great, custom 
 maps out there. This is very good, since Valve initially released just 6 maps with the game. This 
 is the only bad point of the game. Since then, there's been two new maps, and a new one on the 
 way at the moment. That said, each of the maps are high quality, being very good and very fun.
 
  
  There's been a large community based around TF2 since days after the release. Since then, there's 
 been loads of maps and skins (check out fpsbanana. com) . There's even a weekly TF2 podcast (check 
 out tf2. deadworkers. com) . This leads me to believe that this game will remain very popular for 
 years to come.
  
  The game's positive points greatly outweigh the game's only bad point, which is fixed with custom 
 content. If you're looking for way too much time spent on one single game, this is definitely it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameflogger
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  An extremely fun game with great visual style, that will look good no matter how real other graphics 
 are. Different classes, plenty of servers ,and a small variety of maps ensure that there will always 
 be something to do. Hands down, the best online shooter ever created. Value has created a masterpiece 
 and brought back what it means to have fun with your friends online.
  
  At first I was a little worried when I heard about the ''cartoon-like'' graphics, but Value pulled 
 through and released something absolutely stunning. The graphics are beautiful, with the somewhat 
 retro-themed layout complementing the cartoon-feel of levels. The game play itself is positively 
 wonderful- the classes are varied, each with special attributes, and though I feel that the characters 
 could have been balanced better, overall it was well done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is an online multiplayer first person shooter. It is a team based shooter that 
 involves extensively in classes. All of the classes are equally balanced for there is no overpowering 
 classes that could dominate another. Its cartoony graphic design makes give the game more humor 
 to it. This game isn't for little kids since it have alot of blood, violence, and action that would 
 make this game exciting to play. 
  
  There are nine separate classes in Team Fortress 2. The nine classes are broken down into arch 
 types of what they are mostly good for. Arch types are offensive, defensive, and support. All the 
 classes have strength and weakness making no class overly dominating. In fact, its so balanced 
 that a class weakness if often another classes strength.
  
  Scouts, fastest of all the classes. They are primarily used to quickly get to a location and back. 
 Only class in the game that could double jump giving them more height and range. Their weakness 
 is there very low health points and fairly weak damage ability.
  
  Soldier, possibility gives off the most damage then any other class in the game. Its main weapon 
 is a rocket launcher and at random times it will shoot off a special rocket known as a crit. If 
 this crit hits or lands close by one of more enemies, it will kill them instantly. A soldiers main 
 weakness is its speed. Slowest class of all the classes, making it easy pray for the pyro class.
 
  
  Pyro class, its main weapon is flame thrower. This class is a short range offensive class, making 
 someone getting very close to enemy to do damage. However, an enemy set on fire will stay on fire 
 for about 20 seconds often times killing him. Its weakness is being a short range attacker, alot 
 of the other classes have a better change in killing a pyro before doing damage.
  
  Demoman, carries around a grenade launcher and able to place sticky bombs anywhere. The sticky 
 bombs are often used to keep an enemy at a distance. Someone walking over a sticky bomb could be 
 killed instantly. Keeping him from being overpowering, he is limited to a small number of sticky 
 bombs.
  
  Engineers, their special ability is to construct. They will be able to build sentries, dispenser, 
 and teleporters. The dispenser is like a portable health kit and ammo cache, for the engineer it 
 will give him iron resource that he needs to build or repair. Sentries are robotic like machines 
 that will shoot off bullets and/or rockets when it spots an enemy. The spy is mostly the counterbalance 
 to the engineer.
  
  Heavy, main weapon having a minigun that shoots out alot of ammo and could kill lots of enemies 
 in a quick amount of time. He have the highest health points then any class in the game, other 
 classes will need to put more effort in stopping a heavy. Heavy weakness is when actively shooting 
 the minigun, the heavy will walk very slowly. Enemies could get around the heavy and attack from 
 behind.
  
  Medic, healers in the game. They are primarily used for healing other players on their team. The 
 medic can increase the health points above the initial set amount. Often times, the medic do follow 
 the player and keep constant health when damaged. When healing long enough, the medic will achieve 
 an ability know as uber. Uber gives a player he is healing and the medic a 10 second total invincibility 
 to any weapon in the game. A medic is often a magnet to anyone who looking to stop an attack. Some 
 will often go for the medic first before going after the person he was giving health too.
  
  Spy, they have the ability to go invisible and turn into an enemy player. The spy can back 
 stab an enemy instantly killing him. He also can destroy anything the engineer have built. Weakness 
 is most players have learned to shoot anyone on their same team. There is no friendly fire, but 
 if a spy who have turned into an enemy player or invisible can still receive damage.
  
  Sniper, these primarily weapon is, well a sniper rifle. He have the ability to stand long distances 
 and shoot enemy players. Head shots will do instant death to any player. The spy and his low health 
 points make him fairly easy to counteract, if you could reach him.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is like nine games in one. All of the classes are so different its like playing 
 a different game. You cant play a spy like you do as a soldier, same as a medic for a pyro. A player 
 will have to learn how to use the class effectively.
  
  This game is a team based game. A team that is actively working together, then working separately 
 is far more enjoyable and successful then everyone doing their own thing. Team Fortress 2 does 
 have a built in voice chat making it even easier to talk to follow team members.
  
  Graphics style are cartoonish in style. This does give Team Fortress 2 a more humor side to it. 
 Each of the classes have a different silhouette, so any player standing a long distance can easily 
 recognize any character.
  
  There are seven official and a few player made maps in Team Fortress 2. Games to be played is capture 
 the flag, control point, and territorial control map. More player maps and official maps are on 
 the way in the future. 
  
  This game is a definitely a good buy for $30 currently on steam. At the time of this review was 
 written, there are approximately 500 servers and more than 70% are actively populated with players. 
 Value is still continuing to support Team Fortress 2. They're may be additional classes and more 
 maps to be added to this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_blaster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Positive:
  
  Had me laughin' till mah lungs dented.
  Cutting edge cartoony graphics that just draw you closer.
  A nice array of playable characters, 
 each with their own unique weapons and abilities.
  Characters are more recognisable now than in the first game.
  The solid, dug deep gameplay will 
 make sure that you don't get tired of
  this game straight away.
  
  Negative:
  
  Like nearly every game in it's genre, performance issues are a problem.
  No bots.
  Not the 
 best level design.
  
  After buying the Orange Box off the internet, Team Fortress 2 was the first of the five games that 
 I tested. And boy, was that a great choice.
  People normally start with the good parts of a game, so I will.
  The first thing that really 
 grabbed me, was the characters. There are nine different classes to select from. The Scout, Soldier, 
 Demoman, Pyro, Heavy, Engineer, Medic, Sniper, and spy, each with their own unique weapons, abilities 
 and looks. Each one of them stands out from the rest of the bunch very well, and each one of them 
 has a different purpose on the battlefield, living up to their name. For example, the Pyro, as 
 it's name clearly says, is the teams main source of heating things up. His primary weapon is the 
 Flamethrower, which is very useful for surprise attacks. And it's very hard to refrain from taking 
 much damage, because water sources are rare in some maps. There are many others too, but you'll 
 see for yourself in the game. The Shotgun is a common weapon around most player classes, which 
 is great when you're in a close quarters encounter, but you're better off with a longer ranged 
 weapon at many occasions.
  And there's the melee weapon, which just about every class has with them.
  They're very effective 
 when hitting an unaware foe from behind.
  But not every class has just your ordinary Sharpshooter with them. Various classes have special 
 weapons for different uses.
  The Engineer, for example, is equipped with a set of guns, just like every other class. But, would 
 he be an engineer without the ability to Build and Repair items and weapons. He is also equipped 
 with a PDA that is used to set up items such as turrets and Dispensers. He also has another one 
 for getting rid of items he has already set up. You can also use your trusty Wrench to upgrade 
 the Sentrys you build and make them stronger.
  
  Maybe I'm giving out a little too many spoilers right now, so onto the bad.
  While the gameplay 
 and graphics keep you going nonstop for hours and hours, the Framerate can go wonky at times, especially 
 weak computers, so don't be too fidgety with the quality and audio. But then again, godknows how 
 many other games, both singleplayer and multiplayer, have suffered the same ongoing problem, so 
 its not surprising to get much in this game.
  Bots are a nice addon to most multiplayer games, as they provide a good source of practice and 
 replayability. But this game as none, which is kinda dissapointing, but, again, so many other games 
 lack options to play against bots, so, nothing new there.
  
  But overall, this is one hell of an intense, challenging, and hilarious multiplayer experience 
 and I highly recommend it for any hardcore fan of FPS games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baddabing101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of FPS like me then you should really take a look at this. It came with the Orange 
 box which is a selection of games from valve that are in their own right must have games. When 
 you put this type of plethora of games together you know you've got something special.
  
  Anyway, I'm here to talk about one small part of this unmissable set and that is TEAM FORTRESS 
 2.
  
  There are 2 teams made up of different characters from defense types to attacking types. Each character 
 has their own special weapon and strong points - like speed, power and so on. As you play it you 
 will find yourself favouring a particular type of class. I like the Heavy Weapons guy. OK he's 
 a bit slow (like me) but he'll get stuck right in and mow down a whole team. One good asset is 
 to have the medic backing you up and charging your health so you can maintain your attack on the 
 opposing team. The medic can also uber charge which makes you both invulnerable for a short period.
 
  
  I've played CTF and Point capture. I played point capture last night and ended up sitting for 4 
 hours while the game went from us being 4/5 points up to 1/5 and then back up to 4/5. It just went 
 on and on and never got boring. It really felt like a proper battle but not so intense because 
 the graphics and characters and an element of humour which makes it fun but 
  still something you feel part of.
  
  The key is team work. Each player has their own role to 
 fulfill. e. g once you capture a point you need engineers there to set up some turrets to mow down 
 any invaders. Sniper man is useful for taking out anyone from a distance while they try to get 
 close to a point and so on.
  
  I could talk about this game for a long time but I really must go and play it again.
  
  If 
 you buy one game this year get the Orange Box and play TF2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress Classic was a great multiplayer in it's heyday. You had classes to choose from and 
 wreak havoc or turn the tide of battle with. 
  
  A defining point of that game was this very class-based system. Because that each class had strengths 
 and weaknesses, it is because of this fact that, given you're playing a normalized match in the 
 game, you and your team will have to work together to bring the enemy to it's knees. While you 
 can shred an entire battalion apart with the HWguy, he's damn slow, so he is vulnerable to the 
 Scout or other fast classes. But why I am regressing into the olden days?
  
  New is the look of the game. Immediately you'll notice that it's got an animated look to it. If 
 you have been living under a rock lately, this is both due to the difficulty of melding a serious 
 level design with character design, and to mimic the look of a Looney Tune's show (in the old days, 
 anyway) . If this design throws you off, you'll need to realize that this is one redeeming quality 
 of the game, among many others. Of course, if you don't appreciate it at first, you will after 
 merely a minute of gameplay. The game plays smoothly on any system that could handle Half-Life 
 2. Just make sure that you toy with settings if you experience hitches or lag.
  
  Team Fortress 2's gameplay is hardly different from the first. There are two game modes available 
 on the few default maps. Over time, Valve has been adding modes to maps which were limited in scope 
 to one only. Anyway, these modes are Point Capture and CTF (the twist here is that the 'flag' object 
 is a briefcase full of papers, which float out of the briefcase when a capturer moves with it) . 
 While this may seem too limited, these modes go a lot further than just giving you basic objectives. 
 You can treat either game as a team-deathmatch mode, or melee-only, or what-have-you. 
  
  A change from the first game is obviously the trimming of character features, like weapons and 
 such. No one can use grenades, that is, unless you count the Demoman's grenade launcher as such. 
 That's his weapon, anyway, so this doesn't count. While that feature was fun, and worked, in the 
 classic installment, it doesn't need to be present here. It's not missed. To make up for this 'shortcoming', 
 you can pick up ammo for your already devastating main weapons (each class has a support weapon 
 on top, which has around one-third or so of the power of the main weapon) to relinquish your supply 
 and tear apart the opposition. As if the Heavy's "Sasha" wasn't terrifying enough, if he is low 
 on ammo and happens to be near an ammo pickup (or better yet, a dispenser) , then he will just get 
 that ammo and get the chaingun whirring again. You also may not like the sound of this, but a Sniper 
 can easily replenish his abnormally devastating (without the splash damage) sniper rifle just as 
 easily as the Heavy's "Sasha." So, while you do not have grenades as a support weapon, you do have 
 ammo pickups for main weapons that are absolutely fun to use, and potentially devastating.
  
  Another feature, which is VERY welcome, which I embrace with lots of passion, is humor. It 
 is very well implemented in the game without ever seeming to be forced. All of the humor comes 
 in the form of your characters and what they say and do. Much of this can be seen just by using 
 the built-in taunt system. It's different for each character and you get one per each weapon/item 
 they have. There is also a voice chat feature which has often hilarious lines being uttered in 
 result as well. Also, the levels themselves may remind you incredibly of the Roadrunner cartoons. 
 The levels themselves have a Western feel to them, and they're often part of factories for super-weapons 
 (like an ICBM, or a giant laser, etc.) or other things. If there's one thing that really helps 
 to keep the game from being frustrating, especially since a match can be INCREDIBLY frenetic from 
 beginning to end, is the fluidity of a level and it's pacing. They're very well considered and 
 are never tedious or halting. There can be some improvements to be made, mostly to build on top 
 of what is already there to impress, but they can come whenever is seen fit.
  
  And, unlike the first game, where your classes were static, only distinguishable by their abilities 
 and uses, you also have actual characters here. The Heavy, for instance, has a Slavic accent and 
 uses lingo from that region, plus he has a personality like that of a gentle giant; he's calm and 
 keeps to himself most of the time, but when the situation arises, he'll lash out and tear everything, 
 and I mean everything, to shreds. The Soldier is a humorous take on the hard-core military types. 
 He's more a Colonel or Major, telling by his throaty voice and use of army lingo. Alas, the Scout 
 is a Brooklyn-type who appears to be a baseball fan. He's fast because, as you can tell from one 
 of his taunts, he gets his extra bit of cardiac exercise. The rest of the characters are just as 
 unique in their own ways. There is a German character, an Australian, a muffled-speech type, an 
 English type (think James Bond) , a Southeastern-USA buckaroo, and a drunken Scotsman. Thanks to 
 the characters at play here, you'll come to love your character (many people have a favorite whom 
 they can relate to) , and you may also put extra effort into keeping them alive because of their 
 uniqueness. This helps keep TF2 refreshing and exhilarating.
  
  TF2's multiplayer goes great. It is stock full of players who probably have flocked from Counter-Strike: 
 Source, and keeps on coming. It is hard for this game to hog your computer's resources. So, put 
 your money where it will pay off, and get TF2. You'll enjoy it just as much as I did, provided 
 that you really dig the team-based multiplayer FPS genre. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Boy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 tries to be great and succeeds one many fronts. The classes are well balanced and 
 have their pros and cons, the levels are also somewhat varied and fair.
  
  However, it just doesn't go far enough. Where's the lunar bases? Where's the toystores? Where's 
 the volcano-crater spy bases? Instead what we're left with is desert themed map after desert themed 
 map. Not that I don't like that but they could've taken it much further.
  
  The major flaw is team-work, this game is based on the premise of it which you almost never get 
 in a normal server. So fundamentally it tries to do something that can't truly work, Valve has 
 often done this for multi-player content which is somewhat confusing to me.
  
  But it's not bad in the slightest, it just could've been more. The graphics look fresh and the 
 gameplay is totally Team Fortress yet not identical to Team Fortress. It just feels like to many 
 compromises were made to be conservative and it shows in the final product: Raving mad popular, 
 but not for all the right reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  If you played Team Fortress since Quake 1, you will love the innovations, and for those who didnt, 
 will love it anyway!
  Best multiplayer in this time, its a very funny game with 9 class that you can play. The game 
 have a CTF and CP (capture point) modes, very strategic maps, 2 teams, read and blue.
  Every class is unique, with own abilities and weapons, all classes is perfectly balanced, the best 
 class to use depends about a lot of things like the map or your time, etc.
  Has actualizations almost every week, so you will not find bugs easily. When you begin to play 
 you dont want to stop, you just keep playing and playing until your eyes get bleeding!
  This game uses steam so you can easily found a friend on a server and play with them.
  I play 
 it in all high settings with my specs bellow:
  4200+ X2 / 2GB DDR400 / GF 8800GTS 320mb / A8N32-SLI Deluxe
  
  So what you waiting for?! BUY 
 this goddammit thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2, I can't form the words to express how much I dig this game. I'll start off by 
 saying that it is my favorite multi player shooter of the year (although I have yet to check out 
 Crysis's multi player offerings) , fallowed by COD4, Halo 3 and UT3. This game blows them all out 
 of the water (slight exaggeration) , the way in which it does this is interesting.
  
  Choose Your Character
  The experience in loving this game starts immediately, seeing the cartoony 
 somewhat cell shaded style is a breath of fresh air amongst the bald space marine aesthetic plaguing 
 many shooters in recent memory. Although to just say the quality of the visuals lies only in it's 
 uniqueness doesn't do justice to the art direction, not only does TF2 utilize a cartoony style 
 but it excels in crafting unique characters that are more than distinguishable in a silhouette.
 
  
  The different character's (and I do stress the word "characters" instead of "classes") quality 
 doesn't end with the art style alone. Beyond the initial hit of the art the variety in each class 
 will strike you, Unlike games such as Enemy Territory: Quake Wars there is very little overlap in 
 classes. You wont see a "Medic" ready to take on the battlefield with an rocket launcher or a "Spy" 
 take down a heavy with brute force. Each class has a very specific and fun role to play, and support 
 classes are never well armed enough to never feel defenseless. The end result of this leaves you 
 identifying with the "classes" in TF2 much like you would characters in a fighting game, each one 
 have a specific play style and you naturally gravitate towards a few more than the others.
  
  It's All In The Details
  You'll be glad to know that the attention to detail that went into 
 crafting Team Fortress 2 doesn't end with the characters, but translates well over to the map design 
 too. Not only are maps interesting and memorable, but the good people over at valve actually manage 
 to make even the most simple symmetrical maps like "2fort" ooze with personality, most of said 
 personality deriving from the quirky advertisements placed among the walls of each base giving 
 somewhat of a back story to the inane rocket jumping shenanigans of this game.
  
  None of the maps given in the game are bad, but there are standouts like well, 2fort and dust bowl 
 that contain these seemingly perfect architectural blueprints. The maps in Team Fortress 2 (the 
 aforementioned maps especially) produce an experience of pure fun, where in todays world you would 
 be happy to just not have a map where you are constantly getting stuck on objects. TF2 subtlety 
 craft's experiences through the maps architecture's there aren't many of them but what is there 
 is great.
  
  Something For Everyone
  I have already gone over the great deal of variety in game play offered in TF2 by it's great roster 
 of characters, but in there not being overlap there is also extensive acceptability. The twitchy 
 of the twitchiest gamers will gravitate to classes like Scout who can double jump and move considerably 
 fast, More tactical players will assume the roles of an Engineer or a Spy who can build structures 
 to defend, heal replenish and teleport teammates while the latter can disguise himself and take 
 out the opposing team's men and structures.
  
  Even gamers who will never subscribe to the paradigm of high reflex first person action have choices 
 for fun in TF2 with classes like Engineer who can rack up the kills with a well placed sentry, 
 Demoman who can plant sticky bombs waiting to be detonated as unsuspecting players pass by and 
 Medic whose healing gun requires almost no aim at all and is still a vital part of any team wishing 
 too make headway in completing it's objective.
  
  These classes also receive there fair due in the scoreboards with points being assigned to these 
 support classes for doing there thing, making them far from the "loser classes" that other games 
 make their support classes out to be.
  
  Crit Rockets!
  If I had one major gripe to call out against TF2 it would be the critical hit system implemented 
 in this game, It is hard to even call it a gripe because of how much at times I love it and at 
 times I curse the day it made it into this game (usually depending on weather I'm on the giving 
 or receiving end of a critical hit) . I know that this is a technically fair element of the game 
 because of how every character class having an equal chance of coming upon a critical hit, but 
 any time an element of random chance is thrown into a game of skill it can leave a person uneasy.
 
  
  This small gripe does virtually nothing in the way of ruining the great Team Fortress 2 experience 
 and in fact it seems silly to even bring any negative points about this game up in conversation 
 because of how minuscule they end up being.
  
  Best In The Box?
  All in all Team Fortress 2 ends up being the best Multiplayer shooter of the year, and one of the 
 greatest games of all time. All the elements of the game alone (art design, variety, attention to 
 detail) would make any other game interesting enough to look at but when combined it makes an experience 
 that is special and memorable. Team Fortress 2 stands toe to toe with all the other excellent games 
 packaged in "The Orange Box" and may even be the best, It is hard to imagine that years ago this 
 game was going to be a serious large scale class based en devour a la Battlefield. I'm glad Valve 
 took there time because it was certainly worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Steam got it right when they went to make this game. There is very little wrong with it and a whole 
 lot of right.
  
  Pros first.
  Greatly balanced classes to play with each in their own skills fit for anybodies playing style.
 
  Good "feel" to the game. The cartoony style to the game is well-suited for the type of game that 
 it is. This game is not ultra realistic and it shows in the graphics. 
  The levels that they have are changing. They have the same levels but they have parts randomly 
 blocked off and are great to play on, so people can't decide on there class and strategy while 
 loading the level, they have to see what is open and what is not first.
  V. O. I. P. It is really nice to be able to talk to people in the game and listen to them instead 
 of typing or reading. So your eyes can stay focused on what really matters.
  
  Cons turn:
  Only 1 CTF level that comes with it that does not change randomly each time you play 
 it. There are however some good user made levels that you can play on.
  Some of the glitches in the game are often practiced by people and have not yet been fixed by steam.
 
  
  As I said this is an excellent game with little wrong with it. Simply fun to sit down and play 
 around with, especially with steams stats system and friends list. I think that it is a great relief 
 to see this simply fun game when there are so many ultra realistic games out there that just don't 
 cut it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  So when I got the Orange Box, I was a bit disappointed. Half Life 2 episode 2 was fun, but the 
 half Life games take a little time to get interesting. I that Portal was a disappointment. But 
 Team Fortress 2 was fun, and addicting.
  
  You pick from one of nine classes and get in these intense battles online. The class are well balanced 
 and have a bunch of cool abilities. One ability id that a spy can turn himself in to an opposing 
 team's member, and an engineer can build turrets.
  
  Team Fortress 2's graphics look cartoonish, but they look good and they match the style of game 
 play.
  
  Team Fortress 2 does have its down sides. Like you only have a few maps to play on. One thing I 
 hate is when you are playing capture the intelligence
  is when engineers place turrets right by the intelligence, so it makes it really hard to take the 
 intelligence.
  
  For those of you that are big multi player fans, Team Fortress 2 is a must own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress was a multiplayer mod for Half-Life released back in 1998, and quickly became one 
 of the most popular pc multiplayer games ever. And a few months after its success, a sequel was 
 announced. But several problems and flukes got in its way, and ended up being delayed for nearly 
 a decade, but now it's finally out, was definitly worth the wait to the hardcore TF fans. Most 
 gamers probably forgot that Team Fortress was the first game to introduce "class-based" multiplayer. 
 You have 9 classes to choose from, and you duke it out on several maps with different modes of 
 play. Classes are divided into three groups- Offense, Defense, and Support. Offense is made up 
 of the Scout (runs fast, captures controll-points faster, but is weak.) the Soldier (runs slow, 
 but has a rocket launcher and shotgun) and the Pyro (wields a short-ranged, but powerful flamethrower.) 
 Defense is made up of the Demoman (has a grenade launcher, and sticky-bomb launcher for setting 
 traps.) the Heavy Weapons Guy (slow but powerful with a mini-gun.) and the Engineer (can build 
 auto-turrets, dispensers and portals.) And Support is made up of the Medic (can heal teammates.) 
 the Sniper (has a sniper rifle) and the Spy (can cloak, and stab people with a deadly knife, as 
 well as disguise himself as the enemy.) All of the classes are well balanced, and all have counters 
 to them. There are only six maps, so you'll feel like you've seen everything fairly fast, but if 
 you like deep, team-based shooters, you'll be satisfied for a long time. There are 3 modes of play, 
 which vary on which map your playing. There's capture-the-flag (steal the team's flag) , control 
 points (capture all of the control points on the map) and attack and defend (one team tries to 
 capture the control points, while the other team defends. One of the biggest changes in Team Fortress 
 2 is the art style. The cartoony, Pixar-like look is definitely a love-it or hate-it experience. 
 The levels pay homage to lots of old action movies as well, and has a purposely cheesy feel to 
 it. On one map, each team's flag is in a underground lair where you can see a giant computer screen, 
 which looks like something out of James Bond or Austin Powers. If you like deep, team-based shooters, 
 you're going to be getting a lot of bang for your buck out of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is the long LONG awaited sequel to the now ancient mod Team Fortress. The game 
 has obviously benefitted from the care of actual commercial developers this time- as Team Fortress 
 2 is a very sharp and old-school multiplayer shooter. Anyone who has played a little with shooters 
 online should be able to enjoy this one.
  
  Team Fortress 2's main gameplay is very similar to what was in the original Team Fortress. There 
 are 2 rival teams fighting each other in a variety of modes- such as CTF. When you spawn- you get 
 to choose one out of 9 comical classes: The scout, the pyro, the demoman, the heavy, the medic, 
 the sniper, the spy, the engineer, and the soldier. Each class is geared to have specific strengths 
 and weaknesses. For example- the scout is by far the fastest class and can capture control points 
 twice as fast as other classes- but he's also one of the most fragile classes. The classes balance 
 each other out well- so you'll need a well balanced team if you want to fare well online.
  
  While the online community is unsurprisingly very active- Team Fortress 2 doesn't have all 
 that many maps available right now. But we already know that Valve is hard at work solving this 
 problem- making brand new maps. So just be patient. New players unfortunately have to brave the 
 online environment right from the get-go, since the game doesn't offer offline bot matches. But 
 if Counter-strike source was any sign- we may be seeing bots for Team Fortress 2 relatively soon.
 
  
  Graphically, Team Fortress 2 is seemingly primitive and cartoony. But this is intentional- and 
 it fits the themes that Valve was going for perfectly. Sure- the weapon models are a bit plain- 
 but it works. The environments manage to be sharp and cartoony at the same time fortunately- so 
 the source engine does have some heavy duty work to do in TF2. Sound wise- Team Fortress 2 has 
 some well done sound-design, especially the voice acting of all the characters which is fittingly 
 cartoony and silly. These guys could easily fit into a Pixar production (Yeah- I don't think anyone 
 has not heard that comparison...) .
  
  All matters considered- Team Fortress 2 is like an old childhood friend you get to reunite with. 
 But your friend has matured... And you like him/her even better now! If you played the original 
 Team Fortress- you should be able to get right into TF2. Those who have played other online shooters 
 before should also be able to easily enter and enjoy Team Fortress 2.
  
  Pros: Old-fashioned multiplayer gameplay that still works excellently. Cartoony graphics are a 
 joy to look at. Great voice acting.
  
  Cons: Not that many maps available (right now...) . No bots available (yet...) .
  
  Recommendable 
 for: Team Fortress 2 is one of the best online shooters available right now. Anyone interested 
 in one should definitely check out TF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Having completed HL2 EP2 I thought, that was a bit short for the price of the game. I now understand 
 why it was the price it was. 
  
  I popped in TF2 and my initial reaction was, cool. Slick intro to the maps and a good quick loading 
 time. Searching the 1500 or so servers and finding the majority having a sub 100 ping was fantastic.
 
  
  Choosing from the different classes was the hardest part but, as you will all find out, different 
 classes are for different parts of the map. ie if you are defending a capture point then an Engineer 
 putting out a death dealing machine gun turret on some stairs near the point is invaluable. Attacking 
 the points is just as complex, choose a Heavy Machine Gunner is fine, but he is slow and cumbersome. 
 Hmmm kinda reminds me of the Terminator.
  
  This game will have you playing for hours and hours and not realise that day has become night.
 
  
  Try it, get in there, the community is huge. More maps are coming too hopefully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  This is one of those rare treats that comes out every so often. It's quite an amazing game and 
 I'm really glad that it has caught as much attention as it has, because it deserves it.
  
  The graphics are great. There's some really well done shadow effects and the art style as a whole 
 is just astounding. The visual style the developers decided to go with really makes the game stand 
 out from the pack. Best of all the game can run on at least minimum settings on most of today's 
 computers. On the downside the game does have it's glitches and freezes up on my computer from 
 time to time. On top of this Steam is a pretty lackluster program, and can suffer from connection 
 problems even when your internet is connecting fine with everything else.
  
  The sound is pretty well done. All the weapons sound awesome and the characters have little quotes 
 they shout out from time to time, my favorite character, the heavy, also spews out my favorite 
 quotes. The music is surprisingly well done for a game that doesn't need it at all, but you only 
 really hear it when going through the menus.
  
  This is one of the best multi-player shooters ever. It definitely competes with the likes of Counter-Strike, 
 Battlefield, Halo, Resistance, and Call of Duty. It's a bit more focused on fun and chaos than 
 realism. That being said, like it's name hints at, you still must focus on teamwork to be victorious. 
 There's some really cool game modes and enough maps to keep you happy for a while, not to mention 
 user created material. There are a bunch of different, really unique classes to go with, I personally 
 usually go with either the heavy, the pyro, or the sniper. I just personally find those to be the 
 most fun, but you may find you prefer other classes. 
  
  This game is truly an awesome online multi-player experience. I really hope even more people give 
 this game the chance it deserves, it will really blow you away.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkMario2500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2, the game that took 9 years to make, and was scrapped once.
  
  Now that it's finally out, i'm sure all the old TFC vets were having a blast.
  
  Now let's 
 get started, shall we?
  
  The graphics: The graphics are absolutely beautiful, I myself love how Valve went for a look sort 
 of like that from the Pixar movie The Incredibles. It just comes together so smoothly.
  
  The sound: The sound is nice as well, voice acting is great and fits the characters perfectly (not 
 sure what else could fit the Pyro) . The sound and graphics really go hand in hand here.
  
  Gameplay: Ahh yes, the moment you've been waiting for. Team Fortress 2 is an incredible experience, 
 and a great sequel to the game that defined team-based shooters. You cannot rush in headfirst alone 
 and expect a satisfying result with this game, unlike some other recent multiplayer FPS games.
 
  
  Now, while the gaming is great for the TFC vets and those who are very familiar with a FPS that 
 they can pick up a random FPS and get the hang of it fast, the tactical elements and style of the 
 game can be quite confusing, awkward, and downright miserable for someone who is unfamiliar with 
 a team-based shooter, or shooter period.
  
  Unlike other FPS games, Team Fortress 2 requires good communication and good playing by EVERYONE 
 on a team for it to work. This is the flaw for new players.
  
  But don't let that get you down! Once you get the hang of it (which won't take you too long) you'll 
 have a blast playing this game.
  
  Further comments: TF2 is great, $49 and you get this, and 4 other games. TF2, and the other games 
 bundled with it in The Orange Box are not very demanding at all on your computer, and you should 
 keep a good FPS rate as long as you have the hardware to support the game.
  
  All in all, Team Fortress 2 is a great game but it falls short in newbie-friendliness. But don't 
 let that stop you from getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericface21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  TF returns with Team Fortress. After finishing Portal (both endings) , I started playing TF2. It 
 is delicious. I can instantly hop into any type of game I want to play, and whenever I get bored/annoyed 
 at my comrades/opponents, I can just jump to another server to own a whole new group of n008s!! 
 Fun, fast, and with a class for everyone, TF2 is worth playing all the time! You've got the soldier, 
 for the run-and-gun types, the medic for the motherly types, the heavy for the boorish type, the 
 spy for the backstabbing type, the scout for the jump in/jump out type, just to name a few. With 
 multiple play formats, such as capture the flag, you can keep things fresh. My personal favorite 
 is the 5-point contest, where the two teams contend for a total of 5 control points. This has a 
 job for everybody. Scouts capturing points, soldiers oblitterating everything, heavies breaking 
 up enemy installations, and medics helping out! Engineers building sentry guns to defend points, 
 spies shaking everything up. There is much fun to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 was a bit of a surprise to me. I had never heard of the first Team Fortress, and 
 if I had I must have forgotten about it because I had known nothing about the game at all. Then 
 all of a sudden when Valve plans to release The Orange Box, I saw screenshots and videos for this 
 zany cartoon first person shooter called Team Fortress 2. I didn't really think too much of it 
 then besides thinking it was a bit off from your normal shooter. It wasn't until I played it when 
 I realized that it is actually a really fun game and definitely is a key component to The Orange 
 Box's greatest.
  
  First off, I highly recommend you buy The Orange Box on PC. Why? Because this $50 package includes 
 TF2 as one of the five games. (The others being Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episodes 1 and 2, and 
 Portal) . You could buy just the game online if you want to but you don't get a box with it, it 
 just downloads straight to your computer. TF2 standalone is $30, and as you can see for an extra 
 $20 you get four of the best computer games of all time, so I hope you make the decision to buy 
 The Orange Box. The reason I am suggesting the PC version is because the PC version will have more 
 loyal and hardcore Half-Life fans playing online, and for a fast paces game, the mouse is much 
 more precise than the Xbox 360 controller.
  
  
  Unless for some out of this world reason you have never played a computer first person shooter 
 than these controls will be very familiar to you. I really shouldn't even go over the controls 
 for this game because as long as you've played a PC shooter before, you will feel right at home. 
 But if you haven't I will give you a brief rundown: The mouse is for aiming, clicking left for 
 shooting. You move with the W, A, S, and D keys. Each key represents movement in whatever way it 
 is facing on the keyboard. Common knowledge of course. And there, you are pretty much set. Sure 
 there are other uses for keys but the game will tell you those and most of them are not very important, 
 except for maybe the Tab key. The Tab key brings up your stats for that match which is pretty helpful.
 
  
  It is beyond me if this game supports a PC game controller or not. It might or might not, because 
 I did not bother to check. Trust me people, the way to play PC shooters (and practically any shooter) , 
 should be with the mouse and keyboard.
  
  Of all the online shooters available, TF2 reminded me most of the Counter Strike series and I think 
 that is the way it is supposed to be judging that they are somewhat connected in the sense that 
 Counter Strike is usually the multiplayer counterpart of Half-Life (thought it is quite different 
 in terms of style mostly) , and TF2 is the multiplayer component of The Orange Box. Any way you 
 look at it, the fast paces gameplay is similar to Counter Strike's except I found it much more 
 enjoyable. Unlike Counter Strike, you will respawn many times during matches instead of having 
 to wait for the match to be over to resume playing, making the game much more user-friendly. Unfortunately, 
 TF2 doesn't have many maps to begin with, but a lot of people mod and make their own maps just 
 like in every other online shooter.
  
  The graphics in Team Fortress 2 are easily the strangest aspect of the game. Team Fortress 2 swaps 
 the realistic look of Counter Strike for a cartoon look. Yes, you read that correctly, a cartoon 
 first person shooter. Your first thoughts may take you back to that 2003 cel shaded shooter XIII, 
 but Team Fortress 2 is not cel shaded, which in my opinion is quite a good thing. The cartoon style 
 is very unusual and neat and it's actually a really cool part of the game. Don't expect a cartoon 
 game to lose mature feel though, expect to see the enemies explode and have their limbs shot off 
 as puddles of blood and ripped off limbs begin to cover the ground.
  
  Not only are the graphics unique, but they are also quite technically impressive. While they might 
 not be the next Crysis, Team Fortress 2 shines with quality graphics. The cartoon look trades super 
 detailed environments for very clean, shiny and slick cartoon environments which is one of the 
 high points in the game. Even though the level of detail may not be astounding, Team Fortress 2 
 still has what it takes to be a technically proficient looking computer game and it hangs in with 
 the rest of the pack.
  
  This paragraph will be the paragraph that ultimately decides whether you are going to get TF2 or 
 not. TF2 is a multiplayer game only. Yes, arguably the most important sentence in this review. 
 If you expected a single player campaign, that is why The Orange Box includes the four other games, 
 mainly Half-Life 2. Trust me, it is still worth it. The multiplayer gets very intense and the character 
 classes add a ton of the enjoyment to it. You play on either team Red or team Blue and then you 
 pick your character. The basic one of soldier which is armed with a rocket launcher, and then there 
 are a lot of other classes such as the extremely quick and nimble scout, the teams medic, the spy, 
 the heavy weapon, the sniper and more. This gives each player a specific job even though there 
 is no limit to how many people get a certain job. If you ask me, this is one of the most well done 
 aspects of TF2.
  
  The sound and music of Team Fortress 2 is decent but I am not the kind of person who plays multiplayer 
 shooters to listen to the music. It's not really something that stands out in anyway and I'm no 
 gun expert so I can't tell you how realistic the guns sound. I am guessing they are not the most 
 realistic sounding guns mainly because TF2 is not really a realistic games. To be honest, my favorite 
 part of the sound aspect was when members of the server I was on started playing "Chocolate Rain" 
 during the match.
  
  Team Fortress 2, I found to be more addicting than Counter Strike, and that is a good thing. Depending 
 on how well you like playing online will determine how much time you spend with Team Fortress 2. 
 There is no single player campaign, but if I was reviewing The Orange Box, which is the set I am 
 hoping you get, I'd give value a 10 easily. But I am reviewing TF2 standalone so it depends on 
 how much you like this kind of game, granted if you bought the game you had anticipation for intense 
 multiplayer action in your mind.
  
  Overall TF2 is an awesome game. It is one of the big shooters to come out this year, and there 
 were a lot of big shooters this year. It is available for download on PC, and is one of the five 
 games on The Orange Box for PC, Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. As I said earlier, for the best experience 
 stick with the PC version because of its more precise controls and more of a Half-Life related 
 franchise. Plus, if you buy it for Xbox 360 and you want to play online you will have to pay $50 
 for Xbox Live, where as on PC and Playstation 3 it is free to play online. Team Fortress 2 is definitely 
 one of the games you'll want on your computer this year, and for years to come until a Team Fortress 
 3 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahurigaan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  While Ive never had much interest in online shooters, I have played Counter-Strike source and a 
 few of the Unreal games, but Team Fortress 2 I think earns the title of "greatest online shooter" 
 as it surpasses both counter-strike and unreal in its addictive, extremely fun, and creative nature. 
 There are nine different classes, that are each balanced, but each has a different role, the engineer 
 class is a defense class, its role is to build sentry guns to defend as well as dispensers to resupply 
 other classes, as well as transports to get units from the base to the front lines more quickly, 
 the other defensive classes are the Large heavy weapons man and the demoman, then there are the 
 offensive classes such as the fast moving scout (my favorite class) as well the flame-throwing pyro 
 and tough but slow-moving soldier. The spy is a support class, and can cloak as well as disguise 
 himself as the enemy to take out specific things such as sentry guns or a heavy, the medic is mostly 
 charged with healing everyone, and work well with the heavy weapons man, the medic and heavy can 
 be unstoppable when the uber ability is used which makes the medic and the person he is healing 
 Invulnerable for a limited amount of time, the last of the support class is the sniper, who takes 
 enemy forces out usually from up above with his sniper. Teamwork is a very big part of the game, 
 remember your not superhuman, running into a mob of enemy players is suicidal no matter what class 
 you are, and this is why the game works so well, because each class plays a specific role to aid 
 each other in the ultimate goal of victory, the classes are very balanced. There are six maps on 
 the vanilla game, with such games as grabbing the enemies intelligence breifcase, a form of Capture-The-Flag, 
 a control point map where you attempt to capture all of the control points, as well as a territorial 
 map where you slowly capture one point at a time, new maps are also being made by the community, 
 and a game can be found at literally any time. There are no true flaws to be found in Team Fortress 
 2 other, the community is mostly a coopperative one, with only a few exceptions, as well a Team 
 Fortress 2 having a unique cartoon-like style, but this is a pro, not a con.
  
  In all, Team Fortress 2 is one of the greatest games of the decade, and if you love online shooters, 
 it dosent get any better than Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a very great mutliplayer shooter. The art style is awesome. It keeps the game lighthearted 
 and funny. The graphics are really great and sharp. Also the animations are some of the best ever. 
 You will laugh when you see the heavy holding his gun like a baby. There are 9 different classes 
 in the game, and each one has a certain use. Medic can be used to uber charge someone or heal them. 
 Heavy carries a mini gun and great for defense. This game requires a lot of teamwork to be successful, 
 you can't just run out in a big mob. It takes skill. It is a deep experience. The only downfall 
 is there are only 6 maps, but those maps are very well made and fun. This is a great game to get 
 especially if you are a fan of online shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanelevy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short since there is simply no reason not to get this, especially since it comes 
 with the orange box.
  
  I'm a fan of UT2004, counterstrike, and other online shooters, and this is up there with them.
 
  
  Pros:
  -Diverse, well balanced classes. Each one is completely different, but they are all necessary to 
 a balanced team, and they are all incredibly fun.
  
  -Great humor and stunning artistic style. It's an interactive Pixar movie with an nc-17 rating.
 
  
  -Maps, weapons, communication, and gunplay are all top-notch. You simply can't help but be immersed 
 in this game.
  
  -Sound is both hilarious are intense. Music is superb and fits the themes perfectly, and the sound 
 effects are great as well.
  
  -Like CS and UT, it just doesn't get old. I'll probably keep coming back to this for years (but 
 i am very partial to good multiplayer games) .
  
  -Valve has some nice features built in such as autokicking when people spam the servers etc...
 
  
  Cons:
  
  As with any multiplayer game, the other people you play with make or break it. I have had only 
 good experiences online, except the occasional teammates who aren't interested in working as a 
 team or spam mic etc...
  
  -in terms of cons specific to this game, I can't think of any.
  
  Overall score: 10. 
  
 
  Its perfect in that it utterly accomplishes what it sets out to do. The graphics aren't as nice 
 as crysis, but in some ways I find them even more beautiful (artistically) . The gameplay delivers 
 100%.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbking13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw the ad for this around in counter strike, i was thinking that game looks cheesy 
 and what is portal. im not gonna go into portal but that is also amazing. then i started seeing 
 some trailers and i thought that looks kinda cool. now the oj box (as i like to call it) comes 
 out and a few of my good friends get it. i beat portal first and was amazed, that was before i 
 touched heaven with tf2. i started playing and immediately realized that i LOVE this game. so i 
 went home and badabing the next day i had it. i started slow, trying to find my class. i started 
 liking the engineer (yay for building turrets) , then i got bored waiting around for my turret to 
 rip an unsuspecting demo apart, so i went to the spy. i played a while and found that people are 
 dumb until you stab them in the back once or twice, they get smart and shoot a rocket down your 
 throat. i started the soldier and WOW i was having so much fun. this game rules and is so diverse 
 it entertains for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoatmilkguy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Dear Valve,
  
  I would like to congratulate you on yet another great game. You have successfully won yet another 
 position in my "Top 10" PC games of all time list. Back in the day you delivered the groundbreaking 
 shooter that all good gamers know as Half-Life. I played all the little additions you offered with 
 anticipation and pleasure; Blue Shift, Opposing Forces, and even Counter Strike and Team Fortress 
 Classic. I loved and still do love them all. Then, after years of waiting, you delivered unto gamers 
 the marvelous Half-Life 2. Then came Episode 1 and now Episode 2. I could have screamed when you 
 snatched away my only hope of knowing more about the Gman by killing Dr. Vance. Then you threw 
 in Portal! What a wonderful treat. But I digress. This is Team Fortress 2.
  
  Team fortress 2 takes all the beauty and detail of the Half-Life universe, throws it into the wash 
 with a bucket of bleach, and comes out smooth, fresh, and CARTOON-LIKE!!! What a change in visuals! 
 I must say I was excited, refreshed, and still felt like I was at home with the visuals. You made 
 me laugh with the animations and facial expressions. You filled me with rage when my opponents 
 used the taunts to egg me on time after time (I suck. No matter how many hours I've logged playing 
 sniper, someone will always kick my butt) .
  
  Ok, so enough on visuals. On to gameplay. So far you have delivered a beautiful game with stunning 
 and simple (in appearance) visuals. You also have taken the cake for multi-player gameplay. The 
 dependence of each character type on another is very well balanced. I may scream at how impossible 
 it is to kill a heavy/medic combo, but when I take that place and have a trusty medic by my side, 
 I love every moment of it. You make me rely on my teammates to capture a flag or capture point. 
 No more solo hero work for me. It makes me feel useful when my turret brings down an enemy pyro 
 before he can turn my flag carrying scout into a flaming fireball.
  
  I could go on and on, but my precious Valve, I'm off to play some more TF2 if you don't mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estraka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Many of the negative reviews for this game come from players that enjoy solo FPS games like CS: S. 
 Althought CS: S is supposed to be teamwork (ever heard of a counter-terrorist group working solo 
 other than Jack Bauer???) , it seems these types of players can get frustrated while playing TF2. 
 This is because not one class is good at everything, and therefore teamwork is necessary. A team 
 of just heavies and soldiers will never be able to conquer a map. It's necessary to have supporting 
 characters such as medics and engineers. 
  A lot of people also complain about the graphics styling. One guy even complained about the size 
 of the hands. Well, this game is not supposed to have a realistic feel at all, it's supposed to 
 be have a cartoony feel. I mean, can a scout really double jump? Or can a guy really build a sentry 
 gun in seconds using trash? 
  This game also gives you a chance at getting the feel for your characters unique qualities. It's 
 hard for the demo man to be an upfront warrior, but if he stays in the back and ambushes his opposing 
 team with sticky bombs, he can rack up kills quickly. Also, the scouts are really good with capturing 
 points and flags, but if you don't have support when the opposing team comes in, you'll end up 
 being toast because of their lack of hp.
  There are some annoyances in the game that I'll address though. It's hard for me to play any class 
 other than the scout because most of them are not fast enough. The pyro is probably the top pick 
 for people just getting into the game because they are really easy to play, but way too powerful 
 with their flamethrower. They constantly outrun my scout for some reason. The aim seems to be off 
 most of the time- and I don't understand how to score a critical hit if I don't get one by firing 
 point blank at a snipers head. Finally, the scouts weapon is pretty weak- but I think it works 
 well. What they should do is give him more ammo before reload. 
  I'm really surprised there weren't more submachine guns in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 was announced a decade ago, and based on everyone's predictions, it was gonna be 
 the same chaotic team-based war-game with realistic looking character models. TF2 was supposed 
 to dominate with the newest technology... the most realistic character models... and the most chaotic 
 deathmatches that a team-based multiplayer game should have.
  
  Well, IT'S DONE MORE THAN THAT. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 takes a more unique approach to graphics 
 this time, instead of using the age-old realistic military-like 3-D models. Team Fortress 2 shows 
 off its unique art style without DirectX 10, or even cell shading, from what I've heard. In fact, 
 it uses a graphics engine similar to the one used to make Pixar movies like The Incredibles, and 
 Finding Nemo. It really helps to further polish the game and make it shiner. This is what really 
 sets Team Fortress 2 apart from other games, but, what sets it apart from other team-based multiplayer 
 games like Battlefield or Quake Wars? 
  
  In Team Fortress 2, you must select to be in either the Red team, or the Blu team. Then, you will 
 be prompted to choose from nine character classes -- Scout, Soldier, Pyro, Heavy, Engineer, Demoman, 
 Medic, Spy, or Sniper. The game is very user-friendly, unlike Battlefield, or Quake Wars, where 
 many objectives are thrown at you, the player. In Team Fortress 2, it's simple: capture the control 
 point, or capture the enemy's intelligence (or the "flag") , all while keeping the other team from 
 stopping you. The game also has basic and easy-to-follow controls, as well as easy-to-follow commands. 
 
  
  And since this is an online game only, I should tell you about the game's community. Most servers 
 will hold at least 16 people, since 8 on 8 is already the LEAST chaotic it can be, if you know 
 what I mean. When you have larger teams like the teams in TF2, you'll find that players are forced 
 to communicate with each other, whether it's done with a mic, or the closest keyboard near you. 
 Teamwork is the key to victory in this game, gentlemen and ever-gentle ladies, so nobody really 
 cusses over the mic OR through typing. Actually, it's so team-based that every "damn you" that 
 you get from someone you just killed will only make you laugh or feel even prouder than you already 
 are. 
  
  But the servers and the server management... it sorta pokes at me whenever I think of it. I know 
 it's hard to change, but with so many servers and so many fast-paced games changing maps and adding 
 players, you'll need to frequently refresh servers. You could click on a game with the map 2Fort 
 and jump into a game on the map Granary with no players at all, even though it said 11/20 player 
 slots filled. Valve has to step it up and do SOMETHING, like open up their own official servers 
 for different countries. Because with so many players on at once with unsufficient server management, 
 things get laggy. People get disconnected. Worst of all, people get annoyed.
  
  Aside from the small server problems, the game play itself is very well balanced. No class is "overpowered" 
 by another. A fast moving scout could be killed within seconds by a pyro's burning flames, and 
 a slow moving pryo could have his head decapitated by a scout's baseball bat. A Heavy could slug 
 you down with his minigun, but you just have to use your class's special abilities to get back 
 at him tenfold.. You get the point, right? A engineer who's good enough with his small pistol can 
 be good enough to kill anyone -- you just gotta be good with your class. 
  
  Anything is possible in this game. You wanna blow stuff up? Be a soldier! You wanna forcefully 
 inject harmful toxins into an unwilling prisoner? Use the medic's flechette gun! Wanna have cooked 
 Heavy for dinner? Be a pyro! Hell, you could be a ninja with the scout.
  
  Each of these chaotic showdowns can take place on six well designed maps, as well as custom maps. 
 People complain about only having this many maps, yet they probably haven't seen all of them. Each 
 map contains complex structures and secret underwater routes/underground routes/balconies/openings 
 that you can travel through to invade the other team's privacy. That just adds to the fun, as you 
 will always have to be on the lookout for unexpected takeovers. It only takes an ubercharged medic 
 and an ubercharged pyro to clear out an ENTIRE BASE, or a lucky spy who hasn't been spotted coming 
 behind you. 
  
  With that in mind, each map is unbelievably addictive. TF2 really shows us how amazing it can be 
 without realistic character models or tons of maps. Hey, games with many maps like FEAR tend to 
 offer many cheaply made maps that don't set the mood for the current battle, but Team Fortress 
 2 offers a high-quality experience overall, and it's something you DON'T wanna miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaiba91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Great game. the graphics and gameplay are very cartoon like and silly. reason why i like it. not 
 one of those games where you get pissed if you die because every dies as much as you, and thats 
 what makes it funny. effects when you die are funny. game is very silly and fun. great online game 
 with great levles, waepons, and all that. i just like it i dont no what else to say. If u like 
 halo 1 on pc then youll most likly like team fortress becasue theyre both simple but fun games. 
 what else can I say, another great game from Valve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kovacz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Got this game in the Orange box package, not knowing how good or bad it would be, since I got the 
 box looking at great deal and value for money. In the end, I find it maybe the best addition to 
 the package as it's great fun, made with great artistic sense, perfected in technical sense and 
 balanced class-wise. 
  
  You can really see that playing on servers, where there's always at least one player playing each 
 class or at least most of time. No class is underappreciated and every one of them has it's weaknesses 
 and strengthts and they're all depentend on each other. 
  
  Truly a great game for years to come for sure, with new content and user made maps. Nothing much 
 left to say really, game is just almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionwingcroff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  
  Team Fortress 2 is one of the 5 Games in the game collection The Orange Box. It's an MultiPlayer-Only 
 FPS, that allows players to select from 9 
  diffrent characters, each with it's own little niche of fill, and supplys the player with multiple 
 play styles. The characters are catagorized by 
  Offensive, Defensive, and Support. Each character sports a primary and secondary weapon, as well 
 as a unique melee weapon. Some have a special weapon, depending on what role they play. In addition 
 to the weaponry they also have a number of taunts/cheers/silly-actions that they can do with the 
 X button. 
  The action done depends on what weapon you have out at the time and what class your playing. These 
 really help give each character their own 
  personality as well as produce a certain feel for each character. Even so it's not a wise thing 
 to do in the middle of a firefight as once you start 
  the animation you can't do anything until its finished and as a result your wide open to getting 
 blown away. While visualy appealing and in some cases almost as much fun as a good, old fashion 
 Teabagging, it can be frustrating to be in the middle of a shootout and bump the button and get 
 yourself killed. Even without it though the style of graphics used creates an enjoyable enviroment 
 and IMO seems to help remove some of the competitive tension and rage that can build up. Even if 
 I constantly get killed and am unable to score any kills myself, I still enjoy it. One of the other 
 ways this game avoids causing a player to become frustrated quickly is that almost every situation 
 can be turn around with a little teamwork and changing of classes. In several situations I've been 
 trapped in the resupply (The resupply is the area where you spawn, but also has a box to refill 
 your health, ammo and other things intstantly, and it's also the only place you can go that the 
 enemy can not follow.) because the enemy will camp outside and wait for the door to open then shoot 
 in. If the enemy is using unmanned Turrets to do this all you have to do ishave some one go spy 
 and sap them all and then escape. If the enemy is simply standing there have a few people go Heavy 
 and Soldier, then preform a full on kamakazie strike with someone healing and your problem may 
 very well be solved. This is where some of you get off unfortunatly, as this may require thought, 
 rather than straight up reflexes and trigger-happy fingers. This game can easily be played without 
 any strategy, but playing with some coordanation between teammates will go along way.
  
  The Game also supports a heathy number of gametypes, but what gametype you play is based on the 
 map your on. You can only play the gametype that the map uses, and you can't mix and match, but 
 this is not as big of a bummer as it sounds. The maps are very well amde and are designed just 
 for that gametype. Also most of the maps sport muiltiple sections you play through during the game. 
 This creates a a good map for each gametype that is balanced and fair. Push comes to shove, it's 
 all personal opinion on that point. All in all it's a great game that allows everyone to find there 
 own place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonwilles
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Before talking about graphics, sound or overall gameplay I think that a discussion on an improtant 
 game mechanic that makes TF2 really standout from its competition. TF2 is the ultimate for team 
 oriented multiplayer shoot outs. When you want to talk about a game that absolutely requires you 
 to play as a team you will ultimately have to talk about TF2. Every other multiplayer game in the 
 world always has serious balancing issues. Anyone who has played CS longer than 4 seconds has been 
 AWP'd, anyone who has played CS for longer than 8 seconds has been AWP'd twice and anyone who played 
 Battlefield 2 has been dropped from down town and had really no idea what to do about it. The snper 
 class has always been a tough one to balance and this imbalance has always meant that an uber-pwner 
 joining one team or the other meant that that team would start winning. LIkewise the other classes 
 or weapon loadouts promptly became sniper fodder before an all powerful long range killer. It seems 
 very clear that Valve was acutely aware of the fact that no one liked to get sniped over and over 
 and over again, until eventually having to learn to snipe and thus obsoleting the other classes. 
 The way the class balancing works means that there is a NEED for skilled players of all classes, 
 and on top of that each class plays extremely different from one another. So eventhough an uber 
 sniper can stop a heavy dead in his tracks he'll have a hard time dealing with the angry bat laden 
 with Scout justice regardless of how good of sniper he is. That's right melee counts against a 
 sniper. The exceptional balance means that this game quickly becomes an excercise in working together 
 as opposed to a lone gunman killing at will. Now to a more standard review.
  
  Graphics:
  The are direction on this game is top notch. It kind of reminds me of Toontown at Disneyland, except 
 everything there is armed and quite lethal. When I first saw the promos for the game I was really 
 turned off at the thought of a cartoon game as a prompt for a first person shooter. After having 
 seen it all in motion I have to admit that it works really well. When it is all assembled together 
 it works a lot like a full motion adventure from Itchy and Scratchy. You can't help but laugh when 
 you see a rocket connect and the opponent gibs everywhere. More over the animation on the characters 
 is hilarious and provide each class a unique and colorful personality. Whether its the Heavy Weapons 
 guy's facial animation during his maniacal laugh while he is unloading an unholy amount of ammo, 
 or the scout jogging in place and checking his pulse before a match the animation goes to build 
 up each classes role. On top of that the use of dynamic lighting and shader effects go to make 
 sure that each class is easily recognizable from virutally any distance. Everything graphics wise 
 is built to enhance the game experience. Massive gibs make it obvious that the opponent is no longer 
 a threat, moreover explosion effects, shiny colorful sticky bombs and bright believable flames 
 remind you that there are lethal consequences for sitting to long to admire the graphics. My only 
 gripe is that a few of the ground textures could use a little bit of work. The game performs admirably 
 on the Source engine and provide the high quality scaling that we have come to expect from this 
 company, although it doesn't provide the same level of eyecandy that Quake or UT3 has in spades. 
 I will say that the art in this game is above and beyond most games released in the past year, 
 with the most notable exception being Bioshock. 
  
  Sound:
  I'm not a huge fan of video games sound tracks in fact, I can't really tell you what most games 
 sound like because the sfx on most games make me crazy and I end up listening to my favorite music 
 while only keeping the minimal sfx required to progress in a game. While I still jam a bit of Foo 
 Fighters in the background I can't enjoy the game with out the Russian Heavy taunting the engineers, 
 "Poor baby's coward toys get broken?" or the scout's "Batter Up!" after throughly pummeling an 
 opponent. The sounds work well and having a shot gun blast near by provides a convincing warning 
 of your impending death. The in-game voice comm system is perfunctory adding the essential relay 
 for warning teammates and co-ordinating attacks. Generally sfx add to the experience Splats, groans, 
 and gunfire works well and plays into the comic mayhem. It's silly but its not slide whistle silly. 
 But most importantly there isn't any music aside from the intro. I love that no obnoxious themes 
 get burned into your brain, but if you own the sound track to Final Fantasy the lack of ambiance 
 might leave you wanting. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Yay. TF2 is the definitive experience for team based combat. You have to depend on your teammates 
 to cover where you lack. If you play scout, you need help taking care of sentry guns and pyros, 
 but you're the best at taking down contol points, clearing heavies and dropping snipers. If you 
 play medic you can provide a limited invulnerability making you arguably the best offensive player 
 in the game, with the immediate side effect of not being able to deal any damage while healing. 
 With that said the medic has one of the best melee weapons, providing an important balance mechanic. 
 All of the characters have a secondary weapon and a down right hilarious melee weapon. The secondary 
 weapon provides a means of doing things that your class isn't good at. For example, the pyro is 
 the god of close range combat, capable of dealing arguably the most dps, but thier primary weapon 
 is so range limited that you have to able to sneeze on em bofore you can hit them. The secondary 
 weapon allows you to shoot someone far away, not real far, but much further than the flamethrower. 
 Likewise the shot gun provides the heavy a way to run and gun instead of having to plant and let 
 loose the six barreled death. Each class plays differently and provides a unique experience in 
 taking down the various classes. Although personally I don't have the patience to play engineer 
 very long. (Don't worry though there are TONS of people who love this class and it is like pulling 
 teeth to get them to change if there are too many) . It need to be pointed out that there is a lack 
 of maps, but with that said when was the last time a CS player jumped on a server that wasn't playing 
 dust, dust2, office, the england one, italy, or the warehouse? Personally I will gladly take a 
 handful of very well crafted levels over a bunch of crap. 
  General gameplay works well too. The game is very fast paced and frenetic with some of the craziest 
 firefights I've seen in a while. Eventhough the game has several blink and you miss it moments, 
 the action and characters and never so fast that you don't know what's going on. The classes are 
 slow moving enough that you don't need to be a l337 (that's 'elite' for the uninitiated gamers) 
 clanner to get a kill in. And because the game play is so team oriented it lessens the learning 
 curve. If a n00b comes along and does what the more experienced players tell him to, he can easily 
 rise to the top of the leader board. Eventhough it'll be a while before he's barking out order 
 himself, he'll definately be a part of the carnage. Sadly, many of the old TF guys are turned off 
 by this fact. They miss being able to single handedly clear the board and win the map. I think 
 that this is the main complaint from the community aside from the lack of all class grenades. I 
 personally don't miss the "what the..?" moments of getting nuked by a grenade from who knows where, 
 or spawning, taking two steps, and then dying unexplainably. To combat moments like those, when 
 you get capped in TF2 it shows you who did it and where they did it from. So if you are astute 
 you shouldn't get capped by the same sniper in the same place twice, making snipping a far more 
 dynamic experience. Granted you probably will get capped twice by the same sniper in the same place 
 and when that happens you get DOMINATED. A fun little way to make taking down an opponent a little 
 more rewarding. If you kill the same player three times in a row you dominate them and its worth 
 more points. Nothing is quite as fun as dominating half of a team. The main game play style is 
 a king of the hill control point style map. The idea is easy to understand, if you have a control 
 point you need to keep it, if you don; t have a control point you want to take it back. Easy right? 
 Then there is the one capture the flag map. I personally love the Hydro and dustbowl maps. Hydro 
 is a dynamic control point map and dustbowl is a pure attack or defend map. Stat tracking is nice 
 too cause it lets you know exactly how well you're doing. The amount of fine tuning in this game 
 is superb. Everything from visuals to sfx goes into making game play better. Superfluous details 
 and inconsequential 
  Also there are critical hits, if you start killing a lot and doing tons of damage you get more 
 crits, and thusly do more damage. Plus the crits help out in last ditch defences or clearing impossibly 
 well defended areas. 
  Last but certainly not least is that the way the classes play off each other allows for a huge 
 level of strategy and replayability.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you like being the master murderer on a map and don't like playing nice with others then you 
 might want to look at Quake wars or UT3, but if you don't mind sharing the spotlight and working 
 for a very interesting and dynamic game TF2 is an absolute blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony9000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  TF2 is a game that makes itself unique from the rest mainly becuase it looks, feels, and plays 
 so differently than any other ONLINE FPS game on the market. One reason of of this is the large 
 variety of different classes to choose from. Another is the art design. When TF2 was first shown 
 a few years ago, it had more of a COD2 or HL look to it instead of the great cartoon piece of art 
 it now is. Now that TF2 was finally released..... was it worth the 7-9 year wait for it to be created?
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  TF2's gameply is just as good as its art design (which is great) , but not only that but it expresses 
 how good/fair an online fps can be without doing revolutionary steps like other Valve games have 
 done. Now heres a picture of the UI (user interface) ....
  
  PROS
  -12 classes to chooses from
  -All are completely different and are well balanced
  -Seems to 
 oddly match the art style (its hard how to describe it)
  -Many maps
  -All the maps are great and user maps are already being made
  -Good sound effects
  -Great music
 
  -While it still has lots of ''run and gun'' gameplay to it, it still holds up for strategy for 
 some classes (engineer, sniper etc.)
  -Fast paced
  -No grenades flying everywhere like in games like COD2
  -24 players is very-well suited for the 
 game
  -Characters seem to react to one another automaticly
  -The game has a GOOD sense of humor
  -Dev. complementary is included which is partially like 
 a tutorial and tells u alot about the history on the TF series
  -The game is overall, fairly well optimized
  -The most addicting multiplayer FPS i have ever 
 played
  
  CONS
  -The source engine could have been represented better (loading times are a pain in the arse and 
 technical probs with the engine are everywhere if u play the game alot)
  -The sounds in the game are distorted sometimes (i couldn't find a solution and other ppl have 
 this prob too i found)
  -Stats should be more complex
  -Cheap shots happen alot on certain maps such as 2Fort
  -The overall gameplay is a bit buggy
 
  
  
  Graphics
  Take a look at these photos to get an idea at wat the game looks like (charcter models mainly) :
 
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1121-58-08-35. jpg
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1121-37-59-93. jpg
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1120-51-33-04. jpg
 
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1120-41-47-04. jpg
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1120-33-46-75. jpg
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1120-22-40-60. jpg
 
  http://i147. photobucket. com/albums/r316/dcpc10/hl22007-11-1120-26-35-56. jpg
  As u can see, the game has a nice deep cartoon look to it and it truly looks awesome. (NOTE: the 
 graphics in the pics are on MED settings)
  
  PROS
  -Cartoon art style fits perfectly and looks great
  -The menus, UI's, etc. DON'T affect the surroundings 
 or look out of order
  -Great character models
  -The settings for the maps are unique and fit the game well
  -Overall great graphics that aren't 
 last-gen looking AT ALL like some ppl have stated
  
  CONS
  -A few probs with buggy graphics and missing textures
  -A bit more of a destructable enviroment 
 would be nice (like HL2)
  
  
  REPLAY-VALUE
  Ok, while TF2 is an addicting game, it doesnt have much else except for multiplayer to lean against 
 so dont expect the game to be packed with lots of bonus/extra stuff like in some other Online FPS 
 games. While ther still is LAN, dev. commentary, and live spectating (join agame and pick spectate) .... it 
 still wont last u on for any more than 50 hours i'm guessing but the game is still really amazing 
 and i am probly exaggerating this a bit too much. =)
  
  PROS
  -Base game is multiplayer which lasts forever pretty much
  -Dev. commentary is great to do in 
 ur spare time or if u got nothing to do (u can learn some facts out of this too)
  -Spectating available like in many FPS games out in these days
  -LAN is great if u have friends 
 that also have the game too
  -Achievements and stats bragging increases the replay-value by quite a bit in the game
  
  CONS
 
  -The game MAY feel kinda boring quickly
  -Repetitive if u go on servers with the original maps all of the time (i've played user-maps that 
 were even better than the ones that came with the game)
  
  Well that ends my review.... thanks for reading and PM me if u want to give a comment on this review 
 or if u have some constructive criticism (only) u want to send to me. =}
  
  NOTE ABOUT PICS: Since they all have a direct link to the hosted pics, they WILL BE TAKEN away 
 but not for a long while *probly a couple of months or possibly years so dont be suprised if the 
 links dont work and if ur reading this review 3 years after it was released. La8ter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gate131966
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I really can't express how glad I am that Team Fortress 2 comprises one third of The Orange Box, 
 though that joy isn't for the usual gamer reasons. True, I'm glad that one of the best multiplayer 
 games ever has been revived at last and I'm glad that The Orange Box is getting a multiplayer portion, 
 but I'm also glad for what Team Fortress 2 lacks.
  
  So, what is it that Team Fortress 2 is missing that might make me happy? One word; story.
  
 
  Unlike the other parts of The Orange Box, Team Fortress 2 doesn't have a complicated backstory 
 about a mute physicist in an orange-coloured metal jumpsuit fighting aliens across different time 
 periods on the whim of a blue-suited, raspy voiced man/super-powered sorcerer.
  
  Nor is it shrouded in mystery like Portal, introducing an important new character who must struggle 
 against a faceless scientific enemy in order to survive. 
  Team Fortress 2 has none of that, which makes it a lot easier to write about from my perspective. 
 It also makes it a refreshing break from the slew of awesomely written FPS games on the 'must-have' 
 list for gamers this year. What Team Fortress 2 is, is a clean, streamlined game which has cut 
 away all the chaff and left us only with the ripening wheat  the fruit of Valve's efforts. Team 
 Fortress 2 has only one premise, one hook, one concept  Red Team versus Blue Team.
  
  And that's enough for me.
  
  Seeing Red
  What Team Fortress 2 lacks in story however, it 
 makes up for in innovation and smoothness. The Team Fortress series originally began back in 1996 
 as a mod for Quake and has made the slow transition to the improved Source Engine after years of 
 work since then, with only the Team Fortress Classic remake being released in the meantime.
  
  In fact, the development cycle of Team Fortress 2 has proven so long and convoluted, with many 
 publicised changes being made to the game's system and engine, that the game has often been decried 
 as vapourware  relegated to the same status as Duke Nukem Whenever.
  Now however, the original Team Fortress team has finished the third game in the series of seminal 
 multiplayer games and it's as glorious as ever. One of the things that makes the Team Fortress 
 games so successful is, I think, that they can be either as complicated or simple as a player wants 
 them to be. Never was this more true than with Team Fortress 2.
  
  For the uninitiated, Team Fortress can just be a simple team deathmatch game. You jump in, choose 
 a side and what type of player you want to be and then you go kill the guys who aren't dressed 
 in the same colour as you. For the more interested players though, Team Fortress 2 can be a decidedly 
 tactical affair which uses cleverly designed maps, well-balanced and purpose-specific classes to 
 make every match worthy of your full attention.
  
  Just how can the game get so technical whilst at the same time being so accessible? Well, a lot 
 of it is down to the delicately crafted class system which uses nine different class choices to 
 give players a choice of what style they want to play and how they want to contribute to the teams 
 victory.
  
  Scout, Soldier, Sniper, Spy, Heavy Weapons, Demolition, Medic, Engineer, Pyro  there are so many 
 choices that we couldn't possibly look at them all.
  
  But we'll try anyway.,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  !!!!!!! Xbox360 review!!!!!!
  Team fortress was a mod run of half-life in the 90's. It was one of the greats multiplayer games 
 every made. One thing that it did great was make all the classes extremely balanced. The same is 
 here in TF2 with the great class and strong emphases on teamwork. You start of each mission with 
 a selection of 9 classes, scout, pyro, solider, medic, heavy gunner, demo man, spy, sniper and 
 engineer. Heres a break down of there weapons and powers.
  Medic-Close combat weapon (cc for short) , needle gun, healing gun when maxed out makes you and 
 an Allie invariable for a period of time.
  
  Scout-cc, pistol, automatic shot gun, runs 3x faster than any other character, also has double 
 jump
  
  Spy-cc, pistol, can change into any class that's on the other team
  
  Sniper-sniper rifle, cc, machine gun
  
  Heavy weapons guy-gatling gun, cc, shotgun, can spin 
 the Gatling gun to shoot faster
  
  Pyro-flame thrower, shot gun, cc, cant be set on fire
  
  Engineer-cc, pistol, shotgun, can create turrets! That can be upgraded, teleport, and a ammunition 
 dispenser
  
  Solider-rocket launcher, cc, shotgun, can shoot rocket at feet to throw himself into the air
 
  
  Demo man- grenade launcher, mine launcher, cc- can fire mines and trigger them by pressing right 
 bumper
  
  These classes are all balanced very well but most people like to go for the engineer to build turrets 
 and dominate the battlefield. But you are limited to the number of battlefields you fight on. Only 
 six maps and a couple of game modes make this game feel a bit short in the replay department. For 
 the Xbox 360 version there are serious lag and connectivity problems that occur little to none 
 of the time playing but some times it's a real pain to encounter them. The graphics are great the 
 art style is a new direction for fps games and hopefully will be coped in the future. This game 
 is a great buy if you're looking for a new multiplayer game that is tacked onto one of the greatest 
 deals in videogame history. But the 9 years it took for them to make it just doesn't seem like 
 9 year work. 
  
  All in all if you like fps multiplayer games you cant miss this class based
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  First announced almost a decade ago, the long-awaited multiplayer first person shooter finally 
 hit the shelves and the digital stores, for that matter. Being part of the recently released 
 Orange Box  a game pack which includes Half Life 2, its episodic content and a puzzle game 
 named Portal - Team Fortress makes its way to the PC once again, and this time, its as gorgeous 
 as ever.
  
  Undoubtedly, stylish visual design in Team Fortress 2 is the most attractive aspect of the game. 
 Granted you probably wont go around the maps scoping every inch, looking for amazing quality 
 textures, the cartoony graphics work amazingly well. Ultimately, they arent completely celshaded, 
 leaving space for a handful of goodies the Source engine is capable of, including High Dynamic 
 Range lighting and cool water effects. Even with all the eye-candy, the graphics engine is very 
 well optimized, and does certainly not require a beast computer to show its full potential.
  
  A wide array of classes is available to play as in TF2, including a medic, a soldier, a heavy 
 weapons guy, a spy and many more. You can either get in the boots of a soldier or the so-called 
 Demoman and tear apart everyone you see, or choose a stealth approach and play as a spy. Feel like 
 attacking from far distance? Play as a sniper. Want to use the element of surprise and fry your 
 enemies to death? Be a Pyro! Its surprising just how the gameplay changes as soon as you 
 switch from one class to another. In a good way, mind you.
  
  Though to assure success, a balance between the number of players using the same class should be 
 maintained. For example, a team full of soldiers isnt going to achieve too much without 
 medic support, whereas spies are godsend when taking out enemy sentry turrets is a necessity. Even 
 with all these abilities, though, the classes are balanced very well and its hard to point 
 out one or two being overpowered. Basically, a team that uses teamwork and cooperation will do 
 a lot better than a team full of people looking for frags. Thats the way it 
 works, and thats why Team Fortress 2 stands out from many other multiplayer FPS games.
 
  
  Perfect sense of humor definitely adds a lot to the whole experience, as well. The game is simply 
 hilarious. Thanks to the funny model design and cheeky voice acting, every class has a distinctive 
 look and feel to it, making the player characters a lot more life-like and dynamic during battles. 
 Add 30 more players blasting each other apart in the same area and you get the picture.
  
  There are six official maps to play around in Team Fortress 2, with more and more customs coming 
 out every day. Several game-modes are in-game, ranging from Point Capture where both 
 sides have to capture and cover as many areas in a map as possible, to Intelligence Capture, 
 where teams have to steal their opponents documents and get them back to their base. Even 
 though every map only has one game-mode to play, its not really a big deal.
  
  Control-wise, TF2 plays pretty much identically to other Source powered games, with a few additional 
 button functions like calling for medic support. Those who like to review their skill and performance 
 in previous games can always check out their statistics in a detailed Player Stats 
 screen. If stocks all the basic information, like the amount of kills, kill assists, most points 
 per life, etc. Whats also in-game is the achievements section, which is new to Source games. 
 A huge list of various things is listed, including Accumulating a thousand of total kills, 
 Doing 25 headshots as sniper, and so on. Theres a lot to do to here, but obviously, 
 its all just for bragging rights, and doesnt influence the gameplay in any way.
 
  
  It's hard to remember any bad things about the game, though unfortunately, the game isnt 
 without issues. There were occasionally times where the player would fall out of the map after 
 dying, or sticky bombs would bump off invisible barriers that disappear after a round starts, but 
 theyre nothing too big. All in all, Team Fortress 2 surely is an enjoyable multiplayer. 
 Some minor annoyances do get in the way, but nevertheless, its a well-polished game every 
 FPS fan should try out. If youre new to the Half-Life universe, purchasing the Orange Box 
 is a great deal, and if youre not, it still is worth every penny you pay for buying it separately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm guilty of being one of those who has never played the original Team Fortress. Seeing that plenty 
 of people liked the first one, it gave me no reason to not look forward to Team Fortress 2. Having 
 been able to get my hands on this game with The Orange Box, I can say that I'm both a bit surprised 
 in a good way and disappointed... in a bad way.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a team-based mutliplayer game with various classes and also enforces teamwork 
 to complete objectives. Two teams go at it for the sole reason of... well, just to win.
  
  After you join a team, you'll be faced with the decision of choosing one of nine different classes. 
 NINE. That's plenty. Variety is always good, and TF2's variety for this part isn't bad. You have 
 classes like a flamethrower guy, a grenader, a medic, and some others. Each of them are pretty 
 unique and are balanced well. Though it won't take long to notice that if used correctly, each 
 class can be equally useful and annoying depending on the team you're on. You'll have enemy engineers 
 placing turrets in the most annoying and cheap spots ever and you'll have plenty of other annoyances 
 coming at you from the other team.
  
  Otherwise when you're busy owning everyone on the other team, TF2 plays rather well. The game doesn't 
 necessarily revolve around shooting the crap out of the other team, but around objectives like 
 capturing control points and even a Capture-The-Flag styled mode.
  
  And this is where there's kind of a problem: there's only 6 maps out of the box. You'd think that 
 with various delays and a long development, you'd get more than 6 maps. True, there are always 
 user-created maps you can get, but at least they can give you some more so other people don't have 
 to that much. The variety in terms of maps can get old fast so if anyone's got the time to get 
 extra maps, you can at least keep that aspect of the game fresh.
  
  Even with the lack of maps, the chaos still is alright for the most part, though there are still 
 some oddities and discomforts to be found in the game (for me, anyways) .
  
  First off: there are way too many shotguns. This isn't a good thing since the game is actually 
 pretty fast paced and you'd have to be godlike to get up close and control your aim for a good 
 kill. And since shotguns are the secondary weapons for some of the classes, it starts to take away 
 some variety.
  
  Thankfully, each class has some of their own unique weapons as well. The Heavy class has a huge 
 minigun, the Pyro obviously has a nice flamethrower, the Soldier has a bazooka, you know where 
 I'm getting at. Set enemies on fire, launch grenades, heal your teammates, even build some machines 
 to help yourself and your comrades. You may only have a few things in your inventory to utilize, 
 but it definitely makes each class stand out.
  
  But once again, there's a little thing that kind of bugs me and that is the lack of any feel of 
 accuracy in the weapons. Other than the sniper rifle (only available to the Sniper class) , pretty 
 much every weapon is either inaccurate or too unuseful in certain situations. Sure, maybe the spread 
 and recoil of this weapon isn't that bad, but when enemies are almost always constantly moving 
 and spazzing about, it'll be too chaotic to use weapons properly unless they're still or if you 
 can lay a lucky shot up close or something. The weapons themselves don't feel too uncomfortable, 
 though I can't say that it'll feel as smooth as you'd want it to be.
  
  And the amount of chaos can actually be so intense, it's bad. There will be times where you'll 
 really have no idea where to shoot and some things will happen so fast and confusing, you'll be 
 kind of disappointed when you lose or your teammates take care of it while leaving you out. Chaos 
 is good, but it can at least let you comprehend a few things as well.
  
  With the small amount of maps available, i can at least say that the map designs were suited enough 
 for this type of game, but even the map design doesn't sit well with me. The maps can feel a bit 
 too straightforward at times making plenty of situations where nearly each and every member of 
 both teams are duking it out within the same 70 meters. And since there's two sides of the map, 
 you'll be respawning and doing pretty much the same thing again.
  
  But it's not all bad. One thing that makes this game stand out from pretty much every other multiplayer 
 game out there is the style and look of the game. As cartoony as it looks, it's pretty neat on 
 its own scale. There's nothing that looks like this at all and it's probably one of my favorite 
 parts of the game, not to mention the hilarity of some of the taunts and voices.
  
  And despite the cartoonish design, it doesn't even look like a cel-shaded game, either. Imagine 
 a game that has the animation quality of a random Pixar movie and add in a lot of blood, gore, 
 and flying bullets. There you go. The graphics are artistically brilliant and while it might not 
 have the absolute best graphics on the technical side, it's still one of the better looking games 
 we'll get this year.
  
  As someone who has a good interest in online multiplayer shooters, I was kind of disappointed in 
 TF2. I can really only ask for less mindlessness, more maps, and maybe some more modes and better 
 map design along with some more satisfying weapons. The community isn't that bad and a game like 
 this has a lot of potential. It's not my favorite game out of The Orange Box, though it's bound 
 to grab some new fans. Just be glad this is part of the package because I truly think that if this 
 was seperate, it'd be a ripoff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3rb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 may very well be the best FPS multiplayer experience you can get your hands on 
 and at the same time, one of the most modestly priced. The Source engine is a perfect home for 
 the return of this title, and the Valve team deserves many, many pats on the back for their efforts. 
 This game is an instant classic, and polished. Very polished.
  
  Each character class has character! That's right, they aren't just lifeless class archetypes with 
 different weapons. Each one has his own lovable personality. If you've been able to see any of 
 the Meet the videos that Valve has put out, then you have a taste of what I'm talking about. Playing 
 Team Fortress 2 lifts a lot of the stress that you might feel while playing other multiplayer games 
 by reminding you that you're just having fun. The toonish environments, facial expressions, and 
 voice acting will keep you smiling, even if you're not at the top of the score list. Plain and 
 simple, TF2 is a ton of fun, and an absolute treat for eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epyon346
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2, after spending nine years in the development cycle finally released open beta 
 (on the PC anyway) summer '07. The game is nothing short of a masterpiece. The classes are nigh 
 perfectly balanced, and all self-explanatory and simple enough to play. The action here is fairly 
 chaotic, but the explosions and flying limbs just lend to the fun and appeal of the new makeover 
 the game got. Occasionally the critical hits are annoying (your gun will shoot out glowing ammo 
 which does more damage randomly, although it seems to happen more when you're on a roll) , but all 
 in all, TF2 is the definitive new online multi-player FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Well, not the best one but, it still rocks really much!
  
  Of course as you would have expected the game would have some funny and detailed graphic. Guess 
 what, you're right. This game is just so funny to just look at and the animations are good too. 
 I would not go into detail because you have to experience the fun yourself before you believe it.
 
  
  The sounds are really good except when the soldier shoots his rocket gun its the same sound all 
 over again and again. Though, beside that, the sound is really good. If you make a 5-kill spree 
 your character would laugh so much. Its just so hilarious. Every thing you do that there is good 
 going you character would do something.
  
  I have been playing this game really much and if I get tired of it in about 1 month time, I will 
 for sure return again just for the fun because it is just so good and holds such a long time and 
 of course that is not bad at all.
  
  So overall this game would rock your world really fast.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 10
  Sound: 
 9
  Overall: 9.5
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponsgame
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I had played some multi player games it is all about shooting and what guns you have and how you 
 are using it. Here in TF2 it is fully about how cooperative your team is planning.
  There are 9 character and they as together form a nice team.
  For each and every character has 
 it own strengths and weakness.
  
  Doctor provides you the health when you got burnt by the Pyro. Take demoman to throw bombs over 
 the Doctor. Take a Heavy to Massive fire. Take a Sniper to kill the heavy from long distance. Take 
 a Soldier to kill the Sniper. Take a Scout capture the point easily. Take a Engineer and build 
 Sentry to stop the Scout. Take a spy to destroy the sentry. So choose your team based on the enemy 
 stand and fight to win.
  In TF2 Support Class makes the game more addictive.
  The character were nice cartoons cool to look and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipergts10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how fun this game is. At first when I saw the game, I thought that the graphics 
 were a little wierd and cartoonish, but who's to say the looks of a game are everything. This is 
 is entirely about gameplay. The game is so fun after I started playing it several times, and once 
 you get good at playing the game, it gets twice as fun. There are so many things to do because 
 of all the 9 classes. Almost every class is fun to play as. Try to also get your friend's involved 
 in this game because that'll make it a better game than it already is. There are in-game statistics 
 which are great for personal goals, and when you kill someone the camera zooms to the person who 
 killed you, and so if you're playing with a bunch of friends, everyone can laugh when you get killed 
 by one of your buddies. Overall, I think the only negative to the game is the limited amount of 
 maps, but I'm sure Valve is working on creating some more maps. This game is FUN FUN FUN FUN !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassbomber20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  TeamFortress established a great community and a great game overall. so naturally, one would come 
 to expect the same with the next big hit, TeamFortress 2, right?
  
  My initial impressions with TF2 were rather limited, but the cartoony appearence was interesting 
 to say the least. However, after both Beta Testing it and owning the final product, my opinions 
 have changed. The overall gameplay can be fun, but the cartoony graphics and such get old really 
 fast. Also with the now over-use of the pyro it tends to ruin your game experience rather quickly. 
 The controls are responsive as they should be, the sound and graphics are also on par. If anything 
 the taunts are hysterical and are varried by character, and each character has about 2-3 taunts. 
 Nothing like going Demo and flashing your smilie face at the bad guys just before you spawn. But 
 at the same time, there is nothing to keep the opposing force (little HalfLife reference there) 
 from loading up the gates with motion mines and such, so that they only real way you can get out 
 is by killing yourselves to clear the way for your other team members.
  
  Overall, I'm not too sure this was worth getting, it's fun but then it gets lame and it's just 
 the same old same old thing after awhile. While sporting interesting characters and several maps 
 to choose from, it's just not enough to keep you coming back for more. The Orange Box was a good 
 deal in itself, but TF2 really leaves you feeling like you were left out of the crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zykhan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This was a game that I have waited for since I saw the previews. Contrary to what some have said 
 I have not seen how Steam has effected the gameplay. Of course this is the first game that has 
 convinced me to buy a game that uses Steam. This game has a great pace and if you can get your 
 team to actually act as a team can have you on a single server for a while. I jumped into this 
 treating it as any other FPS but that was a mistake. With several classes each has to be treated 
 differently (as usual) but not in the same sense as a BF2. All in all this is one of the best games 
 I have played in a while and the look does nothing but add to the gameplay. Esp when you a killed 
 and the CPU makes a point to show you where your body parts are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Its a pretty good game, not as good as counter strike imo, but still good. Almost all of the classes 
 are balanced except 2: the soldier and the engineer. The soldier would be ok in my book if he had 
 25-50 hp less, but at 200hp he is just too much with his constantly rocket spam. He ruins the spy 
 class by firing upon everything he sees, friend and foe. The spy cannot survive a single splash 
 dmg hit and the soldier out ranged the pyro easily, so he pretty much screws the pyro and spy classes 
 at the same time. People may say that pyros are better at catching spies, but when its between 
 a pro soldier and a pro pyro the soldier outclasses him everytime. Now, the engineer.... at first 
 I liked having engineers play, I enjoyed having something other than backstabbing to do whilst 
 being a spy.... But when there are 5+ engineers all perfectly protected in a corner from backstab.... its 
 technically impossible to a spy to sap or assassinate him, wtf were they thinking? A simple solution 
 would be making the saps take 3 wrench strikes to kill, but 1 does the trick and makes the spy 
 pointless. Sure you can take out the turrents with nade spam if you're lucky, but he'll have another 
 turrent up in under 10 seconds. Ubering help TREMENDOUSLY, but you have to have an actual team 
 together, and most people that play this game are only slightly cooperative..... uuhhh anyways... what 
 was I talkin' about?.... Oh well, in the end, this game is ok. Decent replay even though there 
 are so few maps, but the 25 seconds possible respawn and rocket spam easily ruin what could've 
 been an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyflapjack
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Make sure you read the team in Team Fortress 2 because that is what it is all about. Forget the 
 days of Counter-Strike having fun running around slaughtering people by yourself. The classes in 
 this game are balanced in two ways:
  1. Solo vs. 2+ enemies and you are likely going to lose.
  2. Each class has a nemesis which means 
 even 1 vs. 1 they can own you.
  
  The game can be fun in the beginning running around, learning the maps, and shooting players. Quickly 
 it become necessary to work with your team to win the game.
  
  The problem with this is that most pick-up groups online *really* suck. You will end up in a bad 
 team more often then not, and this means that you will have a frustrating time loosing and not 
 having fun. Even if you do everything well, a single good player can not bring a loosing team up.
 
  
  So unless you have 11 friends that you can count on, this game is mostly for those players that 
 really want a team game and if you like to solo... Go back to Counter-Strike or try Call of Duty 
 4 or Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress 2 is such a great squad-based FPS multiplayer game, i cant decide if i like this 
 or counter-strike source more.. It's so briliantly designed.
  
  Ok, on to the review.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a cartoony Multiplayer FPS made by the same people who make the best games 
 ever.. (valve) The point is to lead your team to victory by either taking over all of the control 
 points or succesfully taking the enemies intelligence/flags.
  
  You can pick from several character classes, Sniper (my favorite) , Scout, Engineer, Spy, Heavy, 
 Medic, Pyro, Soldier, and Demoman
  
  As a sniper you simply sit there with your sniper rifle and blow peoples heads off, oh and it comes 
 equipped with a lil laser that shows up when you zoom, so the enemies know that they're being watched. 
 Also you get an SMG and a Machete type thing for close quarters.
  
  Scouts are fast little guys, they have a scattergun (its basically a shotgun,) a pistol, and a 
 baseball bat (which is really fun) . Scouts take over control points twice as fast as the other 
 classes.
  
  Engineers are extremely important, they can build sentry guns to watch over the control points/intelligence, 
 and little supply crate things that heal and give ammo to whoever stands near it, and teleporters 
 for quick access to important areas. Engy's come equipped with a shotgun, a pistol, and a wrench.
 
  
  Spies are a pain in the As* i swear... They can turn invisible or disguise themselves as an enemy. 
 They have a magnum and a knife (one hit kill in your back) , also they can destroy enemy sentries, 
 supply things, and teleports. Heavy's are real fun, they have a big machine gun that can obliterate 
 anything it shoots at, a shotgun, and a shovel (to crush the enemies skulls in) They're extremely 
 slow though.
  
  Medics are important too, they heal you.. duh. But if you heal for long enough in a round, you 
 get ubercharge which makes you and whoever you're healing invincible (Medic and Heavy teams are 
 extremely useful) They have a needle gun (it shoots needles) the gun that heals you.. and a medical 
 saw.
  
  Pyro's light you on fire. They have a flamethrower, shotgun, and um something else (i forget what) 
 extremely dangerous.. stay away.
  
  Soldiers are evil. They have an Rpg, shotgun, and um.. something else (ha im forgetting) They will 
 blow you to pieces.. but they're slow :)
  
  And lastly the demoman. He is good defence, they can set grenades near the CP's and intelligence 
 and blow it when they please, or just launch a grenade in your face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lejonback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  The moment my friend showed me Meet the Heavy trailer I could tell this was a game I was going 
 to love. I've never placed Team Fortress Classix, but I do know a lot about the game, and some 
 of the major differences from TFC and TF2.
  The grenades has been removed, I think that's a bit of a shame because Soldier and Pyro could well 
 use some. Pyro could do good with incindiary grenades, and Soldier with normal ones. This would 
 also help Soldier to deal with the Sentrys placed by Engineers. I wish they could just made it 
 impossible to grenade jump with the grenades... That would have balanced the game a lot.
  Anyway, speaking of the Sentrys... They are a bit TOO powerful. I don't really mind, since Engineer 
 is one of my favorite class, but a Sentry can easily kill a Soldier in 1-2 seconds. Whenever I 
 build a sentry, watch over it and upgrade it to the third step, I can very easy get nine kills 
 before anyone manages to take it down (at this time I'm usually backstabbed by a Spy or a Demoman 
 launches four grenades at me) .
  Other then that, I think all the classes are balanced, and all of them are fun to play in their 
 own way. The way you recieve points instead of kills is also great. For instance, when a Medic 
 heals someone, you get points for every player your client kills. A pyro is one of my favorite 
 targets for healing, since he can kill enemies so quickly, and he runs faster then the Heavy so 
 he can make full use of the so-called &Uuml; bercharge .
  Spies and their ability to cloak, disguise themselfs and instantly kill someone from behind may 
 not seem balanced at first, but since they have removed the team damage from TFC it's common to 
 check your fellow team members by shooting them a few times. The Pyro is the best for finding spies, 
 since team members don't catch on fire when you flame them, but a disguised Spy does.
  
  Overall, I think this is a great game that all should try. The Orange Box is well worth every penny, 
 and I would even pay the full price only for Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  If you were to combine Looney Toon type antics with a team based First Person Shooter, then you 
 would come up with Team Fortress 2. I say this becaues most of the things that occur in Team Fortress 
 aren't things you would normally see in an FPS. For example, a skinny white guy running around 
 as fast as Road Runner swinging for the fences with a baseball bat at a tank sized man who turns 
 a corner with an enormous machine gun and mows down a whole group of enemy Demomen who were just 
 standing around drinking out of their beer bottles...... That is something you don't see in your 
 everyday FPS. And Team Fortress 2 is not your normal FPS.
  
  There is a big stress on the word, Team in Team Fortress 2, because you cannot win a game in TF2 
 without teamwork. This is probably the best aspect of the game, the coordination you have to have 
 with your teammates in order to win each match. A single person cannot carry a team to victory, 
 a single person trying to win an entire game for their team in TF2 is like watching the kicker 
 in football trying to tackle the entire defensive line over and over.... it just won't work. The 
 teamwork aspect is accomplished by having 9 seperate jobs for a player to choose from and each 
 job has its own weapons to aid in a battle. And your whole team will not win if you all go the 
 same class, nine out of ten times you will be wiped out. The balance between classes in this game 
 is what makes it great. Though at times it can feel like a game of Rock, Paper, and Scissors.
 
  
  The 9 different jobs one can choose from are: Scout, Soldier, Pyro, Demoman, Heavy, Engineer, Medic, 
 Sniper, and Spy. Each one has their own weapons and funtions in game. The Scout is the fastest 
 and can easily overtake enemy capture points before the enemy can do anything. Soldier and Pyro 
 are your offensive cleaning crew, they burn, they fire rockets, and they inflict major pain. Demoman 
 and Heavy are some of the slower units, they're mainly for defense, Demoman is one of the more 
 useful classes all around though. Due to his sticky bombs which you can choose to detonate up 8 
 at any time. Engineer can build Sentries to defend key strategic areas, or build teleporters to 
 get your team to the other side of the map quicker, or dispensors which gives out ammo and health. 
 Engineers are key for defense and are all around needed on every team.
  
  Medic is also very, very, very necessary. As the name implies, they heal the other units and when 
 they heal enough, they get a Uber charge, which temporarily makes them and the unit they're healing 
 invincible. This is key for charging into enemy bases and taking out those pesky sentry guns.
 
  
  Sniper..... well, he is for the campers or people who don't like to move. But, his gun is very deadly, 
 the longer you hold up the sights a charge goes through the barrel of the gun and inflicts more 
 damage on impact. A good sniper is very annoying on some maps.
  
  Spies.... ah spies, you will grow to hate them as Engineers or Medics. They can disguise themselves 
 as anybody on the other team and can pull out a knife and backstab people..... and send them flying 
 hundreds of feet in the process. A backstab is an instant kill, which makes the Spy one of the 
 most annoying classes, period.
  
  One of the downsides to Team Fortress 2 is in the gametypes, you basically have Capture the Intelligence 
 (or CTF) , Capture the Control Points....... and that is it... seriously, there are only a couple 
 game types right now for TF2 and it can get kinda old playing CTF and CCP over and over. There 
 isn't even Deathmatch or Team Deathmatch for crying out loud, the two basic gametypes for an online 
 shooter!
  
  TF2 does have its own look though, the cell shaded sort of cartoony look is a nice change from 
 the typical shooter. Which usually features, grimey, eerily realistic graphics, the cartoony look 
 of TF2 is a nice change and makes the game feel unique. Though, most of the stages are kinda the 
 same and there are only a handful of them, which limits the maps you can play. And when you get 
 blown up, you will see little chunks of yourself lying on the ground or in the air, the game is 
 nice enough to tell you what part of your body that is, how kind.... I always wanted to know where 
 my head was after I got blown to bits by that rocket. And the flames shot out by the Pyro are very 
 pretty...
  
  The sounds are also very well done, each gun has its own sound effect when you fire it and when 
 you hear that turning of a MG barrel.... you'll learn to run in the opposite direction... fast, because 
 that is a Heavy coming around the corner. Or the, Ping Ping sound a sentry gun makes as it locks 
 on to its target, you'll come to hate that. The voices for the characters are very well done though, 
 most of them sound British though... don't understand why... I espeically like the Demoman after 
 he gets done drinking his bottle of beer..... funny stuff.
  
  There are also in game achivements to be had in TF2, after you win a certain number of matches 
 you will get a nice little achievement badge or emblem or whatever for your profile. They range 
 from the certain number of matches won, to how much healing you've done, to how many headshots 
 you've gotten, and so and so on. There are an ocean sized amount of achievements to unlock, so 
 if you cara alot about those, then you probably won't stop playing TF2 for quite some time.
  
  Overall, TF2 is a fun online shooter that maintains the team aspect of online gaming, with 
 fun classes to play as and hilarious shenanigans that go on during matches. If they had only put 
 in a few more maps and added in at least a couple more gametypes...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenC4T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This is an extremely fun game. The drawing style is awesome and each character is very different 
 from each other. Some characters are easier for beginners of this game to use, such as Soldier, 
 Heavy, Pyro, Scout, Demoman, and Medic. But the other characters, Engineer, Sniper and Spy, (not 
 hard to use) but it would require for the player to be familiar with the maps. You basically are 
 in either the blue or red team and you choose one of the characters and you either have to defend/attack 
 your base or try to collect more bases than the other team. It's a fast paced gameplay in which 
 it will leave you with wanting to play non-stop. I reccomend everyone to try this multiplayer game. 
 I haven't enjoyed an online game as this for a while (since Counterstrike) . And maybe I might see 
 ya online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  I never liked TFC and i'll make that clear now, i'm not going to offer a nostalgic or elitest opinion 
 and many people are complaining that it's not like TFC and i seem to think it's TF2 and not TFC 
 so if you love the original so much then go and play it. Seems to me that all these people arn't 
 playing it anymore and just lost in their own nostalgia....
  
  With TF2 the first thing you notice is the graphics which offer a really unique look to online 
 FPS games. What's even more great though is all the animations and facial animations which are 
 just really great and you've never seen this kind of depth before in a online FPS. This really 
 comes into it's own when you taunting other players and your standing there releasing all 200 clips 
 with heavy weapons guy and he shouts get behind me doctor i am bullet proof and really brings a 
 sense of immersion. What else is great about them is how they run it all looks real fluid, specially 
 the scout and how he moves in the air.
  
  TF2 has around 9 classes and all of them are fantastic and amazingly balanced, only the Pyro felt 
 underpowered but that's such a easy fix. My personal fave is the demoman, soldier or Heavy Weapons 
 guy because you can just take down sooo many people with them classes. All the servers seem to 
 be FF off and that seems to be for a balacing issues with the Spy Mainly which is a shame to have 
 a class which forces 99% of servers to be this way. The reasons are because a spy can disguise 
 themselves as any enemy and sneak behind them and kill them. With FF off you can shoot all your 
 players to check if they're actually a Spy, if FF was on then it would give them a big advantage.
 
  
  Theres only a handful of maps but it's worth mentioning that some of them have 4/5 different layouts 
 which is really kool. All the maps are great and theres something for everyone however i only myself 
 liked one of them and that was 2fort. I'm sure there will be many more maps in future from Valve 
 and Mappers alike.
  
  All the guns are great in the game and it's all class dependant but if you want to use different 
 weapons then it's sooo easy to change class at anytime which is great. You'll have any weapon you 
 can think of from a flamethrower to a minigun to turrets or granade launchers or my personal fave 
 the Spies pistol.
  
  Achievements are great too on Steam which give you more of a reason to play for longer if they're 
 your kinda thing. I spent lots of time to unlock all of them during beta, it's only a shame that 
 there wasn't any new ones on release and that goes for content too, it's the same as the beta which 
 i didn't expect i thouht there would be more.
  
  So TF2 is a fantastic online FPS and the only fault i could come up with for it is a BIG one, which 
 is a shame. The only problem i have with the game is how easy and accessible it is. It's a fualt 
 because i was already getting like 40 kills to 1 death and with other games like Counter Strike 
 it took me 4 years to be really good at it. So it gets boring fast for me i have no real room to 
 grow my skill in the game and really kills it.
  
  TF2 is a fast and fun online FPS which would be great to be sold on it's own but even better value 
 that it's with the Orange box, this will also be great because it'll have more people playing than 
 it would selling on it's own.
  
  Buy TF2 if you love class based online FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  this is tfc on crack.
  
  the obvious:
  graphics are much better. It's cartoony. Turns out, cartoony can be pretty dang immersive.
  
 
  gameplay is updated with new modes that are just addictive as the originals. all new places to 
 put sentry's and be wasted by snipers.
  
  the good:
  feels like an old pair of underware you never really stained, but held onto for years. this is 
 quite possibly the best multiplayer gameplay ever made.
  
  the bad:
  players come in all calibers, if you are stuck on a team that doesnt get it , you will get rolled 
 over and over.
  
  the ugly:
  still some bugs to be worked out. (i. e. sometimes you points never get tallied.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good.
  
  Gameplay:
  I find the gameplay really easy and similar to the last one not much has changed but the grahics 
 sure look good now.
  
  Graphics: They are very very good compare to the last one and the shine and textures are very amzing.
 
  
  Sound: the Sound is really great huge increase it sounds very realistic and I couldn't be happier 
 with it.
  
  Controls: They are very easy to figure out just about the same as Counter strike and Half Life 
 so if you played them before you can play this one also.
  
  Its a great game to buy if you liked the last one for sure.
  
  Thanks for reading this review 
 have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigearcat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Put quite simply, it is a team based shotter that just works. With 9 classes to choose from, this 
 game delivers a very diverse yet balanced formula to the players. None of the players are too powerful 
 or too weak and what differences they have is made up in other aspects. As far as the graphics 
 go, part of why it is fun is the cartoony nature of the display. It works very well as it takes 
 the pressure off of your video card yet still letting you enjoy the game. The game is humorous 
 in its own way, and the kills are just difficult enough that you will savor every one of htem. 
 Overall, definitely check it out if you are a FPS fan and even if you are not, this is one of the 
 games which can change ur mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br0kenrabbit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a TF fan. I've played TF since the very first version for Quakeworld. TF is the game that 
 got me out of DMing and into team-based games. But I'm only giving this game an 8.5.
  
  It's not because of the gameplay: it's great, and I'm glad nades are gone. It's not because of 
 the graphics: love em. Even the sounds are great.
  
  But one CTF map? CTF is the meat of TF. I would have even been happy with the old Well map, but 
 they had to go and change that to something unrecognizable, too. I'd be happy with a new CTF map, 
 but all we get is 2fort.
  
  Want to know why so many 24/7 2Fort servers are popping up? Because people want to play CTF. The 
 defend/attack control zone maps are decent and worth playing, but they're simply no replacement 
 for the encamped defensive bases that define CTF. Having two teams on defense and offense is much 
 more balancing and fun than having one team perform one function and the other team the remaining.
 
  
  I know more maps will come, both from Valve and the community. But like Portal, Valve stopped at 
 'good enough' too soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Team Fortress Classic was by far one of my favorite and most played FPS game. Even lately, I would 
 hide and start a game of TFC, remembering the good old times.
  
  When TF2 came out, I was a bit worried that it wouldn't be the shadow of the former classic. I 
 was wrong.
  
  This game is great! It's fun. It maintained the cartoon look without sacrificing the gameplay. 
 The feel, the maps are mostly the same but better looking and the few minor improvements they brought 
 in really *improved* the game.
  
  The most controversial is probably the removal of the grenades. However, after a month of play 
 ( I was in beta) , I have to say that the game is much better without them (less spam) .
  
  If you liked TFC or anykind of fast-action team based FPS, you have to try TF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giguerefan87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got into the beta, here are my thoughts.
  
  Team Fortress Classic was a fantastic game, but it suffered from being too advanced for noob players. 
 I picked it up on the tail end of half life (during launch of Half-Life 2) and I constantly got 
 whooped and beaten. Eventually I got a hang on things and started to do some damage myself.
  
  With Team Fortress 2, the graphics style is completely revamped, but that is it. You have the 
 same characters and types of weapons, with some dramatic changes, but they aren't for the better. 
 For example, as a heavy you have 400 health (minimum is 125 for the characters) , but it only takes 
 2 hits to kill you sometimes. Its a weird thing where no matter what happens if you don't have 
 a medic healing you or some smart intelligent gamers on your side, you will just get rolled on. 
 The reason, weapons are horrible. They don't do well at long range at all, even the sniper has 
 troubles. Also, every secondary weapon is usually the shotgun, and it is such a horrible gun. The 
 other secondary gun is a pistol (for those who start with a shotgun) and it is one of the most 
 ridiculous guns I have ever seen. It doesn't even shoot in the cross hairs. As for other characters, 
 the pyro is possibly the most well rounded, but he just does not have enough ammo, and his gun 
 doesn't kill the enemies fast enough (solid 5-10 second spray, using all your ammo) . With the sniper, 
 the gun just feels loose. Meaning, you cant really aim properly because the sensitivity on the 
 gun is so much higher then the rest of the game (move farther, in game while barely moving your 
 mouse) . The heavy has the same guns as before, but he moves so slowly. Another thing that irked 
 me was the modeling for the characters using the shotgun (which all of them do) . You see the heavy, 
 he has these huge hands and a small gun, but then you go to the pyro, engineer, etc. and the hands 
 are just as huge. One of the most unbalanced characters is the demo man. Both his guns are grenade 
 types that you have to wait for them to explode (or right click) , and you never, ever, have a thing 
 for close range because every other character can over power him. the engineer is a solid character, 
 except for the fact that the machine gun and such get destroyed almost instantly, unless it is 
 from a distance (using a rocket will destroy it then, also the sniper takes them out in 2 hits) . 
 The scout is probably the best character for novice players but he just gets railed because he 
 has that inaccurate shotgun. In this game the only midrange gun is the snipers secondary weapon. 
 You can shoot someone 15 ft away now, which isn't all that far.
  
  From that hopefully you can see my frustrations. Also, the way steam implemented the achievements 
 and statistics really bogs down the load times, and for a PC game it shouldn't take more then 1 
 min to get into a match, but it does on here.
  
  Now I know this is a beta, but with steam I doubt it will change a whole lot.
  
  To end this 
 review let me talk about graphics, holy hell is there aliasing. The lines aren't thick enough on 
 some places and everything comes out as if it were a pile of razor blades. the filtering on this 
 game is poor compared to every other steam game I play, and it makes me wonder why in the hell 
 this game has taken 9 years and turned out to be a pile of ****.
  
  Graphics: 6.5/10, from the videos and the screen shots, the hype, this game does not deliver what 
 we have seen (like the Simpson game) .
  
  Gameplay: 7/10, it is Team Fortress Classic version 2, but not a source standard steam game.
 
  
  Feel/Control: 5/10, standard controls, but not user friendly for a steam game. Balancing of characters/weapons 
 is horrible.
  
  Sound: 9/10, probably the only solid aspect of the game.
  
  Pricepoint: 5/10, 45 bucks for this mod in orange box, and 30 bucks separately. Only a moron would 
 buy it separately.
  ---------------------------------
  Overall: 32.5/50 or 65% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickz84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The moment I saw the preview for this game, I knew that this was going to be something worth taking 
 notice. Cell shaded games are far in between, but this one is by far the best one that takes in 
 on that concept. To truly appreciate the work that valve has done for this game, take a look through 
 the included developer commentary. It explains why the game took so long to develop and the minute 
 effort that went into the title, along with how they achieved the unique look of the game. The 
 art direction reminds me of the Sunday cartoons that I used to watch as a kid. It's hard to not 
 notice the strong warner bros and pixar influence in this game, which is certainly not a bad thing. Model 
 Animation is top notch, of a quality that is usually reserved for most high grade console game. 
 The minute movements of the soldier's helmet strap, the way the grenades jiggle as he salutes all 
 adds to depth of the characters. Think again if you are ready to dismiss this game as cartoonish. 
 Tell that to the rating comittee who saw bodies bursting with blood and flame from a well placed 
 rocket launcher shot! One of my most appreciated aspect of this game is in the balancing issue 
 of the sniper class. The power of the sniper rifle has the potential to rival the AWP of the counterstrike 
 franchise, but it is only possible by entering the scope view and staying in that mode for several 
 seconds. This effectively prevents the much hated twitch gaming gaming experience that happens 
 with counterstrike matches when the majority of the players use the AWP. Do keep note that this 
 game is strictly online and therefore no bots are added in the game. The AI required to work with 
 9 classes in an objective oriented match would be far too hard to be implemented. Overall frame 
 rates hold up well even in intense situations. You'll be happy to know that the game runs like 
 a dream even with decidedly old hardware. If you're tired of seeing your gaming machine get tortured 
 with today's power hungry games, do get this game. The game is definately comes heartily recommended 
 from me, who's pretty much into lots of FPSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broedie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  The game is still in beta, but despite that it's still one of the most complete games I've ever 
 played. It's highly addictive and a really cool change of pace. Most shooters these days are moving 
 more and more towards realism - but TF2 takes a giant leap in the other direction. The game basically 
 looks like an FPS version of The Incredibles movie.
  
  More than anything else, this game is just plain damn fun. My only gripe with the game is the following:
 
  
  -Critical shot system wreaks havoc on people looking for a challenge. The server will basically 
 roll the dice and sometimes decide that you or your opponent's shot will be a critical one, basically 
 killing your enemy in one shot. Your critical shot chance can be improved by your opponent, but 
 it's still entirely random. Most competitive players don't want some completely random server-side 
 process determining who wins a fight. It's not to say that skill doesn't play a factor in the game 
 - it does. But sometimes random critical shots trump skill, and that sucks.
  
  Other than that, it's a fantastic game. Tons of fun. Abslutely a must own. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
