-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/teenagemutantninjaturtles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 202 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Nov 25, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles doesn't wear its nostalgic aspects particularly well, and the remaining 
 components simply don't make for a very entertaining experience. 

  If you spent even a portion of your youth in the early 1990s, chances are that you have at least 
 a vague, working knowledge of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Starting out as an underground 
 comic book in the '80s, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles achieved massive success when it was translated 
 into a Saturday morning cartoon in 1987. From there, movies, action figures, and the inevitable 
 video game spin-offs followed. Unsurprisingly, the games based on the TMNT franchise were largely 
 very popular; what was surprising, however, was that they weren't successful simply because of 
 their brand name but because many of the games were actually legitimately well made. Though the 
 TMNT franchise has been taking a bit of a breather over the last few years, a new TV series has 
 recently debuted, and not far behind it is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, the latest video game 
 featuring the heroes in a half shell. Developed by Konami, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a pure 
 beat-'em-up that aims to rekindle favorable nostalgia for the TMNT games of days past, while at 
 the same time the game also looks to update the look and feel of the franchise for fans of the 
 new series. Unfortunately, TMNT doesn't wear its nostalgic aspects particularly well, and the remaining 
 components simply don't make for a very entertaining experience.  

          Leonardo, Donatello, Michelangelo, and Raphael are back, once again fighting Shredder and 
 his insidious Foot Clan.     

  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles tells the story of four unassuming turtles who, one day, while wandering 
 through the sewers of New York, are mutated into humanlike form by a mysterious radioactive ooze. 
 With the help of a rat named Splinter (who was also transformed by the ooze) , the turtles take 
 the next logical step by learning martial arts and becoming superheroes. The game's plot revolves 
 around a mystical sword that is being sought by the evil Shredder and his army of ninja thugs, 
 known as the Foot Clan, so that they may perform unspeakable acts of evil with it. Along the way, 
 you'll encounter many faces from the show, including the Turtles' best pal, April, and Casey Jones, 
 the hockey-mask-sporting vigilante hero. The game's story is told in an episodic fashion, with 
 each stage containing its own segment of the overall story -- although certain stages don't quite 
 seem to fit into the overall plotline. Every stage has around five or six areas that you must clear 
 to pass on to the next stage. Certain areas are preceded or succeeded by either a story sequence, 
 using the in-engine characters, or an actual full-blown cutscene, using the animation style and 
 voice talent from the TV show. The cutscenes are actually quite well done, but the in-engine stuff 
 only has the characters standing around occasionally shaking their fists or marginally changing 
 their facial expressions to signify being mad or something similar. The show's voice talent is 
 used in these scenes as well, but, overall, they're still decidedly lackluster when compared to 
 the real cutscenes.  

  TMNT's gameplay is about as simple as you can get for a modern-day action game. Though you can 
 play as any of the four turtles, they all handle roughly the same and there's no meaningful difference 
 between them. The four main attack buttons let you perform a basic attack, a spin attack, a jump, 
 and a throw (which, in this case, is "the throw" of a ninja star) . You also have the ability to 
 execute an uppercut attack, where you can juggle opponents in the air, and there's a dash function 
 that lets you speed past groups of attackers. You can earn new attacks and stats for your chosen 
 turtle by taking part in dojo missions. Dojo missions are training levels that appear from time 
 to time, where you have to perform various tasks assigned by Master Splinter. These tasks range 
 from the reasonably easy (breaking a number of boxes within a three-minute time span) to the seemingly 
 impossible (defeating 30 opponents without being hit) . If you successfully defeat the dojo level 
 to Splinter's liking, you'll earn a new attack (like a jump attack) or an increased attribute (like 
 stronger defense or offense) . Despite these upgrades, however, you'll primarily just be running 
 around, slashing through each area as fast as you can. Unfortunately, there isn't a whole lot of 
 skill required for this.  

          Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles bases its gameplay style after the classic TMNT beat-'em-up 
 titles, but it doesn't quite capture your attention the way those titles did.     

  Once you've gotten a feel for your range of attacks -- which really shouldn't take very long at all -- you 
 should be able to breeze through TMNT pretty quickly. Enemies come in reasonably strong numbers, 
 but, considering that none of them are particularly intelligent, their numbers are really their 
 only advantage. Bad guys generally spawn a good distance away from you, and, unless you get right 
 up into their personal space, they'll often just stay right where they are. Of course, you'll have 
 to beat every enemy to progress to the next section of the level. So, periodically, you'll have 
 to trot back to wherever the one stray bad guy, whom you didn't trigger, is standing. Then you 
 must beat him down. Additionally, sometimes the game won't spawn the next cadre of thugs until 
 you hit a very specific point in the level, requiring you to kind of aimlessly wander around until 
 they appear. Later-level enemies have a slightly higher range of attack, but most of the thugs 
 you'll face off against simply run at you and aimlessly swipe at you with a pipe, stick, or what 
 have you. The boss fights are significantly better than the rest of the in-game action and do require 
 a bit of skill and planning, but, considering you only encounter one in about every three areas, 
 that still leaves too much flat, flavorless action.     

  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles on the PC can be controlled using either a keyboard or control pad, 
 but really, the game was designed with a console control scheme in mind. Because of this, the keyboard 
 controls are a little too jittery to be especially effective during combat sequences, and there's 
 no mouse functionality whatsoever -- though, considering the fact that the game uses a more cinematic 
 style of camera, you really don't need it anyway. So your best bet, as far as a controller is concerned, 
 is definitely one with analog-stick control, since controllers with directional pads only are also 
 a little on the skittish side when it comes to trying to direct your chosen Turtle.  

          The game's plot is told through cutscenes, featuring voice talent from the latest Ninja 
 Turtles cartoon series.     

  The one nice thing about TMNT is that it does feature a multiplayer component. You and a friend 
 can pair up against Shredder's forces in the game's story mode, similar to how you could in past 
 TMNT games. Playing the game in two-player is definitely more entertaining than playing alone, 
 but there are some quirks. Periodically, the game's camera can get hung up in certain spots if 
 the two controlled Turtles get too far away from one another, and this can cause some visual problems. 
 Additionally, gameplay becomes much, much easier with a duo, due to the fact that the game doesn't 
 make up for the increased handicap by throwing more enemies at you or anything. Finally, and most 
 depressing of all, the game absolutely screams for four-player capability, considering how much 
 the game is geared as a throwback to previous Turtle titles and the fact that there are  four  
 turtle characters. Perhaps this would be a bit more difficult to execute on a PC, what with its 
 usually limited controller and keyboard ports. Thankfully, the two-player action on the PC version 
 of the game works just as well as on its console counterparts.  

  Aside from the story mode, there are also a couple of other gameplay modes in TMNT. Versus mode 
 is as close as you'll get in this console generation to the 16-bit classic TMNT: Tournament Fighters. 
 In versus mode, you can choose from any of the four Turtles (as well as a number of characters 
 you can unlock in the story mode) and go one-on-one in a straight-up brawl. While this is a nice 
 feature, the game's fighting mechanics don't lend themselves terribly well to a fighting game-styled 
 match, and, generally, the fight is over pretty quickly. There's also an unlockable challenge mode, 
 where your goal is to run through a selected level as fast as you can. Challenge is also a nice 
 addition, but it's not terribly interesting after a few plays through.  

  TMNT's strongest features definitely lie in the graphics department. The game features a fully 
 cel-shaded look -- and a great one at that. The models for the Turtles, side characters, and even 
 generic enemies are great, and they include a nice level of detail and vibrant colors. Everything 
 in the game animates very smoothly, and, no matter how many character models are onscreen, the 
 action almost never slows down, save for a few instances when massive explosions go off in the 
 background. These things being said, TMNT's graphics aren't completely above reproach. The game's 
 level environments, for instance, are pretty lacking in any manner of detail and just don't look 
 anywhere near as polished as the character models. Another minor quirk of note includes the fact 
 that enemies can simply spawn out of thin air, and nothing is done to cover this up. Additionally, 
 the effects used to accentuate hits -- like the big "Smash!" and "Pow!" icons -- can obscure certain 
 parts of the game's action.  

  When we played with a top of the line graphics card on a very high-end PC, Teenage Mutant Ninja 
 Turtles looked very crisp and clean -- without any problems to speak of. However, when we tried the 
 game on a slightly older model PC with a just-over-a-year-old GeForce card, numerous glitches would 
 pop up. For instance, there would frequently be missing pieces of explosion animations, and our 
 life bar would many times just disappear into an ugly white space on the screen. We also took note 
 of some rather obvious aliasing issues in the in-engine cutscenes. There were also some bizarre 
 hiccups evident as icons from our desktop would briefly flash over menu screens. While the console 
 versions of the game looked pretty great for their respective systems, the PC version seems like 
 it was somewhat cheaply ported over. So, unless you have the absolute best in graphics card hardware, 
 you're likely to experience some problems.  

          Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' graphical style is a vibrant, colorful, cel-shaded look, 
 and it works well with the subject matter -- although the PC version does contain some unfortunate 
 glitches.     

  Unfortunately, the least impressive feature of TMNT is its sound quality, which, despite the roster 
 of voice actors from the TV show, falters in pretty much every other category. During the game, 
 the Turtles will spout off a limited array of catchphrases as they pummel their foes; unfortunately, 
 they also spout the aforementioned catchphrases ridiculously often, which means that you'll be 
 hearing such phrases as "Talk to the feet!" and "Slice and dice!" at a practically constant rate. 
 The game's scant selection of music is decent, though pretty unmemorable, and, as far as in-game 
 effects go (like the catchphrases) there aren't a lot of them, and they repeat -- and repeat often. 

  There are things about Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles that can be praised. Its graphical style is 
 quite pleasing to look at, and the game certainly deserves points for giving you a multiplayer 
 option. Unfortunately, the gameplay, though an earnest attempt to mirror its predecessors, is too 
 hollow on its own merits and simply lacks the charm and fun of previous titles. Furthermore, the 
 PC version's graphical limitations are likely to be a nuisance for players with less than top-notch 
 PCs. That is not to say that the game is a total loss, by any means; younger fans of the new TV 
 series will likely not be swayed by the game's elementary fighting mechanics and should find the 
 storyline entertaining. Even so, anyone who really wants to play Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles should 
 definitely look toward any of the console versions of the game rather than the PC version, as it 
 just doesn't hold up its end of the bargain, comparatively.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: visor123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  TMNT: 2003 Edition was released sometime in 2004 for the PC. As a TMNT fan and a button masher 
 I say its fun. The game is based on the new animated series.
  
  Play as Leo, Raph, Don and Mike. Each turtle has unique combos and attacking styles. It can be 
 enjoyable, especially if you're playing with a friend. So the multiplayer is more fun than single 
 player.
  
  TMNT feels like a good button masher and a remake of an old school brawler which is a good thing 
 for retro gamers.
  
  Graphics: Cool cel shaded graphics. IMO it has better cel shades than Ultimate Spiderman.
  
 
  Music: Cool music. Some tracks are a combination of electronic and Japanese oriental music. This 
 can be sweet.
  
  Sound: The sounds in the game are cool (compared to the crappy sounds in the Ubisoft's TMNT movie 
 game) . The game uses voice talent from the animated series. So the turtles keep saying stuff while 
 fighting. It can be repetitive but you could always turn it off if it annoys you.
  
  Gameplay: Button mashing glory. Bash up goons move ahead and bash some more. Come up with different 
 combos and you can have a blast with this game. The action in this game is great. Ubisoft's TMNT 
 game's combat is poor. This is way better.
  
  Overall: This game is way better than Ubisoft's crap. If you are a retro gamer, get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the graphics...
  I think the visuals are great I like the cel shading type of game which make the game look like 
 a cartoon and I think it's great consider the time this game was released.
  
  the sound...
  The voices of the original characters make this game feel like a an episode from 
 the series. the music is very nice' some of the sound effects are annoying !
  
  And now for the weak point of this game..... the gameplay...
  Starting as a fun and entertainment, 
 this game is getting boring somewhere in the middle of the story mode.
  And if you want to choose another turtle, you have to start all over again from the first level 
 (every turtle has his own story mode ) .
  Not to mention that you need to finish the game with all the turtles to get the Gembu (a super 
 power hit) , and to get to the REAL last battle and the REAL end of the game.
  
  The value...
  There are challenge mode &amp; versus mode to play after completing the game. but 
 it gets boring really fast...
  
  Overall I think the game is pretty good for a beat'em up type of game, especially since there are 
 a few games of that type for the PC.
  And in all that games for the PC a few of them support an analog game-pad &amp; force-feedback. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Well with wha they startet as good but with what they andend was not so good. The characters are 
 good made and funny with their one moves and kind of that. the mission are not so fun. a weird 
 camera and do you ever seen a floating piece of pizza? I never seen that. You do not got any freedom 
 at all. Mission and bred to dead or combat and falling in sleep. What i've done is put that game 
 in a box and throw it i the basement. But if ya are a little kind play and have fun.
  
  Tothing for someone like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpinguim
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Yo , master pinguim here ,
  
  Look, if you're a fan of the turtles this is a must have game.
  If you're not a fan, dont waste 
 time on getting this game!
  
  It is a cool game but it's not as excited as you think it is,
  So its a great game but just for 
 turlte fans !
  
  I consider me a fan of turtles, not an addicted on them, but im a fan and the game looked very 
 dissapointing to me.
  
  No more to say about it, it's just very dissapointing, especially the graffics, the game graphics 
 are aweful. 
  The sound is cool, game play sucks, very easy to play, opponents super easy and it is a very big 
 game.
  
  You can only do the story mode with one sinlge character. Wanna change character !? Reapeat all 
 story!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad little game if you like platform type beat"em up games. 
  Its great how you unlock fighting moves as you progress through the stages each turtle has there 
 own special moves which can be used in many devestating combo attacks. 
  The story to the game is cool with little cartoon story sceens that make you feel like your watching 
 an old turtle cartoon except diffirent voices and April Oneal with purple hair, But hey i suppose 
 she could of dyed it:)
  Anyway its all good with this game its cheap! and fun to have a bash on every now and then.
  
 Worth geting if you like the turtles:)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  the visuals are good, but the AI is terrible and the enemies sucks! (especially the bosses)
  it felt like there was something missing, yes you are a ninja turtle, and you get to kick butt, 
 but something's missing in this game, like, advancing your turtle skills, more cheats, video show 
 room. many ideas that would have made this game more fun, but looks like konami focuses only on 
 the looks.
  the AI is so annoying though. some bosses are hard, with just a couple of attacks-not an arsenal 
 of attacks at their disposal- to take long to beat.
  but shredder is still cool, and hun, and casey jones is playable without the hockey mask?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soninlaw
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  Do you remember back in the days playing your turtles game cartridge in your console. I remember 
 very well. Turtles where a great hype, much greater then it is now. 
  
  We need to ask ourselves this question; didnt we want such a 3D TMNT game back in the past? I 
 know that in the year 2005 people look at games with great criticism, but turtle / beat m up fans 
 out there are really happy with this new Turtles game. 
  
  So there is a choice here; we can review this game just by looking at the time it is brought out 
 and what they have accomplished with 2005 game technology, or we can look at the Teenage Mutant 
 Ninja Turtles, what they have been trough in game history. I prefer last. 
  
  Turtles in 3D is already a good start, and with the graphics in this game they really come to life. 
 Its not a game you can clear in a couple of ours, you get allot of game time here worth your money. 
 One thing you need to know, the game play has stayed the same as our old Turtles from back in the 
 days, its all about hack and slash, slice and dice and beat the crap out of your enemies with 
 in the end always a boss. The freedom in the game is good, you can walk or jump where you want 
 in a certain area with enemies , but a little bit of freedom asks for more which is not given, 
 but thats not a major issue. 
  
  The amount of different attacks is good, every Turtle got its own fighting style, though it would 
 have been nice if there where a bit more attack options and more to do in your environment. 
  
  Turtles fans out there should really add this game to there collection. Beat m Up fans will 
 get a great game here! (dont forget the 2 player simulation mode) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2005 5:52 am PT
Review:  Like most other kids of my generation, I spent a significant portion of my childhood watching Teenage 
 Mutant Ninja Turtles. I also had a couple of action figures. The cartoon motivated me so much that 
 I even grew myself a special liking towards Pizzas. Based on the huge success of the TMNT franchise, 
 Konami brought out a few arcade side scrolling platform games. Those were really good games, and 
 later on they were also ported to consoles.
  
  After almost a decade, the famous martial artist reptiles get their first 3D game. As soon as I 
 read the preview, I started to crave for the game. I was even more delighted to know that there'd 
 be a PC version. But when I did end up getting the game, it didn't seem that much impressive. 
 
  
  The gameplay is repetitive, and not as fast as the previous TMNT games of old era. There are 6 
 to 8 functional buttons, but you won't be needing all of them that much. The weak attack/special 
 attack plus air juggle combos are the key to this game. With ample enemies around, you can end 
 up with maximum 9 to 10 hit combos. At the beginning, the waves of enemies might really seem difficult 
 to conquer. Even in the easiest difficulty setting, fighting numerous foot soldiers using a solitary 
 turtle is a hard task. But after a while (and after gaining access to the jump attack) , things 
 get pretty easy. 
  
  Yeah, you can unlock new moves and abilities via performing well in the practice levels, i. e. Dojo 
 Level, as it is named in the game. Such levels appear after completing 2 or 3 regular levels. Usually 
 a challenging task is given to a turtle, and upon completion, he is granted a special move or an 
 ability. The sad part about this is that if you're playing a 2 player game, only player 1 gets 
 a shot at this. Player 2 can't compete, and the move doesn't get unlocked for him as well. 
  
  This is another weird aspect of the game. You can't change your turtle in the middle of a game. 
 This means, you have to go through the whole game, fighting repetitive battles over and over, using 
 the same character. This also means that you well definitely get sick and tired of the turtle that 
 you been using for so much time. This kills any possible replay value with that particular turtle. 
 
  
  Enemies arrive in groups, and you can't go to another area before beating all of them. In old arcade 
 games, this issue was addressed in a different way. If you have left an area without beating everyone, 
 the alive ones would reappear or follow you until it's a dead end. But in this game, you are bumped 
 against an invisible wall; whenever you try to get past the allowed area. This is all okay, but 
 it kinda looks awkward when you can't escape to the parking lot residing very next to you, while 
 being pummelled by 10-15 foot soldiers and suffering from a low energy bar. Unlike older games, 
 you can get soft drinks, bread as life bars. You do get to eat Pizzas every now and then, but they 
 are lesser in number, In numerous occasions, you can get defence/offence/speed powerups. These 
 things are usually hidden inside a specially marked boxes. But most of these boxes turn out to 
 be empty. Thus the player is forced to spend a lot of time smashing boxes around, just to find 
 these power ups and energy refills. 
  
  There are two additional game modes. One is a vs mode, where you can pick up anyone out of Leonardo, 
 Raphael, Donatello, Michealangelo or some other characters from the game like side-hero Casey Jones, 
 Evil Turtle machine, etc. As you beat the bosses, some of them become playable (e. g. Turtle machine) 
 in this mode. The mode is quite fun, especially when you're against a human opponent. The arenas 
 look cool, and you can use environmental objects like barrels to explode your unsuspecting foe. 
 But after a while, things start to get boring. The absence of a blocking feature makes the battles 
 too short, and some characters that are fast and players who are combo masters enjoy an unfair 
 advantage. Two long combos can take up the entire life bar of an opponent. However, the mode is 
 fun indeed. 
  
  The challenge mode allows one to play through three levels quite fast. Nothing much to say about 
 this mode.
  
  Graphics is really the highlight of this game. With a good graphics card, ample ram and a powerful 
 processor, the game really looks greats. The character models are nicely done, and the move animations 
 are stunning. The backgrounds are pretty much okay, and they align well with the game. However, 
 most places look deserted. There are no other people or living beings visible, other than the turtles 
 and their foes. There are some cars scattered here and there, which are breakable. But most objects 
 are non-interactive. The famous water hose hit (a nostalgic piece from the original TMNT games) 
 are still there, but that doesn't make things any better. The game is based on the new series, 
 not the classic one. So here you'll see a different Baxter Stockman, no Rocksteady and Bebop, and 
 a red haired April (!) . Only the turtles and Master Splinter looks the same. 
  
  Between stages, FMVs are shown. Also there are some cutscenes, where the game engine is used. None 
 of these are too special. 
  
  The background music is tolerable, and sometimes it's quite nice. The music meshes well with the 
 action, and it would sound a lot better if the voice acting was not overdone. The turtles all have 
 their own taglines like "Slice and dice", "Die, Nimrod", etc. These are nice to hear, but it gets 
 kind of annoying when you are forced to hear the same phrases over and over. Sound is definitely 
 not the best feature of this game. 
  
  The four main characters, Leonardo, Donatello, Michaelangelo and Raphael has different weapons 
 and moves. While one has high weapon damage, the other has faster movement and attack. But still, 
 there's not much replay value. The idea of going through the same ritual of beating dumb AI controlled 
 foot soldiers is not that much appealing. The boss battles are cool, and requires different strategy 
 and or approach, but they appear only momentarily. 
  
  However, the game has its moments of glory, and it is definitely a worthwhile game for the fans 
 of the franchise. But if I am to comment, I will say that it's a disappointing game. My expectation 
 levels were higher, and I hope the next version of this game will be better. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
