-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tennis Masters Series 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/tennismastersseries2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microids
Genre: Tennis
Date:     May 30, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tennis Masters Series 2003 is a pretty lightweight tennis simulation, though it's clearly on the 
 right track. 

  Tennis Masters Series 2003 is a step in the right direction for Microids' fledgling arcade sports 
 series. The follow-up to Tennis Masters Series 2002 addresses many of its predecessor's problems, 
 smoothing out player movement, tweaking the AI, and enhancing the graphics. Unfortunately, the 
 previous game had so many issues that these renovations can only do so much. Tennis Masters Series 
 2003 is a pretty lightweight tennis simulation, though it's clearly on the right track and is much 
 more enjoyable than last year's game.  

          Tennis Masters Series 2003 looks pretty good, if you can ignore the purple courts.     
 

  These improvements seem like the result of fan feedback. One of the most common complaints that 
 players made about the first game was that its controls weren't responsive. Your player lumbered 
 about the court, more like an offensive lineman than a lithe tennis pro, and had an unfortunate 
 tendency to pause after shots, almost as though he were admiring his last stroke. Unfortunately, 
 this pause would often cause you to miss your next shot, even if the ball landed just a few feet 
 away. Considering the fact that computer-controlled opponents would mercilessly fire killer shots 
 at you, the original game could often be frustrating.  

  Thankfully, the control problems have been addressed in the sequel. Even the slowest players now 
 move with more agility, so you won't have to damage your keyboard or gamepad in a desperate attempt 
 to get from one sideline to the other. And the annoying pause has also been removed. But Tennis 
 Masters Series 2003 apparently went too far in the other direction. In the previous game, you had 
 to push too hard on the gamepad and struggle to get to the ball. In the new game, you're so quick 
 on your feet that it's easy to overshoot your target. Movement on the court seems more like ice-skating 
 than running. This is an improvement on the way things used to be, in that you can more readily 
 compensate for being too quick than for being too slow, but you still have to fight with the controls. 
 You never feel like you have complete control over your player.  

  The gameplay has progressed in other areas as well. The serve interface has been changed from a 
 basic bar to a round meter that looks and acts a lot like the swing mechanism used in many golf 
 games. It's a welcome change that makes serving the ball a lot more challenging. Putting the ball 
 in play isn't automatic, as it used to be, in that you can't put full power behind your serves 
 and expect them to always land inbounds. Double faults are much more common in the new game, even 
 after you've gotten accustomed to the new meter. Even computer players double-fault now.  

  And in Tennis Masters Series 2003, matches aren't as predictable as they were in the first game. 
 Computer players are no longer ball-returning automatons -- they make unforced errors and can be 
 simply outplayed. While they can be fooled more readily now and will hit shots out of bounds on 
 a regular basis, they are also more prone to making surprising shots and turning your tactics against 
 you. You'll see a larger variety of winning shots because of this, although points still end very 
 quickly. Even the longest rallies last no more than four or five volleys, which may be realistic 
 on the men's pro tour these days, but doesn't provide much opportunity for a drawn-out, exciting 
 duel.  

  The new game's graphics are better as well. Players have more-distinct movements and dramatically 
 improved animations. The skipped frames and occasional slowdown of the earlier game have also been 
 eliminated. This, plus more-detailed stadiums, the addition of TV-broadcast-style cutscenes between 
 points, and the inclusion of an opening cinematic that features a nifty riff on Pong, upgrades 
 the overall presentation to the point where Tennis Masters Series 2003 can compete with the best 
 in the business when it comes to look and feel. However, the game's sound doesn't compare to its 
 appearance, since there is no commentary and the racket and crowd effects are subdued.  

  The only other significant addition that the new game makes is a powerful new player and stadium 
 editor. Like its predecessor, Tennis Masters Series 2003 features only generic male tennis pros. 
 Even though the game bears the ATP logo and the Tennis Masters Series license, all the players 
 have made-up names. Then again, professional tennis isn't as much in the public eye these days, 
 so you might not even notice. Still, it's disappointing that Microids didn't get at least a few 
 stars into the game, or any female players at all.  

          You'll never see these guys on the ATP rankings.     

  Otherwise, the new game has 
 the same flimsy career mode as the original. You progress from one tournament to another, slowly 
 building skills to the point where you can compete with the top seeds. It's somewhat compelling, 
 although the road to the top takes a long time to travel and you repeat the same circuit of nine 
 stadiums over and over again. The game doesn't have any online support, although you can get into 
 singles and doubles exhibition matches on a single machine or on a local network.  

  Considering how many improvements it makes to the series, Tennis Masters Series 2003 is a fairly 
 solid tennis game. If you're looking for a complete tennis simulation, you won't find it here, 
 though anyone searching for a quick game of tennis should find a lot to like, including the game's 
 budget price tag, provided they don't expect too much.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ninjadxt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  TENNIS MASTERS SERIES 2003
  Tennis masters series 2003 is normal tennis arcade-simulation game. You have choice from 66 tennis 
 players (they are completely fiction- they are not real) +one tennis player who can you create.
 
  Mods: Exhibition (for beginners, or if you want play with your friends on one PC) , Season-you 
 choice one tennis player from 66, and with him you will play all the season. Carrier- it is easy, 
 you create your own player, and how you will win some matches in tournaments, you will improve 
 him.
  Improving: Improve your player when one tournament finishes, your improve points add to few attributes 
 (forehand, backhand, volley, speed, stamina, serve, strength) .
  
  Player can use four type of services or shots:
  Shots: top spin- normal shot with high ball jump, 
 slice-slice, very slow, and quickly go to the court (great when you want to go to the net) , lob-classics 
 very very high ball, when opponent is on the net, flat- probably the best shot, usually on base 
 line.
  Service: top spin- junk, slice: has very spin, but it is very slow, and it is better against human 
 than computer, lob: the second in speed with very high jump, flat- fastest, and probably the best, 
 can be faster than 140 mp/h. The types of surfaces: They are four types (clay, carpet, hard, and 
 grass)
  Clay: three times (3.-6. tournament) , the slowest surface with the highest ball-jump. It&acute; s 
 best for baseline players.
  Hard: The fastest, every tournament has other ball-jump, but usually it&acute; s very small.
  
 Carpet: similar clay
  Grass- on one tournament- Miami. The best for net-rusher players.
  
  The last important thing is types of tennis players:
  1. net rusher- good on hard, or grass, 
 but isn&acute; t good on clay. For every moment that he can goes to the net, he goes there.
  2. Baseliner- great on clay, but not good as net rusher on grass, or faster surfaces. They aren&acute; t 
 very good on the net, but they have lot of stamina, good forehand, and they are the fastest.
  3. Power hitler probably the best, coz he is very good in all of the surfaces.
  
  Tennis is 
 solid, but all together is not real. I must gratitude to system of carrier, which is great (unfortunately, 
 you can have only 140 improve points.) The biggest mistake is that this game is without licence 
 of tennis players, only have licence on tournaments, but fortunately, they are lot (66 +one create) . 
 The music is still, but good, volume is great, and graphics is substandard now.
  
  Quite good is game on the net, for example: the ball can makenets, or stop thankfully the net, 
 is very easy, when opponent is on the net, lob him or with lots of strengh shot to him, and he 
 under the pressure make a mistake. Baseline game is good, too. Good are some tricks, like play 
 with racket behind your back, or side-jump, or jump-smash. Ingame cutscenes are great, and mistakes 
 of referee too (unfortunately sometimes, you will be very anger, gratefully to referee) . But the 
 most important thing is to hold your service, and try to tak&eacute; out the opponent.
  
  The good/bad
  Good:1. volume
  2. cutscenes, and replay
  3. carrier, and improving the player
 
  4. lot of players
  5. high playable and this game you will be play quite long (one season about 22hours)
  6. mistakeable 
 referee, types of services and players (types)
  7. nets or other effects, play on the net.
  
  The bad: 1. a small number of unforced errors
  2. without licence of players.
  3. they aren&acute; t 
 tournament is double+grandslams
  4. it is arcade
  5. small number of tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alawadhi3000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  it's a Good game , one of the best tennis games i have played so far, great gameplay and good Value, 
 if you played it once you will love to play it everytime if you are a tennis fan , a must get game 
 if you love tennis games, the only bad thing is that the players are fake, i would've loved to 
 have see Real players, also i would love to see newer games in the series because it looks like 
 it is on track i will give it 8.0 as my Rating, there is always room for improvement, also it has 
 a great LAN Multiplayer with no-lag or bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2003 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the best tennis game that I have played since Virtua Tennis back in the day. It has very 
 good graphics and a very good AI. The AI actually learns from the way you play and adjusts his 
 game accordingly. Even the next time you face him, such as in carreer mode, his game will be different/better 
 than the last time you played him. I have the game on the lowest setting of Amature in the career 
 mode and it is still very tough, still have not won a tournament and I have been playing this for 
 a few days now. The sound is a bit flat and needs some more noises, at times it is too quiet. I 
 picked this game up for $15, so a great value indeed. It is a fun and challenging game, if you 
 are a tennis fan, then pick this gem up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
