-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Terminus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/terminus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 14, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 12 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vatical Entertainment
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Jun 26, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Terminus offers flawed but nonetheless decent space combat action, along with an impressive online 
 play feature. 

 Terminus is an open-ended, multiplayer space combat simulation that's playable on the Windows, Macintosh, 
 and Linux operating systems. It's an ambitious cross-platform game that actually offers multiplayer 
 action and role-playing elements in a persistent online setting, though it also has a single-player 
 campaign. Unfortunately, the game has a number of problems, such that players who aren't very patient 
 may find it terminally repetitive and too inaccessible.   

  Without a doubt, the most notable feature in Terminus is its ability to run on the three major 
 operating-system platforms: Windows 95/98, Mac OS (8.6 or 9.0) , and Linux (kernel 2.2.0 or greater) . 
 Multiplayer sessions of Terminus can include any mixture of clients running these operating systems 
 - a definite point in the game's favor.   

  The basic design of Terminus is similar to other open-ended space combat and trade simulations 
 like Elite, Privateer, and X: Beyond the Frontier. Essentially, you begin as a fledgling pilot 
 and get to pursue your career of choice in a futuristic version of our solar system. Unlike its 
 worthy predecessors, Terminus also provides some basic structure: You can begin the game as one 
 of three types of pilots, in league with one of four different factions. As a fighter pilot, you 
 can fight for either Earth or Mars defense forces in a variety of military operations. As a marauder, 
 you embark upon a career in piracy; while as a mercenary, you can fend for yourself and avoid trouble 
 or welcome it as you see fit. The latter option basically encompasses the open-ended role available 
 to you in Elite, Privateer, and X, while the first two options help to set Terminus apart.   

 
  Each type of career has different advantages and disadvantages. For example, mercenaries must 
 outfit and pay for repairs on their own ships, while fighter pilots needn't worry about such things. 
 But regardless of the career path you choose, the basic flow of the game remains the same. As you 
 play through the single-player story mode, you will choose new missions for yourself from a list 
 of available assignments. Successfully completing your missions results in more prestige, more 
 money, and greater opportunities for more challenging missions to come. Another option, free mode, 
 is essentially identical, except that the game's story elements are left out.   

  The game's mission types range from attack and patrol assignments to mining expeditions and reconnaissance. 
 As a freelance flyer, you can also peruse the latest bounty information and go hunting for fellow 
 pilots with prices on their heads. If you manage to amass enough of a fortune in the game, you 
 can even pay other pilots to tackle missions that you dictate.   

  The gameplay is fairly typical of a space combat simulation. As in the highly acclaimed capital-ship 
 sim Independence War and Microsoft's own online space sim Allegiance, inertia is a key consideration 
 in Terminus - ships slide and twist while traveling in a completely different direction. This can 
 be initially confusing and requires some getting used to in the game's training missions. If the 
 difficulty proves too significant, you do have the option to tone down the inertial effects for 
 a more relaxed interpretation of Newtonian physics. Combat in Terminus can be exciting and intense 
 - but it can also take a great deal of practice, since the ships often hurtle toward each other 
 at alarming speeds but don't change course easily. Still, the weapon controls and visual aiming 
 cues are generally effective, and there certainly tend to be enough ships to fight.    

 However, Terminus' graphics aren't particularly good. Planets and other background scenery appear 
 rather blocky, while many of the ship designs are plain or otherwise uninspired. Fortunately, some 
 of the explosions and weapon effects like missile contrails are rather impressive - but Terminus' 
 sound effects are another matter altogether, as the game seems to have been sound-engineered by 
 someone with an affinity for explosions and fireworks. Whenever you blow something up, you hear 
 a seemingly endless sequence of identical bangs, which isn't so bad. But when you enter a jump 
 gate, you hear another loud bang. Or if you activate the jump gate before entering it, you hear 
 a sequence of smaller bangs. All the different banging can make it difficult to tell what's going 
 on, and besides, why does a futuristic jump gate sound like a 50-year-old Ford with exhaust problems? 
   

  Terminus offers a persistent universe for its players, but only so long as the player-server host 
 keeps the game running. That is, the game doesn't offer a persistent world in the same sense that 
 online role-playing games like EverQuest and Ultima Online do. Terminus does allow for up to 64 
 players per session, though we never had the opportunity to log into a game that size and so cannot 
 attest to the game's stability or performance with so many players. But judging from the crashes 
 that cropped up from time to time in single-player mode, it seems that such a heavily populated 
 online session would encounter at least as many problems. Most online Terminus sessions seem to 
 support around half the reported maximum number of players.   

  Unfortunately, Terminus' crash bugs are actually the least of its problems. Aside from the poorly 
 done video-overlay techniques used to produce the shipboard settings between missions, Terminus 
 has a bad habit of withholding critical information during gameplay. For example, military mission 
 briefings stay onscreen for barely a moment before the display winks into 3D mode and takes you 
 to the launch animation. To access the mission goals again, you have to dig into the personal information 
 screen. What's worse, the game doesn't automatically update your navigational route or waypoints 
 for most missions, so you have to plot your course yourself. That wouldn't be so bad if the in-game 
 map had any intrinsic value whatever - or if the mission goals themselves were clearer. For instance, 
 one mission is to attack a specific character last seen near the Mars Mining Station, but it leaves 
 you wondering whether the target is a fighter craft, a person, a capital ship, or something else 
 entirely. No one and nothing of that name appears anywhere on the game's list of ships, people, 
 or anything else.   

  This general lack of information is also a problem during basic spaceflight and combat. The game 
 will tell you when a missile has been launched or when weapons have been discharged in the area, 
 but you never find out where these things happened or who fired the weapons unless you happen to 
 witness the event. The game's lack of simple key-command functions like "target nearest attacker" 
 only exacerbates the problem. In addition, the consequences of damage sustained by your ship are 
 similarly mysterious during gameplay, despite several pages on the topic in the game manual - a 
 heavily damaged ship often simply shuts down until it's blown to smithereens. Other game elements, 
 such as mining, are never fully explained in the manual or the training missions.   

  Terminus offers flawed but nonetheless decent space combat action, along with an impressive online 
 play feature. The game ought to be appealing on account of this and its cross-platform compatibility, 
 but its glitches and general lack of polish considerably diminish its overall quality.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2003 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Terminus requires patience, plain and simple. The developers took great efforts at making realistic 
 physics, which means a totally different approach to flying. The fact that most story-based missions 
 are split up by mindless tedium (patrol the gates AGAIN?) , doesn't help add excitement to the game.
 
  
  The graphics are very basic shapes with textures wrapped around them - certainly not cutting edge, 
 but they get the job done. The sound is almost nonexistent, though running the sound CD while you're 
 playing the game helps (though I find it odd that you have to play a conventional CD for ambiance 
 rather than the sound being included in the game engine.)
  
  The dueling reveiws above are both half true regarding targeting commands. Terminus offers a plethora 
 of commands, but not many of them are particularly useful. You can target incoming torpedoes, but 
 you can only "target nearest ship", not "target nearest attacker." Also, it doesn't implement IFF 
 codes like most sims, so there is no "target nearest enemy." Rather, you have several keys for 
 targeting specific factions (Target Next Mars, Target Next Earth, Target Next Pirate, etc.) So, 
 you have to know which faction you're hunting, and if they hire mercenaries you're outta luck. 
 The fact that each faction maps to a DIFFERENT key means mapping targeting to your joystick isn't 
 really practical.
  
  Also, if you take too much damage and your ship becomes practically unflyable, there doesn't seem 
 to be an eject or distress call option. SO - even if you win the mission, you lose.
  
  Terminus includes decent stories, a decent economy, and decent space flight, but bottom line, it 
 requires lots of patience to get into and play. It takes time to learn the solar system, learn 
 the multitude of key commands, learn the economy, replaying missions if your ship takes too much 
 damage, and simply WAITING between interesting missions. So, Terminus is not a BAD game, but you 
 can do better elsewhere (Tachyon: The Fringe, anyone?) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
