-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Terminator 3: War of the Machines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/terminator3wotm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.8, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 395 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Clever's Dev.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 2, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Terminator 3: War of the Machines strives to recapture the magic of Battlefield 1942 in a sci-fi 
 setting but fails miserably. 

  Successful product designs are often copied in the gaming industry. While many fantastic games 
 take their cues from previous classics, there are also many lackluster clones that do little to 
 advance the genre -- or even fail to execute concepts as well as their predecessors. Terminator 3: 
 War of the Machines falls into the latter category. As a team-based shooter with vehicles, the 
 game strives to recapture the magic of Battlefield 1942 in a sci-fi setting but fails miserably. 

          Nope, the game still isn't any good even when you see everything in red.     

  Terminator 3's problems start with its graphics. While it includes a mix of contemporary and 
 postapocalyptic maps, the map designs are poorly devised, which cuts into the gameplay value. You'll 
 find that many bases have only one approach angle, and many pathways lead to dead ends, which creates 
 a lot of wasted space on the maps. The character models offer a decent level of detail, but they 
 animate extremely poorly. Additionally, it appears that the developers have neglected to include 
 death animations. When you kill an enemy, it stiffly falls over on its back or face. (If you can 
 just imagine pushing a mannequin over, you have a good idea of what death animations in Terminator 
 3 look like.) While this might be excusable in the case of killing one of the Skynet robots, there's 
 no explanation for why the humans of the Tech-Com faction fall over in this manner. Perhaps the 
 worst aspect of Terminator 3's graphics comes when you play as one of the sentient Skynet machines. 
 As a robot, your viewscreen is bathed in an annoying red glow that makes it difficult to see. There's 
 no way to shut this gimmick off. Perhaps the developers thought that forcing you to see through 
 rose-colored lenses might fool you into thinking Terminator 3 isn't a horrible game.  

  Terminator 3's sound effects are probably even worse than its graphics. Explosions, machine guns, 
 and assault rifles are extremely subdued, while the voices used for in-game communication are wooden 
 and lack any emotion whatsoever. The laser blasts from the Skynet weapons aren't any better and 
 sound very cheesy.  

  As mentioned, there are two factions -- the sentient machines, known as Skynet, and the humans, who 
 are called Tech-Com. Each side has a small handful of classes that include basic roles, like snipers 
 and heavy weapons specialists, but the Skynet side  does  offer a few interesting classes that 
 are unavailable to the Tech-Com side. One of these is the infiltrator, which looks like a human, 
 carries human weapons, and has the ability to drive human vehicles. The infiltrator is not as sneaky 
 as you might think, though. If you're on the Tech-Com side, running your cursor over an infiltrator 
 will immediately reveal it to be an enemy, thus making its ruse transparent and ultimately rendering 
 it as rather useless. Skynet players can also spawn in as a tank that's armed with dual miniguns, 
 or they can spawn in as the FK vehicle, which is a small hovercraft that's armed with lasers and 
 missiles. The FK is the most mobile unit in the game, but it lacks the ability to capture bases. 

  There is one special unit -- the original Terminator, as played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. The Tech-Com 
 player with the highest frag count can choose to respawn as "the" Terminator, who combines the 
 faster foot speed of the humans with the tougher armor of the Skynet machines. Unfortunately, the 
 current California governor doesn't say much of anything aside from "It's time." and "I'm back." 

  The game's vehicles feel like an afterthought. For the most part, they're all variations on a theme. 
 You've got the dune buggy with a machine gun mount, the burned-out car with a rocket launcher mount, 
 armored personnel carriers with laser cannons, and so on. Other than the Skynet FKs, there are 
 no airborne vehicles. The vehicles aren't much fun to use anyway, so you probably won't be spending 
 much time driving. Even smaller cars, like the dune buggy, accelerate slowly and handle like pigs. 
 We also managed to get vehicles stuck on top of burning trash cans and in first-story window frames, 
 which should give you a pretty good idea of what to expect from the physics in the game. Terminator 
 3 seems to also have trouble with collision detection. Enemies don't react to taking fire, and, 
 in many cases, rockets and lasers will actually blatantly pass right through character models and 
 hit the ground behind them.  

          Terminator 3's bot AI isn't the smartest we've ever seen.     

  There is no single-player 
 campaign in Terminator 3: War of the Machines. From the menu, you're simply presented with a list 
 of the game's 12 maps and are given no other options. You aren't allowed to play against the computer 
 in team deathmatch or mission-based modes, as, apparently, the game's AI is programmed to only 
 handle the termination mode, which is basically the same as Battlefield 1942's conquest mode where 
 teams battle for control of various bases on the map. You can't even set a specific time limit 
 for single-player games! The bot AI is decent enough at deciding which bases are appropriate to 
 attack, but they offer very little challenge as far as actual fighting goes. Any experienced shooter 
 player should easily rack up an astronomical number of kills. It's also worth noting that the bots 
 don't use the vehicles much, and when they do, they have a lot of trouble navigating even the simple 
 maps.  

  On the multiplayer side of things, there are very few people playing online, and there are no dedicated 
 servers available. For a game without a meaningful single-player mode, it's shameful for Atari 
 to not have set up even a single dedicated server for the game. At any given moment, you'll find 
 two to five Terminator 3 servers, which seem to all be hosted off of someone's personal computer. 
 In our experience testing online, we frequently found our pings spiking up over 700ms, which makes 
 aiming just about impossible. Even if you're lucky enough to play at a steady 100ms ping, the hit 
 detection hardly works at all.  

  It's not often that we run into a game that has so little redeeming value, but Terminator 3: War 
 of the Machines fits the bill. With its lackluster graphics and sound, poorly designed maps, shoddy 
 network code, and no online community support whatsoever from its publisher, Terminator 3 should 
 have been terminated long ago in the production process. Unfortunately, no one had the guts to 
 say "Hasta la vista, baby!" to the project.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  A good concept and overall translation from concept to product... but a very poor execution. 
 
  
  when i first heard of a game that does away with the dull and overstretched story behind the terminator 
 series, and finally just gives you the action you the action you actually watch the movies for 
 i was ecstatic!
  
  I picked up the game and started playing. The first round where i was really just exploring the 
 game for the first time was really great, but that "new car smell" quickly faded into a slight 
 musky odor of someone who doesn't take care of themselves... 
  and that's exactly how i felt about this game. it has all the potential of a great game nicely 
 laid out and awaiting the loving hands of someone to come and mold it into something incredible 
 but instead was scooped up by someone who saw the potential to make a quick buck with minimal effort...
 
  
  the pros: 
  -those who like it, like it a lot
  -great idea for a game of this type
  -can be tied to string and hung from a rear-view mirror or even used as an official "Terminator" 
 coaster!
  
  the cons:
  -outdated and overused graphics engine used solely for the purpose of releasing the game quickly
 
  - game looks and plays like a fan made mod for some other crappy game
  - Is based off of licensed material and therefore kills any chance of a more polished sequel... 
 and thus dies the same as any other licensed game timed for release with a movie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatzeEdend
Rating: 2.1
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I originally picked this game up soon after it's initial release, thinking "It looks pretty cool..." 
 Boy do I regret it.
  
  War of the Machines is your average Battlefield 1942 clone in which two teams are pitted against 
 each other to capture spawn points and deplete the enemies reinforcements. The human team has your 
 standard FPS classes (infantry, sniper, the usual) while the Skynet terminators have slow moving, 
 heavily armed robots. Skynet would be considered overpowered if it weren't for one thing the humans 
 have going for them; the Terminator. That's right, one lucky meatbag gets to play as everyone's 
 favorite gun-toting cyborg of destruction, similar to the heroes of Star Wars Battleground II. 
 Since this game sucks so badly that no-one has any multiplayer servers for it, this will likely 
 be you, since the atrocious AI in single player matches couldn't coordinate an assault on a preschool.
 
  
  There are a few different maps to play on, usually pre and post Judgment Day variants of each other. 
 The maps tend to be relatively small, and strategies for them tend to be the same: let Arnie do 
 all the work.
  
  Other than the Terminator himself, there are no real tie-ins to the movie. You could just as easily 
 replace the Skynet team with Cylons from Battlestar Galactica and say that this all took place 
 on Caprica or something and the game wouldn't be any different.
  
  Final words: Uninspiring, Unoriginal, Underachiever... just plain uninteresting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  so lets start talk about the TERMINATOR 3
  
  sounds: the sounds are awful, awful sound effects of machines and awful sound effect of gun shooting 
 thats one...
  
  graphics: even for 2003 the game looks awful! i mean even in 2003 you can find better graphics 
 games like: STAR TREK ELIT II or STAR WARS JEDI ACADEMY, but TERMINATOR 3 simply awful graphics
 
  
  gameplay: so booring!! i played like 10 minutes and i was deleted this game, the gameplay is booring 
 the shotting in not fun at all i had more fun playing ICY TOWER, its not metter if you play as 
 the humans or the machines the gameplay is still awful
  
  if you know someone you hate give him this game.. this game isnt worth buying or even not worth 
 to look at
  so belive me dont... i mean dont! buy this game ever!
  
  weast of time, weast of money if you will buy this awful game you will be sorry... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero2infinity
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I played this game after watching the movie. I thought that maybe this might be somewhat enjoyable 
 than the movie. But this was a total let down. I didn't even understand what I was supposed to 
 do in this game. You can play either the humans or the Machines. But this game has no motivation 
 to keep us playing. It doesn't even include a storyline. 
  
  Well you have to give the game some credit, because the graphics weren't half bad. And when you 
 play as the humans you get a sense of what it would actually be like if it really happened. It 
 was quite fun to destroy some machines or even humans when you start playing the game, but then 
 it become repetitive. You'll feel as if you are playing the same level with the same objectives.
 
  
  In conclusion I have to say that people should try and stay away from buying this game because 
 you'll feel as if you were robbed in the end. But if you are a die hard fan of Terminator then 
 give it a try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Anyone can review a Half Life game. Nothing special about that.
  
  But it takes a special kind of a writer to write something about a game like Terminator 3: War 
 of the Machines.
  .
  .
  .
  Ok, so at this point, I spent 10 minutes thinking about what I should write and all I can think 
 of is  nonsense! Rubbish! Garbage! What the!
  
  Well, I guess I am not so special after all. Don't play this game. You might give this game as 
 a gift to someone you hate, but apart from that I can't think of any good reason for you to buy 
 or even pirate this game.
  
  But since I have to write some facts about the game, here goes: it tries to be Battlefield, but 
 it isn't.
  
  Leave this one alone.
  
  Remember, I played it, so you don't have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay itself is very well done but the number of maps is disappointing. it could have used 
 6 or 7 more maps. but that said, the game rocks! as its name states. its based on the terminator 
 series but unlike the other games its also a team based first person shooter. the first in the 
 series. featuring 12 maps and 5 different classes for bath sides, the machines of skynet and the 
 human forces of tech-com. it has 8 vehicles and 14 weapons the game is great and has a authentic 
 T3 feel. the game is released by atari and produced by clevers games. it is a great new direction 
 for the terminator video games and greatly ads to the background of the war. All in all the game 
 would be a great multi player shooter if it has some serious updates and patches. A OK game with 
 great potential but a sure miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game at a local bargain bin for $6. I thought, how bad could it be . This game 
 was my first FPS, before Halo. After playing BF 1942, I can see the similarities, but I loved this 
 game. It was so simple to play, and to figure out how to play, the guns were futuristic, and the 
 soundtrack was awesome. The graphics were just okay, but I have always been part of the a game 
 doesnt need good graphics to be a good game saying. The game only had a couple of bad parts, 1. 
 you would get into a vehicle, and ur teamates would not get into it. 2. The AI was pathetically 
 stupid. 3. Online play was terrible. Being a machine in single player was not challenging at all, 
 you would just mow down the human over and over. But playing for the humans as the terminator was 
 hugely fun. Mowing down machines with the FLAK cannon was great. It was really challenging, and 
 your friends would almost never help you, so it was you against them, lots of fun. I only stopped 
 playing it because I got Halo and COD 2. But this game is absolutely worth 6 dollars! For classification, 
 I would say Just plain fun, underappreciated, and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gopsu_2k
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  i start playing the game and i realised this is not the reson i bought this game for . i was sure 
 to have more value for money by playing with the cd rather than playing it in my comp. the grafix 
 spectacular flop. sound effects where where there, gameplay runing around as a cripled robot very 
 intresting . AI is just plain stupid the level are too repetative . this game has soo little of 
 content that i cant even write a review on it . there is no story which is understandable for a 
 multiplayed game but y play such games when there are such good other multiplayer games some of 
 which are even free. atari realy scrued this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazychazman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is easy for people who play battlefield 1942. This game is fun about the first 2 hours 
 but thats it. Sounds good, graphics are not good at all but gamplay is quite cool. Its fun to play 
 the terminators and their tanks are awsome. Its very faithful to the terminator saga which is a 
 plus but the ai is a downer. Battlefield is fun, halo is fun, this is fun about the first 2 hours. 
 The classes are pretty cool, for the terminators you have the T900 supply and heavy, the FK, the 
 infiltrator, and the T1. The humans have hunter, heavy hunter, scout, supply, and the terminator.
 
  
  pros.
  cool classes, neat weapons, and good sound effects.
  
  cons.
  bad ai, bad maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  First of all I'm not going to waste too much time with this review, this game, sould have never 
 seen the light of day, nor sould it have left pre-production mode, its bad. its one of the worse 
 Video Game movies Ive ever played.
  
  I'm a huge fan of all the Terminator films, but this game does not deserve the title "Terminator." 
 its a massive failure in everyway.
  
  
  The only good thing about this whole entire game is the concept, the idea, of what the elaberate 
 Future War would be like. thats the only good thing.
  
  This game is a waste of your valued/precious time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevo-magnifico
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Its is counter-strike, terminator style. I know that the majority of Gamespot dont like it but 
 can all of them say they are terminator franchise fanatics. I love Terminator but im not a fanatic, 
 but this game still kicks but. and you can be Arnold's Terminator. Two downsides are the graphics 
 and maps. there is only twelve maps but they are Fun. The game is based on the scrimish for earth 
 between man and machine. it has great gameplay and awsome weapons. It also has features taken directly 
 from Terminator 3. If you liked that, yull like this. 
  I Have had the game for almost a month and i still love it. d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamrocks56
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 21, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  Only 1 word describes this game... and u all know what it is I wont even bother saying. Where should 
 I start... oh yeh worst game ever, not enjoyable at all, I mean I loved the movie but the game just 
 screams bad. Please I warn you dont play this game unless u are willing to waste a minute of your 
 life on it, just dont bother with it. "Worst"Disappointing" "Shocking" "Surprisingly Bad" So 
 I warn u again, DONT PLAY THIS GAME, and dont think the graphics are impressive they are bad, 
 really badDONT PLAY THIS GAME, I have warned you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zua12
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  This is essentially a team based multiplayer game. (There is a single player element that lets 
 you play alongside computer-controlled bots but this mode is so bad its best left ignored.) You 
 play either as a terminator on the side of Skynet or as a resistance fighter on the Tech-Com side. 
 Each side has its own character classes, with their own strengths and weaknesses. You can take 
 part in three modes including an objective-based mission mode, Deathmatch and a Capture the Fort 
 type of mode where you earn points by capturing and controlling an area. 
  The first nail in the coffin is the graphics engine. Even on a high-end PC, the game tends to lag 
 and freeze up for seconds at a time. This is incomprehensible as the graphics and average model 
 animations arent good enough to warrant this kind of slow-down. The sounds are similarly pedestrian; 
 not completely horrible but not really good either. In the single-player campaign my suffering 
 was only heightened by the dumb-as-a-lobotomized-donkey Artificial (Un) Intelligence. Enemies run 
 into, past and away from your fire. Even the thrill of playing as Arnie diminishes in about three 
 minutes. This game should be played online which is where its biggest drawback comes in. Its 
 not really all that popular so youll be hard-pressed to find many (or any!) servers running the 
 game. The few that do seem to be excruciatingly slow, even by Indian standards. Atari has not yet 
 provided a single dedicated server to host this game. Considering the support that a title like 
 BF 1942 still gets (a year after release!) from its designers, this half-hearted attitude is unforgivable. 
 
  
  What we end up with is a multiplayer game that is anything but, and a single player experience 
 that can only be bettered. This is a game that seems to have been left out in the cold by its 
 developers to die a slow, painful death. If you want to experience a real multiplayer action, try 
 Battlefield 1942 instead. I guarantee you wont regret it. 
  
  HIGHS: Its based on the Terminator series. 
  LOWS: Poor performance issues; no servers to play 
 on; barebones single-player missions with horrid AI. 
  NUTSHELL: Stay Away! 
  Christof Rating: 55 % 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  At first it felt like a drag but soon I discovered a new mode hidden in the multiplayer.
  Yes there are a whole lot of DM levels ready to played like team based DM in Q3A
  The DM levels 
 are a real blast to play. The single player is not very good.
  The DM levels are fairly navigable. First you to spawn as a human, after some time it let ya play 
 as TERMINTOR then the real fun begins.
  I take the huge machinegun and gun down the robots like flies from the sky. Its not easy 
 though; the action continuously shifts back and forth
  If you lax for one sec you lose ur grounds and be biting ur hands as an endless stream of robots 
 force into ur territory.
  In every DM level there are spawn points. The more you capture the more places ur human friends 
 get to spawn. But as you keep on advancing towards the T-19 you will see the T-19 has captured ur 
 spawn locations nearer ur base. so you go back to recover them. This continues till you hit timelimit.
 
  i can guarantee that if you like playing Q3A DM levels you will feel right at home. Just enjoy 
 the thrill of fragging.
  ITS NOT A FPS ITS A DM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swan15
Rating: 1.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:31 am PT
Review:  Serisosly this is just wasting my time but for all those terminator fans out there i have to save 
 the from wasting their money. now if you love online multi-player games & terminator movies then 
 oviosly you'll get this BUT if you just like terminator movies DONT GET THIS GAME.
  
  now your probally thinking why did you get the game well heres the answer i got the game because 
 i thought it was like the ps2 & xbox version but i was so wrong
  
  there are missions but its like ones that are so boring.
  
  now if you wanted to play as the 
 terminator endo-skeloton you can! but its so annoying because you hear this voice again and again 
 going "destroy the humans, eliminate the humans" it's so annoying BUT i like the red vision sight. 
 :)
  
  U can play as Arnold Swarzenegger 
  
  Be on Machines or humans side
  
  LIKE THE HULK GAME "RATHER GET A SOCCER BALL"
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonJuanDH
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 4, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I dont know Why the GS rate is so low... Its a good game, highly playable, good graphics, a really 
 fun fps multiplayer.
  It is not lan consuming, its really cheap... should have more maps, and more add on, maybe mods... 
 but should not rate it so low, take the demo and check for yourself.
  Its very light, you can run it in almost any computer. It is very stable, and there are 1 or 2 
 patches only.
  I recommend to anyone who wants simplicity and a lot of fun, and dont want to burn "brain cells" 
 with trick objectives, and lots of hotkeys and stuff, its pure aim and shoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msilver67
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2003 1:18 pm PT
Review:  wow, i was expecting something out of this world, even though i like mission based games, i was 
 truly disappointed in that the graphics, gameplay the price oh my god lets not talk about that! 
 the worst is when ejected like all other crap from my cd player, when launched into my wall of 
 bend over and scream, the damn thing wouldnt even fly right across the room to be forever mounted. 
 please just throw $30.00 to a charity, i wondered why the salesman smirked at me when i picked 
 it up (i even reserved this thing) . oh well god bless roxio from keeping me from swinging from the 
 nearest tree....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesySnax
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 12, 2003 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Man... it's embarrassing how bad this game is.
  
  The graphics are terrible. The environments all look the same, and the level design is horrible. 
 They're all pretty much the same... Run down cities in the future.
  
  The sound is maybe one of the worst aspects. It's just plain terrible. It sounds very dull and 
 muffled, and the voices of the bots is just laughable. I couldn't help but laugh every time I heard 
 an AI say "SHOOT THE FK!"
  
  The AI is bad. Bad. Bad. BAD. Most of the time the computer can't tell what to shoot at, and your 
 team mates can be seen running around in pointless circles. In the rare chance an AI will actually 
 get into a car, it won't really know what to do, besides blow up and die.
  
  Also, there are no death animations. Characters just... well, they just fall on their backs with 
 their arms still holding their weapons. There's only one problem... they don't have anything in 
 their hands.
  
  This is just a terrible game. If you buy this game, I suggest you try selling it off before it's 
 too late. If you can't do that, it's time to enjoy a game of Frisbee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtRock69
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 2, 2003 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This game would have been hot 3 years ago maybe Graphics are dated and simple and lack realism. 
 Scenery lacks imagination. They overuse the same objects in each level (i. e. all the stealth planes 
 in the hangar level) . The single player AI characters are thin, anemic looking stiff figures. Their 
 not built like Arnie  but more like David Bowie or Axel Rose. AI combatants have better AI than 
 your teammates. AI teammates run around like brain damaged mentals only to be mowed down by the 
 machines. They also seem to go to the extreme by either being cowards or suicidal maniacs. The 
 AI combatants are easy to fool  just duck behind cover and jump back out again. They seem to forget 
 you were there! This game is a dog. Save your money. Buy Call of Duty or Medal of Honor if you 
 want realism in a shooter. Their single player AI is a lot better and the multiplayer online is 
 awesome 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
