-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Terrawars: New York Invasion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/warforterranyinvasion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 but that's $30 too much for this game.
 Utterly vacant and uninteresting level design.
 Ugly visuals, twitchy animations, clipping problems, and copious amounts of fog.
 Absolutely awful voice acting and weak sound effects.
 Weak weapons, nonexistent story, repetitive gameplay, and the list goes on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.6
Critic Score: 2.5, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 4.1, 155 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Ladyluck
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jul 6, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The price may seem right, but everything else about Terrawars: New York Invasion is so very wrong. 
 

  Terrawars: New York Invasion encompasses some of the most overused themes in the history of video 
 games. You'll experience alien invasion, gun fights, platform jumping, and time travel. OK, so 
 there's no time travel actually in the game, but playing it will give you the distinct feeling 
 that you've traveled back in time to play a mediocre Half-Life mod from 1999. The overall lack 
 of quality is painfully evident throughout Terrawars, from the eye-gouging visuals to the rudimentary, 
 almost primitive, design. Compared to modern PC shooters, Terrawars is outclassed in every possible 
 way, and it certainly isn't worth even a budget price.  

          John Armstrong, med student and alien killer extraordinaire.     

  In this game you 
 don't get to play as a marine or even as a soldier. You're not a cybernetic ninja or a rookie cop. 
 You aren't even an ex-con or a hapless research scientist. No, instead you are John Armstrong, 
 a medical student who works for the National Guard in New York City. Luckily for all those city 
 dwellers, medical students in the National Guard apparently receive extensive training in tactical 
 combat, including weapons proficiency training with machine guns, sniper rifles, and rocket launchers. 
 This all comes in handy, of course, when all of a sudden the city of New York is invaded by a bunch 
 of multicolored aliens that look like poorly animated Covenant rip-offs from Halo. There's no story 
 behind the invasion, but all you need to know is that aliens are bad and must be destroyed.  

 
  The game takes you through more than a dozen levels scattered throughout the rubble of what was 
 once New York City. The levels are all very linear, and you're gently guided in the right direction 
 by invisible walls and impassable barriers, such as office chairs that restrict your movement to 
 a narrow and straightforward path through each stage. You'll usually have objectives to fulfill, 
 such as finding the injured soldiers scattered throughout the area or securing a particular point 
 on the map. However, all you ever have to do is shoot all the aliens you see, and in doing so you'll 
 always end up fulfilling your objectives anyway. The action is all scripted, so no matter how many 
 times you play the game you'll encounter the same aliens in the same spot doing the same thing 
 each and every time. It all becomes very predictable after just a few minutes of playing the game. 
 You enter an area, and as soon as you hit the invisible trigger, a bunch of aliens jump out and 
 start shooting you. As you kill those aliens, more appear from thin air right in front of you, 
 and you have to keep killing one after the other until they finally stop spawning. Then you move 
 on to the next area and do it all over again.  

  There is more to the game than just shooting, though. Sometimes you'll have to partake in a bit 
 of platform jumping. First-person shooters and platformers go together like hair and gummy bears, 
 but it's especially bad here because the collision detection means that you'll get stuck on the 
 edge of ledges or miss jumps due to invisible barriers. There are parts where you have to jump 
 on narrow pipes and boards or crawl around in air ducts, and you'll greet each of these sections 
 with a groan of frustration as you attempt to maneuver the clumsy John Armstrong on top of rickety 
 old boards and other items that look like they wouldn't hold the weight of a house cat, much less 
 a medical student. Even more annoying is that you have to pay attention to a stamina gauge, and 
 if it gets depleted, you can't do anything but walk slowly until your stamina recharges.  

  The one thing this game does well is keeping you busy by throwing tons of enemies at you. That 
 doesn't matter much, though, because the gunplay in Terrawars is neither fun nor exciting. The 
 guns are very generic. You start out with a semiautomatic pistol and a combat knife, and you quickly 
 find new weapons, like an assault rifle, a sniper rifle, and a rocket launcher. These weapons all 
 feel weak, though, and there's never any reason to use anything other than the basic assault rifle, 
 which has a fast rate of fire, inflicts as much damage as any other weapon, and is accurate enough 
 for sniping. All of your guns can be upgraded by collecting vials of biomatter that can be exchanged 
 for increased damage, accuracy, and clip size at any time. It's a fine if nonsensical idea, but 
 the improvements you'll see in your weapons are minimal. If guns aren't your thing, you can also 
 chuck grenades at your enemies, which comes in handy for dispatching groups of aliens, but the 
 explosions aren't very satisfying. Instead of seeing crumpled bodies go flying, you'll see the 
 aliens throw their hands up and disappear into a cloud of green mist. The hit context is completely 
 inconsistent as well. Sometimes you can instantly kill enemies with well-placed headshots, but 
 other times you can shoot enemies in the head and they won't so much as flinch.  

  The gunplay also gets old quickly because you'll constantly be fighting the same enemies throughout 
 the game. There are about four different types of aliens, which all look exactly the same but with 
 different-colored skin. There are only two boss fights in the game, and they're so short-lived 
 and lame that they do nothing to break the monotony. The aliens usually stand in fixed positions 
 shooting at you, but sometimes they'll twitch and jitter their way after you, or simply float right 
 through solid objects in the environment. The aliens, it seems, can even shoot through walls, and 
 you'll often see a disembodied arm shooting at you through a closed door. They don't need to aim 
 their weapons either, because even if an alien isn't facing you, its blasters will somehow manage 
 to shoot right at you. On the default difficulty setting, these problems can make the game especially 
 challenging, because it takes only a couple of hits for you to die. There's a quicksave function, 
 though, so if you're feeling masochistic you can just reload your save and try it all again.  

 
  If for some reason you want to share this experience with a friend, you can play Terrawars cooperatively. 
 You can play on a local network and supposedly online as well, although we weren't able to find 
 a single server, so it looks like you'll have to set up your own if you want to actually play this 
 game online. Considering how bad the single-player game is, playing it again with another player 
 probably won't do anything to improve the experience. There are a multitude of available online 
 multiplayer shooters for the PC, so there's no reason to go to the trouble to play this one.  

 
          There's a bit of platforming required, and yeah, it's as unenjoyable as it sounds.    

  One of the bullet points on the back of the box states in bold type that Terrawars "runs well on 
 diverse PC configurations." That basically means that the game is so out of date that it will run 
 on an old hand-me-down laptop. To its credit, the game does in fact run fairly well, but it looks 
 very ugly doing so. The levels are all empty and smeared with the same couple of blurry textures, 
 and the geometry in the levels is jagged and unnatural. You'll see ugly flickering and texture 
 seams all over the place, and it's all set to the backdrop of multicolored fog that blocks out 
 any detail that might have been present in the backgrounds. The sound isn't any better either, 
 with no music to speak of, a handful of tinny sound effects, and a few repeated grunts from the 
 aliens. The voice acting is some of the worst you'll find in any game. The characters are obviously 
 voiced by actors whose primary language is not English, and the fake American accents sound terrible. 
 It doesn't help that the dialogue includes such choice lines as, "I'm glad you two made it back, 
 in the proverbial nick of time!"  

  Terrawars: New York Invasion is a terrible game that should be avoided. The visuals are dated, 
 the gameplay is repetitive and simple, the multiplayer is worthless, and the story is nonexistent. 
 Even at $20, Terrawars is a rip-off.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shotgun_org
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  It is just plain s**** to get this game for high speck beggers. In my country Philippines ( made 
 here ) many people have low class graphics, unlike my beautiful ASUS GEFORCE 7900 GT card. Games 
 Master ( our local game mag) it that TW was meant for low-end hardware. Yup no good lines,
  nicely smashed detailed cars, and worse where is all the blood. Think of it a death-orgy shooter 
 with out all that blood. Why eve nold FPS have blood.
  Low- end can keep up with blood! The S****! Note: Side walks aren't solid to dead people and many 
 characters voices are from C*** news anchormen/women. If you remember that office where all the 
 computers look alike with microwave like screens. When a soldier/s get injured they all act like 
 F**** zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virck
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? You should of got the jist that this game sucks, but here's my go at it! I didn't 
 download it, from any game the developers are suppose to load up their demo with capturing but 
 yet not revealing content.
  
  I tried it, the demo that is. I was having problems with the recoil system, how everytime I wanted 
 to shoot anything with any weapon multiple times while holding down the fire, I'd need to crouch 
 and aim so the recoil would go way down to do so... leaving me to get owned by flying projectiles.
 
  
  I died the first time in this game not from my enemies, but from the interface... H is next to G, 
 H is to "Keep you alive" and G is to "Kill you in an instant lol" These do not go together!
  
  Also another thing I can't be lenient enough on, you can't skip the crappy cutscenes to fully 
 enjoy the game as a shooter rather then a horribly done game with crappy voice actors.... some of 
 the sounds just don't work but some of them are much more manly for weapons then I can say for 
 other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Normally I wouldn't do this, but I HAD to know what trisynergy had to say about this game.... and 
 this is what I found: 
 * Realistic environments.
  * Intense combat.
  * Upgradeable weapons.
  * Includes cooperative multiplayer mode.
  * Engrossing storyline and 
 deep game play.
  * Runs well on diverse PC configurations."
  
  Now, here's what got me.
  They make a claim for "Realisitc environments" 
  and this ( http://i. i. com. com/cnet. g2/images/2006/206/reviews/931642_20060726_screen011. jpg 
 ) is what you actually see. Yet this ( http://www. trisynergy. com/images/screencaps/twny02. jpg) 
 is what they would have you believe is in game.
  
  Can you say "false advertising" ?
  
  I suggest that those of you who bought this turd, contact trisynergy and make them pay you double 
 simply for the wasted time and effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancooler00
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the games I've ever layed my hands on, makes me sad to see people still 
 manage to pull off as horrible games as this.
  
  Did they do it on purpose? I mean, they must've known how horrible it looked and how horrible it 
 all was put together... 
  
  I'm no master with gaming, I only play. But by the looks of it, by some of the status bars etc, 
 and when picking up ammo/weapons, did they use the NOLF2 engine? 
  If so, they really turned it up-side-down, and got the worst out of it. I'll give them a credit 
 for managing to do so.
  
  One word describing this game: "lol". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Sorry I cannot give this game any more time than it take me took look at my clock on my desktop.
 
  
  Graphics are terrible, glitchy and worst of more seem to have an effect on your motion that will 
 give you the total **** when moving around platforms.
  
  Music & sound, well I thought C64 had better music
  
  Control, use your left ear and a 3 toed 
 foot for best control
  
  This game will take 5 minutes to install and 3 seconds to uninstall, companies who release this 
 rubbish should spend more money on food in the cafe than software development 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McLarenAK47
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  Pure and utter garbage. this game is the worst first person shooter that u could ever play.... 
 stay away from this trash
  Gameplay is boring, the AI is non existent, u will definately have more time just shooting a bag 
 of rocks than the enemies found in this game... the graphics stink to the high heavens and back... 
 Zero value.... kinda feel sorry for the people that made the game..... one piece of advice.. if 
 u are gonna make a game.... let it be playable... i spit on this game... if i could give it a Zero 
 i would...
  i repeat stay away from this nuclear disaster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  If you've really missed seeing sprites as a major graphical centerpiece of a game, then Terrawars 
 is the masterpiece you've been waiting for! On the other hand, if paying for a gaming experience 
 that is both an insult and a torment, you should probably avoid this game. I cannot stress enough 
 how agonizing the platforming in this game is. Don't for a minute think "ooooh platforming FPS, 
 maybe they're going for something NEW". Breakdown, and Metroid did platforming in FPS as well as 
 anyone could, and it wasn't THAT fun in those games frankly. In Terrawars... well, just imagine 
 platforming using a slightly jazzed up Doom 2 engine. Yeah. That bad.
  
  AVOID THIS GAME AT ALL COSTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grynnan
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The AI is suffering of alzheimer's, the graphic is old n lame..
  Enemies popping up from nowhere 15 yards from your face..
  
  But still, the game is still playable 
 (Sort of) . It's not a good game, but playing it over lan in CoOp it's a good way to kill some time.
 
  You can play this game on a low end graphic-card, so put it in your laptop-pc and take it with 
 you on your next business trip. ;)
  
  In the control settings there is a slider for Music, I don't know what that one is doing there, 
 because there is no music in the game. (What I heard, erhm, didn't heard anyway)
  
  There are some nice things in the game, like the upgrade of weapons.
  But that's about it. If 
 you find this game for $9, buy it.
  If you find it for $10, don't. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
