-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Terror Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/terrorstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ring of authenticity in the mission design and overall challenge.
 Authentic battle sound effects and voice samples.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Half-witted squad members.
 Absolutely unforgiving difficulty, especially on simulation mode.
 Unlocking missions requires incredibly high success ratings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 6, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Speed and crazy difficulty make this Rainbow Six rip-off with a British accent immensely frustrating. 
 

  Speed kills. Consider this the big message of Terror Strike: Close Quarters Combat, a year-old 
 tactical shooter (it hit Europe in early 2006 under the name of The Regiment) from Kuju Entertainment 
 that revs up the terrorist-killing meme of Rainbow Six so much that it feels like a lethal biathlon. 
 This certainly lends the proceedings a unique intensity, but ventilating tangos and rescuing hostages 
 like some kind of Flash in army boots exposes serious holes in squad artificial intelligence, level 
 design, and game mechanics. So all this breathtaking velocity really only serves to take you from 
 "Hey, this is kind of a neat budget take on Tom Clancy" to "I want to throw my mouse through my 
 monitor" at a breakneck pace.  

  If nothing else, the developer does stick close to the goal of accurately depicting lightning-quick 
 British SAS raids to free hostages from the clutches of terrorists. Everything feels fairly authentic, 
 even though the 1980 assault on the Iranian embassy in London is the only nonfictional scenario 
 of the four included here. The other three -- the Islamist bombing of the London underground, an 
 IRA attack on a farm, and skinheads taking over parliament -- feel a bit "gamey" due to the presence 
 of huge armies of terrorist goons, but they still accurately convey the speed at which commandos 
 have to work in hostage situations. Both the simulation and arcade difficulty settings seem realistic, 
 too, especially the former, with its one-shot kills and lack of crosshairs. Video mission introductions 
 add even more military atmosphere, as they're delivered by a grizzled ex-soldier type named only 
 Mac, who sure seems to have seen it all before.  

           Don't mess with the SAS.      

  But there's a big difference between getting things 
 done without messing around, and racing around like you're on fire and have got a plane to catch. 
 Terror Strike forces you to sprint from one room to the next like Carl Lewis on speed through an 
 airport, as dallying for even a few seconds usually gives terrorists time to execute a few hostages 
 or destroy vital evidence on a computer. You're graded on the clock, too, so you lose more often 
 than not even if you complete all of the specified goals. Ignoring these harsh rulings isn't an 
 option, either, as missing the cut means that the following mission remains locked and you're stuck 
 replaying the current one until you get everything pretty much perfect.  

  Missions come off more like races than typical tactical terrorist shooters, since you have to memorize 
 threats like the curves of a track in order to steadily shave seconds off of your time. It's practically 
 impossible to succeed in a mission during the first run-through, as you have to rush so quickly 
 that you can't take the time to properly check all corners and avoid taking one in the face from 
 a goon hidden behind a dresser or a filing cabinet. You generally run forward until you encounter 
 a tough room and get killed, then start over and move ahead a little more before getting gunned 
 down again, and then -- well, you get the picture. Hello, trial and error. There is no way to save 
 your progress during a mission, either, which further emphasizes the "get it right or do it again" 
 racing atmosphere and really revs up the frustration factor.  

  Dumb teammates make getting it right a real challenge. Doors are the biggest issue. While you use 
 a basic radial menu to give a few simple orders at closed doors, your buddies still frequently 
 don't have a clue how to proceed. Call for an assault and your pals often just stand there, or 
 tell you to "Shake your ass!" like you're blocking the way even though you're well clear of the 
 door. They sometimes refuse to go through doors at all, which can be big trouble when facing a 
 locked door that requires a full assault to smash down. Soldiers lag behind the main group, causing 
 delays as you need a full squad to send assaults through doorways. And even when they respond to 
 your command and charge on through, they can get messed up on the way in. They can throw a door 
 open and jam you behind it. Or cram into the doorway and get stuck a la the Three Stooges. Or somehow 
 wind up backing into a room and immediately get killed.  

  Terrorist placement and sniping skill demand such perfection that these regular screw-ups are enough 
 to either kill you outright or cost you enough time over the course of a mission to wreck your 
 closing grade. Buildings are very constricted, too. Although the developer makes good use of the 
 Unreal engine (a dated version of it, however, if the drab textures and blah character art are 
 anything to go by) to dress up rooms and corridors with touches that make maps look lived in, everything 
 seems unnaturally cramped, especially in the Iranian embassy and in the farmhouse. It can be tough 
 just to get your squad from one side of a room to another, let alone to crowd them all in around 
 the door leading to a kitchenette packed with terrorists.  

  At least the audio stands out more than the cluttered, backdated visuals. Although the music is 
 so generic that you barely notice it, sound effects are outstanding. Weapons boom with authority. 
 Terrorists chatter in a realistic fashion, and generally speak only when they're panicked or trying 
 to let their comrades know that the British are coming. Your SAS pals shout commands with just 
 the right mix of bravado and scared, this-door-could-be-my-last fear. And the game features some 
 truly disgusting death gurgles.  

           Since your buddies seem to have problems with doors, sometimes it's easier just to crank 
 them open yourself and make with the gunplay.      

  Going online negates virtually all of the frustration gripes noted above. But even though battling 
 other humans helps you forget about the busted AI and the insane grading system of the solo missions, 
 there isn't anything all that compelling about the multiplayer, either. The lone competitive multiplayer 
 option, Sabre Squad, is a straightforward take on old-school commandos-versus-terrorists team deathmatch. 
 At least cooperative play for up to four wannabe SASers is more interesting, as it allows you to 
 skip the AI issues and team up with three friends. Good luck finding even three friends with the 
 game, however, as nobody seems to playing this one online at the moment.  

  If Terror Strike were just a standard Rainbow Six clone (albeit one with a delightful Cockney accent) , 
 you'd have a pretty reasonable budget game for tactical shooter fans. It's a shame that Kuju had 
 to mess up what could have been a perfectly good rip-off with so much speed and frustrating difficulty. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
