-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive 6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/testdrive6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Pitbull Syndicate
Genre: Racing
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor design, bad graphics, and flawed gameplay mar what could otherwise have been an incredibly 
 fun game. 

 The thought of racing through cities like New York, London, and Paris in exotic cars like the Jaguar 
 XJ220, Shelby Series 1, or the TVR Cerbera is enough to give you goose bumps. But images of the 
 wind rushing through your hair as you speed down city streets become just a faded memory once you 
 start playing Test Drive 6. Poor design, bad graphics, and flawed gameplay mar what could otherwise 
 have been an incredibly fun game.  

 The concept is simple enough: Buy a car using money you are given at the beginning of the game, 
 and begin to earn more money by competing in different types of races. As you win races and earn 
 more money, you can buy upgrades for your car and buy new cars as well. You can also compete in 
 different classes of tournaments depending on the class of car you are racing.  

 You aren't forced to simply race in tournaments and single races; you can drive a police car and 
 try to give tickets to cars in the race, or you can enter "challenges," which essentially are races 
 where you have to beat the clock, and there are no other cars on the road. While there is some 
 variety in the gameplay, the reality is that you are just racing the same tracks over and over 
 again, albeit with a slightly different slant on how you should race.  

 Test Drive 6 has particularly weak graphics. Textures are repeated over and over again (New York 
 apparently has about 2000 Lechter's stores) , and most objects are just a flat two-dimensional surface. 
 There aren't many polygons on the track beyond those used to model the cars, but at least the cars 
 themselves look good. They are modeled rather nicely and are available in all sorts of colors. 

 Test Drive 6's music is provided by a batch of trendy bands like Eve 6 and Empirion, and while most 
 of the songs are pretty good, few of them actually fit with the gameplay. Sound effects are sparse 
 but tend to be accurate - you hear essentially nothing more than engine sounds, the occasional 
 screeching of tires, and collision noises.  

 As for Test Drive 6's driving physics, the various cars handle fairly well, and their performance 
 feels different depending on the car. However, reality ends there - collisions at 200 miles per 
 hour will send other cars 30 feet into the air, while your car barely slows down at all. There's 
 no damage modeling on any of the vehicles. In addition, the collision detection is extremely poor, 
 as your car will occasionally crash to a halt for no particular reason.  

 The tracks themselves do resemble the city or location they are named after, but the similarities 
 end there. While London does have St. Paul's Cathedral and Buckingham Palace, none of the landmarks 
 or streets are anywhere close to where they should be. A lot of effort seems to have gone into 
 modeling cities that don't actually exist in real life. Cross traffic, which is billed as a big 
 feature in the game, is a major annoyance because stupid drivers will just pull out of side streets 
 (that lead to nowhere) and smash into you. In general, the artificial intelligence of the computer-controlled 
 cars leaves a lot to be desired, which is most obvious when they crash into each other for no apparent 
 reason.  

 However, the game's biggest drawback is that it is extraordinarily choppy, even on fairly fast systems. 
 Unless you crank the detail all the way down, playing Test Drive 6 is an exercise in futility. 
 A four-minute race can take almost twice that long as you battle against the fits and starts of 
 the graphics engine. Even with the detail set near the lowest setting, you'll still occasionally 
 run into pauses when the music changes or large textures are loaded.  

 Test Drive 6 does have a few good points. The challenge courses against the clock can be fun, since 
 you aren't distracted by the other cars driving around and into you. Trying to catch racers in 
 a police car is also a rather nice variation and can be entertaining for a while.  

 However, in the end, Test Drive 6 is just a mess. Its multiple flaws, poor graphics, and boring 
 gameplay take away all the fun. While the high-speed racing can be entertaining for a while, particularly 
 with some of the faster cars, you'll almost always run into a problem with gameplay that spoils 
 your enjoyment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zlayerz
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  As i was saying the physics weren't very good as when you try to drift , the car will most likely 
 spin out of control. The cars were quite limited for some classes. The game can't match up to the 
 other games in that period such as Need for speed 3: Hot Pursuit and Need for Speed High Stakes. But 
 the recent Test Drive Unlimited was really good. But it still cant match up to the latest Need For 
 Speed: Carbon. And the cars all move at almost the same speed whatever class its in
  
  The good thing about it that the cop chases are quite fun but the detail of the cars are just plain 
 terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Much like Police Academy, the Test Drive series has been around forever, and seems to get worse 
 and worse as time goes on. Test Drive 6 promises the ultimate thrill ride with over forty licensed 
 vehicles, from today's most pricey Jaguars to the classic Dodge muscle cars of yesteryear. But 
 with a bunch of great racing games already on the market, is Test Drive 6 worth even a split second 
 of your precious gaming time? Well The Good Test Drive 6 has a lot of cars and a lot of gameplay 
 modes, although many of the cars and tracks need to be unlocked by winning races, championships, 
 and tournaments. Some of the track designs are interesting. The tracks are relatively large, have 
 multiple paths, and feature smatterings of traffic. There's even busy intersections, which makes 
 running a red light a little risky. Tracks feature interactive objects such as breakable barriers, 
 and the auto paint system makes it easy to create a unique looking ride. The Bad Test Drive 6 looks 
 great... for a first generation N64 game, that is. But in the age of the Dreamcast, that kind of 
 quality just won't suffice. The frame-rate is sluggish and chops up when too many cars are on the 
 screen at the same time, there's significant clipping, and the cars look like plastic toys. The 
 tracks don't fare much better, as they're poorly textured, boring, and lack ambience. The controls 
 are similar to any other Dreamcast racer, with the big difference being that TD6's controls are 
 crappier. Unresponsive, frustrating, and totally unrealistic are just a few of the words I'd use 
 to help describe them. It doesn't feel like you're driving a car, but more like you're pushing 
 a skateboard. Part of this is due to the wacky arcadish physics. Gameplay modes include practice, 
 race, and two-player. Practice is self-explanatory. In two-player mode you and a buddy can compete 
 in a single race, cop chase, quad race, or pink slip. Cop chase involves chasing your buddy down 
 and arresting them, and then switching sides at the end of the race. Quad race is just four single 
 races strung together, and in Pink Slip players bet their saved cars against each other, with the 
 winner taking home both vehicles. None of these modes are particularly entertaining, and two-player 
 mode is hampered by oodles of pop-in and the same chunky frame rate seen in the single player game. 
 Race mode is the main single player portion of the game, and includes single race, tournament race, 
 cop chase, challenges, and garage. You can earn money by winning tournaments, betting in races, 
 beating challenges, or chasing down criminals as a cop. Then you use your winnings in the garage 
 to buy and sell new cars, upgrade engine, brakes, tires, and suspension, or change your transmission. 
 Sound like it might be fun? Well, it could be, except for the fact that the actual racing is boring 
 with a capital B. The tracks are big and lack character, the controls are trash, and since the 
 AI races almost flawlessly, one or two mistakes will knock you out of the race. The interface is 
 clunky, ugly, and inconsistent. There's no auto save, it's sometimes impossible to see what kind 
 of car you're selecting, and there are too many levels of menus. It's also impossible to skip some 
 of the introductory developer\publisher plugs. The sound and music aren't godawful, but they're 
 bad enough to be kept out of The Good section. The sound effects are weak, average at best, and 
 the licensed tracks from Eve 6, Fear Factory, Lunatic Calm, and Empirion (among others) really 
 managed to get on my nerves after a little while. If I hear Fear Factory's Cars one more time, 
 someone will get severely injured. Not only is that song used in the introductory movie, but it's 
 also used within the game, and, to top it all off, they included the music video too! If only they 
 had spent more time making the game fun instead of worrying about what music they were going to 
 license The Final Word Test Drive 6 might be worth renting if you really like racing games or 
 thought Test Drive 5 was cool, but come on, there's a bunch of superior racers already on the Dreamcast. 
 Almost everything Test Drive 6 does, somebody else already does better. What's the point? If I 
 had to sum up this game with one word, I'd just say Blah and stick out my tongue. Not much else 
 would need to be said. Genre: Racing Highs: Some interesting track design, lots of cars. Lows: 
 Looks and plays like crap. Other: 1-2 players, Race Controller Compatible, Arcade Stick Compatible, 
 VGA Cord Compatible. Final Score: 5
  (out of a possible 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Test Drive 6 could have been much better, the music is awesome, the game is very straight forward 
 to play, the cars are good, the graphics and physics? they're very playstation. In fact you could 
 almost be playing a Gran Tourismo game lol. Overall this game is fairly good, but after a while 
 it becomes boring, considering it was released in 1999 its not bad, but we're now in 2006 and there 
 are much better games out there. 
  
  Conclusion, this is a fun game, but its not really worth going out your way to get. The cars are 
 fairly good, but as most hardcore gamers know, the more cars the better, and not just insanely 
 fast ones, but more just average road vechiles like perhaps Nissan Micra's, Ford Fiesta's for example. 
 The graphics do let it down, like, you drive into a tunnel and you feel the road beneath you has 
 disappeared into just black. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishpoo805
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game sucks. There really isn't any real way to argue that this game is superior to a simulation 
 racing like Gran Turismo or Forza Motorsport (in Test Drive 6's defense, this wasn't intended as 
 a simulator.) Their also isn't really any way to argue that this game does well as an arcade racer, 
 comparable to Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit and Daytona USA for the Dreamcast. I really cannot recommend 
 the console versions at all. This game's only saving graces are for the PC (even though it is still 
 pretty abysmal.) Here's a list of the pros and cons of this game:
  
  PROS:
  
  Fast load times (even for lower-end laptops)
  
  Limited to No slowdown
  
  Perfect game 
 for laptops 
  (no 3d card or CD-Rom disk required to play after initial installation)
  
  Decent techno soundtrack
  
  Simple controls
  
  Cheap buy (usually $5 in a bargain bin NEW)
 
  
  CONS:
  
  Lame collision detection (think bumper car physics like in Gran Turismo except you can DRIVE THROUGH 
 LAMPOSTS in certain levels
  
  Bad graphics. The veichles all look like boxes with wheels (other games at this time for the PC 
 didn't contain graphics like this unless it was a budget title. 
  
  Usually too easy for most racing fans
  
  Not enough game modes
  
  
  Overall, worth the 
 purchase price of $5 new. Provides decent amount of entertainment for the investment. The ability 
 to play it on 90% plus PC systems is also a plus (worked on a lousy high school computer!)
  
  Check it out!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emis815
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  Well is this game that bad really??? 4.7? I don't think so. Well its graphics aren't the best. 
 But music is fine. Really music is better that few other games who have higher rating. Really music 
 is comming from acual world class group. Gameplay is simple. Value is as much as it is worth. I 
 cannot say anything bad about it. It is simple game for everyone. It is not complicaded game. I 
 can watch how my little sister wins it easily in practice. If I play it I just go to chalenges 
 and I have some real chalenges. It rec are small so most PC can run it easily... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this over with. I never want to have anything to do with this game ever again except 
 for selling it.
  
  Lets start the gameplay off with this: The AI on this game is impossible to deal with. The other 
 cars are just there. They get pulled over by cops also, they avoid traffic, but they dont have 
 any life. They dont try to run you off the road. They take shortcuts alright, but they seem to 
 take them and the hard corners with such grace that it seems like they're riding on rails. And 
 the traffic makes mewant to go ballistic and destroy something. Brainless. They only respond to 
 you honking your horn, even then they can completely get in the way. And why is there a cop every 
 20 feet in each locale? This game is nothing short of impossible. Having a nail permanently embedded 
 into your hand is better than playing this game. Oh, and I hope you have a sturdy keyboard and 
 desk. You'll find yourself slamming your fist constantly.
  
  The graphics might as well have been just blocks going back and forth. The cars look nothing like 
 their real world counterparts. And I think they looked better on the PS version. The levels try 
 to create a real-world feel and it pulls off nicely. To a certain extent. Your too busy cussing 
 at the traffic to pay attention to the scenery. And the bugs and glitches... OMG. In several places, 
 you seem to run into invisible pillars. And you get hung on walls that ended 5 feet away. If there 
 had been a patch to fix this issue it might be okay today. But there's not. So you just have to 
 deal with it. The only good thing about the sound in this game is the soundtrack. Eve 6, Cirrus, 
 Lunatic Calm, Fear Factory, and Kottonmouth Kings. Fear Factory even has a video with Gary Numan 
 about the song Cars. Even the video is bad. Fear Factory is a great band but even they arent enough 
 to save this game from the humiliation it serves. Once you get done listening to the songs over 
 and over again, you'll want to listen to your own music with something running in the background. 
 Yeah, good luck with that. The cop sirens drown out everything in order to make you alert that 
 there is a cop chasing you. As if you couldn't figure that one out by the red and blue dot flashing 
 on your radar and the constant swerving you'll be doing. The cars don't even sound powerful. More 
 like midis stuck on play &amp; loop. The engine upgrades do nothing to the sound, so its best left 
 at the lowest possible level.
  
  This game lasted as long until I could stand it. One point, I loved it. But looking back, what 
 was I thinking? Years down the road you may want to go back and relive this nightmare. After the 
 twenty or so minutes of living through the hell again is over, put it back in the case and throw 
 it away.
  
  This game belongs in the back of your collection. If you're into old games, you'l; love it. If 
 you like the new nowaday racers: Test Drive what? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
