-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive: Off-Road 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/testdriveoffroad2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 5.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Accolade
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an empty feeling no matter how much air you catch or how many times the rad commentator says 
 "Awesome!" or "Sweeeet!" 

 Ready for high-flying off-road action in a huge assortment of the world's most rugged trucks and 
 SUVs? Wanna get your groove on with intense pedal-stomping, fender-bending vehicular mayhem? Dying 
 to check out exotic and dangerous courses all over the world? You are? Really? Cool. Now all you've 
 gotta do is wait for a game that delivers all that stuff - because Test Drive: Off-Road 2 sure 
 doesn't.  

 In all fairness (and I'm always fair, right?) , off-roading might not be the ideal sport to try to 
 base a game around - or at least not in the hyperfrantic over-the-top style Accolade chose for 
 Off-Road 2. Most of your time is spent with the accelerator smashed to the floor as you bounce 
 all over the track, brushing up against invisible walls and careening back onto the course. Yeah, 
 you get to ram other trucks and jeeps, and you get to make some really big jumps - but so what? 
 It's an empty feeling no matter how much air you catch or how many times the rad commentator says 
 "Awesome!" or "Sweeeet!"  

 But even if extreme off-roading would make for a great game, Test Drive: Off-Road 2 comes up short 
 in so many different areas that it wouldn't matter anyway. There's a total of 12 tracks, but it's 
 really six times two - running a course backward is counted as a separate track. Only four of those 
 can be raced until you place high enough in competition, but when you do that, the first new track 
 that's revealed is - you guessed - one of those four in reverse.  

 There's a whole mess of cars here - some are locked out until you prove yourself, of course - but 
 absolutely zero specs on what you can expect out of them when you hit the dirt. Terrain graphics 
 are a woolly tangle of polygons and pixels, and the cars are plain-Jane renderings on a par with 
 the pickup truck at the start of Redneck Rampage. Get an eyeful of this stuff, and you'll be wondering 
 how the same company that put out the great-looking Test Drive 5 could try to pawn this outmoded 
 PlayStation game on unsuspecting fans of arcade-style racing. Toss in some high weirdness with 
 the frame rate - it's either really choppy or the graphics just make it seem that way - and engine 
 sound effects that sound like Keith Emerson's first attempt at playing a Moog, and you've basically 
 got nothing worth watching here unless you want to admire the digitized 2D images of lifeguards 
 or Arabs on camels.  

 Topping it all off is one of the laziest interface designs I've had the displeasure of dealing with 
 in a long time. Want a first-person perspective? Fine - you don't get a hood, wheel, or speedometer, 
 just a ground-level view of those dubious terrain graphics. That worked OK in Test Drive 5, but 
 in Off-Road 2 it makes it look like you're tearing through the desert on a jet-powered luge.  

 
 Then again, you might have trouble finding that first-person perspective because the manual doesn't 
 tell you what the views (0-7) are; you've got to load up a race and check it out until you get 
 the one you want. Feel like changing button assignments? Too bad - there's no option to assign 
 any commands to keys or buttons. I know, you want to check out the instant replay and savor some 
 of those killer jumps you made in the last race - but you're out of luck again because there's 
 absolutely no instant replay whatsoever.  

 And a word of warning to you fans of hard-core metal and industrial rock who might be tempted to 
 pick this game up for the soundtrack tunes by Sevendust, Gravity Kills, and Fear Factory: Don't 
 bother. There's a total of four tunes here (guess it matches the measly number of available tracks 
 at the start of the game) , and only one of them is worth a listen.  

 Some games are so good you never forget them, and some are so bad that you can't wipe them from 
 your memory no matter how hard you try. Test Drive: Off-Road 2 obviously doesn't fall into the 
 first category, but it doesn't qualify for the second either. Instead, it's one of those very, 
 very special games that's almost completely forgettable from the moment you hit the Quit button. 
 Maybe if they'd put some guns or flamethrowers on the jeeps or put land mines on the course... 
 nah, never mind. It would still be bad.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 3
  Graphics: 4
  Sounds: 2
  Value: 3
  Tilt: 3
  
  The Test Drive series has certainly come a long way since the early days of the original Test Drive 
 back in 1987 where you get to race the hottest cars for that time. It was positively an exciting 
 game and brought me good (yet frustrating) memories. Actually my first Test Drive 
 experience was Test Drive II as Im a lover for Porsches and considering my friend loves 
 Ferraris it was a good game to play (I thought the Ferrari was slightly the better car but thats 
 another story) . Also when it comes to racing games, my preference is off-road better than tarmac 
 therefore I couldnt resist playing Test Drive: Off-Road 2 as I didnt have a copy 
 of Off-Road 1 and besides I have a habit of playing the sequels first.
  
  The concept behind Test Drive: Off-Road 2 is to win races; and to win races you need to earn cash 
 to buy cars; and how to earn cash is to win races. As you can see, its a compelling argument 
 as the premises ends where it starts. You start of with 24k and considering all 20 plus vehicles 
 are open to buy (yes there is absolutely no unlocking feature here) naturally you can only purchase 
 to what cash you have. In addition there's no stats on how each vehicle performs (e. g. handling, 
 speed, acceleration etc) therefore you can assume that the more expensive the vehicle, the better. 
 This was a disappointing feature as previous Test Drive games display all the cars in detail therefore 
 can sway your purchasing decision.
  
  As with many racing games, there is an option to play Time Trial, World Tour or multiplayer. Majority 
 of your time is located in the World Tour option, earning the big bucks and having the opportunity 
 to unlock more tracks as initially six are open. Now here comes the exciting part 
 and possible spoilers for which I will spoil for you regardless; there are actually six additonal 
 tracks (making a grand total of twelve) and four of the newly discovered six tracks are the same 
 tracks in reverse so did I spoil this for you? If so then good and you owe me big time. If you 
 do choose the multiplayer option be prepared for the game to crash as it really struggles to understand 
 the term multiplayer.
  
  The controls are stock standard as far as an arcade racer goes as you have the choice between keyboard 
 or joystick controls yet regardless what you choose there is no options to optimise the controls 
 and to add salt to the wounds, the display is locked at whatever resolution; that said youll 
 be racing at a cool 13 FPS with plenty of screen shacking as your beast of burden looses control 
 more times than the amount of sand located in the Sahara desert (Im not sure what the last 
 count was but I can imagine its a very high number indeed) . Yet with all this havoc driving 
 if you manage to grab that glorified first position (and unlock those reverse tracks) there is 
 no replay option therefore you need to bask in your own glory; but of course you can install another 
 program to record your victory but sorry to burst your bubble I really dont want to see 
 it  it will cause me a headache again but I trust you regardless.
  
  Visually Off-road 2 is a pixilated mess as it doesnt help being a ported Play Station console 
 and probably explains the very limited optimisation. The vehicles come across as something from 
 the early 90s as they have very little features. The wheels dont turn that often (as a matter-of-fact 
 your car spins more often than the wheels) , no real smoke affects coupled with cartooned-like 
 landscapes will guarantee burnt eyes. If anything good arrives from this is the choice of colours; 
 all things vibrant as the water is blue, the sand yellow, the snow bright white and so forth. As 
 mentioned before, very cartoon-like for something that tries to represents a life-like off-road 
 experience. Considering the wide variety of landscapes (e. g. snowy Switzerland, rocky Morocco, 
 sandy Mojave and so forth) I guess viewing the different landscapes does add a little excitement.
 
  
  When viewing the all exhilarating intro cut-scene where the off-roaders smashing their way through 
 trees and splashing through the riverbanks it was advertised some top-notch rock bands play as 
 the musical scores in this game (e. g. Fear Factory) . Well, this is a little of a misdemeanor as 
 there are only four scores in the entire game with no options to add your own. In addition, the 
 off-road vehicles all sounded like different variances of Victor lawnmowers and that idiotic speech 
 of punk, oh no and so forth makes you want to switch off the sounds 
 altogether (this time there is an option for that  surprise, surprise) . The only sounds 
 I quite like is the squeal and strains from the axel as all the vehicles bounces around like a 
 jack-rabbit on heat and swerve around like scurried ants.
  
  There is very little of replay value when playing this game. Considering all off-road vehicles 
 can be driven manual or auto my advice is to play on auto as you really cannot hear the engines 
 when revving up hence that you did not finish remark will arrive quite often. Of 
 course you can try and achieve that top ten list of drivers but who really cares 
  maybe your ego perhaps but thats about it. Multiplayer/LAN  nah as it will 
 crash the program and besides you need another human partner and please dont 
 look at me; Im glad I finished it and lastly as far as the manual goes, it resembles like 
 someone from the sixth grade written it as a school project.
  
  Its a total shame that the Test Drive name is tagged all over this product 
 as it now placed a sour taste in my mouth. Once it brought me good memories and now shivers. I 
 guess the Test Drive logo wasnt meant to be for off-road racing and really the developers 
 should either stick to what they done best or dont release incomplete products. I guess 
 the only best feature for this game is when you press the exit button there is a 
 choice between get out or stay. Guess what I have chosen 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
