-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/testdrive/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 17, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 5.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Pitbull Syndicate
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Dec 8, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can live with Test Drive's shortcomings and you relish the thought of ridiculous high speeds 
 and occasional collisions, you might want to give it a try. 

 Infogrames' long-lived Test Drive games is still around, in spite of the fact that the series has 
 never really earned a great deal of critical acclaim. From the onset, the latest iteration of this 
 surprisingly resilient series seems to offer little more than its ancestors. Yet there's something 
 about this version of Test Drive -- entitled simply "Test Drive" -- that puts it ahead of its predecessors. 
 Despite its unrealistic physics, repetitive racing, and insufficient options, the game can, at 
 times, be surprisingly enjoyable. Considering how limited the selection of foot-to-the-floor arcade 
 racers has been lately, Test Drive seems like a much more attractive prospect than it otherwise 
 might have.           A tricked-out Camaro hits the darkened city streets.    

 Developed by Pitbull Syndicate -- the same studio responsible for the three most recent Test Drive 
 games (not including Test Drive Off-Road or Le Mans) -- the latest game in the series follows the 
 familiar Test Drive formula of late-model street-legal cars, impossible speeds, and public thoroughfares. 
 Ultimately, you'll have an opportunity to drive no fewer than 20 real-life automobiles, including 
 exotic cars such as the Lotus Elise and the Jaguar XK-R; horsepower-infused monsters such as the 
 Shelby Cobra and the Chevy Corvette; and traditional muscle cars such as an early '70s Dodge Charger 
 or the Plymouth Barracuda.   

  And even though Test Drive has only half the number of drivable cars as the previous game in the 
 series, Test Drive 6, the quality and performance of the cars in Test Drive are considerably improved. 
 Whereas Test Drive 6's vehicles handled in a decidedly jumpy, digital manner that often veered 
 drivers spastically into the nearest abutment, Test Drive's cars react in a smooth, graduated fashion 
 far more suited to a racing game. You can even lock your brakes or enter a controlled four-wheel 
 drift. But it should be noted that Test Drive's cars don't handle realistically -- driving one will 
 seem more like taking the wheel of a speedboat, rather than a vehicle on dry land.   

  Fortunately, the latest game in the Test Drive series has generally wide and accommodating roadways 
 to keep you off the guardrails and obstacles -- a considerable improvement on the tracks of previous 
 games, which featured slim, snaking courses that forced you to collide continually with barriers 
 and other annoyances. However, you'll still run into your fair share of traffic cones, traffic 
 barriers, peripheral traffic, lamp standards, and other assorted roadside debris in Test Drive, 
 since the game is loaded with movable objects, immobile objects, and superhuman pedestrians who 
 somehow always manage to leap out of your path at the last second.           These superhuman pedestrians 
 always seem to leap out of the way.    

 Unfortunately, Test Drive does feature one of the most annoying aspects of the series -- the so-called 
 "rubber-band AI," which causes your opponents to always perform in accordance with your current 
 speed and situation. If you're driving in a closely knit pack and suddenly lose several seconds 
 by entangling yourself with an oncoming car or obstacle, for some bizarre reason, the entire pack 
 ahead of you slows to a virtual standstill waiting for you to regain the lost ground. Likewise, 
 no matter how well you drive in a given event, you'll never really gain a substantial lead on your 
 opponents.   

  Graphically, Test Drive looks impressive. Each of the game's four scenic and distinct environments 
 features a broad selection of roadways, ranging from the famous hills of San Francisco to the freeway 
 mazes of Tokyo and the dense, tight surroundings of London and Monaco. In addition, none of the 
 four cities confines you to a specific type of thoroughfare. In San Francisco, for example, you'll 
 hurtle through the air in the undulating downtown section, hit top speed along the curvy highways 
 outside of town, and flash over the Golden Gate Bridge. In Tokyo, you'll pick your way nimbly along 
 cherry-blossom-lined passageways before reaching terminal velocity on the wide adjoining arteries, 
 though you'll usually end up covering the same sections of pavement several times before moving 
 on, which can seem repetitive.     

 One of the most obvious improvements in Test Drive is the visual quality of its vehicles and scenery. 
 Whereas Test Drive 6's cars looked like nothing more than cheap toys, Test Drive's cars are more 
 detailed and impressively realistic. In addition, the game features realistic perspectives while 
 driving, rather than the strange, elongated views and skewed camera angles that were present in 
 the previous games. The game also features a replay mode that lets you watch yourself and your 
 opponents tear through the game's jam-packed city courses.           This Shelby Cobra prepares 
 for a twilight takeoff.    

 Test Drive also has a number of other new features, including a storyline. In the central Test Drive 
 mode, mysteriously named "underground," you'll assume the identity of ultracool wheelman Dennis 
 Black. Hired by a wealthy and only somewhat enigmatic employer to engage in a succession of illegal 
 but highly organized street races, you'll soon find yourself battling fender-to-fender on the streets 
 of San Francisco with several other top-ranked underground racers. You'll run a total of 10 sub-six-minute 
 events in the City by the Bay before moving on to 10 more in Tokyo and more still in London and 
 Monaco, unlocking cars and tracks along the way for use in the game's single race modes.   

  Each sequence of underground events consists of a variety of race types. The vast majority are 
 point-to-point or circuit affairs conducted through a web of urban and rural streets and highways 
 looping in and around each city. In these races, you must finish in the top three of six or face 
 banishment from the secretive league. You'll also receive an occasional personal challenge from 
 one or more members of your racing fraternity to a two-driver circuit or drag race, with the winner 
 emerging with his adversary's automobile. Such communication is delivered in combination with an 
 array of good-natured bantering via a two-way video hookup installed in your car. The underground 
 mode sounds interesting, but it's not perfect; since you can immediately restart with no penalty, 
 there's no real element of risk. Also, the chatter you'll exchange with your opponents is completely 
 scripted, and finally, it's a little too easy.   

  Test Drive is also woefully short on peripheral amenities and options. For instance, the game lacks 
 features like a garage or parts-upgrade facility. In fact, with the exception of being able to 
 alter the base color of your car's body at a rudimentary paint shop, you can't enact any modifications. 
 You won't find a rearview mirror, a visible cockpit, or any trace of body or mechanical damage 
 in Test Drive either. The game does offer day and night races, but it does not support weather 
 variables, and multiplayer racing is restricted to hot-seat play: two players on a single computer. 
 However, Test Drive does offer several alternatives to the central undergound mode. Single race 
 options include linear point-to-point events, cop chases, drag races, and navigation challenges, 
 each of which places you in a distinctive situation and requires you to perform specific tasks. 
           Completing the underground mode unlocks new vehicles.    

 Test Drive's audio isn't perfect either. The game's tire noise is hidden, and its incidental cross-traffic 
 engine sounds are erratic. Additionally, we auditioned the game on two systems and noticed sound 
 effect dropouts on each -- a rather unfortunate problem for a racing game to have, since you often 
 rely upon the note of your engine to decide when and where to shift gears or otherwise adjust your 
 speed. As is common for the Test Drive series, the latest game features an impressive and instantly 
 recognizable selection of modern urban and hard rock selections from artists such as DMX and Ja 
 Rule. Parents should note that some songs feature moderately objectionable lyrics.   

  Test Drive seems sure to disappoint fans of realistic racing, and it's not exactly the pinnacle 
 of arcade-style driving either. However, the game represents a considerable improvement over its 
 predecessors. If you can live with Test Drive's shortcomings and you relish the thought of ridiculous 
 high speeds and occasional collisions, you might want to give it a try.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  test drive the video game this game is not the best racing game but it packs the FALCON PUNCH! 
 out of any classic 2002 racing game to date. there are 80 race street race tracks to choose from. 
 u play as this characher called dennis black which u work for a total noob that wants u to get 
 his cars back. there are also 4 city or sites to go to like tokyo, san fransico, london and last 
 monte carlo. there are about 25 cars to choose from like ford gt dodge concept and so on. to unlock 
 track and cars and city u go to the story mode. the game is kinda challenging in a way. controls 
 on keyboard the controls arnt the bad but the steering wheels controls are pretty bad. last question 
 is this game a buy or rent game. buy it just buy it or else.
  control 7
  gameplay 10
  sound 7 
  graphics 9
  overall 9 if u like this game try test drive unlimted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaolanyi
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't think it's right, do you?
  
  See the graphic at the top right? It links to the donate to Aarons legal costs post. You can start 
 by giving him a few $$$'s to fight these people effectively.
  
  By using one of these banners on your blog, forum or website, you will help spread the word, and 
 raise more cash - enabling better lawyers and legal council. Simply pick one that fits your site, 
 and link it to the donate post.
  
  Simple eh? Don't you feel GOOD now?
  
  The ability to have and voice your opinion is something that makes having a website great. Dissenting 
 opinions and heated discussion help to advance most things that evolved. It's not always good to 
 agree, and comments let people do that.
  
  Within the Search industry, these people are regarded as the lowest of the low, and if you dig 
 through some of those Search results, or the links at the bottom of this post, you'll find all 
 the gory details. Suffice to say, they are not regarded very highly by the overwhelming majority 
 of the Search Marketing community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfs_strKing
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  This game seems to me like its the evolutionary stage between the classic arcade racing games, and 
 the new street racing games, while it is very enjoyable and keeps both aspects. The whole career 
 game revolves around a street racer, who you play as to win races which reward you with new cars. There's 
 no customization, though there are several tuner cars you can win.
  You can create a custom colour for your cars. You dont collect money to buy them, and all cars unlocked 
 in the career become available for quick race. The racing itself is unrealistic, and happens on closed 
 tracks. There are cops, but theyre presence is nothing special. So far this is what this game has 
 taken from the classic arcade racing. The new thing here is the influence from "Fast and Furious", the 
 new soundtrack, the underground racing thrills presented.
  Try it, its really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrustyKids
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  test drive is quite fun when you get into it which takes a while it has custom sound which you 
 can put in like grand theft auto the racing gets frustrating and the turning of the cars is horrible 
 its one of the arcade machine type game and its sound is horrible.
  
  the graphics are good for 2002 but at times can be ugly the crashes make everything go spas and 
 you go flippin back and no damage is done.
  
  the charcters are all the same saying yo dogg u wanna race yeah how about in tokyo now oh okay 
 then lets race there. i think there are 5 cities london tokyo san fransisco and some other places 
 they are all different but have differnt cars though all the cars handle and go the same speed 
 just differnt car models they lots of cars from lotus dodge nissan and other companies theres about 
 15 cars or something
  
  you start as a newb racer some guy called black and your replacing this guy for a while after he 
 had an accident (yes he peed himself) and you just go racing different cars and same people and 
 then you win there cars and that goes on when mr pee himself comes back and races you once in every 
 city and you win his car extremely bad ending i might add. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
