-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive Le Mans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/testdrivelemans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.8, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 46 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Infogrames
Developer: Eutechnyx
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Test Drive Le Mans should be more than enough to keep arcade-racing fans happy for a while at least. 
 

 If you pick up Test Drive Le Mans expecting a full-blown simulation with realistic physics and a 
 strict adherence to the motorsport's format and rules, you're likely to become very disappointed. 
 There are no two ways about it: Test Drive Le Mans is an arcade-style racing game through and through 
 - but the good news is that if you can look past some of the design decisions and oversights, the 
 action is actually pretty satisfying.  

 Test Drive Le Mans offers three modes of play, all presumably designed to let impatient gamers jump 
 into a GT1, GT2, or prototype vehicle and start racing with minimal muss or fuss. The arcade mode 
 features three race types: Practice and time attack put you alone on the track, while challenge 
 puts you at the back of an eight-car field for a five-lap race. To play for the championship, you 
 sign up for a lowly GT2 team and try to climb your way up the ladder to the faster prototypes and 
 GT1 divisions by finishing first at the end of the season. Finally, there's the 24 hours of Le 
 Mans itself, which offers a time-compression feature that lets you see the transition from day 
 to night and back again in a race as short as 12 minutes.  

 Regardless of which mode you choose, you'll soon see why hard-core racing-simulation fans are likely 
 to shake their heads at Test Drive Le Mans. Only three camera views are available, including a 
 bumper-cam, a hood-cam, and a behind-the-car perspective, so you can forget the idea of sitting 
 inside the cockpit of your car. The game's setup options are paltry: You can modify your car's 
 fuel amount and choose from several tire types, three generic downforce settings, and three steering-sensitivity 
 settings, as well as toggle traction control and transmission type, though the game completely 
 ignores gear ratios and brake bias. This grade-school garage will be your first inkling that Test 
 Drive Le Mans doesn't model a whole lot of real-world detail - a suspicion that'll be confirmed 
 when you see cars stick to the track like slot cars, even in the sharpest turns.  

 But real-world physics and cockpit views are two of the biggest drains on CPU horsepower in a racing 
 game. And because Test Drive Le Mans isn't burdened with them, the developers were able to use 
 those resources to create impressive car graphics and hauntingly realistic trackside scenery, and 
 still achieve smooth frame rates even at high resolutions. Once you accept that you'll simply have 
 to downshift or decelerate to negotiate 95 percent of the turns in Test Drive Le Mans, you'll find 
 that its combination of drop-dead gorgeous graphics and phenomenal sensation of speed would surely 
 make all but the most serious race fans smile.  

 The game features seven tracks besides Le Mans, but whether or not they're based on actual tracks 
 is a mystery. The box copy claims the seven circuits are ACO approved, but in trying to find out 
 more about their real-life counterparts, the best I could come up with was that some of them are 
 named after certain sections of the Le Mans course itself. This is just one example of the carefree 
 attitude the game and manual take as far as familiarizing us Ugly Americans with the nuances of 
 the motorsport. Instead of providing driver bios, track histories, and other information to bring 
 newcomers up to speed, Test Drive Le Mans is content to simply slap a picture of the circuit on 
 the screen and list the names of the teams that are competing - some of which might as well be 
 in Esperanto for those unfamiliar with the world of GT racing and the 24 hours of Le Mans. The 
 game claims that the "drivers race like their real-world counterparts," which is hard to verify 
 because you're never told who the drivers are for each team. But if the assertion is true, then 
 the real-world counterparts have a sadistic proclivity to simply ram your car when things aren't 
 going their way. As for car specifications, all you get is a console-style graphic bar rating each 
 vehicle for speed, acceleration, handling, and braking.  

 But you can forget all these things if you simply repeat to yourself that "it's just an arcade racer" 
 over and over again as you burn down the wonderfully rendered courses. However, you won't as easily 
 overlook the design decision to lock so many tracks and cars, especially since the instructions 
 on just what you need to do to unveil them are so unclear. The setup for Le Mans race is even more 
 frustrating: Until you perform well enough in the championship mode, you're stuck in the slower 
 GT2 cars in which the best you can hope for is to finish first in your class. You can play in amateur 
 mode to give yourself a better chance of success, but the game will automatically turn off damage 
 and tire wear.  

 You can take along minimum fuel to increase your qualifying time, but then you'll be shocked to 
 find yourself magically transported to race day with that same amount of fuel in your tank. Someone 
 figured no one would want to hit the garage between the qualifying race and the real race. What's 
 more, it'd be nice to tweak the limited setup options available during a practice session before 
 a championship race - but there's no option to practice before a championship race, so you're forced 
 to use the time attack race in arcade mode to get used to the track. Of course, that doesn't really 
 matter much anyway since the computer-controlled drivers tend to turn in qualifying times 20 seconds 
 faster than yours, then fall one by one during a ten-lap championship race as you blow by them 
 at every turn or corner.  

 There's also a problem with Le Mans itself. It's a drag to have to slog your way through a couple 
 of seasons before getting to the really hot cars - but when you finally earn the right to drive 
 a GT1, you'll be disappointed on several counts once you hit the world-famous course. Believe it 
 or not, Le Mans itself isn't nearly as good looking as the game's other courses - the track looks 
 grainy, and in several spots the game runs into uncharacteristic frame-rate problems. When the 
 sun goes down, you'll be shocked to see that the headlights are practically worthless - more than 
 once I hit the headlight button just to make sure they were even on.  

 Last but not least, there's an issue with saving your progress between races. You can compress time 
 to finish the marathon event over a much shorter period of time, but if you decide to tackle the 
 whole enchilada, then be prepared to leave your computer on for the duration. There's no way to 
 save a game in the middle of the 24-hour classic, nor is there a computer driver (as in Sports 
 Car GT) to take over for you while you stretch your legs.  

 Yet even with all its nagging problems, Test Drive Le Mans is still a kick to play. It's similar 
 to last year's Motorhead with real-life cars but without that game's good multiplayer options. 
 And for a retail price of under $30, Test Drive Le Mans should be more than enough to keep arcade-racing 
 fans happy for a while at least.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  The 24-hour Le Mans race is touted as the most famous race in the world and they have been running 
 this race since 1923. You have three game modes. The first is Le Mans Mode. Your objective is to 
 complete more laps in a 24-hour period than any other racer. Do you have the guts to try it? You 
 will have a choice between two GT2 cars. If you are playing in Amateur mode, your card will not 
 sustain damage, but it does in Professional mode. In this mode, you are in a life-like simulation 
 of the race so you probably won't survive a pile up. In Championship Mode, faster cars are unlocked 
 if you were successful in winning races. Now you might be asking yourself, 24 hours sure is a long 
 time to play a game, but do not fear. You can choose the time period, and if you do choose the 
 24-hour mode, it can be compressed to a time that you choose. You can also choose to qualify for 
 your race. The better you do, the better your position during the rolling start. If you choose 
 not to qualify, you will start at the back. In Arcade Mode, you have three options: Challenge, 
 Time Attack, and Practice. Practice is a good place to start. In Challenge Mode, you race to win. 
 Winning gets you closer to the cup - win all the cups, unlock new challenge cups. Time attack is 
 just what it says. You are trying to be the fastest car with the best time. Do that and you when 
 the cup. In Practice Mode, you can race any of the tracks that you have unlocked, with any of the 
 cars that you have unlocked, but there is no Championship progression. In Championship Mode, you 
 are racing a season of predetermined races. You are rewarded points for each race, depending on 
 your performance. To win you must have the most points. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
