-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive Unlimited
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/testdriveunlimited/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Being able to encounter other online drivers at any given time is extremely cool.
 single-player and multiplayer components are blended nicely into one cohesive package.
 a huge, picturesque island with seemingly endless roads.
 lots of available races.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online game isn't quite as &quot;unlimited&quot; as it initially seems.
 no real thread to tie together any of what you're doing on the island.
 some ugly issues diminish the overall graphical quality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,023 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Eden Studios
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Mar 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not as unlimited as its subtitle suggests, and it has a pervasively aimless feel, but Test 
 Drive Unlimited still creates a fun, leisurely world to drive in. 

  Late last year, Atari and developer Eden Studios released Test Drive Unlimited for the Xbox 360. 
 Purportedly the first "massively open online racing" game, Unlimited provided you with a wide-open 
 setting (the Hawaiian island of Oahu) , a myriad of slick rides, tons of different races to take 
 part in, and an online mode that actually let you occupy the same basic driving space as other 
 online players and challenge them in competition. Not everything the game did on the 360 worked 
 brilliantly, but it was an inventive and unique piece of technology that was impressive in its 
 own right. Now the game has come to the PC, and for all intents and purposes, this version is nearly 
 identical to the 360 game. It's a little rougher around the edges than its 360 counterpart, but 
 if you never played the 360 version and think the idea of racing around Hawaii while bumping up 
 against other online players sounds like fun, this version's worth a look.  

          If nothing else, Test Drive Unlimited is a nice change of pace from the typical batches 
 of cheesy street racers and hardcore driving sims.     

  You start by picking a basic character model to represent yourself, and you're whisked away to 
 fabulous Hawaii to buy a car and a house, do a lot of random racing, and drive hitchhikers and 
 models around the island for some reason. That's about all there is to the premise. While it's 
 not shocking that a racing game wouldn't have a major, in-depth storyline, the way the game introduces 
 itself and the open-ended nature of the game world give you the impression that there might be 
 some kind of plot to tie everything you do together. There isn't. The lack of a cohesive thread 
 to the missions and races does make Test Drive seem a bit pointless, but after a while, you cease 
 to care and find yourself oddly engaged by this scattershot series of objectives. It helps that 
 there is quite a lot to do on the island. The objectives themselves don't extend beyond races, 
 time trials, speed challenges, and some basic delivery missions, but there are enough of them to 
 keep you going as you explore the massive island of Oahu.  

  The way the game forces you to explore is clever. You start out with only a few available mission 
 icons on the huge world map, but as time goes on, you'll see more and more begin to pop up across 
 the entire stretch of the island. If you happen to have driven through a road where an objective 
 resides, you can simply click on that icon on the map and be instantly transported there. But if 
 an icon appears on a road you've never driven on before, you have to drive there to access it. 
 What this does is force you to cruise through just about every nook and cranny of Oahu without 
 being overly pushy about it. There's often more than enough races and missions available at any 
 given time, so if you don't feel like driving halfway across the island to see something new, you 
 won't necessarily be hurting for things to do right where you already are.  

  It's just too bad there's not more variety to what you end up doing. Races are fairly typical street 
 races, with up to seven opponent drivers and a number of checkpoints scattered throughout a course. 
 There's a huge roster of them to take part in on various roads that range from hairpin-filled hill 
 climbs to straight-and-narrow city races. There's also the time trials, as well as the speed challenges, 
 which task you either with driving a set speed past a number of speed traps laid about a course, 
 or simply reaching a designated speed within a set amount of time. The missions are more repetitive, 
 which come in only a few set categories. You'll either find yourself delivering illicit packages 
 for seedy individuals, delivering some of the game's more expensive rides to dealerships and mechanics, 
 delivering hitchhikers to their desired destinations, or delivering high-strung models to their 
 homes after a long day of shopping. Basically, you're a delivery service no matter how you look 
 at it, and the only variances are in what you're delivering, and occasionally what kind of car 
 you're driving. Fortunately, the various races and challenges are quite a bit more compelling than 
 these missions. However, you don't earn nearly as much cash just sticking to the races, so you'll 
 likely be inspired to put up with the monotony of the missions.  

  Why? Because without cash, you can't buy any of the game's numerous cars, houses, clothes, or upgrades. 
 Obviously, the big draw is the cars, and there are over 90 licensed cars and motorcycles available 
 in the game. From basic rides like Volkswagens, Chryslers, and Chevys to more exotic models of 
 Lamborghinis, Ferraris, and Aston Martins, there are plenty of available cars, and you can likely 
 expect even more to be made available via the Xbox Live Marketplace at some point. Paying more 
 for new cars isn't the most ideal scenario, but at a less-than-full-retail-price $40 price tag 
 for the game, it's a little bit easier to swallow.  

  Building up a car collection is key, as you'll need at least one car from each of the available 
 A-through-G car classes, since at one point or another, you'll encounter races that require cars 
 from these specific classes. Some races also require very specific cars, but if you don't want 
 to buy them, there are rental agencies that will give you access to those cars for 10 to 20 minutes 
 at a time. To house all your rides, you'll find yourself buying real estate throughout the island. 
 Each house has its own look, but more importantly includes at least a four-car garage, if not higher. 
 The houses don't have a ton of purpose beyond acting as basic hub levels and as a storage area 
 for cars, but they're a nice touch all the same. You can also spend credits you earn from the hitchhiker 
 and model missions on clothes for your character. Though it's not as if you stare at your character 
 much while you're driving, there are enough cutscenes in the game to where it sort of makes sense 
 to be able to dress up your driver in some new threads.  

          There's a ton of races and missions in the game, though the variety of objectives is smaller 
 than you might prefer.     

  Other ways to earn money involve the online component of the game. You can tap into the online 
 audience by creating your own custom race challenges for them to take part in, or by selling your 
 cars via the online trading market. Buying and selling cars is exceptionally simple; all you have 
 to do is jump into the trade menu when you're in one of your houses, and buy and sell accordingly. 
 You can set prices however you like, though you'll likely want to judge the market for your particular 
 brand of car before trying to price gouge people with that Volkswagen Golf you have no use for. 
 Creating challenges is a bit more involved a process. With this feature, you can map out a course 
 of just about any length using all the available roads on the island. You can set all sorts of 
 arbitrary rules, like time limits, whether or not the driver is relegated to the cockpit camera 
 view, and whatnot, and you can also set entry fees and awards. Of course, the trick is that the 
 awards are taken from your bank account, so you'll want to be careful with how much cash you're 
 dishing out. Fortunately, there's also a time limit for how long a custom challenge can sit on 
 the servers, so you're not destined to get gouged by people forever. You will, however, be able 
 to access your custom challenges within your own game for however long you like.  

  The online driving audience is obviously a big draw of Test Drive Unlimited, since so much of the 
 multiplayer functionality has just been built into the basic gameworld. There is no quick-and-dirty 
 multiplayer menu to jump into to find a match. Every designated multiplayer race appears as an 
 icon on the map just like the offline races, and at each race you'll find the option to jump into 
 a player match or a ranked match with any other players hanging out at that race. It's a little 
 bit more convoluted than a standard menu system, since you might have to scan the various online 
 race icons on the map, trying to find a race to get into, but in our testing, we found a decent 
 number of competitors at just about every race hub, though mostly for player matches. Ranked matches 
 have been decidedly fewer in quantity. It's probably also worth mentioning that Test Drive Unlimited 
 doesn't offer any kind of single-system multiplayer, so if you want to play against friends, it'll 
 have to be online.     

  If you prefer simply driving the open roads to sticking to predetermined courses, you also have 
 the option of tracking down other players free riding around the city. This is where the whole 
 MMOG comparison comes in (or as the game refers to it, MOOR, or massively open online racing) , 
 as players driving around the city are very visible to you while you're not engaged in a race or 
 mission, and if you happen upon any rival online drivers, you can challenge them to a quick race 
 for cash and ranking points. All you have to do is flash your headlights at them, and they can 
 choose to accept or decline the challenge; if they accept, you just pick a finish line somewhere 
 away from where you're currently situated, and race to the end.  

          One thing you can't argue with is the myriad of hot rides the game offers up.     

 
  The whole system of being able to find other, random players while simply driving around the island 
 sounds brilliant on paper, but it doesn't offer quite as much freedom as you might hope for. For 
 one thing, you can't just run into every single driver that happens to be in your vicinity. Though 
 you'll certainly find plenty of other players driving around, there seems to be a limit on exactly 
 how many can appear to you while you're in a specific zone of the island, and getting specific 
 players into your zone can be kind of a pain if they aren't already on your friends list. It's 
 not a bad system in theory, since it does prevent the streets from getting overcrowded with rival 
 racers, and to its credit, the switches between instances as you drive around are completely seamless, 
 but if you want to find someone specific that isn't automatically appearing on your list, it's 
 a rather clunky process.  

  Still, caveats aside, the multiplayer is where it's at, both because of the variety of ways to 
 compete and because the online competition is just better than the offline. When you're racing 
 offline, the opponent artificial intelligence is, in a word, limited. Opponents wreck and end up 
 in the dirt more than you will, and the only advantage they'll ever have is if they have a markedly 
 faster ride than you do. You'll also notice that if you end up having to redo races a few times, 
 the opponents will follow the exact same AI routines every time, braking at the same points, veering 
 around other drivers at the same times, and things like that. The only thing that can seem to throw 
 them off this is you wrecking into them, but after a while, the routine resumes.  

  That's about the worst thing you can say for the in-car action, however; the core driving mechanics 
 are quite solid. The handling of the various cars can take some getting used to, as almost every 
 car is a bit squirrelly and prone to random spinouts. But once you get a handle on things, you 
 can pretty easily master the controls and take to the roads with minimal issue. Of course, you'll 
 still have to navigate around AI-controlled traffic and, occasionally, cops. But it's more the 
 random traffic that poses an issue than the cops. Whereas AI cars will sometimes veer into you 
 at random or bunch up at intersections, cops rarely seem to care terribly much what you do. Scraping 
 or crashing into other cars alerts them, but you have to do it a bunch of times in a short period 
 before they'll really start coming after you. Typically, all you have to do is avoid wrecking for 
 around 10 seconds after alerting them, and your alert level will just drop right back to nothing. 

  Obviously, the lack of cop interaction prevents them from getting in the way of your enjoyment 
 of driving around the island. In fact, with the exception of the AI traffic and largely immovable 
 scenery, everything about Test Drive's design seems built with the expressed purpose of making 
 Oahu as leisurely a place to drive around as humanly possible. Sure, the racing can get intense 
 at times, and there are few things more frustrating than taking on a timed car-delivery mission 
 and inadvertently wrecking into another car while trying to take a blind corner as quickly as possible, 
 but for the most part, driving around Oahu is a relaxing experience. The game's mileage counts 
 for each point-to-point drive are completely accurate, and unlike most games that tell you that 
 you'll be going 15 miles to your destination, you  feel  like you're driving a realistic 15 miles. 
 For some, the pacing of the island's travels might feel kind of sluggish, but for those who just 
 like the idea of driving a hot car against a striking backdrop, Test Drive provides precisely that. 

  And it is quite a striking backdrop. Oahu is rendered with a high level of detail, and it looks 
 extremely pretty as you're driving from place to place. Of course, most of the island's highways 
 stick to the shorelines and heavily populated areas, but there's plenty of windy mountain roads 
 and backcountry areas to explore, too. If you've got a high-end PC, you're going to see crisper 
 in-game visuals, especially if you run it in HD mode. It doesn't look perfect, mind you. When you 
 aren't speeding along, some of the more obvious texture seams and lower-resolution set pieces tend 
 to stick out, and the fact that there's absolutely no people at all wandering around a bustling 
 beach community is altogether weird; but at high speeds, the environments look great, especially 
 with the attractive motion-blur effect the game uses. Unfortunately, high speeds also sometimes 
 cause some problems for the game. Specifically, texture pop-in and frame rate hiccups tend to occur 
 at frequent rates. The actual frame rate never seems to drop below 30, but you'll see these quick 
 hitches from time to time that can be a little off-putting. The environmental streaming also tends 
 to chug a bit no matter how powerful your system is, and we did run into some occasional graphical 
 glitches specific to the PC version, like extreme amounts of flickering from the textures and lighting. 

  The cars in the game are modeled beautifully, looking like pristine, out-of-the-factory renditions 
 of their real-life counterparts. There's no damage modeling to any of the licensed vehicles, though 
 you can damage the generic AI traffic. Collisions look strange, though, as the physics of you smashing 
 into another car at a 150 miles per hour just don't look right. It's also bizarre when you go head-on 
 into a lamppost or fence or something equally unassuming, and get stopped on a dime by it. There's 
 also no car-customization element to speak of. There are some basic performance upgrades you can 
 buy that sometimes do involve some visual upgrades, but there's no way to trick out your ride to 
 make it look like  your ride  beyond basic paint jobs and some rim upgrades you can grab at the 
 time you purchase a car. It's just strange that a racing game involving such a community-driven 
 design would go to the trouble of letting you play dress-up with your character that is barely 
 visible outside of cutscenes (and also doesn't look particularly good, dressed-up or not) , but 
 wouldn't let you give your various cars more unique identities. Each car also has its own unique 
 cockpit view that's accurate to the real car; a feature sure to please the kinds of car fanatics 
 that love this level of detail. It's especially cool if you've got a driving wheel hooked up.  
 

          It's all about the cockpit camera view.     

  The in-game audio is reasonably enjoyable though not nearly as in-depth as many of the other racers 
 on the 360. The game has good car sound effects but a fairly forgettable soundtrack consisting 
 largely of songs from relatively unkown bands. There are a few notable tracks by artists like Queens 
 of the Stone Age, Metric, and the James Gang, but you're more likely to want to get your custom 
 soundtrack on while playing this one. There's not a hefty amount of voice acting in the game, save 
 for a few awkward (and abysmally lip-synced) lines during mission set-ups, but what's there is 
 serviceable.  

  While Test Drive Unlimited blurs the line between single-player and multiplayer racing better than 
 anything that's ever tried it before, it's not quite a slam dunk. The game's open-ended mission 
 design belies its purposeless nature, and the whole massively open online racing thing isn't quite 
 as massive as one might be led to believe. But even with its limitations, Test Drive Unlimited's 
 concept is executed well enough to make it an addictive and interesting racing experience. Of course, 
 if you already played this game on the Xbox 360, the PC version isn't different enough to make 
 it worth looking at. But for PC players who didn't try this on the 360 and are interested in something 
 new and unique in the driving-game genre, there's nothing quite like Test Drive Unlimited on the 
 market right now. Though you're undoubtedly going to take issue with a few of the game's peculiarities, 
 there's enough here to make it a racer worth checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (94 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EISPower
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited has the absolutely best graphics ever, its like driving in real life, if you 
 have the mega-pack you will go mad, you get +46 cars. Best thing is you can drive bikes and cars. The 
 game is very addictive you can drive where ever you want and you start as a rookie and go to ace. 
 The point is this game is long ( I finished the undercover and carbon in 1 day ) . The only bad 
 thing in this game is that there is a lot of traffic, and to finish it you must create an online 
 account and the best cars are FROM ( US-UK-ITALY ) . But The good news is you get much better and 
 more ( CARS + FERRARI + BIKES ) European cars are slow or bad handling. The worst thing is the 
 newer the game the worst the graphics and features ( Undercover Pro-Street ) . Best game with Most 
 Wanted, Underground 2, Carbon, Flat out 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nojoble
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, like I said, Hawaii is extraordinarily beautiful. What a great place to start a new life. 
 Man, it's like their is an unlimited amount of options to choose from. This game has a lot of sweet 
 cars to to pick from. And when I say alot of cars, I mean alot of cars. Mercedez-Benz, Ferrari, 
 Lamborghini, and many, many more. You basically just have a good time racing with people, buying 
 and selling cars, motorcycles, and property. Their are a couple of downsides. The cops are not 
 realistic, their are only road blocks and cruisers chasing you. No spike strips, no helicopters. 
 The tickets you get aren't very accurate. The graphics could have been better. Some cars are under-priced 
 while others are over-priced. And thats about it. It gets more fun as you play. I would say it 
 is worth $ 30.00 . I would rent it first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3Warrior
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  As the official review says, Test Drive Unlimited (TDU) takes place on Oahu. About 1000 miles of 
 Oahu's road have been put in place, but a look at Google Maps shows that many of the roads are 
 either missing or misplaced. Still, cruising around on the impressive island can be fun, but any 
 possible feeling that you really are on Oahu is killed by highly repetitive buildings and cars. 
 The "towns" outside of the main city of Honolulu are rather laughable. These "towns" are just some 
 roads with a row of buildings placed on either side. Go off road and drive past these buildings, 
 and where you'd expect to find suburbs, you'll only find wilderness. I know that recreating all 
 the suburbs would be very time consuming, but they can do better than this. Also, many landmarks 
 are either missing, or poorly recreated. Things like that and the civilian cars that look essentially 
 the same (I counted only seven different kinds) kills the immersion to some degree. Oh, and did 
 I mention a complete lack of people on the streets. Honolulu feels like a bit of ghost town.
  
  Okay, now to the serious gameplay. When you start a new game, you'll pick a character, and 
 an opening scene will show you arriving in Honolulu. Beyond that, there is no story whatsoever, 
 except for one you make up in your head. (See parents? Video games don't destroy creativity!) After 
 you land in Oahu, you'll choose a car and house to put it in. You can own as many cars and houses 
 as you like, given that you have the cash. Obviously, you get cash by doing events and missions. 
 Both the events and missions are fairly straightforward, races having a goal of crossing the finish 
 line first, time trials having you get the best possible time, and speed challenges have go as 
 fast as possible, and get scored for it. Mission are simple. Drive to a destination within a time 
 limit. However, the game can throw a bit of monkey wrench into a seemly easy task. In most missions, 
 there is a "Driving" meter that penalizes you for bad driving. This was clearly to add some challenge 
 into the missions, but it usually turns into frustration, as you have no choice but to drive dangerously 
 to beat such tight time limits (For example, you have to drive a model two miles in one and half 
 minutes in heavy traffic) . The meter also unfairly penalizes you for lightly tapping another car, 
 or having one wheel touch dirt instead of road for less than a second, but doesn't penalize you 
 for driving 200 mph, or slamming into a wall. Missions also can provide good bonuses for "perfect" 
 driving, so it's frustrating to have the meter drop one point, therefore costing you the bonus. 
 Having the police get in your way is also a pain the ass. Still, the missions are fun for while, 
 and can get you some good money and cars, but they start to get tedious after a while. In fact, 
 if you choose not to play online, playing turns into grinding out missions for cash and cars, and 
 it gets plain boring. It's still fun to amass a huge collection of cars, but once you get the best 
 house and best car, there really isn't a reason to buy more stuff.
  
  If you do play online, you'll find some decent user generated events and new cars to buy. Plus, 
 it's fun to race other through the city and freeways, but even that can get old after a while.
 
  
  To wrap things up, Test Drive Unlimited is a decent and ambitious game, though some of the ambition 
 falls flat. Despite a few problems, I'd recommend this if you like open world games and/or racing. 
 (Another option is to wait for Test Drive Unlimited 2; it's been confirmed to be in development.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  Open game world that fun to drive around.
  The recreation of Oahu gets the job done.
  Huge variety of well rendered cars.
  Can own houses 
 and collect cars.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Missions can be frustrating.
  Repetitive buildings and cars.
  Lame "towns" outside of Honolulu.
  Not as immersive as one 
 would like.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockmasteR-_-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  ever dreamed of a 1.000.000 $ mansion? or a 500.000 $ car? well then go grab a copy of Test Drive 
 unlimited cause it may not make your dreams come true, but it'll let you live your dream and drive 
 it too.
  to be honest I'm a NFS fan, so before I got TDU, I said to myself why should I get Test Drive while 
 I have Need for Speed series, well I finally got it and I really don't regret it, it's a complete 
 different experience from need for speed.
  it's racing with style, with luxury, and not only that, but it has Ferrari :D
  and I really like 
 Ferrari.
  the game has nice graphics but you really need a good PC to run the game, I mean when I got the 
 game I had a Geforfe 6200, and I ran it on low settings and I got 15 fps.
  the other bad thing in the game is that you drive on the island but there is no story to bind your 
 movements, you just race or you pick up models or drive cars to a certain destination, all that 
 is pretty cool, but a story do give a strength to a game.
  in general the game is pretty fun and challenging from the mini races to the really really loooong 
 races.
  so if you like to chill out and have some fun, go and grab a copy of that good looking game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PigVenus
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  I was hoping for a game with the strengths of the GTA series, but without the "bad" content (so 
 that it would be kid-friendly) . While Test Drive Unlimited (TDU) is beautiful, there is little 
 beyond a pretty ordinary driving game. While is not on "tracks" and you can travel cross country 
 to some degree, the environments are still largely non-interactive (you cannot cause damage to 
 the environment) . In fact, even your own car cannot be damaged! 
  
  I know this is supposed to be a totally different genre than the GTA series, but it is hard not 
 to draw some comparisons. For me, I have found the most rewarding part of the GTA series is not 
 the missions (although they provide a fun distraction now an then) , but the free-roaming and (almost) 
 fully interactive environment. Let's admit it - it's fun to cause to mayhem! I love just driving 
 around the huge landscape and exploring. So do my kids (I've modded my version and removed almost 
 all the bad stuff) .
  
  If Atari/Eden Studios would make the environments as interactive as the GTA series, they would 
 have a serious hit. The missions are pretty interesting and the graphics gorgeous - it's just missing 
 that "fun" factor.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strigidae
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  So... you were told you could be rich and successful when you were young... and slowly but surely 
 you started realising that THAT... was bull. You actually realised that you were either too lazy 
 or unnoticed, or suffered under nepotism or were being held down by this moronic system, under 
 dictatorship of the 'man'.
  
  So you knew you wouldn't own those 7 Ferrari's or 7 Lamboghini's for the 7 days of the week. Or 
 that huge mansion with deeds to the opposite mansion and two mansions adjacent to your mansion 
 just so that you can be your own neighbour. And than you gave up and withered slowly but surely.
 
  
  That might be me just speaking for myself, but all of us were totally blown away by Test Drive 
 Unlimited... I mean... I'm still playing this game... and I already finished it 3 times already. 
 Weather you're hooked to the fact that you can buy only the most beautifully exotic cars and the 
 most huge, over furnished houses, living in the mansions and driving those cars... and actually 
 affording it, Test Drive Unlimited is an excellent game.
  
  From the famous Ferrari to the unknown Saturn, to most 3rd world countries, the list of cars to 
 purchase is bordering on endless. I enjoyed this game very, very much... weather I was cruising 
 on this emensely gigantic island, or giving a lift to the most gorgeous (sometimes ungrateful) 
 women, or giving a lift to hitchhikers, or 'test driving' cars... this game was a delight. It also 
 features a multiplayer option, online of course, which I imagine to just put a cherry on top of 
 things, since you can trade each others cars, race together, form little groups and other stuff. 
 One could also buy clothes at shops with the coupons they recieved from giving lifts and stuff. 
 
  
  The game kind of has a similar reward system as Need for Speed, where you recieve money for winning 
 races and stuff. The game is a bit different however by introducing another rewarding system where 
 you can get money for delivering cars or packages. You can also customize cars here too, just don't 
 expect to go all the way with racing seats, spinners, exhaust tips, decal logos or something like 
 that. One can only customize the fundimentals that influence car perfomance.
  
  You won't hear me complaining though since I personally think that this game is a gift from the 
 heavens to people who wish they could, but most probably won't. LOL. I particularly enjoyed just 
 cruising the island, exhibiting the pure beauty, which is nature, enjoying the beautiful scenery 
 it presented. With a little bit of soul or acid jazz of course.
  
  Defiinately one to conisider if you like games like Need for Speed or Gran Turismo. I think it 
 would have been nice though if it had a little story line to it or amalgamated the concept of off-course 
 or free roam racing, vehicle customization and some nightime scenery. I feel however that it is 
 better on console than on the PC since graphics for the PC are dependant on the card, and I had 
 to put my settings minimum for all options.
  
  The game is actually much better than this terrible review, which focused more on my opinion of 
 the game rather than what it has to offer. It is an excellent game if one considers to escape from 
 this abomination we call modern day civilization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a pretty good game. It has introduced an all new perspective of online 
 game play. When you play the game you can choose to create an online account that combines the 
 single player campaign with online interaction amongst other players. Although the single player 
 can be a bit repetitive it still gives you something to do. You select a character who goes off 
 to live in Hawaii. You can buy a house and even clothes for your character but more importantly 
 you can choose from a wide variety of cars. Cars that look absolutely amazing in this game, and 
 with literally thousands of miles of island road there is an infinite amount of fun to be had playing 
 this game. You can upgrade your cars with performance packages, different color paint, oh and did 
 I mention the motorcycles? Well there are plenty of them. Overall this game may seem like it lacks 
 a purpose, but play through it for an hour and you'll be having to much fun to care! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  If you have a computer that can play it, it rocks. if not, it doesnt. The driving itself is great, 
 but the story is a little boring and you dont know what to do at times. But, if you just want to 
 drive around in a photoreal car in a photorealistic hawaii scenery, then this is the game for you.
 
  The cars are detailed as much as they can be, and are great looking. When you get your hands on 
 a bright red ferrari, you just smile, and press the gas.
  The campaign is based on a character, that came to hawaii just to drive around, buy a house, and, 
 eventually, look for a wife. you just drive, race, pickup stuff, and so on.
  
  The island itself is huge, and you can explore every inch of it (which I tested, and went into a 
 forest with no roads or so, and it really lets you go anywhere a vehicle can get to. cool.
  
  I have it installed it all the time, because, when I dont know what to do on a comp, I just 
 turn on TDU and start racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaume08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a very fun driving game very suitable to people who love sport cars. That's 
 because this is what you are going to find in that game, cars motorbikes... and something quite 
 useless like clothes and, of course, a place to save your cars...
  The main idea is great... you are left in Hawaii with enough money to buy a house and a cheap car, 
 then you must race race and make some other missions to earn some money and, well, to earn some 
 missions to make always the same, buying cars and houses.
  The car list is very extensive and the recent car pack gives you more possibilities with a new 
 set of cars, very suitable for the players bored of the old models.
  About the visuals, the game looks nice and can be played almost by anyone, however, there some 
 small issues concerning the graphical engine quite annoying, like the small possibilities offered 
 to play the game at the maximum possibilities. The Anti aliasing is limited to 4 and you can't 
 adjust the drawing distance, for instance, provoking small eventual crashes.
  Probably, the best thing about that game is the freedom that bring you... you can go wherever you 
 go and drive as fast as you want, however, in my opinion, the worst thing about that game is again 
 that freedom. Sometimes you don't know what to do, missions are quite repetitive and some of them 
 are even annoying, cause you have to repeat them constantly to be able to bring a car to their 
 final destination without a crash cause the IA of this game is quite ridiculous. Traffic cars turn 
 constantly without a reason or just because they saw you.
  To sum up, the game is OK, probably more that OK, but the game play and the artificial intelligence 
 make of that game a non recommended game for people without patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSJZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Game Review
  
  Test Drive Unlimited
  
  Dear everyone out there reading my review,
  
  I would strongly encourage you to purchase this game after reading my review as it is worth 
 it. Really, it's worth it. Now back to my review, I will start with game-play. 
  
  1. Overall
  
  This game is much more better than NFS and GTR. It is the first PC game to both 
 have offline and online game modes in one DVD instead of others which are cut into two parts, each 
 needs a DVD itself. It is also the first PC driving game to have a M. O. O. R. in it. It is available 
 in PSP, PS2, X-box 360 and PC platforms and is made by Atari and published by Eden Games. It is 
 available in both offline and online mode. In the offline mode, you can do missions (which I will 
 state further into the review) made by the game, and in the online mode, you do races made by others 
 on the Internet.
  
  2. Game-play
  
  The game-play was absolutely nice and the graphics were amazing. You could just imagine that in 
 were in Hawaii' itself though without the gust of wind blowing across your head in a Lamborghini 
 Gallardo Spyder. You start of in an airport in (America???) . Yup, I think so. Then you will hear 
 the announcement to proceed to the boarding gate where you will pick your character or avatar that 
 represents yourself. Either a cool guy or a sexy girl.
  Next you and your character (which I will represent as you only) are whisked of to The Island Of 
 Oahu in Hawaii' in a Hawaiian Airlines Plane. You will then be led to a short intro and then you 
 are in Hawaii'!!! You next proceed to the V-Rent- A-Car to rent a car (either a Audi, Chevrolet, 
 Lotus, Pontiac or a Mercedes-Benz) . Then you will proceed to the Real Estate Office, guided by 
 your GPS, to buy your dream home, but the cheapest is only $150,000 out of your $198,900. For this, 
 you have two choices: A Bungalow or a High-Rise Apartment. Next, you will be transported to your 
 Car Dealer to purchase your first car. You are only left with $48,900 and could only afford an 
 Alfa or An Audi. Then, you will be off to your first race.
  
  3. Offline Mode
  
  You can also have fun without being online. The game will have a few missions for you to be occupied. 
 
  
  Missions:
  1. Race (Race against AI's and the computer)
  2. Speed (Try to beat the referral speed)
  3. Time (Try to complete a circuit in the stated time)
 
  4. Top Model (Fetch a top model to the shopping centre)
  5. Hitchiker (Fetch a hitchhiker to his location)
  6. Vehicle Transport (Transport a vehicle 
 without damaging it)
  7. Courier (Transport a package to its destination)
  
  4. Places Of Interest
  
  Places of interest in Oahu:
  
  1. Clothing and accessories store 
 (Modify your character's cloths here)
  2. Your House (Place to relax after a race and to check out your info)
  3. Club (Create your 
 own club and invite others to join)
  4. Drive-In (See the current challenges you have)
  5. Car Showroom (Buy cars ranging from Class A to Class F)
  6. Bike Showroom (Buy Motorbikes 
 for the fans of sport-bikes)
  7. Classic Cars Showroom (Buy G Class Cars)
  8. Car Rental Agency (Rent a car)
  9. Auto Paint Shop (Change your car's color)
  10. Real-Estate 
 Agency (Purchase houses of your dreams)
  11. Tuning Store (Tune your cars for better performance)
  
  5. Pros and Cons Of Test Drive 
 Unlimited
  
  Pros:
  1. Good Gameplay
  2. Good Graphics
  3. Good Traffic Damage
  4. Good Organisation Of Game
  5. Good Sceneries
  6. Good Cars
  7. Good Map
  and many more 
 to discover if you buy the game...
  
  Cons:
  1. No Damage System
  2. Brainless Traffic
  3. Some cars have very stiff and bad handling
  and many more...
  
 
  6. End Speech
  
  I would again strongly encourage you to purchase this game as it is worth it.
  IT IS WORTH IT! 
 IT IS WORTH IT! IT IS WORTH IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylenol
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I just started playing this game (3-2008) , I have never been a big fan of Test Drive in the past, 
 but after seeing a multiplayer video of it I had to give it a try. 
  
  Well it was much better than I could have hoped for, this game is just fun!
  You can have a multiplayer 
 race with or without oncoming traffic, my personal favorite is always with. There is just nothing 
 more fun than shoving your opponent into oncoming traffic, this always puts a smile on my facelol
 
  
  Safe to say I have found the multiplayer interface and setup just a tad bit clunky and not very 
 intuitive. 
  
  It takes a good computer & video card but the graphics are very well done, I have often found myself 
 slowing down just to take a look at the Hawaiian scenery.
  
  Car physics, sense of speed & sounds are not perfect but far better than most. Have a Logitech 
 G25 racing wheel, well than you will have a blast seeing how many gears you can lay rubber with 
 using that clutch pedal!
  
  The motorcycles add another complete element of fun! I totally enjoy popping wheelies and doing 
 brake stands!
  
  If you're looking for an arcade racer that is just plain fun, you will find it in Test Drive Unlimited! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reneuend
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me, driving in an oval gets really old fast and it doesn't matter how many different 
 tracks you have, its all the same. Test Drive Unlimited has a lot to offer: race against others, 
 race against time, transport packages, transport vehicles, pick up models, pick up hitch hikers, 
 run from the police if you hit another vehicle more than once, buy and sell vehicles, buy clothes, 
 or just sight see. 
  
  The driving experience is done very well from one vehicle to another. A cheaper car isn't as fast, 
 may not handle as well, or may not brake as well. Each car has it's own plus and minuses. Of course, 
 there is the option to take your car to a shop and have it supped up! 
  
  I haven't tried the multiplayer option yet. It doesn't have LAN or Direct connect option and I'm 
 not a big fan of public server gaming. So, I can't offer an opinion on the multiplayer option.
 
  
  In short, the map is huge, the choices are numerous so the game play never gets stale. It's too 
 bad Atari didn't offer a demo. You really have to try this one out. It's like potato chips, once 
 you get started its hard to put it down.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pc-Dule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks!!! 
  I was really happy when I turn it on for the first time. Large number of cars and races on a big 
 island.
  The map is not linear and has lot of straight streets where you can push your monster to the limit.
 
  The sound of cars and bikes is very much like in real world and is awesome. It is so fun when 
 you are driving one of your beasts and listening its brutal sound 
  from engine and exhaust. What I also like is the cockpit cam and all games in that genre should 
 have one. Graphics are nice and smooth. Very realistic handling for each car and bike. 
  Houses and clothes are also interesting thing in game.
  
  Only minus is police, that sometimes 
 are annoying and I think that there could be little bit more upgrades for cars and bikes.
  
  Overall it is a simple and great game. I am really looking forward for Test Drive Unlimited 
 2!!
  Keep up the speed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FstrthnU
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, as an O'ahu resident, let me tell you that this game is very accurate. Though it doesn't 
 even include MY street, it covers most streets. The Visuals are simply stunning, though night driving 
 and car crash animation for your OWN car would have been welcome. The ability to add your own mp3s 
 to listen is pretty nice too. The cars look, sound, and definitely ACT like how they should (you 
 can easily tell between good and bad handling ratings.) I have not had a chance to try multiplayer 
 due to an update error, so I must say that Atari fell short on that side (check others for multiplayer 
 review.) While is's too bad they took out lots of buildings (Ala Moana Shopping Center (the Hotel 
 is in the wrong location) , Hickham Air Force Base, Kaneohe Marine Corps Base, Pearlridge Shopping 
 Mall (would've been nice to go crashing through like in The Blues Brothers) , and some others) , 
 It's still refreshing to go cruising on the North Shore or driving through downtown Waikiki. Unfortunately, 
 the random traffic may force you to restart some times and let you progress others. Anyways, this 
 game gets my kudos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funny1088
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one great racing game. The graphics and sounds are really outstanding. The island sceneries 
 are superb especially the buildings and the seasides. It even has waterfalls at off roads, probably, 
 just for you to have a view other than racing and racing only.
  The cars collection are, on the other hand, is great. However, if there are more Japanese sports 
 cars such as the Toyota Supras or Honda S2000s, that will be much better. But then, with the collection 
 of cars in TDU, you basically will spend a lot of time getting them already.
  Some challenges such as the Maserati and the Tantalus challenges, however, are really tough. There 
 are also challenges that allow you to earn extra money just to let you get your dream car (i. e. 
 the Mclaren F1) . At least, this will get you glued to the game for a while just to win those challenges.
 
  Overall, it's a great game. I hope to see the updates will include new exploration in the island 
 and probably include new challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBennonator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  First starting the game was very exciting and I played for a while because I couldn't wait to save 
 up and buy a Ferrari F430 (my favourite car) . I first started off using the keyboard and the game 
 seem to get boring relatively quickly. After 2 or 3 months I got a Logitech G25 Steering Wheel 
 for my Birthday. Even though the game still has glitches (as I have it on PC) the G25 brought a 
 whole new dimension into the game. Getting the G25 made it even more realistic because I thought 
 I was driving my favourite car in the streets of Hawaii. The game and wheel both work together 
 brilliantly, once you have it set-up properly. there are still some glitches where all of a sudden 
 the game might close down, which no doubt could be fixed with another patch if they get around 
 to it. Aside from this if you own a Logitech G25 I strongly recommend getting Test Drive Unlimited. 
 Overall it is a great concept of a game just needs a bit more work done, at least to the PC version 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Hawaii. First of all you need a house with a huge garage. There are a lot of houses 
 and you can buy everyone. Then you will need a car or a motorbike to move along the island. You 
 can buy one or just rent it. If you decide to buy a vehicle there are a lot of concessionaries 
 spread throughout the island in which you could see all the models and test them. Driving around 
 you will find a lot of things to do, for example, participate in races. Every vehicle belong to 
 a certain group, and each race have group restrictions; so you will need to buy at last one vehicle 
 of each group in order to be accepted in every race. You can also take hitchhikers or work as a 
 delivery man. You will be rewarded with money after complete missions, and this is useful to buy 
 new cars, new garages and new clothes (you could dress your character as you like) . In addition, 
 if you are connected to internet, the roads of Hawaii will be filled with other players doing their 
 own. You could start an instant race with everyone, instantly deciding the race circuit and the 
 money gained by the winner. Finally, once you complete a high percentage of the game, you will 
 unlock a hardcore mode, in which the driving sensation is high sensitive. All of this is basically 
 what TDU offers you. But there are a lot of flaws that dont let TDU become a remarkable 
 game. Never rains in Hawaii, it would be interesting that your car would respond differently under 
 raining conditions. You could drive with an inside-car view, seeing your hands moving the wheel 
 and changing gears. But one could miss other details, like dont see your movements when 
 you change the radio station or when you use the horn, or be able to turn on the lights, or use 
 the windshield wiper. There are a lot of graphical annoyances, for instance, the shadows are so 
 dark, so you will see nothing under the trees shadows; and the worst is the reflections system, 
 reflections are just an image seen over the cars surfaces or buildings windows, and even in the 
 driving mirrors you will see a very poor reflection, that make them completely useless. Finishing, 
 Atari seems to have forget the pc version of TDU releasing no patch for repair some aspects of 
 the game or for add new cars, music, and more, except one crashed alfa beta patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoneEge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is really fun in the beginning but after a point (which is around halfway through 
 the game) it starts to get you mad. The main problem in the game is Reverse. When you hit lets 
 say a light pole you want to back up and keep going but the controls are so screwed up it takes 
 you 5-6 seconds sometimes !. Another big problem is the cars handling. I've worked around 2 hours 
 to buy an "enzo" and after 5 minutes i ended up crying. The car was so hard to get used to. I also 
 had the same problem with the lamborghini murcielago coupe. However despite these bad stuff the 
 game itself is put together really well. The graphics are really nice and while you drive throughout
 
  the game you just sit back enjoy the view for a few seconds until you realize that a brainless 
 truckers about to hit you. There are so many cars and houses. Being able to customize your character 
 is also a lot of fun because there are clothes for all styles. Like Echo for Teenager street drivers 
 and Red Rabbit for bikers. Its easy to earn money and its fun to buy new houses and cars. Good 
 news is now you can also modify them. Not as detailed as in need for speed series but its still 
 a good add to the game. Anyway the game manages to keep you happy for a very long time and is worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docturok
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I'd seen the television commercials. I watched the all the videos from this site. I've tried a 
 few other racing games in the past: Flat-Out, Simpsons' - Hit and Run, Grand Theft Auto...
  It seemed similar enough but the idea of an open ended play scheme was what really drew my attention. 
 I like a goal to achieve in my games, but I don't like the goal to be rigidly defined and pressured 
 to accomplish.
  When I found it in the bin of returned items I wavered for a few minutes before deciding $20 wasn't 
 bad for a game of this type and newness.
  It turns out that I am enjoying myself. There are of course good points and bad, but the good points 
 are plentiful enough to make it a fairly high scoring title.
  
  The Bad first:
  -I've never cared to use arrow keys to steer in racing titles, it lacks a great deal of control 
 even if the car has high handling scores.
  -Tiniest bumps can ruin a perfect scoring mission. Especially irritating in the Courier, Top Model, 
 and Delivery races when a perfect score can get you a bonus. Bumps sometimes appear to happen just 
 to prevent perfect scores.
  -Tickets can be outrageous at higher levels
  -You always start competitive races in the farthest back position. Makes it hard to win at times.
 
  -A. I. in the other cars can be painfully stupid. Cutting off. Boxing in. Sometimes no turn signals. 
 Lane changes without reason. Appears to cheat for some races.
  -Only sport motorcycle styles are available. I had been hoping for a Harley.
  
  The Good:
 
  -Control scheme is simple. Up the go. Back to stop and so on.
  -It is possible to out-run or out-drive a ticket if traffic accidents (or intentional crashes) 
 occur. A. I. player crashes do not summon cops, just the un-named cars on the road.
  -Races done perfectly can give bonus money or clothing certificates.
  -Leveled races. Races get 
 harder only as you accumulate money and points. More money gets better cars for harder races.
 
  -Motorcycles can be unlocked to race after discovering all the car dealerships.
  -Special, rare, and powerful cars can be unlocked for completing whole series of races or for competing 
 in the important "Around the Island" race.
  -Ultra paint shop can be unlocked for "Around the Crater" race completion.
  -Tuning up a car 
 can win you a race that you lost repeatedly earlier.
  -Multiple points of view to better experience the races.
  -Excellent scenery and detail that 
 can make "Sunday Driving" pleasurable.
  -Racing can uncover more races that can then be warped to from the map screen.
  
  There are 
 many more things than this, but it's enough for now.
  As much as I enjoyed this game I would recommend renting or borrowing it first to see if racing 
 on Oahu is where it's at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  You may have played a driving game before, you may have played a MMORPG before, but have you played 
 them both at once? What you get is Test Drive Unlimited. Its an online driving/racing game that 
 in my opinion, is fantastic. 
  
  Let's start with the gameplay: You start off with a small rental car and do a few races to afford 
 your own, you get propertys and modest car upgrades. Its not exactly full of features but being 
 able to race alongside real people saves the game and gives it a superb touch, not to mention the 
 game map is super huge!
  
  Next, graphics: In all honesty the games graphics are not really revolutionary, the cars are nicely 
 detailed but thats about as far as it goes. The map does suffer from a few glitches here and there 
 which are a bit of a let down. The physics engine also gets a bit over excited especially when 
 you crash into an AI car and parts go flying a few miles down the road.
  
  Then sound: The game sounds great, especially on 5.1. You can make your own radio stations which 
 is a superb feature. Each car has its own unique sound score.
  
  Whats missing? Features mostly, more cars more propertys, more things to do, more personalisation 
 etc. That would complete the package. Improved graphics would be better and LAN multiplayer might 
 be nice.
  
  Overal, a superb game for the price and very fun to play, may get boring as there isn't that much 
 to do or much to aim for but still enough for a few hours play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocLex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The game Test Drive Unlimited, developed by Eden Games and published by Atari Inc., features an 
 expansive free roam of the Hawaiian island of Oahu. Players can drive over 50 unique cars online 
 with up to 8 different people. Are you ready to live your dream life with all the cars and houses 
 you want?
  So the first time I played this game I was really hyped for it. It had been months since I had 
 first seen it online. Though there were some troubles with the actual release date, I eventually 
 got my copy. The install was long being that it is a few gigs. I finally booted up the game to 
 pick my online "person." Then after your newly chosen person lands in Oahu, you pick a rental car. 
 Even though the frame rate was mediocre, and my graphic settings not all the way up, the graphics 
 still bewildered me. The lush green environment and the damage on the traffic cars kept my eyes 
 glued on the screen. The car handled nicely and the physics didn't feel mushy. I drove to the realtor 
 and picked my house, a modest but fashionable high-rise apartment in the heart of the city. Right 
 then and there I knew this was going to be a fun alter-reality. 
  The game features a few different types of races: races where you try to get the highest speed 
 through radar guns, races where you are racing 4 CPU cars, and time attack races where you try 
 to post the best time. The game also features online races where you can go head to head with other 
 gamers, but connection and server problems have plagued those races. There are also delivery and 
 passenger missions. In the delivery missions you pick up a package and have to deliver it within 
 a certain time. In the passenger missions you pick up a passenger and deliver them to where they 
 need to go. These races were frustrating at times, as not only did you have to get there in the 
 allotted time, you had to stop from losing points by hitting cars and driving off the road. I would 
 get feet from the stopping point when I hear, "UGH! This is taking too long, I am walking." Yes 
 you can walk it isn't that far. Some of those people are stuck up, as they require a certain car. 
 I roll up in my Ferrari and they stick their nose up at me. Eventually these races and challenges 
 get very repetitive especially the hour-long races.
  The game features 7 vehicle classes: G, F, E, D, C, B, and A. G Class is mostly rare muscle cars 
 while A Class features the fastest super cars money can buy. Some of the races require a certain 
 class of car, some even requiring a certain car. This keeps you from going through the game in 
 one car. It also helps when online.
  The online of this game is truly unique. It's like a World of Warcraft except it's a world of cars. 
 No other game has been like this, let alone one available on the computer. The Need for Speed series 
 featured some nice free roam cities but there was no online free roam. Pro Street, the newest game 
 in the Need for Speed series, has reverted back to track racing. The online is the only thing keeping 
 me playing Test Drive. Day after day the online community is shrinking. It just isn't the same 
 as when I first played. Most of my original friends I cruised with and the members of my club have 
 disappeared off of the island. 
  Pro Street is much better in terms of graphics. The cars are modeled much cleaner, the HDR lighting 
 is used much more efficiently, and the environments look beautiful. Pro Street is also releasing 
 downloadable car packs, which Test Drive promised but never fulfilled. Test Drive has a great photo 
 system unlike Pro Street's. You can change focal length, contrast, saturation, photo filters, and 
 manipulate the camera in anyway you please. You can feel like a professional automotive photographer 
 and take some very creative photos.
  The game is badly programmed, plagued by stuttering and bad frame rates. Even after buying $80 
 ram and a $400 video card the game isn't running at satisfactory smoothness. The online also can 
 be full of glitches. It can be hard to connect with friends sometimes. Also for a completely online 
 game, the lack of messenger and way to add friends by screen names is disappointing. You have to 
 meet a friend at a spot online to add them. Granted programs like Xfire can fill this void an in-game 
 alternative would be much better. Clubs were a good idea but eventually were of absolutely no use 
 thanks to problems. All the club races don't work, which is also required if you want to reach 
 the highest level of Ace. Some people have luckily gotten by this by having multiple computes over 
 LAN, but for people who don't know their club members personally it is just frustrating. 
  I would recommend this game to any person who likes exotic cars. At the moment there is no other 
 game that features 8-player cruising in such a free-roam environment. If you were to get this game 
 you would want a computer utilized for gaming to get the most out of it. So finishing my review 
 I give Test Drive Unlimited a seven and a half because like most revolutionary ideas it wasn't 
 developed to it's fullest. Now that the company has gone bankrupt I would go out and buy a copy 
 before the servers are shut off. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfs_strKing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  A very beautiful game, with gorgeous graphics and tricky but fun gameplay.
  One of the most amazing things is how this game offers you a huge world to explore, and drive free 
 and without any pressure.
  A beautiful and spectacular island to drive, and the best cars in the world.
  
  This game is 
 all about creating a huge car collection, and from the very start where you pick your character, the 
 adventure starts.
  You begin by renting a car, to drive to a real estate and to a car lot to buy your first car and 
 your first house. You can have many cars and many houses as you go on in the career. Races are long, competitive 
 and the lack of any special car customization, means it all comes down to one thing only-driver 
 skill.
  Super cars, classic vehicles, muscle cars, once you pick out a car you cant get enough of driving 
 it... that is until you get your next car. And the fun thing in this game which makes it stand out 
 is that it doesnt just offer classic circuit racing and one thing only to spend money on. This game 
 goes a lot further, and while your cars are your main concern, there is also trying to buy the best 
 house, and picking up hitchhikers will win you clothes markers, which you use to buy clothes for 
 your character. The character is actually the most customizable thing in this game, you can pick 
 what he wears and what he looks like.
  
  Overall, this game is very, very fun and I recommend it to absolutely everyone who loves driving 
 freely and super cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kendu10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  So here i start.
  Good things in game:
  * Lots of cars.
  * Very big map.
  * Long story.
  * Nice graphics.
  * Bikes.
  *Garage
  And theres more but i dont remember 
 all the things.
  Bad things in game:
  * No damage.
  * Traffic
  * Bad tuning nothing special.
  
  
  I give 7.5 because its not very good game.
  Havent 
 played onlineso i dont know what to say is it good or not.
  The most disappoiting thing is that there isnt damage.
  Thats good there are bikes and you have 
 house and lot more.
  So thats all i dont like this game much but its game when you dont have nothing to do then i play 
 this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yrill
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The things I (dis) like about the game is:
  
  - It's absolutely realistic. It looks great. It's almost real. 
  - It's nice that you can buy 
 ALOT of cars. I like to own speedy-looking cars. And if you do too, this game will suit you.
  - Huge world. Something that is really nice is there is no loading. Only if you want to start a 
 race, you need to load. You don't have to load much when you are driving on the island.
  - The map-option is great. You can jump to different parts of the island. And I'm kinda lazy, so 
 that's a good option for lazy people :)
  - One bad thing (Personally) is that you can't "pimp" up your vehicle. Like Vinyls etc. You can 
 paint your car etc, and tune your car up, but you can't add Vinyls. And I love Vinyls.
  - There is a chance that your game can crash. My game crashed after jumping some times on the map. 
 That's very annoying. I don't know how to fix this. If you know it, ignore this argument. If you 
 don't, pay attention :)
  
  Anyways. It's a great game so enjoy it. Buy it (don't download it! :) )
  
  Oh and one thing. 
 Watch it, because it's highly addictive. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really enjoy this game at first but I gave it a chance and it has grown on me. It is a 
 lot of fun. The island (race area) is huge and very accurately copied and detailed. The missions 
 and races are fun at first but after a while start to get a little repetitive. One of the frustrating 
 things for me is the transport missions. I can drive the entire route very carefully and not do 
 any damage to the car but when I get to the mission completion screen a few points have been deducted 
 for car damage so I don't get the bonus money. It doesn't do this all the time but even a few times 
 is very frustrating and has cost me a lot of money. It may be a bug. Also, there is no vehicle 
 damage for your car when you're racing. You can hit a tree going over 200 mph and not even scratch 
 your car. But, all of the other cars around you are getting smashed up. Damage is only caused to 
 your car during the transport, model and hitchhiker missions. The last complaint I have is this. 
 Often, while running from the cops I'd go in the grass to get away from them because they won't 
 chase you into the grass. This has caused my game to crash on several occasions and once it does, 
 the game won't work again until you uninstall and reinstall it again. You have to delete your saved 
 games too or it won't work. This caused me to lose my progress each time  all of my cars, all 
 of my houses and all of my money  Gone. Very frustrating. I know I said a lot of negative things 
 about this game but it's still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite Street Racing games! I like it very much and I can play it 3 to 4 hours 
 a day, but sometimes I hate it, because the police is chasing me even in the toilet (WC) :D
  This game is amazing! Awesome gameplay and I like the game when I set it in 1280x1024 resolution 
 with 4xAA and High Details and I get 25 to 40 fps!
  If there will be Test Drive Unlimited 2, I will buy it and will play it 4-5 hours a day!
  I think 
 that this game could be better than the Need for Speed series and if the next game from that series 
 is better than ProStreet, I will never play Need for Speed again ;) (So soory Ea, but I can't play 
 your games any more)
  Thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  For the past few months, the street racing scene has been dominated by Need for Speed, so any game 
 being released has to offer something new and refreshing just to be considered acceptable. Luckily, 
 Test Drive Unlimited offers that something new and really redefines how racing games should be 
 designed. At its core, Unlimited seems like a standard, run-of-the-mill racing game, but once it 
 gets going, unlimited just shines. First off, unlimited has a GTA feel to it. The game presents 
 the player with a huge Hawaiian island with more than 1000 miles of open road to explore. Add that 
 to a completely free form game design where the player is free to choose which race to enter or 
 which opponent to challenge and you can start to get the idea of just how huge this game is. Unlike 
 Need for Speed, Test Drive Unlimited has no story. The game presents the player with a ton of different 
 racing modes, from the dog standard circuit and sprint tracks through the city to the hitchhiking 
 mode, where the player gives lifts to characters they come across in game world. The game has a 
 lot to offer offline players but its real value comes in when the game gets taken online. Every 
 race in the game can be played in both offline and online modes, but as with any good game the 
 fun really kicks in when you start racing against friends and the added feature of creating racing 
 clubs really adds well to the community aspect of the game.
  
  Unlimited includes close to 100 fully licensed cars and bikes for the player to collect. Everything 
 for the Shelby GT500 to more exotic Lamborghinis are available to the player and as your motor 
 collection grows, so must your property collection to house those beasts and Unlimited offers the 
 player with some amazing real estate to purchase. The choice to buy old favorites is also available, 
 with importers found all over the island just ready to take down your rather expensive orders. 
 Unlimited also offers the player the opportunity to buy bikes and luckily the bikes in the game 
 just simply rock Their speed is bordering on insane and their handling is just amazing, and the 
 added bonus of being able to race other players not using bikes is truly an amazing plus for Unlimited.
 
  
  Unlimited does have its faults. The handling of the vehicles seems very stiff and cars seem to 
 lack response. Turning cars round corners now becomes a slow and labored task as you have to reduce 
 your speed quite a bit to successfully turn the vehicle. Unlimited presents a huge and rather detailed 
 world for the player to explore. The graphics in this game are excellent to say the least and must 
 be some of the best seen in a racing game, but for some reason, when set to the highest level the 
 game seems to loose the plot. The graphics become corrupted and the entire game seems to lockup. 
 Simply turning down the graphics seems to be a solution but a patch is definitely in order.
  
  That a side, the game is presented well, the sound is realistic and adds to the overall feel 
 of the game and any racing fan will appreciate the effort that the developers made in modeling 
 the vehicles. Test Drive Unlimited is a great racing game. It offers the player with a lot to do, 
 from racing to buying clothes for your avatar; Unlimited is packed with content to keep you going 
 for a long time. If you have a high end system, I suggest waiting for the patch to fix up the issues 
 with high resolutions, but as with most new games these days, a patch is always just round the 
 corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 401225
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Well lest start with the rewiew the first that may note from this game is the graphic quality that 
 is really good but just that, other point is the gamrplay the cars are a little bit hard to handle 
 if you are new but wiyh alittle practice surely you can handle it like a pro. the career mode is 
 really fun causeit has a large number of races. but the secondary missions are dificulty if you 
 get together all of this points i mentioned you ll have a very cool game with a medium dificulty 
 but not at all. XD ;) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiavashparvar
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  there is something in it that makes you play more but i don't know what is it. few graphic bugs 
 makes it worse than NFS and the motor sounds makes it worse than DIRT. but for now its the best 
 driving game until NFS pro street comes. boring after a week or a month. at last i should say that 
 its a good game to spend a good time with friends by multiplayering and good cars to fight against 
 each other but a little of tuning parts makes me boring after some time. its anti aliasing is not 
 a good realm but its not very bad too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s010057
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  The graphics are execellent, the car DO looks like the real thing, but it still have some problems 
 like your characters clothes goes through the seat like they have merged together. Still, the 
 driving is solid and you get many cars to buy, from Japanese imports to US muscles, from Farraris 
 to Caterhams. And the online feature blends together perfectly. But you will feel bored after a 
 few days because the missions are lame. Also, if you want to drive from one side to another side, 
 it possibly will take you for an hour or more. Overall, it isnt my cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazgolu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Let's take the game from the start;
  Having nothing but some money, you start off on the Hawaii-island Oahu's airport. You rent a car, 
 drive to the real estate office and buy a house. After that, it's off to buy a car. What you can 
 buy is about 100 cars, and on top of that a few motorbikes (9 if I counted correctly) , all based 
 on real editions. Everything from standard-cars to luxuryrides like Ferrari and Lamborghini are 
 available, and if you prefer retro-cars there are aswell Mustangs as Corvettes that are about 30 
 years old to drool over. But since your house takes most of your budget, you are forced to start 
 of with much cheaper vehicles.
  
  GTA-resembling (or: a strict structured freedom)
  
  The introduction points towards the comprehensive objective - to get money. You do that by finishing
 
  single- and multiplayer challenges, for example you can win races, transport valuable cars between 
 two points with as few incidents as possible, reach pre-set speedlevels etc. You spend the money 
 on new vehicles, for example higher ranked (and by that better) classes. If you want to spend the 
 cash on other things, then you get a new house (more garage-slots to park your vehicles on is the 
 big advantage) . The cars behaviour vary depending on what hardware you drive with, but for the 
 most part the drive-feeling is a mix between realism och arcade, and the difficulty can be set 
 in four options.
  
  All this is fairly genre-typical. What makes TDU to a future-example is that the online- and offline-parts 
 with great skill been merged together. Instead of being forced to choose between the two gameparts 
 they are used on the same overview-map; singleplayer-missions are blue, multiplayer ones are red 
 - choose which one you feel like. The structure is amazing and strengthens the entire game-feeling. 
 You won't have to deal with the usual dividing that tends to chop a game in two experiences.
  
  Hawaii-economy
  
  You will meet human opponents in many ways. Choose to compete in races 
 for money, make an own, flash with a full beam to quickly challenge someone - not a big variation, 
 but it works. You can also become a member in racingclubs, buy and sell used parts etc. The multiplayer 
 part works on the other hand not so good as it could have. You can mark drivers as your friends, 
 but to find them isn't easy. More simple and more extensive possibilities here are wanted.
  
  You are as I wrote, on the island Oahu, and there are thousands of miles to burn rubber on. 
 With other words, the game is huge. Plus the fact that the game doesn't have to load between certain 
 areas is really impressive. The graphics are great, but the price for that has really high system 
 requirements. So make sure to have a great power under the shell for a great visual experience. 
 I'd also recommend using really good speakers to hear the good (but not relatively great) engine-sounds, 
 aswell as a steering wheel and pedals. I'd also say that it's a must on every car game for PC's.
 
  
  The complaints
  
  Missions that becomes very dull after a while, steering and physics that hasn't decided wether 
 they are arcade or simulation and a slight mess in the interface - those are my main complaints. 
 Also, it took a really long time to enable motorbikes. You have to visit every car-store on the 
 island (GPS-marked thouh) , and as I wrote the island is huge. That's a really high price to pay 
 to use 9 different motorbikes. But I've always considered them more fun and interesting than cars, 
 so still I really enjoyed the small, but really fun, choice of motorbikes.
  Other than that, the game is impressing on many points, maybe privarily the great mix in off- and 
 onlineplaying. I also like the free mission-structure (you choose what and in which order objectives 
 are done) , police-chases with fines if your unlawful driving becomes too serious, the massive vehicle-choice, 
 the cars different behaviour and the ability to test-drive any car before buying it.
  
  Test Drive: Unlimited, as I wrote, isn't flawless. But it wakes the inclination of exploring and 
 it's a really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eraser77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  I'm the kinda guy that loves to get out on the weekends and just do some exploring in the car. 
 This awesome game gave me that. Sure i'm not feeling the wind in my hair but everything else is 
 pretty much the same. But for all those ppl that play games on the side, and have other work that 
 they should be doing (and and if they have poor self control) , from experience this game is so 
 addictive that it could really affect your work. I should know. I'm at uni and this game is taking 
 up way too much of my time!!! But apart from that I absolutely love this game. Hey, and if I'm 
 ever in Hawaii, I'll never need a roadmap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yochoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Cool game ! But is not as good as the previews said... : ( Gameplay: The cars handle cool , but 
 the other things like the dashboard controls are not as good as the console ones. - 9
  Graphics: Very cool graphics but some cars look a bit weird like the audi TT quattro sport. - 9
 
  Sound: Bad sound . I mean the sounds of the cars are interuppting sometimes
  , And there are not so much radio channels. - 8
  Value : Worth buying this game! o'ahu map included 
 !
  FINAL SCORE : 9,4 IT IS YOUR CHOICE! IT IS YOUR CHOICE! IT IS YOUR CHOICE! IT IS YOUR CHOICE! IT 
 IS YOUR CHOICE! IT IS YOUR CHOICE! IT IS YOUR CHOICE! IT IS YOUR CHOICE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fear552
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  The game is as the title says, it's unlimited. Especially the cars that are available and the backgrounds 
 of each stage, even though the graghics could have been better, but that's nothing compared to 
 the gameplay which is awsome. When you start the game you might get bored, because when you learn 
 the basics you think: Now I am unbeatable . But then, you'll find out that you still have to get 
 the hang of it in order to succeed in this game. The last races are great but also a little hard 
 to win. It is definately an addictive game as the sound is so real, that you'll think you're not 
 at home, but in a car driving as fast as lightning. I mean VROOM VROOM  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdadi2000
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Well I played Test Drive 5 &amp; 6 with great pleasure. It was the second driving game after the 
 NFS that I enjoyed playing. I waited so long for this release but seems I've had to much hopes. 
 In few hours of playing, pretty wasted my time trying to find something to keep me from unninstalling. 
 I really did not find any. The graphics not that good but that was one of the things that made 
 me end prematurely this game. The gameplay is awful, very bad handling of the cars, very bad drawed 
 minimap, no excitement in driving offmission and inmission too. Very bad AI with the cars in traffic, 
 car damage not existent even at devastating crashes. All this drawing to a painful conclusion that 
 this game is one of the biggest disappointments I had from the revolution in gaming that was brought 
 by GTA:3 and NFSU in the PC area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F0U666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I don't really know how to describe that game. It's my favorite racing game because of many things. 
 For example: There's a lot of playable cars (near 100) , the island is HUGE (about 1800 km of roads 
 I think) , graphics are very nice. The game is just pure fun.
  
  BUT.. there's a lot of things I don't like.
  
  FIRST: COPS! They are not fast, it's perfect 
 BUT, they are EVERYWHERE! In real life, you'll see one occasionally, but in the game you'll see 
 one every minute or less. Road blocks are WAY too frequent &amp; solid. In real life you will almost 
 never see that. And WHY do they always know exactly where I am? I change direction, turn here, 
 turn there, one mile away from the nearest cop who doesn't still see me... and wow! there's another 
 road block! WHAT THE HELL! Do they follow me on Google Earth ?????
  
  SECOND: HANDLING! I give it a fantastic score of ZERO/10. It just doesn't feel right. The 10/10 
 perfect score goes to the delightful Need For Speed: Most Wanted Developers should analyse the 
 way cars turn in Most Wanted and BANG copy the exact same thing in their game. I prefer TDU &agrave; 
 NFS: MW except for the handling of cars.
  
  THIRD, having fun with a car means, rolling while holding the handbrake, doing a smoke show in 
 third speed or seventh if your car has enough HP, doing donuts, spinning multiple times going at 
 200 km/h... remember Need For Speed: Underground 2 , you were able to do all of this. But now try 
 in TDU... you CANNOT! WTF developers! What were you thinking?! I have an Enzo Ferrari, I should 
 be able to do a smoke show from first to sixth gear. It stops in second gear. WHY?
  
  THIS is what annoys gamers, fans &amp; me... In this game, you cannot control your own car as you 
 should be able to. So if you, developers, would like to have a better score (better than 7.5/10) 
 for a future project, don't be shy to copy how any other game feels, how the cars react. The most 
 important aspect of a racing game is the handling of cars.
  
  Now: YOU, GAMERS, who have played Test Drive Unlimited, Need For Speed: Underground 2 &amp; Most 
 Wanted... Tell me what you think. Would this game (TDU) be the best of all if it had the handling 
 of Most Wanted and the possibility to do what you want with your car having fun on the road as 
 in Underground 2 (Donuts, first to sixth gear doing a smoke show, controlling your handbrake slides) 
 ??? WOW! it would be so damn great. Real NERD orgasms.
  
  Finally, the game is cool, yes it's frustrating and cars are hard to handle but it's the only game 
 where the map is that large, you are free to do what you want. It can be relaxing as it can also 
 be very exciting.
  
  So judge by yourself, it's more a criticism than a review I know, I just wanted to be heard.
 
  
  Thank you...
  
  
  L - O - L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about 1 month now and i kinda get bored, withen the first week 
 i had the game pretty much beat. The good part of the game is the unique atmosphere along with 
 the graphics, it makes for a good racing/simulator. also that its always online makes a nice feel 
 for the game. You can get your money's worth for playing it but you will always feal like somethings 
 missing. Now for the Bad, so many glitches make the game kinda dissapointing. The soundtrack for 
 the game is sooo weak. and the online gets laggy, and not alot of people stay online long enough 
 to race them or just have fun. Overall its a good game but not a great game. you will have your 
 fun for a while but dont expect it to last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fierotarun
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited certainly has great graphics. The whole Hawaiian island is super cool. The 
 vehicle models used are really high quality but the game in itself lacks the fun. I mean u cant 
 gear up and play as u wud do in NFS MW.. in this game u have to be careful not to hit any car.. 
 not to even barge off the road for a second and drive real slow. Constantly looking at the GPS 
 is another thing u need to do.
  
  The player models look OK but are repeated most of the time. Twice or thrice I have taken hitchhikers 
 who were my TWINS so as to say.
  
  One more thing, sometimes when u go offroad, u get stuck.. the car cant move either forward or 
 backward. Also if u lower the speed by pressing the DOWN Arrow it comes to a halt; and then u have 
 to release it and press again to reverse. That is a very big drawback. I mean u just cant reverse 
 as easily as in other games.
  
  Hence according to me , overall, this game sucks bigtime ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Im a Very Big video game racing fan when I seen this I had to get it.
  
  The Game is Very good its by far the best test drive yet all though at times the controls are a 
 little wacky.
  
  The game its self is amazing the radio feature is awesome and if you know what your doing with 
 files you can easily transfer your own music into the folder and listen to your own music while 
 crusing the streets.
  
  Its a very fun game for getting on when your board its not the best game I've ever played but the 
 graphics and cars make you come back to this game.
  
  If you have a G25 Racing wheel it makes this game a whole lot better because you can stall your 
 car if you dont put in the clutch while shifting its very realistic.
  
  The game has some amazing graphics and sound its by far one of the best DX9 Games out there for 
 graphics it works an 8800 GTX.
  
  Okay so here we go my review:
  
  Gameplay:9-10
  Graphics:10-10
  Sound:10-10
  Value-9-10
  
  I reccomend buying this if you want a good racing 
 game laying around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragondoom01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a unique game in that it provides you with a large landmass, allowing you 
 to travel wherever you wish upon it. It lets you loose with over a hundred cars to purchase and 
 modify (however modifications are limited, with only a few options) . The sheer size of the island 
 is deceptive however, as there are great expanses of wilderness which is impossible or at least 
 highly difficult to navigate, due to all the cars being street vehicles. Nevertheless, there is 
 a true sense of accomplishment to be found with buying your cars, as you have to work hard for 
 the cash to buy them with. The vehicles range everywhere from a motorcycle, to ferarris, lamborghinis, 
 and even the Maclaren F1. The game features quite a few interesting mechanics, such as the ability 
 to insert your own music and listen to it on the in-game radio. Multiplayer features also work 
 quite well, although there is a sense that more could have been done with this aspect. Overall, 
 Test Drive Unlimited is a refreshing change of pace for the racing genre, and is worth your time 
 and money if you are looking for a rewarding, leisurely racing game and drive your favorite cars 
 wherever you wish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Somehow, playing Test Drive Unlimited reminds me of another game: the cinematic adventure title 
 Indigo Prophecy, also published by Atari. While the contents of both games are quite literally 
 worlds apart, they are both hampered by an inexplicable loss of ambition on the developers' part.
 
  
  Note that I said 'loss', not 'lack'. Test Drive Unlimited is, in fact, one of the most ambitious 
 games out there and easily the most innovative title of its genre in years.
  
  The premise of the game is simple. You've got $200,000 in your bank account. You are flying to 
 O'ahu. You happen to like fast (and really expensive) cars. That's it. Test Drive Unlimited's single-player 
 game has no story whatsoever, and since this is a free-roaming game with almost no restrictions, 
 it feels a little bit disorienting at first.
  
  Fortunately, this is where the aforementioned ambition and innovation come in. Developer Eden Games 
 has successfully recreated the entire island of O'ahu with accurate road layouts. That's thousands 
 of miles of road for you to drive on, preferably along with your friends, which brings us to another 
 notable aspect of the game: its single-player and multiplayer modes are integrated as one.
  
  In single-player, you traverse the island's roadways alone, participating in races with AI 
 opponents and weaving in and out of AI traffic. If your profile happens to be a multiplayer one 
 and an Internet connection is present, then you get other people driving around with you. Players 
 can just cruise together and chat (with the game's built-in voice chat capabilities) , race in single-player 
 challenges and compare records, create and join clubs, or even set up new races for others to participate. 
 It's a mind-blowingly simple concept that just works, and it's rather amazing how nobody thought 
 of it before.
  
  With 90 vehicles available in-game, ranging from the cheap VW Golf R32 to the fabulously fast Koenigsegg 
 CC8S to the classic Mercedes-Benz 300SL or even the Ducati 999R bike, Test Drive Unlimited is a 
 driver's dream. The vehicles are all lovingly modeled right down to the interiors, which makes 
 the in-car camera (another laudable feature) feel amazingly immersive. Every car can be configured 
 according what's available in real-life as specified by the manufacturers, adding yet another nice 
 touch to the proceedings.
  
  The island itself is even more impressive than the rides on its twisting roads. While the more 
 populated areas (namely Honolulu) of the game are rather GTA-like in visual detail (as in 'ugly 
 up close') , the wilderness is absolutely breathtaking to behold. Mountain ranges stretch far away 
 in the distance, covered by lush greenery. White, sandy beaches surround the island, separating 
 you from the beautiful blue waters of the Pacific ocean. Above you, the sun shines brightly in 
 the rarely-clouded sky (which looks even more impressive in cloudy conditions) .
  
  Unfortunately, other aspects of the game fail to match the impressive car catalog and the stunningly 
 beautiful Hawaiian vistas. Test Drive Unlimited's physics could have used a lot more tuning. While 
 most collisions are serviceable, sometimes you get odd looking collisions that send cars flying 
 30 meters into the air. Cars can be stopped by a knee-high fence despite crashing into it at 400 
 km/h. The handling could've been better, too, as some of the faster cars feel like they're running 
 on ice rather than paved roads, and the less said about the bikes the better.
  
  To make matters worse, the game's policy of selecting which players are visible to you in online 
 mode is rather confusing. Seeing someone's name on the map doesn't mean you can just fast-travel 
 to his location and join him on a cruise. Most of the time, he won't be visible to you. The game 
 also cuts all connections to other players when you decide to access the map, which means that 
 finding your way through the island with a group of friends is going to be a tough task. Still, 
 the sheer number of players driving about means you'll hardly run out of things to do.
  
  It doesn't stop there. The unstructured, free-roaming single-player content is further hampered 
 by a piss-poor AI that tries to drive safely rather than quickly. This means that anyone vaguely 
 familiar with the controls can beat the game's 120 single-player challenges startlingly easily.
 
  
  Making up for this is the surprisingly enjoyable missions in the game, of which there are four 
 types: supermodel, hitchhiker, courier, and vehicle delivery. The first two are exactly the same: 
 you pick up a girl/guy and drive her/him to the destination within a set time limit without having 
 too many accidents along the way. Off-road treks and crashes are punished by deductions to the 
 driving meter, which can cause the mission to instantly fail if it reaches zero. You are rewarded 
 coupons for buying clothes to customize your character upon successful completion.
  
  The courier missions have you deliver a box within a set time limit but no driving restrictions 
 for a cash reward. The real star among the missions, however, is the vehicle delivery game, which 
 gives you a chance to try out the game's more expensive/exotic/rare rides and deliver it to a destination 
 without a scratch. There's no time limit, so you can drive as casually as you want, but the huge 
 bonus that comes with a perfect delivery means that these missions are unbelievably tense, requiring 
 you to curb your speeding instincts while swirling your way through the island's traffic.
  
  In the sound department, the game generally delivers exactly what you should expect: a smattering 
 of licensed songs, unique engine sounds for each car, meaty crash effects, and other general ambient 
 sound. The real disappointment is that the soundtrack, while nice, is way too short for a free-roaming 
 online game that can last hundreds of hours. You can alleviate this problem by setting up your 
 own custom radio stations, but the catch is that each station can only play around 20 tracks, and 
 only 4 stations are allowed.
  
  As it is, Test Drive Unlimited is an awesome driving experience that shouldn't be missed. There 
 are plenty of lovely-looking vehicles to drive, thousands of miles' worth of road to travel on, 
 plenty of fantastic scenery to see, and tons of fun to be had with your friends. However, the underwhelming 
 AI, erratic physics, and slightly odd handling combine to hold the game back just enough to make 
 it not quite a classic. Still, Test Drive Unlimited gives you hundreds of hours of enjoyable racing 
 action in a gorgeous setting, and that's more than enough to make it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  A franquia do Test Drive, nao estava indo muito, bem, ali&aacute; s, nada bem...
  Estava sobrevivendo e sobrevivendo mas nada que fizesse o jogador, ficar impressionado com o que 
 estava vendo, era apenas mais um jogo de corrida...
  
  Test Drive Unlimited, veio para trazer o brilho de volta a Serie, eu fiquei impressionado, e nao 
 via a hora de o jogo ser lan&ccedil; ado, quando lan&ccedil; ou fiquei louco e comprei logo o meu, 
 esse jogo pirata, naum serve pra muita coisa, &oacute; timos graficos, jogabilidade entre o arcade 
 e a simulacao, mas o som , eu nao sei se &eacute; apenas no meu PC mas tipo, ele fica normal do 
 lado esquerdo do fone, mas do lado direito, ele fica bem baixo, soh da pra ouvir, quando passa 
 perto de uma arvore da ele reproduz aquele som do objeto passando.
  
  Os carros, nossa, essa sim &eacute; a parte louca do jogo, saum muito bem feitos, o fato de voce 
 chegar na concession&aacute; ria para dar uma olhada no carro, ver o interior, fazer um Test Drive 
 realmente eh muito show.
  Cada carro com suas caracter&iacute; sticas.
  
  Andar por uma ilha com milhares de jogadores on line, eh simplesmente show, eu fico doido. O servidor 
 foi melhorado, por tanto, dificimente voce nota um lag, claro que a conexao teria que ser boa o 
 suficiente, no caso, uma conexao de 600K j&aacute; faz o servi&ccedil; o beleza!
  
  mais de dois mil quilometros de asfalto, para explorar, ilha &eacute; foto-realistica, pessoas 
 que j&aacute; estiveram na ilha disseram que voce tem a leve sensa&ccedil;&atilde; o de estar de 
 volta nela, pois est&aacute; tudo muito bem feito...
  
  Eu gostei muito do jogo, estou viciado, comprei recentemente um Logitech G25, dae eh q eu num desgrudo 
 mais do jogo mesmo... no teclado &eacute; dificil, mas com o Volante, fica muito melhor...
  
  ESSE JOGO &Eacute; A REVOLU&Ccedil;&Atilde; O DOS JOGOS DE CORRIDA
  
  Confira o jogo, e 
 como eu disse antes, esse jogo, sem uma CD-Key original, n&atilde; o vale nada...
  
  Valew
  Loanda-Paran&aacute; - Brasil
  
  F&aacute; bio Codo Moreira 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I am a racing enthusiast. Only three miles from my residence lies the local drag strip where on 
 summer nights hundreds of racers and their modded rides pull up for some quick action before the 
 fuzz bears down in angst, only to spook drivers for a couple minutes (as if the Steak n Shake and 
 Taco Bell don't make 90% of their profit in these hours) . While not the owner, I generally roll 
 in an '04 Saturn Ion Redline, which can push a 5.8 with 205 horsepower - impressive considering 
 the low cost of admission and the impressive gas mileage; on other nights, I hop in my '99 Buick 
 Regal with a 3.8 liter V6 which might get 7.5 on a good night (and depending on how long I want 
 the fronts to spin - American muscle be damned) . Regardless, I know what I want from a car simulation 
 and I know how the vehicles perform in reality; any high-budget game had better near-clone my factual 
 experiences or I will throw it to the trash can with contempt.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited, luckily, reproduces reality in various degrees of effectiveness. Unlimited 
 is portrayed on a Hawaiian island the name of which slips my mind (I'm not one for intro movies 
 in games which stories are irrelevant) ; regardless, a vast scape of cities and countryside are 
 available for rubber, including the prefabricating and impossibly-navigable off-road sections (Audi 
 TTs do not drive off road) . The object of TDU is to participate in races, of which require certain 
 classes of vehicle, mandating you earn money quickly to purchase an applicable ride, and spend 
 money on various endeavors, including clothing, housing, and more vehicles. Sadly, the races swiftly 
 divulge into monotony and ancillary tasks -transporting starlets (more later) , cars, and hitchhikers 
 (?) - are yawn-producing at best. It's a good thing strolling around the island is much more fun 
 once all the car showrooms have been visited, therefore unlocking the bike shops and allowing the 
 purchasing of what truly drew me to the game - a Kawaski Ninja (green, might I add) .
  
  Sadly, several minor and easily-fixed errors stop Test Drive Unlimited cold in its tire marks, 
 face-planting what easily, and rightfully, could have been the finest car-racing simulation on 
 the market. First, the fuzz. For the first several hours, cops have nil effect on gameplay - either 
 players are too timid to mess with them, or the car isn't fast enough to make running an option. 
 However, the police switch from nuisance to nightmare in the blink of an eye. I cannot count how 
 many times I was happily cruising along when an AI racer slams me into a passing cruiser, giving 
 me the penalty. If I choose to run, I will invariably slam into one of the instantly-available 
 62,000 Hawaiian policeman, stopped, and slapped with fines upwards of thirty grand. If I do not 
 run, I will probably get hit one or two more times before being pulled over in a repetitive animation 
 and given a ten thousand dollar fine - all for something I did not cause. Police chases, if prolonged 
 past the first of three lit shields, will always end with a huge fine and a rather-extensive string 
 of shouted profanity. Another minor fault is putting the car in reverse. For this to be accomplished, 
 the vehicle must be at a dead stop (for any real-life drivers out there, we know it is very possible 
 to put cars in reverse at virtually any time, from one mile an hour to 101) - this includes sliding 
 down a hill backwards at .00001 miles an hour - which will happen quite often assuming passing 
 traffic will frequently slam on their brakes and drive straight into you, producing another spout 
 of profanity followed quickly -or accompanied by- violence toward the mouse, keyboard, or neighboring 
 wall.
  
  Unfortunately, there are a number of other small quips which are so frustrating it demolishes an 
 outstanding view into what makes a superb racing game. Not only are bikes represented -something 
 which Need for Speed needs to adopt, and fast- but they are represented well and accurately - it's 
 too bad three hours of in-game driving is needed before the option to even look at them is available. 
 If only the fuzz had been fixed (taken out of the game altogether would have been the best solution 
 - in every single street racing game in the history of street racing games, I have never, ever, 
 run across an effective an entertaining police presence - a complete removal would make every game 
 in the genre that much more entertaining. For now, Test Drive Unlimited remains a flawed albeit 
 highly-addicting diversion until the next Need for Speed behemoth smashes its way into stores. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The greatest thing of this game is the huge, detailed and reallistical world copy of the Oahu Island 
 in Hawaii, it is really like being there. Great technical achievement to create this huge world 
 ! The developers have probably created a reference point in graphical engines, this is probably 
 a graphical engine we will hear about soon in another game.
  
  Unfortunately, you need something more to create a great game.
  Although it is about driving, 
 this game doesn't offer a notable enjoying driving experience (hey, remember Flatout ? - that's 
 what I'm talking about) . The missions you encounter in the game are very few and, as a consequence, 
 boring. If you play one mission, you probably have no motivation to play another which looks the 
 same. The races lacks any decent challenge. Speaking, all the characters encountered into the game 
 are the same, except they are dressed different. The character's animations are hilarious sometimes. 
 There are no characters interactions in this game. Maybe would have been great if there were people 
 on the streets. This way, you won't have even the satisfaction of chasing peoples or wrecking your 
 car or the surroundings in a desperate attempt to do something enjoying (not that I would recommend 
 this in real life, but in a video - game this is FUN) . By the way, would not have been great to 
 play GTA San Andreas on this graphic engine? Because, in the end, this game, to me, looks like 
 a technical demo of the graphic engine, for which, I must congratulate once again the developers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razerc
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is great game and even greater with G25. Gameplay isn't realistic like in 
 GTR 2 but still realistic enough if driving aid is off.
  
  Nice variety of cars could still have some ordinary cars for example Ford Focus, Nissan Primera, 
 VW Golf etc. etc. Just for casual driving experience. 4WD Subarus would've also been welcome.
  
  Graphics are very good and cars are beautifully modeled. The performance, however, isn't very 
 good. Therefore I had to disable HDR and AA but the game still looks good nevertheless.
  
  Sounds are... well... as much as I have heard them... not good. Due to some bugs and issues musics 
 and some sounds fail to play sometimes and driving sounds stutter a bit.
  
  The only bad things I've seen in this game is that with my GeForce the graphics tear apart sometimes 
 when starting/loading game and, as I said, sounds just suck. It would also be nice to have ability 
 to tune vehicles a bit more. At least the performance parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4m3add1ct
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Game play: its so realistic that u will go to the nearest PC store and grab a wheel if u dont have 
 1.... and although some times it can take HUGE chunks of time and make u wonder where all the hours 
 went.. its an awesome adventure its not only racing :D... its like a big adventure along Hawaii.. its 
 kinda hard but by time u get the hang of it... and they also developed the map thing, if u played 
 NFS then u know abt the map system.... well thats just nothing compared to Unlimited map system..... the 
 map can show u : races, car shops, car showrooms, u can filter it, and choose whatever u like to 
 appear... u can make it show races only, then make it show time challenge races only.... and finaly 
 theres the houses thing.....1 of the best ideas ive seen... u can buy a house with a pool and an 
 awesome living room and feel just like at home even with a closet that u can fill with cloth from 
 cloth shops all over the map... and every house have a garage capacity... from 4 to 8... the only 
 problem is its very hard to earn cash in this game.... u have to play LOOONG periods of time...
 
  
  Sound: nothing wrong there... and abt music tracks.... well with the realistic driving theres also 
 something to go along with it to give u the ultimate driving experience... RADIO !! yes u can now 
 listen to many channels and enjoy ur fav music... from alternative to symphonies.... its just gr8, 
 and u can control the volume from in game without having to go to options or anything...
  
  Graphics: what can i say? ive never been to hawaii and ill never will..... but this game took me 
 there, it showed me sunny beachs and cool forests and casual desert.... it takes u up mountains 
 and takes u down hills..... if u like natural scenery more than city life then thats ur game.... its 
 top notch graphics..
  
  Cars: u can drive whatever u like, its all there chevy, Lamborghini, Ford.... and many more multiplayer: 
 the MP mode is just awesome... u sign in then u play the game normaly like u always do.... and in 
 the map u r already connected to other players online and u can see them driving past u.... and 
 u can choose to challenge any1 for money by just driving near him and flashing ur head lights all 
 in all its an awesome game worth every cent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY RATING -------------------------
  Difficulty: Hard
  Time Spent: 20 to 40 Hours (to date)
  Learning Curve: 30 to 60 Minutes
  
  Gameplay: 8/ 10
 
  Graphics: 9 / 10
  Sound: 7 / 10
  Value: 8 / 10
  Tilt: 7 / 10
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay: Test Drive 
 Unlimited is a definitely a blend of Need for Speed arcade style racing and GTR2 style simulation 
 driving. You play as a nameless character, flying to Hawaii to start a new life. This is where 
 it goes wrong. Unlike the later titles in the NFS series, in Test Drive Unlimited (TDU) there is 
 no storyline involved at all. You are basically on the Big Island in Hawaii, buying cars, trading 
 cars, buying homes, dressing up, and cruise around looking for races and looking for trouble. This 
 game would easily get boring if this is a single-player-only game. Thankfully, as you're driving 
 around on the island, you will also be able to encounter players who are playing on the internet. 
 You can then start clubs, race against each other, and trade cars with others. Graphics: This game 
 does offer a nice visual on the vehicles, the characters, and the environment. The weather actually 
 changes and so does the amount of sunlight that's reflected on your car, yet somehow it never rains 
 throughout the course of the game. If you have a high-end graphics card, you can pretty much enjoy 
 everything there is this card can offer. On the downside, TDU does recycle a lot of buildings and 
 environments throughout different parts of the island. This may be how it is really like in the 
 real Hawaii they are trying to immitate but because of that the driving environment does get pretty 
 boring very quick.
  
  Sound: If you are playing with the annoying radio stations off, what you're left with is the annoying 
 sound coming from the engine. Though it may be cool to be able to hear the roaring sound of a Ferrari 
 as you're cruising down the street, trying to pick up a supermodel, that engine sound does and 
 will get very annoying very quick. Also, at times the character's mouth movement and the voice 
 come out unsync-ed. Value, Tilt: If you're looking for a thrill in TDU or if you're more into the 
 racing rush over the driving the experience, then this game is definitely not for you. I myself 
 was quite disappointed in the races' setup in this game. The simulation is perfect regardless of 
 the physics when it comes to crashing into things. It's a refreshing feeling to be able to do an 
 Oblivion style exploration on the Big Island of Hawaii, but there's really not that much going 
 on unlike in Oblivion (I know they're completely different games) . The collection of cars, though, 
 is definitely something to look forward to in playing this game. Besides Porsche and BMW, almost 
 all of today's luxury and exotics are here in TDU.
  
  Buy... or no Buy? - For 40 bucks I think it's just too much. This game could really do a lot better 
 if it has included more variety of things to do on the island besides what's offered. Maybe $30, 
 but then again it depends on how well off you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savage252005
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  One of the best car games out there it has better graphics then GTR 2 and for me is more fun to 
 play, the cock pit view is totally amazing I cant get over the detail. What I dont get is why 
 game spot gave GTR a better rating on graphics when this game beats it for graphics, seems a little 
 biased to me.
  
  There is so much to see and discover in this game it really is like a relaxing drive it somehow 
 feels real. The detail is mind blowing it looks more like what a direct x 10 game would look like, 
 the handling of the cars is also somewhat hard to get use to but vary realistic. Then there are 
 the bikes, they look totally amazing down to the links in the chain and the holes in the brake 
 rotors they look photo realistic. The handling of the bikes is a lot harder to get use to then 
 the cars but once you do get use to them you realize its the way the should handle. I think game 
 spot gave it a poor rating compared to what I think it should have bin, I give this master peace 
 a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhexagonsun
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 11, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I want to like this game, and I would enjoy it more but it perpetually crashes for me (on Vista 
 Ultimate x64) . After playing for several hours and saving, I cannot play the game for more than 
 a minute or two without it crashing to the desktop.
  
  My PC is somewhere between high-end to high-mid-range and with graphics settings on high the game 
 is a bit slow. With AA on forget it, it slows down to a crawl. That said, I could easily enjoy 
 the game with great frame rates if I used a medium graphics setting.
  
  As for game play it becomes somewhat boring and redundant. Proof that a game cannot piggy back 
 on pretty graphics alone. Without maxed out graphics and a smooth frame rate there isn't any compelling 
 reason to play TDU unless you really enjoy this genre of game. In which case you will probably 
 enjoy TDU for its massive open-ended map (sort of) , and huge assortment of vehicles.
  
  I'll try again after a patch release that hopefully resolves the bugs I am experiencing as well 
 as possibly optimizing performance (doubt that will happen) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashinc25
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  So I figured it was time to branch out from NFS Most Wanted for a taste of something different. 
 Granted, I didn't venture far... racing game to racing game, but it's entirely different? So I 
 thought? Hmmm... NFSMW allows me to run from police and actually gives you a chance to get away. 
 TDU allows you to run and be caught if you hit a police car. GPS tracking system sucks. Races are 
 somewhat boring with competitors with no AI skills or just plain horrible driving skills. I suppose 
 it's good for driving around. I can't knock the graphics. The races get increasingly more difficult 
 so it grow, just slowly. I suppose I'd play if I didn't have anything else available. It's worth 
 dipping into again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  This game is now probably my best game but I am not sure, the thing is this game is awesome, everything 
 about it is awesome, the graphics, the sound, not forgetting the amazing vehicles, everything just 
 fit into place and worked so well, if people don't like this game what else would they like. Well 
 I know this game isn't for people who like tuning their car to the extreme but it is a good game 
 though, and me I am a big fan of pimping up rides but this is one good game you have to try out 
 for yourself. The experience is wonderful. The players are wonderful. I love the houses they are 
 so well designed. From my point of view mostly all the houses in that game is cool. Atari and Eden 
 Studios have made a good job in making this fun and brilliant game come to life. Congratulations 
 Atari and Eden Studios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_teo
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited declares itself to be more than just a racing game. It is, in fact, a racing 
 lifestyle game. Which might sound like a load of old gimmickry, but it isn't. Atari has actually 
 overseen the creation of something very different here.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited is set on the Hawaiian island of Oahu, on which a thousand virtual miles of 
 tarmac are modelled in considerable detail. From cliff-top roads overlooking stunning beaches to 
 the built-up city, the graphics are superb and the blur effects that occur when you're bombing 
 along the motorway - sorry, highway - evoke a real sense of speed.
  
  The large island can be explored either in offline or online mode: more about the latter shortly. 
 In offline mode, the idea is that you buy yourself a car and a modest house with your starting 
 cash, then set about making some real money to upgrade all your stuff. Eventually that could mean 
 purchasing a posh new mansion, a garage full of Aston Martins and Ferraris, or even trendy clothes 
 for your avatar to wear.
  
  This is the lifestyle element, but it's not just a matter of selecting new homes or cars from a 
 menu. You actually explore the island and discover estate agents, then pop in and browse through 
 their properties, taking virtual tours. Or you might stumble across the Mercedes showroom, nip 
 in and see what they've got on the forecourt. Like the look of a car? Then take it for a test drive 
 - just try not to prang it head-on into a police car as we did on our first outing.
  
  You may laugh, but the control system definitely takes some fine tuning. We were playing with the 
 keyboard, admittedly, and not a steering wheel, but we had to tweak the steering sensitivity settings 
 a fair bit before we found our feet (or should that be wheels?) . And even then the car was a little 
 too twitchy at times, as the driving physics are somewhat unforgiving.
  
  While you're out cruising around and sight-seeing, missions and races appear on the map. The missions 
 are run in the game world and involve challenges such as picking up a hitch-hiker and ferrying 
 him to a destination as quickly as possible. Drive like a maniac and hit too many cars, however, 
 and you'll scare the poor bugger and fail the mission.
  
  Races, on the other hand, positively encourage you to burn around like a loon when you're trying 
 to beat rival racers, although some are held against the clock. There are also various challenges 
 to try your hand at, for example attempting to achieve the highest average speed possible while 
 being snapped by speed cameras. Doing that one feels really good!
  
  The online experience is exactly the same as this, but alongside the computer-controlled drone 
 cars on the road there are also human players. You can challenge them in multiplayer races, lay 
 down a wager and buy cars from other folks (or indeed sell your old motors) . Or you can just drive 
 right up their backsides, flash your lights, honk your horn and try to invoke some good old fashioned 
 road rage.
  
  However, there are problems with the online mode. When you spot a fellow human driver they sometimes 
 flicker out of existence rather randomly, making it difficult to challenge them to a race. When 
 signing up for the multiplayer races we suffered from connection problems at times, which took 
 the edge off our enjoyment somewhat.
  
  Despite these issues, Atari has certainly come up with an inventive driving game here, and simply 
 touring around the intricately detailed island on the hunt for a new vehicle or house is an absorbing 
 experience in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deserteagle_83
Rating: 1.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This must have been one of the worst experiences I had with games. The game was slow, kept hanging 
 and jittering while playing and even crashed one or two times.
  
  It also seems to have a serious rendering problem when changing display settings in-game.
  
 
  Menu music was playing on only on side of my headphones which was very upsetting (in game SFX 
 and music played Ok) .
  
  My PC Specs:
  
  AMD Athlon FX-57 2.8 GHz
  Corsair 2 GB RAM
  GeForce Nvidia 7800 GTX with 512 MB Ram
  
  I was playing at 1024 X 768 
 with 4x AA, no HDR, no radial blur. It looks too bad without anti-aliasing and on lesser resolutions.
 
  
  Uninstalled it after 2 days only! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk69
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are absolutely beautiful, and the bike physics are the best I've seen.... I ride a 
 superbike, so I should know.
  Do get the best graphics card you can, and update your drivers. It was a bit choppy on my card 
 until I updated, now works wonderfully.
  The cars are excellent and you feel like you do actually own some exotics. The police are difficult, 
 but they are avoidable. You can actually drive like you are supposed to in real life, and the speed 
 seems accurate.
  I love racing with the bikes because you can thread through traffic with ease... but not too much 
 ease. You feel like you're going to die when going around the outside of a car and oncoming traffic 
 is swerving to avoid a collision.
  Well done, Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I have not been very interested in racing games, not since Gran Turismo 3 have I spent so much 
 time in a racing game... Gameplay: The cars in the game do not handle extremely realistically, 
 but it is passable as an arcade style racer... Some vehicles stick to the road fairly well, while 
 others tend to loose traction &amp; control far to often (I. E. the Saleen Twin Turbo) . The single 
 player challenges are fun, and are necessary for earning money, which you will spend on new cars 
 &amp; houses. You Houses to store extra vehicles. Almost all vehicles can have performance packages 
 purchased from tuning shops hidden on the island. These performance tweaks are not necessary for 
 single player races (they help allot thought) , but are required to stay competitive in the multiplay 
 races.
  
  Multi-player is where this game excels, 8 player races with your buddies are hilariously fun, as 
 every one is cursing and running each other off the road trying to get the advantage to win a race. 
 The multi-player, when it is working is the best part of the game, unfortunately, there are issues 
 with the Game-Spy servers, and the peer to peer net-working that cause some players to randomly 
 disconnect from races.
  
  I would recommend using a gamepad to play this game, but it is playable with a keyboard and mouse.
 
  
  Graphics: The games graphics are great, every one of the 90 cars have accurately modeled exteriors 
 &amp; interiors. There is literally thousands of miles of roads to explore on the island of Oahu, 
 and the environments are fairly varied (Urban, jungle, coastal, and desert) .
  
  Sounds: The sound FX are passable as automobile sound effects, but are not necessarily accurate 
 for each vehicle in the game. The game also has some lousy music, but you can import your own MP3s 
 or turn the radio off, so its not a big deal.
  
  This game is fun, and great to play with friends, It has some annoying connectivity issues, that 
 will hopefully be worked out in a future patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  However, when you aspire to more you must also deliver so much more. That is the main problem of 
 TDU, the physics seem a bit rushed and the implementation seems to be based on a bit more ad-hoc 
 procedures.
  Nevertheless the driving experience is actually quite entertaining, moreso than its closest competitor 
 NFS.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  +9 As mentioned, the physics are satisfactory and try to challenge you far more than other driving 
 sims. Unfortunately they do not feel very realistic, but it+s good enough to make you smile as 
 you race all over Oahu! A big bonus is that you have alot of dreamcars and lots of space to drive 
 them.
  -3: The real downside is what options you are presented with, simply put it&acute; s a bit repetitive 
 and unoriginal and quite frankly even NFS which I do not rank highly is better.
  
  GRAPHICS
  +8 The shading effects and modeling is good, but could be better.
  -1 Understandably 
 some tradeoffs must be done in order to efficiently render such a huge gameworld.
  
  AUDIO
  +4 Decent sound but the cars do not quite sound as their real life counterparts!
  
 
  VALUE
  +10 Alot of dreamcars and a giant gameworld promises hours of fun.
  -4 Unfortunately there isn&acute; t much to do except race or drive boring missions like driving 
 X person/package to Y location.
  
  TILT
  +10 since even though this game lacks a bit it is very close in feel to the first 1995 NFS that 
 we oldies all miss so much: dreamcars and dreamsetting... if you are really into cars this game 
 WILL satisfy you needs, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_gr8_scorpion
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  EDEN STUDIOS has to works it out on its gameplay.....
  it doesnt seems to impress anyone with its driving,,
  doesnt sounds realistic.... well its the 
 best in its series....
  but as compared to the nfs series.... you guys have to come up with something new...... throw some 
 patch or something..
  but there is quite fun out there.. dropping some hot models to there destinitations and checking 
 out the interior in cars...!......
  also getting out and visiting some hot brand stores to get the right gear for urself....... but 
 these things are not considered when playing a driving game..
  the main thing a player checks in the game is how the driviing is....
  well....... i hope your 
 next version will up to the expectation.....
  keep up the hard work guys ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleXpacK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  For chrismas i got a new steering wheel not just any steering wheel the best their is, the logitech 
 G25! I have the great racing game GTR2 but i wanted a game like gran theft auto where you can drive 
 around town and go where ever i wanted to go, well now i found this game and its called Test drive 
 unlimited.
  
  This is a great game especially if you owned a stering wheel, graphics look very good and i really 
 like the sound of the engines, it really makes you feel like your driving a real car. Check you 
 cars in and out open door windows start the motor to see if its really the car or motorcycle you 
 want before buying them... this is so great! Drive on over 1600KM of roads!
  
  Do yourself a favor and get this game asap if you like exotics cars and Iwaii Rendez visite aux 
 concessionnaires dautomobiles et de motocyclettes haut de gamme pour acheter un nouveau v&eacute; hicule 
 ou tout simplement pour faire un essai routier.
  
  Collectionnez et &eacute; changez des pi&egrave; ces rares et personnalisez chaque v&eacute; hicule 
 pour en faire un produit unique en son genre.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited vous permet de conduire les v&eacute; hicules les plus rapides et les plus 
 exotiques sur plus de 1 600 kilom&egrave; tres de routes hawa&iuml; ennes!
  
  Gr&acirc; ce aux courses, d&eacute; fis, missions et tournois, les joueurs obtiennent des cr&eacute; dits 
 et peuvent ainsi acheter dautres voitures ou motos, ainsi que des pi&egrave; ces d&eacute; tach&eacute; es 
 exceptionnelles, des v&ecirc; tements, des accessoires, des maisons et des garages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassa786
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Amazing graphics but the game was released before it was finished. numerous players have complained 
 of bugs and the most important bug of all was the ability to not be able to play with a steering 
 wheel. It's been almost a month and still no patch. I don't know how well the developer supports 
 it's customers.
  
  Overall, the game is very fun, and online is a totally different experience. Just make sure your 
 computer meets the min. requirements to run the game, but if you want to fully experience it, you've 
 got to have the latest and greatest. The graphics are just amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st202khye
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Definetly worth getting a wheel and pedal set for this, The overall feeling is very realistic with 
 the intelligent traffic flow and general AI of other drivers.
  Having to watch for traffic lights and roadside signs is a great addition to the experience.
 
  
  The tasks are pretty basic though , such as transporting someone to an area on the map within a 
 certain time, entering a road race, transporting a vehicle without damaging it etc..
  Sounds a bit lacking, but once you start to play it kinda sucks you in and before you know it a 
 few hours have passed.
  
  Good game overall and well worth adding to anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartSimpson01
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited challenges players online to experience the most exotic and fastest cars and 
 bikes on more than 1000 miles of diverse Hawaiian roads. Visit the sophisticated car and bike dealers 
 and purchase new vehicles or simply take them for a spin. trade rare performance parts and customize 
 each vehicle to make it one-of-a- kind. Gamers win races, challenges, missions and tournaments 
 to earn credits and purchase new cars, bikes, rare performance parts, clothes, apparel, homes and 
 garages. Boasting huge online content, racers around the world can challenge others to join them 
 in the virtual paradise of the game's persistent online racing world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megagamer0193
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Ill start this Review off with the Good and the Bad.
  
  The Good: It takes the racing/driving games to a whole new level. A Large Selection of cars, and 
 motorbikes with future downloadable cars. Huge Loads of homes to buy and multiplayer/single player 
 missions. Stunning graphics .................
  The Bad: Lots of glitches and errors still in the game. The game still feels like a beta version 
 of the game or possibly even an alpha version. Not a lot of a story line to it.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Test drive is the first racing game of its Kind. Im sure there is a term for it but Im going 
 to call it a massively multiplayer Online racing Simulation (MMORS) . This Review will be based 
 off of the things I have seen in the multiplayer portion of this game. I also want to note it is 
 also kind of difficult to get your online account started. Bye now you have done named it got online 
 and started a new career. You start off the Game at an airport where you will begin your Online 
 Profile, Here you will select from either Male or Female characters. There are also A few different 
 models to choose from when selecting your character. You will automatically be sent on a mission 
 to get a house and a car. After doing so you will have to do your 1st race. Now that you have finished 
 your 1st race you are free to go do as you want. The Game is a really nice game but requires of 
 pretty good system to play it. The game has Missions that range from racing to delivering cars. 
 There is also an option to buy clubs and future downloadable content. The game is almost a prefect 
 port of the 360 version of the game. But the PC Version has received no patches too date. The game 
 is in very bad need of a patch as it has loads of bugs and glitches the just ruin the game play. 
 When your online if you come up on people with a lower connection there car jumps around. Not much 
 Atari could do about that. But having People from all over the world playing on one server makes 
 for lots of lag, But If you can get past the entire lag and the glitches there is a really great 
 game here. There is not much of a story line built in this game oh, and the sounds are not the 
 great. But they are ok. The game gives you the ability to drive all over the island of Oahu. There 
 are loads of people online but you can only see one person at a time. The controls are fairly hard, 
 you Will need a racing wheel or joystick/game pad to play this game decently. Steering with the 
 keyboard is way too hard. The game also includes loads of views for you to use while driving. But 
 at points when laying the game you may feel like what is the point of this game Well If you are 
 looking for a game to Race against other People and have a great offline story mode this game may 
 not be for you. You Can Race in the game against other people just to clear it up but it wont 
 be like your traditional racing simulation. If youre looking for a game with virtually no boundaries 
 then this game is for you. But there are still some issues with this game that when patched this 
 game will be loads better. My Recommendation: If you like driving/racing games, Buy this game. 
 You will find it will be fun and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numblock2009
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Well to write a proper review, one must play the game. In order to play this game, you must have 
 a capable computer to handle it. For me, I'm able to do one of those two, and it's not my computer 
 that's lagging. That's right, Atari seem to think it could get away with releasing a game that 
 is full of bugs and not very well tested. Now to be honest, this seems to be a good game but I 
 cannot get through the first level without having it have a total melt down, and having to reboot 
 my computer, only to restart the game and not being able to start back up to the point I left off 
 at. From what I've had a chance to play, there are some very good ideas here and some that could 
 have been added in to make the game a little more interesting. As for now, I would not recommend 
 buying this game till at least some kind of a patch was release and hopefully if Atari decides 
 to release another game such as this down the road, they will hopefully add more to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamborghini800
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  My title may not make sense so ill clear that up lol. Okay you get the game you start some races 
 you get money, its fun, you buy your heart out on everything you dreamed of buying, its great. 
 Then things start to get repetitive... race, timed run, speed run, over and over. But hey its a 
 racing game so who cares right? But the races are very frustrating... for me at least. First of 
 all theirs Traffic.... lots and lots of traffic so much that its almost impossilbe for you to go 
 high speeds without crashing. The cars warp... so when your going fast they just pop up and you 
 have to instantly dodge, which makes you spin out and hit the wall or tree unless you have a high 
 class car that has good handling. Second thing is the AI is vicious.. they wil lose the race for 
 themselves to stop you from winning it... they get in front of you and brake hard so you come to 
 a stop with them, they also bump you out of the track and do whatever they can to beat you. This 
 may be something people are looking for, a hard race where the AI isnt easy but for me.. this is 
 just fustrating. Also for the time limits, if you crash a couple of times you preety much dont 
 have a chance to beat the limit. I bet your thinking.. so just try again.. yea... well some races 
 are about 15-20 minutes.. i dont know about you but ill pass on doing that time race again. Theres 
 even a challange which requires you to go around the outline of the island which takes and 1hour 
 to complete and if you win you get a good reward..1,000,000 dollars but if you screw up and are 
 about 0.34 seconds short... gotta start all over again. You really want to spend 2 hours of your 
 life driving, dodging, and avoiding cops? I dont. I put the difficulty to very hard because the 
 races are not a piece of cake, the steering is horrible and it takes forever to get the hang of 
 it. So rent it, race a few races get into it and then go and buy it. I bought it and i still love 
 it but just wish the traffic was gone, and the races were actually do-able. Also the sound, at 
 least on my comp, is HORRIBLE! I mean sometimes it sounds right and then later it sounds like a 
 dying animal! Grahpics are amasing. Very fun gameplay and if you can't beat the races then just 
 chill with your friends on the island. Long story short, I like everything about this game.. except 
 the racing part.. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfause
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  The realistic combinated with the fun of the cars on this game is so cool, specially in hardcore 
 mode thats they really puted realism. At all its a funny game to play and its hard to dislike. 
 Some things that makes me nervous on this game is the police (that captures you simply by a stop 
 near them, not like in NFS Most Wanted that only captures you if they totaly blocks you) , some 
 bugs on the map (which bounds you to run outside of the road) , some others bugs (that you just 
 start the game and its come so bugged that dont let you play and you must restart) , the graphics 
 (whichs not like that, just normal with some details, and dont let you play with a normal pc, I 
 got a Sempron 3000+ with 2Gb of DDR2 667Mhz and a GeForce 7600GT and its only turn playable if 
 I put out all special effects and let on 1024x768, so heavy to run) . Despite of the facts, its 
 worth play at all.
  *I didnt played in online mode that my friends told me thats really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil108
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game, I was sucked into the whole notion of MOOR, also known as Massively 
 Open Online Racing. Now, I am beginning to think such a thing is a myth. After playing Test Drive 
 Unlimited for around 15 hours, i can tell you the prime experience is truly single player. It is 
 not that the multiplayer element isn't there. It is just that the multiplayer experience is so 
 frustrating and cumbersome to even set up races with other players, you begin to not even bother 
 with it anymore. They should have created some sort of multiplayer server listing where you can 
 scroll thru the available races, sort by type of vehicle, course, whatever, and simply go and play. 
 Instead, i find myself searching thru the Map, going location after location in search of a match 
 up with other players. Even if i do find an ongoing race, often it will give me a cannot connect 
 with this player error or something to that regard. There is no sense of connectivity with other 
 players. You will find yourself driving around in freeroam mode, you may see other players or what 
 not, but there is really no convenient way to interact with these players. The World is Massive, 
 that is where TDU shines the most, but there isn't any story or backdrop to tie this mess together. 
 The concept is amazing, and it would have worked and become a classic, but the creators forgot 
 two things. Number one, you have these great challenges, yet there is no real sense of purpose, 
 or what makes this whole. I mean, you play challenge after challenge. It is fun but, without a 
 story the whole experience becomes a little less meaningful. Number two, the multiplayer experience 
 is profoundly flawed, there is no convenient way to find a race/server, and connect and play. Simplicity 
 is where the great games are made, and this is nothing but the exact opposite of what i expected. 
 Look at any online game that REALLY works and creates a fan base, Battlefield series, Counterstrike 
 source, what those games did as far as the multiplayer experience, this game completely strays 
 away from that. If it works why change it?? Makes no sense to me. Just create a simple listing 
 of current games/servers and connect to them plain and simple. Why reinvent the wheel? Maybe it 
 was because it was an Xbox 360 port i dont know. OK, Gameplay: 6 The reason for this is simple, 
 do not claim a game is MOOR , or Online when the system for joining multiplayer races is fundamentally 
 flawed. Also, during challenges, you will often find traffic veer right into you, trust me it happens. 
 That would be fine, but some of the challenges are very long, and just having that happen once 
 could ruin the mission. You will have to go back, start over and enjoy spending another 6 - 10 
 minutes trying to complete the challenge. In addition, there is no simple plot or story to tie 
 the challenges together which would have created a sense of purpose where the player wishes to 
 continue and be challenged. Graphics: 9
  The graphics are amazing, although it is very stressful on even the most high end machines. I have 
 an 8800 GTS overclocked (liberally) , and still cannot enable 4x AA as the FPS would be unacceptable. 
 Forget about 8x AA, your frames would drop to around 20FPS or lower. This is probably because the 
 game was ported from XBOX 360, i saw the same problem with rainbow six vegas. Terrible optimization 
 for PC. Sound: 8
  Sound is very good, you can almost feel the air flowing past you as you drive, and the road also. 
 My only complaint is the actually radio function. The music isn't very good, In my Opinion. It 
 becomes a little repetitive at times. I find myself just sticking to the classic music station, 
 at least that is more tolerable than the other junk. Value: 9 I give it a 9, why else, i was expecting 
 to pay 40 dollars for this game, but was able to find it at BestBuy for only 35 dollars. I think 
 that is a great deal for what you get, no matter what sort of flaws the game has. Hours and Hours 
 of game time with this product. Reviewer's Tilt: 7
  I just can't get over the whole multiplayer experience with this game, mostly because it really 
 isn't there at all. If they could have created an easier/convenient way to form online races, this 
 game would have been amazing. But, its just so difficult to find races, connect with other players, 
 that really is too bad, because i think the concept is incredible. Hopefully some game in the future 
 will be able to be truly MOOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I've played the XBox 360 version before buying this title for my PC so I knew what to expect. Gameplay 
 in the PC version is similar but unfortunately is plagued with technical problems. First, when 
 I started the game the first time, it did not give me enough time to set the firewall correctly 
 and switch to a graphic mode where I was not able to see the firewall message. It took me 10 minutes 
 to quit the game, after which I had to reboot Vista to stop the firewall from taking 100% of the 
 CPU. So before starting the game for the first time, put the correct entry in your firewall.
  
  Second, and that's the main reason for the low score, the game is stuttering. During a race, 
 or just when you drive around, the game stops, and then restarts a few seconds later. If you were 
 in curve at 150 Km/h, you'll probably lose control of your car, which is bad.
  
  Third, there is no default control for a gamepad. Although you can redefine the different controls, 
 it would have been nice to have a default settings for gamepads.
  
  I did not try the online feature so I cannot give any comments on it.
  
  Do not expect too 
 much from this game. You can't customize your ride like you do in Need For Speed, police chases 
 are more annoying than interesting, AI is not very strong, etc... I enjoy this game mostly for 
 the fun of driving around the island. I do a couple of challenges, buy new cars, new places. I 
 don't recommend this game for serious racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  TDu really was one of those few games I was excited to play, i've been a fan of the series since 
 the very first one appeared a long time ago, since then its undergone a few transformations and 
 some of them, not too good but at least it stayed true to the namesake, and TDu still trys to remain 
 faithful to its forefathers, however being said all isn't well.
  
  First off, there seems to be some very serious issues with the game, especially online. People 
 are complaining left right and center about very poor performance even on some extremely high-end 
 gaming rigs (10k+rigs) , one of the biggest problems is frame rate stuttering or even several second 
 pauses, which obviously in a driving game is disasterous as you'll often end up crashing, which 
 can be really annoying if you're attemping a really long race, such as the infamous Millionaires 
 Challenge.
  
  Secondly, like with every other game played online its going to have cheaters, and TDu is no exception, 
 in fact the cheating already has gotten so bad that almost every single top time logged is proberly 
 by someone using the various hacks that are readily available, to add insult to injury some of 
 the hacks are so low tech, even someone with little to no script kiddy experience can hack TDu 
 which results in the online mode being rather pointless to play competivily, so most just cruise 
 around now and play the single player missions.
  
  Graphics, are really the talk of the game, Atari and Eden almost accuractly mapped one of the larger 
 islands in Hawaii and brought into the game so well, sometimes it actually feels like you really 
 there, however this is proberly why the specs of the game are so high in the first place =P
  
  Annoyances, boils down to sheer Road Rage , basically after playing a few of the tougher challenges, 
 you'll understand what road rage is all about, some races especially ones that involve you driving 
 against traffic can be a nightmare, often leaving you cursing at some idiot npc driver who decides 
 to give you a bad day. Some of the npc drivers can be so dangerous, quite often you might see some 
 drivers change lanes or turn without indicating or other dangerous things, quite often when driving 
 at high speed, these npc tricks will often lead you into a nasty crash, however it can be amusing 
 sometimes as well.
  
  Overall, TDu isn't a bad game at all. Offline mode without all the cheaters is proberly the best 
 way to play it, unless you're interested in hooking up with a few friends and planning on joyriding 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is not in the leauge with other great racing games like GTR 2 and NFS Most 
 Wanted .It is a mediocre racing game. The games graphics / visuals is decent. The soundquality is 
 poor in the game. The radio Soundtrack's are horrible. The characters potraited looks like SIMS 
 2 character's. The cars outer and interior designs looks cool. You get variety of vechiles ranging 
 from cars to bikes to unlock in the game. You can modify your vechiles also. You get to earn lots 
 of money (by racing) , buy houses / vechiles , dress up as like in GTA games .The controls for 
 driving in the game needs some practice . You can freeroam throughtout the game without any specific 
 mission .If u want bit of challenge you can enter races on your own wish. The good thing about 
 the game is you can freeroam on a vast island paradise (virtual world) till you get bored . Nothing 
 interesting or thrills of racing is in the game. The game has multiplayer feature also where you 
 can play the game online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  If you ask any enthusiast what to expect from a PC/DVD TDU, he would probably say The best road 
 car game we can imagine . And maybe it's quite true after all. You can't count many games with 
 100 cars (and bikes) to choose from. Not to mention, they all look perfect and we really feel the 
 joy by just looking.
  
  The truth is, apart from those facts, that we already knew from Xbox 360. The game isn't quite 
 there for a PC/DVD version.
  
  I've been playing the game for a week now, and unfortunatelly as I keep driving more hours and 
 better cars the game experience it's getting worst. (I already have a Slk 55 AMG, F430, AM V8 Vantage 
 and Audi RS4 cabrio)
  
  We all have to admit that we look at TDU as the chance to feel the driving and the thrilling of 
 driving some of our dream cars. And, for me, that's the worst part of the game - The Driving Experience. 
 The TDU should be everything about the driving and feeling the speed. I've heard from other review's 
 some stuff like it's hard to control the cars at high speed or You have to get used to the steering 
 sensivyti , etc. The truth is: the driving is awfull and we have to admit it. And the driving get's 
 worst and worst everytime you put the graphics on higher resolutions (as the steering response 
 time get's slower, even with a huge PCU and GPU)
  
  All the rest are minor details, as we can say the the online experience is not quite there and 
 far from Massive. We can say that the car sound sometimes could be a bit more realistic, and so... 
 But in the end, all of that doesn't matter that much. We wanted a car experience game. And instead, 
 we get a rubish drive feeling game.
  
  The Xbox 360 it's much better in that way, somehow the've acomplished something in the Xbox 360, 
 and now I understand why the game took so long to be realeased for PC/DVD. They really didn't managed 
 the driving.
  
  After all.... It's still the only game where you can put so many super cars in action. So it has 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  After reading some of the reviews here on GS by the gamers i have realised that not everybody are 
 into this type of game.
  
  First off its not a RACING game. Period. Its a DRIVING game/life simulation. Something like a FPS/Sim 
 but for Driving.
  
  Ok, GRAPHICS are amazing, even if you have a medium weight pci express PC system, Geforce 7600GT. 
 The on board view or in car view are amazing. Car interiors also very beautiful. Cars and bikes 
 sounds IMO like the real thing. I know the Kawasaki ZX10 sounds right and the Ducati 999 also. 
 Being more of a motorcycling freak i absolutely enjoy riding the motorcycles. I only use the two 
 on board views. I love the way how the visor gets dirty when riding for awhile and how the bike's 
 sound is muffled inside the helmet.
  
  Driving the cars are also such an amazing experience. From how the car sounds inside the interior 
 view to the 3rd person view. I usually just drive around the island, and do the transport vehicles 
 missions. Put on the radio, view the car in 3rd person view and drive to the destination to collect 
 my cash. When i feel like racing i can do so.
  
  Honestly how many of us will be able to say, realistically or in real life that you own a Ferrari, 
 Lamborghini or Coenigsagg?? In this game you almost feel as if that is you driving around. It really 
 sucks you into this Virtual Driving world. Little things i have to mention are, that you can create 
 your own radio station and listen to your selection of songs. You can turn up or down your windows. 
 You can redo missions over and over to collect more cash, its not a senerio that once a race is 
 done you cannot redo it. Tuning your car or bike has the perfect balance of options. The last thing 
 i want to do to a Ferrari is stick on some crappy looking neons at the bottom of the car. No Need 
 for Speed stuff here.
  
  Last note is that this game will definately be appreciated more, using a Steering Wheel. Logitech 
 Formula Force GP or such. I have the steering wheel setup for the cars and my Logitech Rumblepad 
 2 joypad for the bikes. I feature i found very nicely applied to the game, allowing you to setup 
 the different pheripherals for different vehicles.
  
  So maybe i am getting old and getting tired of all these boring racing games, but this one is the 
 best Racing/Driving/Game of all. This game is doing what a game should do, that is to be FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buuhoi2k
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  i've beeing played quite a lot racing PC games, but Test Drive Unlimited (TDU) is the one which 
 has absolutely nice car graphic design. With TDU, i can find quite enough my favorite car model 
 from a R32 VW to the legend red Enzo.
  On-road-items like houses, street, trees are also reach the perfection of sight.
  
  However, 
 the car itself is quite hard to handle, especially at corner or when we need to make an urgent-brake. 
 I usually use hand-brake function to has a wider corner, but in some case, it cannot handle the 
 cut-corner that well.
  
  So, with the car transpotation and model mission, where player need to handle the car and passenger 
 really carefully, TDU gave me hard-time.
  
  Graphic is good: 9/10
  Sound is a little bit boring. There's not music when drving/ radio: 6/10
  GPS function not show 
 the % to reach destination point
  Driving skill: not quite good and smooth 5/10
  Car collection: GREAT 10/10
  
  In general, I do like this version of Test Drive.
  Cars and 
 show-houses are beautiful absolutely. The more i drive, more I want to have much more $ to buy 
 them all. It's like my dream cars and houses.
  
  Pham Buu Hoi - from Vietnam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coviechieif62
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  First let me start at how amazing those graphics are- WOW! This game is superb. Between the photorealistic 
 interiors and exteriors of the cars to the amazing 1000 sq. miles of tropical paradise this is 
 SWEET,
  
  I only have a few negatives with the game one is that the voice acting isn't very good and sometimes 
 the engine sounds are a bit choppy, but this will probably be fixed by a patch soon
  
  The only other problem for me is that despite the beautiful graphics is that there are many many 
 glitches
  They are as follows:
  
  1-digital HUDs won't display on cars like the TVR tuscan s
  2-cars can appear or dissapear right 
 in front of you
  3-textures and buildings load in far too close to you
  4-no patches have been released yet even though these problems were identified in the readme
 
  
  Okay, now that i'm done with that, i'm sure that many of you didn't experience these problems, 
 and i'm sure this is just because im running the game w/ and x850
  
  Hope you enjoy, I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragheads
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  The graphics are aamazing. The steering has to be adjusted just a bit. The frame rates are fine 
 I guess? Its has problems with hitches in the graphics. Figures this would happen to me but in 
 the training mode at the beggining, when you have to drive that model to her location, I have yet 
 to be past that. I don't know if its really hard persay, just I can't do it...... I am just highly 
 immpressed with its graphics. Don't believe the hype on just about every gaming board in town - 
 this game is at least an 11 - if not a R-11. You HAVE to try this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFlex69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  To start with - This game got style. We saw it in the preview videos back before it was released 
 and we see it now...
  
  [Overview] ___
  TDU is a very wide-dimensional racing simulation game that takes the player on the ride of the 
 lifetime. The ingame World is HUGE just realizing the size of digital Hawai as you driving through 
 its corners makes you notice the great effort of the developers. THe world does seem repetitious 
 some times, you do notice this same house here and there, but the gameplay blends into the slight 
 lack of randomization just fine.
  
  [Gameplay] ___
  TDU gives us much more freedom than any other simulation game, - you may participate in a various 
 race types, challenge another player\AI to complete a delivery task, or just to take a ride on 
 the streets - which is fun - flying in your screaming Zonda through a tiny traffic gap does fills 
 your adrenaline meter. The gameplay has some emphasis on acquiring a property, a luxurious property 
 - rides, houses, villas, designer clothes...
  there is a taste of character customization in the game, so you can make yourself individual.
 
  
  [Graphics] ___
  The graphics in the game is great, the eyecandy and the much-detailed car models give alot to the 
 experience. Although you do get the weird bouncing of the car on some bumpy sections of the road, 
 the Havoc 3d engine holds the game together pretty tight.
  
  [Sound] ___
  The sound Effects are well made aswell, The game features a very comfortable radio\soundtrack feature 
 which may too add to the adrenaline-filled atmosphere.
  
  [Conclusion] ___
  This Game definitely passes my test drive. It's beautiful and will never make you bored.
  
 
  -Ma. S. Tro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzedulci_69
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The game has it`s good parts... and bad parts.... the good parts are it`s realism... but you must 
 have a steering wheel. I tried with G25 steering wheel and it rocks, but if you don`t have one 
 stop trying because it is boring.
  The game play so far is quite boring.... I mean I traveled too much to get a bike, at the begging 
 I thought the game will change something... but except driving all the game has one small story. 
 I played 3 days without resting and.... I managed to find that nothing happens I delivered cars... I 
 bought places... clothes, but that`s all... so if u enjoy driving is perfect, but only if u enjoy 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaStOfThE
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  This seems a very good game, and a very entertaining one, too. The graphics look quite good. Plenty 
 of trees, grass, lakes and such. The island is huge, with a ton of roads to travel; it has highways, 
 roads and alleys. Traffic is normal, with cars buzzing all around you. There are some aspects I'm 
 not touching, I'm sure you've read abou them already.
  The array of cars from witch to choose from is impressive, all being fully licensed. The modelling 
 team has done especially a great job recreating these cars in great detail, including the interior 
 of the car. Well being a driving/racing game it's not a surprise. The surprise comes when it comes 
 to driving. Although the cars are so beautifully modelled and textured, although you have a cockpit 
 camera - wich is great, by the way - the control of the car is very poor. The game has some tweaking 
 sliders for the control, but they don't do much in helping you. the controls will be hyper-responsive 
 or hipo-responsive; either way it isn't good, This is the BIG minus of this game, witch would have 
 otherwise been super.
  Sure, with a steering wheel I think the game should respond adequately, but hey, how many of us 
 have one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richteralan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  In PC, this game finally brings some excellent tidbits to its world.
  
  The beginning 10 hours or so, or before you get to Champion level, gameplay is excellent. You have 
 a lot of motivation to explore the island, to compete in races, to complete missions and earn cash. 
 You are also eager to buy new houses and cars to build your collection.
  
  But after you got to Champion level, you will find all these races and missions tedius and boring. 
 You are just doing same stuffs for quite a long time. The sense of freshness lost. You explored 
 the whole island and you'll find no place to go.
  
  Multiplayer is a pain. It is hard to find one single race that's not in progress or not empty. 
 The multiplayer interface is redundant that you cannot check the race status in map view. After 
 a few clicks and waiting waiting, you can finally know that the race is in progress and you cannot 
 join/have to wait.
  
  The built-in microphone or VoIP function is good. BUT it enabled by default therefore sometimes 
 when a player appears on your screen you might hear him talking, his computer speakers.. etc.. It 
 is VERY ANNOYING!
  
  Club feature is good, but poorly executed. You cannot be in more than one club, plus one club can 
 only have max 16 members. This renders the club feature questionable.
  
  Want to see your friends and explore the island with them? It is also difficult. First, it is already 
 difficult to make them SHOW UP on your side due to poor online server. Second, it is also difficult 
 NOT to lose them if you open your map.
  
  Finally, this game is still a good game for casual racers. If you are looking for a fast paced 
 online multiplayer racing game, this game is NOT for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Somehow I got my hands on the PC version of TDU. No point in talking about the graphics cause the 
 looks amazing, well amazing is a way of saying it, but the gameplay tends to get boring after a 
 few hours cause you are starting to get tired around of running from here to there just to find 
 a car that fits you. About the control of the car.... it gets closer to reality, meaning that the 
 speed is getting real, not like the latest NFS games. The only thing that botters me is that the 
 game is ported from consoles ( u can tell by the lack of video options, you can't even find VSYNC, 
 the only options are the resolution, refresh rate, anti-aliasing, HDR and a high, med, low video 
 setting ) . Also the game has a sound problem, the bass is too loud and high freq sounds are missing.... well 
 that is all i have to say after 2 hours of gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radai32671
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed the game thus far, and my only complaint is the Frame per second Issue. It lags, the 
 freezes and sometimes you have to reboot your computer to get the game going again. Nevertheless, 
 is a great game, is just that it has issues that need to be addressed by Atari and ede. And they 
 should do so as soon as possible, because is a number of discontent in the gaming community when 
 it comes to this game. In addition, there should be a push button to talk to one another, as oppposed 
 to typing.
  
  By the way what does the option tab mean, For EX: There options that we could use yet when i pressed 
 the corresponding button for those options they don't work? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  to begin with i would like to point out a bit what i mean when i set the different parameters and 
 score bars on the game. i dont think you dont understand them if you bother to read my review but 
 i feel they list far to general perspectives, particulary for a game like this that has many sides 
 to every part. the difficulty i have set to Hard, not becourse it is a hard game to start with 
 but becourse it is a hard game to compleate. the premade races and tasks you will come across in 
 order to complete all the unlocking of cars and sutch will pose a differenciated and varied combination 
 of challenges. Not to forget that mainly this game is to be played in an online status and in the 
 online races you will encounter many drivers that are of good quality and thereby hard to beat 
 in even races. the learning curve i have set to 4 or more hours. again you can start the game after 
 installing it and play it right away and very quickly master the easy bit of keeping your car on 
 the road wile moving forward, even if you have never played a driving game before witch is the 
 most basic level of gameplay for TDU. but to train your abilities to actually master the driving 
 and the possibilities the game will allow you to is a matter of quite a long learning curve. the 
 controll of sliding etc wile avoiding civilian ai traffic or your fellow online racers. as for 
 the time i have spent to date palying the game, that isnt mutch of an issue to explane, in the 
 game there are a time clock that tic's away as you play the game. on my clock it says i have played 
 the game for 136 hours and 46 minutes.
  
  on the Attribute bars i have :
  Gameplay : 8. had it been more stabile in the online modus and had bigger and easyer grouping possibilities 
 i could easy had set this to a 9 even a 10.
  Graphics : 10. this game look fabulous. it is the prettyest i have seen so far. of coruse in 10 
 years this game will look terrible but one has to judge by the time its made for.
  Sound : 8. now, the sound in the game is an issue for me personaly as i uses the engine sounds 
 alot to hear when the gear ratio/engine combination is right for changing the gear, rather then 
 taking my eyes of the road to glance at the rpm gauges (witch is not allways easy to see, in some 
 cars it isnt even there) . and part from some of the cars witch has quite good and distinguished 
 engine sounds, other cars for some reason particularry the cheap cars has very bad or at best lame 
 sound efects. i use a high end Logitech 5.1 suround speaker set so i know its not my speakers that 
 cant play the sounds the game produses.
  Value : 10. simlpy becourse the game offers enourmusly longlivity in gameplay and entertainment 
 and has a easy start phase with long learning curve if you want to learn how to master to perfection 
 eatch and evry car in the game.
  my tilt : 9. basically becourse there are some issues with the game and thus not perfect, as if 
 there ever was sutch a thing as a perfect game. There are no other game on the market today that 
 offer this sort of gameplay and therefor its not so easy to compare this game to other driving 
 games so im not even going to try that road at all. the wastness of roads and places to go is sipmly 
 enormous. its allmost sadens me that it seem to be impossible to release any exp. disks for the 
 game expanding the road net with any significance. never the less, one after many hours of driving 
 soon end up knowing fairly well many of the roads, witch lead to more and more shall we say recless 
 driving lol. some of the situations one come across make the lack of a freeride replay fungsion 
 in the game to a small letdown, and if there had been sutch a feture, the possibility one might 
 have had to share those most frantic moments with fellow gamers could have been a great feture. 
 basically the fact that one wish for sutch a thing indicate quite well the thrill in the gameplay 
 one can easyly cerate at will and is a good way to state that the game offers an allmost unlimited 
 source of high's or low's depending on how well one mastered the situation. the cars does to the 
 most part behave quite destinguished and with quite some variation all though it has to be said 
 by me as others too have pointed out that this isnt realy a simulation of driving a car on Hawaii. 
 the cars have an unmistakingly high feel of arcade driving physics, something one feel very well 
 particularry on low speeds like in T bend turns and like's. the lack of the right movements in 
 the car on those ocations show a bit of the limitations in the physics. the cars also seem to be 
 a bit to light waight particulary on the bumpy roads and over hill tops both small and big ones. 
 the rads are very well made up of variating sections of eaven and more uneaven surfaces. and this 
 is a BIG plus for the game as it is one of the more realistic parts of the game. it's a great plessure 
 to drive on varied surface when the game happend to be on suposingly civilian roads. it would have 
 been sad if the game had roads like they were paved in silk, then the feel of driving on real roads 
 paved for trafic and not F1 would have made the game mutch less apealing. Online, the game isnt 
 realy effective as entertainment at the moment. in fact it's so lacking stability that i am sure 
 that a patch will come and adress the most serious issues and i will wait until then with the final 
 verdict. however its not all black, even if it is hopelessly unstabile, and one soon find one selfe 
 quite deserted from the friend one just raced with a moment ago, the game still will fungsion and 
 you be able to play and drive about as you did online in the sence that you can continue with your 
 progress of the game even if the server that you are on has been emtyed for other players to meet 
 or see, including your selfe. the fact that it is the servers that crash and not the entire game 
 you play is a plus, and make the unstabile online status of your caracter barable until some patching 
 is done to adress i hope most of this questions and issues. the idea of creating an online profile 
 to play the game with is i think the only way, even if it is at the moment unstabile. i have tried 
 to play a little with a profile that was not linked to any Gamespy account, and that degrade the 
 gameplay signifficantly and i very soon deleted the hole profile and went on to consentrate all 
 my gaming time to the one online profile. unstabile as it is, it is still a lot of fun to at least 
 be able to race with others and see other drivers about that one can drag race with, race with 
 or simply drive around together with. one of the most anoying things of it all is the way too big 
 white warning box that come up in front of your eyes telling you that the conection to the server 
 is lost, and it does not go away on its own, you need to press enter on the keyboard to get rid 
 of it, not nice if you are in a difficoult driving situation at the time. the game it selfe is 
 to my experience 100 % stabile. i have not had one single game crash in my soon to be 140 hours 
 of gameplay. the online servers crash a lot allmost on a regular basis, but the game work wonderfully 
 well. i use a Logitech G25 weel with manual clutch and it works very well, i could have wished 
 for a somewhat different (better) type of configuration menu, but it isnt a big issue. i also use 
 TrackIR 4pro witch suport all axes of motion, it is therefor a little letdown that this modern 
 game dont suport the axes like the tilt and zoom but instead are limited to the same axis of wiew 
 as the mouse look. of course those are the most important axes to be able to pan around, its therefor 
 not any big issue, just a slight anoyment. TDU Is a GREAT game, a wonderfull looking peace of high's 
 and sadly too a few of the low's. but i dont mind any of those low's as mutch as i fancy all the 
 high's. i find it well worth every moment of playing it. Horrayyyy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyCigarette
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  C'mon guys, I'm getting a funny feeling when reading your reviews. Specially sentences like: If 
 you like race-sims like Toca3... - just because it says The Ultimate Racing Simulator under the 
 title, doesn't mean it is a race sim. Ok, now let's get back to TDU. I'll make a list of what's 
 positive and what's negative in my opinion. Positive:
  - yes, even cars like the Audi A6 handle like they weight around 500kg, but you can only feel it 
 on sharp turns and on GTA-like hills. On a flat road I find the handling pretty enjoyable
  - 1000km of roads
  - virtual cockpit (!)
  - seat adjustments, although it should be possible 
 to get even higher FOVs (Field of View) . And there should be an option to bind them, and not be 
 forced to go there through the menus. This is very annoying if you set seat height to the lowest 
 and pull the seat back to the maximum - it's best for most of the cars, but it's impossible to 
 drive with these settings a Koenniggssegg (or whatever) or an Enzo.
  - when cruising around (the rather fast kind of cruising:) you really can get a feeling like you 
 are part of a Gumball race in some exotic country (don't know this race? search youtube for Gumball 
 3000 ) .
  - quite a lot of cars to choose from, not bad car models
  - character adjustments
  - graphics (when they work properly)
  
  Negative:
  - hundrets 
 of people (like me) are getting random game crashes. Atari posted some info on their forum, that 
 it's kind of Nvidia's fault, although ATi users are experiencing similar problems
  - screen flickering (I know it can be fixed by alt+tabbing the game, but that's still a major bug)
 
  - graphics look nice, but frame rate drops with graphic cards for around 300 USD is a bit too 
 much
  - tons of cutscenes, which you will hate after a short time of playing
  - AI race drivers are driving like after a huge portion of hallucinating mushrooms
  - engine 
 sounds of some cars are just sad - again my favourite Audi A6 with a 4.2 V8 sounds like a 2.0 Turbo 
 engine...
  - they gave us paint and performance upgrade shops... but why the ____ is there no shop with custom 
 rims? Damn, shiny 20 rims make every car that can wear them look twice as good. I didn't expect 
 NFS-like tuning, but if you could change the rims, maybe window tint, exhausts, front and rear 
 lights and finally the ride height (just for the look, without gaining grip) - this would give 
 this game a huuuge +. And I don't think it would take much time for the programmers of Atari to 
 make it real.
  
  I reviewed this game only as a single player game since I didn't even start playing online with 
 my random game crashing. I'm giving 5 points for graphics because of all those bugs you can read 
 about in tdu-forums.
  And I'm classifying it as Best in series - I think no one will disagree with that ;)
  
  BTW: 
 If you are using a gamepad or wheel and you are experiencing random game crashing, go to: http://www. ataricommunity. com/forums/showthread. php? t=574938 
 and follow the tip titled: From Sipio -- MS Sidewinder Wheel Workaround. I removed all registry 
 entries from the subkeys responsible for the force feedback in my Dualshock2 gamepad (connected 
 through ps2 to usb converter) and since then I didn't get any crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, the HDR its extremely well done, nice road textures, excelent car models, 
 excelent reflections, full detailed cockpits of all cars. The best looking racing game for any 
 platform so far.
  
  Sound:
  
  The engines, the tires, the ambient, the voices are all well done.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You 
 can configure your controlers with lots of options, you can also ajust the driving dificulty by 
 turning on/off the driving assists.
  90 licenced cars from lamborghini, mercedes, ferrari, lotus are just a few, Motorbikes have been 
 included has well.
  You can build you own character, dress your caracter, change his hair, get some sun glasses...
 
  You can buy houses with bigger garages to stock more and more cars, you can buy cars from other 
 people if you start an online profile as well as sell your own car for the price you want.
  
  Life Time:
  
  The single campaign its a bit limited but offers dozens of hours to play, 
 the multiplayer can keep you playing this game for hundreds of hours.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Test Drive Unlimited its everything a racing maniac can want. The cockpit view will appeal 
 to lots of people since it is full detailed, beautifull cockpits.
  Excelent multiplayer features, nice sound and gorgeous graphics makes Test Drive Unlimited the 
 best racing game for pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Game just dosnt seem to be worth 50$
  be honest game is bland, sure you get alot of cars, sure its cool to have the free dom yah its 
 nice to be able to have a decent race sim.
  
  but there is no customization that to this game thats worth while, no engine customizations, no 
 car apperaince customization, no interior customziation. you buy car you get t chose the cooler 
 of it, you get to chose size 1 out of usally 3 rims, and you get to chose 1 out of 4 diffrent colors 
 for inside of your car woopie. really all you do in this game is go from race to race trying to 
 win money so that you can buy fsater cars, and then pretty much your older cars are worth less.
 
  
  if it wasnt for the ranking system.
  
  and you just keep pretty much doing same thing over and over, i was actully hoping becuase on there 
 web page they siad full costumization as in every thing. no this is along ways from anything really.
 
  
  its just selling its abilty to be online woopie.
  
  ill wait till test drive unlimited 2 comes out with some real custmozation abilty.
  
  if you 
 want a pure racing game with a decent car sim but no real subtance in the custmoziation but has 
 good online abilty then here you are, then get test drive unlimited
  
  if you want custmoziation with no real good car sim then get need for speed, there has yet to be 
 a car sim for computer that bridges the gap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  If you are 12 and have never driven before you will Love this game.
  
  If you are a fan of Racing Sims like TOCA 3 you will be disappointed ! If you like fast paced action 
 with more game play than cut scenes, you will be very disappointed.
  TDU is a bold attempt that gets a passing grade but will never be a classic game that you must 
 have in your collection.
  The starting point of the game is lame but has a redeeming quality.. it makes you want to get through 
 the first 10 hours of TDU as fast as possible .The video quality is only fair and NOT up to the 
 standard set by TOCA 3 as an example for comparison.
  My rig is nothing special :AMD4200+, Nvidia7600GT-512, SB X-Fi sound card,3 gig RAM, 22 CHIMIE LCD 
 Monitor.
  I give Atari high marks for a fast and efficient download system... almost as good as Steam !! I 
 had no trouble with the download and it installed perfectly first time.
  It is a decent game and if you love car racing you MAY enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreLegion
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Great Graphics and cool gameplay with lots of cars and many missions types. large mapped island, 
 so you can drive anywhere.
  
  Very cool racing game, not seen anything like this before and I have been hoping for this type 
 of game for a long time.
  
  This is a perfect match for the G25 racing wheel, and works great with it.
  
  My Biggest proble 
 is...
  the graphic engine needs to be optimized, it runs a little choppy when in 1st person view with 
 the dashboard up
  
  My PC is a new dual core system with decent video card, runs all my software great, but this title 
 could do better with frame rates...
  
  I would buy this game if you are into cars or bikes. A driving wheel is a must, no gamepad or keyboard 
 will do it justice, get a wheel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neckr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  This is perfect driving-game. Gameplay are perfect, graphics are good and sounds are good too . 
 These three things makes a lovely tone and give a great impression.
  
  When You jump in the car and ride to highway in the Hawaii you forget all other things and concentrate 
 to drive detailed. The island is big and road is long, You not saturate quickly. The amount of 
 the cars is huge!
  
  If You want to drive manualy or automatic gearbox and without driving aids, you can switch it in 
 options, and you can switch the clutch off or on. These things makes driving more realistc.
  
  Car sounds are good and realistic, but the general sound bug sometimes. Maybe the next patch 
 fix this problem. (Sound score 7)
  
  Graphics are good, particularly the car hull. This game not require a very good computer. Simple 
 graphic making the gameplay to great. (Graphics score 9) (Gameplay 10)
  
  If You like a speed and racing games in the big island, I recommend to buy this game! (Value score 
 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hugom_99
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  amazing graphics and sound. but the gameplay is spectacularly ,insanely hard and unrealistic.
 
  car turns can be painful and missions require class A+ drivers, because you can't even let a weel 
 scratch the grass outside the road. The game features a cop pursuit system that is even more broken. 
 You can ram up a car and blow it in a corner if you do it in a single crash. But, if you trade 
 paint 2 times, even a lil' paint scratch will engage you in a cop pursuit. While driving on a highway, 
 cars will just turn and get right in front of you even if you are a Ferrari Enzo driving at 350 
 km/h horning and blinking the lights desperately.
  Worth playing for the first 2 hours. After that, you can try to get used to the awkward gameplay 
 or turn off the computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I have seen the pictures for years, and have always been exited about this game, and I will say: 
 I'm not disepointed. In fact, this game look much better live than on the pictures. It has felt 
 so good to yust drive around and enjoy the beautyful graffic.
  
  The good: Stunning graffic, A lot of cars, a lot of freedom, much to explore, lot of details.
 
  
  The bad: Much of the same missions, or else nothing spesial.
  
  I have never felt closer to a real life in a game. To sit in a car in this game, is abselutly stunning, 
 espesialy in some cars. It's very many details. The missions is much of the same, but I have not 
 got sick of them.
  If you like car games with a lot freedom, this is yust the game for you.
  I really recommend 
 this game, but you should have a good PC, or else you will be missing a big part of this game. 
 This is this far one of the best driving game I have ever played, and I would say that there are 
 no more beautyful car games out there yet, than this game.
  
  Enjoy;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Here's one game that's got me surprised (positively) from the start. On the whole, it's a solid 
 challenge to EA's Need for Speed series that's been pretty much monopolizing the PC racing sim 
 genre for the past few years. Here's why:
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Assuming you've the nuts to play this game at it's highest graphics settings, you'll agree with 
 me. The cars, as is the benchmark now, look almost real-life. The surroundings is absolutely amazing, 
 with some areas on coastlines, some on beaches, some in mountainous forests, and others in the 
 urban jungle. You cannot ask for more in a racing sim. The lighting is especially astounding, with 
 it's blinding effect when you suddenly face the sun that gradually fades away and shadow effects. 
 Also, the GPS is surprisingly detailed; at it's highest zoom, you could even see cruise ships actually 
 coasting by the shoreline and ant-like vehicles scurrying around the map. At it's lowest zoom, 
 you see the entire island laid out as it is seen in reality, complete with cities, beaches, and 
 ports at the correct locations. Finally, the driver's seat view is immensely detailed. Everything 
 in a real car is found on the dashboard, including even A/C buttons, CD Player, etc. The feature 
 that allows you to choose different colour combinations for the interior designs also makes the 
 cars feel so much more like your own real-life car.
  
  About the only negative in graphics is the hardware needed to run this baby. You'll need around 
 2 Gig RAM, 256mb Video card, and a 3 Ghz or equivalent CPU for the game to run at a smooth pace, 
 and that's at medium settings too. I've also heard of problems when attempting to play with an 
 inferior card. But these problems are small considering the graphic-dreamland that Test Drive Unlimited 
 provides you.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Good, unique sounds for each car that are suited to the vehicle in reality. I don't know what a 
 Ferrari sounds like, but the Mercedes and Nissans sure sound like the real thing. One feature that 
 stood out to me was that the engine noises and other respective sounds were noticeably dampened 
 when you close the windows. That small difference may seem insignificant, but it definitely shows 
 the attention to detail that Atari put into creating this game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Storyline - Here's the bad first.
  Would you be surprised, but this game HAS no storyline. If 
 it weren't for this game's other spectacular pros, it would fail miserably in this department. 
 The races get very repetitive sooner or later, since the AI is quite stupid. I'll elaborate. On 
 straightaways, (such as highways) the AI could somehow keep blazing along at 300+ km/h (near max 
 speed) without hardly wiping out once in 5 minutes. To prove it, simply race the Tour the Island 
 189 km race and you'll see what I mean. However, on corners and such, the AI has to inexplicably 
 slow down to 50 km/h to take them. This makes for truly boring races because on straights, you'll 
 most likely be far behind the pack, then on corners, you'll smash into the solid metal wall in 
 front of you that's slowed down to 50 km/h all of a sudden. As well, the AI always does the same 
 thing; for example, if the car in front of you starts the race by veering off the track once, it'll 
 do the exact same thing every time. That makes it very easy to anticipate when the AI will slow 
 down, thus warning you not to follow them at that area the next race.
  
  Handling - Almost a port of the famed Gran Turismo handling style.
  I must admit, after playing 
 GT for the past 8 years, switching over to Test Drive Unlimited was like playing GT5 (an imaginary 
 game) . For those who haven't touched Gran Turismo, the handling style is very very drifty, the 
 opposite of arcade style racing like Need for Speed games. There are frequent spinouts, acceleration 
 is more realistic, and crash detection is more realistic. Basically, the physics behind TDU is 
 more realistic than NFS, but less realistic than GT4. Where NFS allowed you to take turns at over 
 150 km/h, TDU forces you to take them at a more realistic 80 km/h, but still faster than GT4 that 
 makes you turn at about 60 km/h. As realism goes, the more realistic, the more difficult, so TDU 
 isn't going to be a breeze, especially for new racers.
  
  Exploration - First racing game that allows exploration of an area that is in proportion to real-life.
 
  Again, to compare with NFS, Test Drive's mileage system is far more realistic. Travelling 20 km's 
 across the island actually takes a good 10 minutes, making Test Drive the most realistic racer 
 in respect to mileage to date. Another huge aspect of TDU's exploration is the realism in the island's 
 layout. For those who've been to Hawaii, you'll have to attest for the accuracy of the cities, 
 beaches, and districts, but for me, who's never set foot there, the locations are all very convincing. 
 The cities are spread out mainly along the coast, and harbours can be found in bays, and airports 
 are found in only the non-mountainous areas. The innovative GPS also comes into play: you could 
 fast-skip to roads that you've previously travelled through, so that eliminates alot of the unnecessary 
 annoyance for travelling to a far-off point.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Although I claimed the races were repetitive and AI uninspiring, the exploration of the island 
 more than makes up for that. Exploring through the island in Test Drive isn't simply running through 
 endless miles of monotonous road. The scenery is exceptionally varied, the driver view actually 
 makes you feel like you're driving your dream car listening to the radio, and the traffic will 
 keep you on your toes as cars WILL actually stop at a red light and stop sign. In other words, 
 exploring Hawaii in Test Drive is most likely the closest you can get to actually driving a Lamborghini 
 in Hawaii without shelling out $2000 for the hotel and plane ticket and $150,000 for the Lamborghini 
 itself.
  
  There's much more that can be said about Test Drive Unlimited, but the highlights are here. The 
 rest will be left for you to discover yourself.
  
  Pros: Detailed graphics, Realistic gameplay, Attention to details (radio, lighting, windows, police) .
 
  Cons: Hardware requirements, Repetitive races, Stupid AI, some inaccessible areas that should 
 be accessible (some beaches, some blocked off grassy plains, etc.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything someone could possibly want. It has a unique Gameplay that can amuse you 
 for hours and, it has an outstanding graphical appearance. As it matters to the sound, it could 
 have been better.
  I liked the creativity of this game, for example when you are asked to choose a character, you 
 choose it from an airport checkout line. There was something I didn't like. The haircut of the 
 models in the game, it's like they went to the same barber shop there, they all have the same haircut 
 which makes them boring. In general the game is worth the money and worth the time spent playing. 
 It is truly an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossfi
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  I will only talk about multiplayer as single player is just too repetitive and limited to even 
 bother with.
  
  The concept of being able to drive around freely and chat or challenge 1000's of other players 
 you see to a race is a great idea but its still only an idea as even though the server says there 
 are 1000+ players online you will only ever see around 15 players after a few hours of playing.
 
  And it gets worse.
  If you meet a couple of players to race or just hang around with, who you may even add to your 
 friends list, as soon as you or a friends finish a race or challenge, you can guarantee you will 
 probably never see your friends again. The whole concept where those 1000+ players are randomly 
 split up onto 100's of virtual servers so there are only about 20 players per map which you can 
 ever meet at anyone one time is a massive design flaw.
  
  During an hour of playing you may be random switched 10's of times onto a different virtual server 
 losing contact with anyone you may have raced or met earlier until you are lucky enough to be switched 
 onto the same virtual server in the future.
  
  When you play an online game you expect to be able to interect and chat to people and maybe stay 
 in touch with people you meet but the randomnous just makes it impossible.
  
  This is how I would describe the multiplayer interaction.......
  
  Imagine a large ship has 
 just sunk and all the survivors are in the sea floating by where you get a chance to say hello 
 before a big wave comes along and washes them away to reappear somewhere else not knowing whether 
 you will see them again. 
  
  Another major flaw is how easy it is to cheat online . This just means the Global Records tables 
 are just pointless because you will never get a higher score than any of the high number of impossible 
 lap times already recorded which have been done by cheats.
  
  Overall the game is pretty limited on anything you can do. The only good thing is there are plenty 
 of cars to buy and drive and each one does feel different.
  
  I wouldn't use the term Massive Open Online Racing. It's pretty obvious the game has been rushed 
 in every way from poor GUI interaction to major multiplayer flaws and the high amount of bugs and 
 graphical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stanty15
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good, no denying that. Though to run it high end, you will need a very good pc. 
 The scale of the game is great, being able to go on 20+ mile drives.
  But... I am on the pc, using a steering wheel, and the steering and handling is unlike anything 
 i've ever experienced. at low speeds the cars are unpredictable cornering. And at high speeds, 
 you need to be in incredably gentle on the steering or you will crash very quickly. I can't get 
 over how, when the car starts to slide out of control, you correct the slide, and the car rockets 
 across the road going all over the place with the smallest correction of the steering. This is 
 bad enough when your on a virtually straight road with no traffic around, but when theres a car 
 coming up, it's pointless trying to avoid it. By the time you've seen the other car, that's it, 
 your going to hit it. You need to anticipate beyond the draw distance as to where the traffic is 
 going to appear. And this gets very annoying. I admit, it is a very good game, huge map, great 
 cars and great graphics. But the feel of the steering and the handling, for me atleast, almost 
 ruins the entire game.
  
  So if your looking at getting this game, bear in mind that the handling is more arcady than Simulation. 
 It's more of your Driv3r rather than your Grand Prix Legends . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horney89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Turns out this game was a little to good spec wise for one of my computers so used another and 
 this game is one hell of a racer and great graphics and overall game performance.
  
  Well about this game go to a number of car dealerships splash out on a car you have always admired 
 or if you cant quite afford it test drive it and maybe take it to a race or escort model or even 
 just take pictures of it for the album. Good points in TDU as I said graphics stunning cars accurate 
 to the touch miles upon miles of asphalt and tons of engine groaning noises to keep you in your 
 Tim Allen grunt all day long ARRR! Money is easy to come by and if you need more try doing the 
 same race a few times to help you boost the cash flow and get that new ride or Pad. Which leads 
 me on to another good point being able to update your cloths and buy bigger and much more expensive 
 homes or pads however you like to say it. One other game point is the online feature were if you 
 have it set it will stay on even when youre just cruising a round you will see another player 
 drive past you and in map mode you can select any number of online races. So bad points this all 
 may just be my ever aging steering wheel but any over touch and Im a gonna and when you have the 
 car radio on full blast the GPS makes no attempt to lower it down so you can hear it so its a 
 mash of sounds. One other problem with the GPS is on some turns it gives you the direction early 
 on others it waits and waits till the last minute then you have to slam on and hope you make it.
 
  And last but not least the police on TDU arent so bad not really tested them to the limit yet 
 but they do have a habit of sneaking up on you and giving you a ticket as I have found out twice. 
 Overall I recommend this game to anyone looking for a good racer but dont just take my word for 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
