-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive 5
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/testdrive5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  4, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 158 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Accolade
Developer: Pitbull Syndicate
Genre: Racing
Date:     Nov 30, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Test Drive 5 looks pretty good in a vacuum, but it simply does not compare well with Need for Speed 
 III. 

 In the world of computer games, a product lives or dies according to how well it compares with similar 
 products. This is, of course, old news for any serious gamer. After all, you're not going to fork 
 over $40 for one game when you get a much better one for the same amount, right? Case in point: 
 Test Drive 5 from Accolade and Pitbull Syndicate. While the game is a decent arcade racer with 
 great graphics, plenty of cars, and a ton of tracks, it simply falls short of its number one competitor 
 - EA's Need for Speed III - in almost every conceivable way.  

 One of the few areas in which Test Drive 5 can claim superiority over Need for Speed III is in the 
 sheer number of cars and tracks available. Test Drive 5 offers a total of 28 cars, which, as in 
 Test Drive 4, represent an even mix of modern sports cars and classic muscle cars. This number 
 is a bit deceiving, however, as seven of these cars are "locked" at the beginning of the game (a 
 "feature" I've always loathed in PC racing games) and are likely to stay that way for a great many 
 players due to Test Drive 5's difficulty and physics oddities (more on that later) . Furthermore, 
 four of these 28 cars are simply police versions of the game's basic Chevy Camaro, TVR Cerbera, 
 Dodge Charger, and Ford Mustang. On top of all this, several of the cars in Test Drive 5 aren't 
 all that much fun to drive. Cars like the Nissan Skyline, Cerbera, and Aston Martin Vantage - though 
 beautiful and exotic in the real world - are decidedly plain and unexciting in an arcade racer. 
 Besides, it's virtually impossible to win a race against the computer in any one of these cars, 
 so why include them at all?  

 Test Drive 5's graphics are certainly on par with Need for Speed III, though Accolade's title does 
 not handle distance rendering quite as well. Some of the car models are a bit plain, but all in 
 all the game looks fantastic, with eye-popping reflections on every car and an impressive attention 
 to detail on each of the tracks. I actually preferred the track design in Test Drive 5, in fact, 
 because each road course seemed to be more realistic than those in Need for Speed III. Alternate 
 routes can be found on almost every track, so you don't have to follow the same old line every 
 time you race.  

 The game flew along on a Pentium II 300 with dual Voodoo cards, even at a resolution of 1024x768, 
 but oddly there's no real sensation of speed. Whether you're driving 80 or 175 miles per hour, 
 the game looks and feels exactly the same. This is incredibly disappointing, especially when you 
 think you're going fast and a computer-controlled cop sails past to give you a ticket. The whole 
 point of a game like this is to feel that rush of driving a car you'll probably never own in situations 
 you'll probably never experience (or at least, that you'd be very unlikely to survive) .  

 Poor engine sound effects further reduce the game's sense of immersion, as most cars sound exactly 
 the same. The Shelby Cobra - easily the best of the basic cars in Test Drive 5 - sounds great, 
 but every other car sounds pretty weak. To make matters worse, the game's music (which is generally 
 quite good) drowns out the sound effects unless you turn it down to the lowest setting.  

 In spite of its many other flaws, poor gameplay is where Test Drive 5 drops from contender to also-ran 
 status. Basic races are extremely difficult, even on the lame-o difficulty setting with arcade 
 physics enabled. Computer-controlled cars always out-accelerate you unless you're driving a Cobra. 
 It is far too easy to spin out of control, and you lose far too much ground to the computer when 
 you do so. Also, while AI cars can send you spiraling off the course with the slightest brush (and 
 always seem to do so near the finish line when you're in first place) , you can hardly ever run 
 your opponents off the track. What this means is that while you have to fight your way back into 
 the race after losing control, the same is almost never true of the computer-controlled cars. So 
 not only do they get the jump on you at the start, they also rarely lose any ground over the course 
 of the race. Even worse, spinning out an AI car is the only way to issue tickets in the game's 
 cop-chase mode. And as long as we're talking about cop chases, why on earth do you have to hold 
 down the button to keep your siren going? Simply put, Test Drive 5's general gameplay - and the 
 cop-chase mode in particular - can't hold a candle to Need for Speed III.  

 Test Drive 5 does offer a drag racing mode that you won't find in Need for Speed III, but this is 
 little more than a ten-second speed burst that loses its appeal after about three runs. Drive the 
 Cobra and you'll win most of the time anyway.  

 So while Test Drive 5 looks pretty good in a vacuum, it simply does not compare well with Need for 
 Speed III. As with the previous version, the only real reason to choose this over EA's arcade racer 
 is to get behind the wheel of muscle cars like the GTO and Hemi 'Cuda. Otherwise, Need for Speed 
 III offers better gameplay, cooler cars, and a much better pursuit mode (for all you law enforcement 
 types out there) .    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: skoh03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Accolade's most popular Test Drive series is back with the 5th installment is back with better 
 graphics, better car design and game play.
  
  
  The graphics look a lot better than the grainy TD4 visuals. Track design is also more realistic 
 as there are some shadow detail on the road and objects. Car details are also improved with pre-rendered 
 reflections.
  
  The cop chase is surprisingly still the same! Unlike NFS III, Accolade is still using the same 
 method which is to overtake the racer to bust him. NFS III is already using advance method of busting 
 racers such as pitting, roadblocks, spike strips and the box in method. Be the cop mode is quite 
 annoying because you have to hold down the siren button in order to bust the racer!
  
  Cars in the game look much better compared to TD4 but the design are kind of awkward. Cars like 
 the Nissan Skyline have a really flat rear and the front a little too round and tires are little 
 too big! Some are OK like the Dodge Viper. Generally, the cars' looks are kind of a so-so job (all 
 thanks to Pitbull Syndicate for doing the game design.)
  
  The crash physics are well... hilarious! Once the player's car hits a traffic vehicle, the car 
 is sent flying somersaulting or spining in the same direction (execpt for the PS which the game's 
 crash physics is a little more polished than the PC.) Also, cars tend to spin out of control rather 
 easily than AI controlled cars. Computer makes mistakes which is the advantage but the AI gets 
 to catch up with you quicker than you can outrun them which can make you wining chance slim. Same 
 goes for the cops.
  
  Sound quality is also so-so. Some of the many cars have the same rattling sound as the others. 
 The crash sound is like an weak pathetic explosion which made me laugh sometimes because crashes 
 don't obviously sound like that!
  
  MISC.
  
  -Drag racing is available but it's too short and unexciting.
  
  -Don't really feel the speed 
 as in the PS when going fast.
  
  -Cars look like bitmap images.
  
  -Dashboard view is taken out.
  
  Overall the game is cool but not as great as Need For Speed 
 III and it's previous installments like Test Drive II. Cop chases is what is probably letting the 
 game down a bit. Depends whether you like it or not, you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  So I will start by saying that the game is really cool because it features two major cities that 
 you can drive around and feel like you are actually there. I can drive through London and take 
 a stop through the Underground or get some tea in Trafalgar Square. I can even find the hotel I 
 stayed at when I was there. On the other side of the ocean, The US boasts San Fran with everything 
 from the bridge to the gay district. I think they put a nice touch on the whole thing with the 
 feeling that you can see pretty much the entire major city.
  
  The first problem I have is the fact that there are only two cities on here. I would say that they 
 could probably develop more cities and spend a little less time on making so many random races 
 throughout a selected two places.
  
  The second problem is the steering. The feel of the steering of most of the cars is just not there. 
 When you are trying to do the annoying time trials to unlock new cars, you just can't drive through 
 corners without wiping out.
  
  I play it for the free ride and that is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avenger556
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  Test Drive 5 is one of the best racing games I played in 1998. It brings you a massive amount of 
 real prototype vehicles combined with a fantastic soundtrack featuring such bands like Gravity 
 Kills and KMFDM. There are many tracks to race too. You'll be able to travel through such cities 
 like Moscow, Scotland, Tokyo. Traffic and police cars will create some problems for the racers, 
 if you are caught, you need to stop the car, then you can accelerate and continue the race. I enjoyed 
 the rain effect which was used in NFS: High Stakes. The only minus is that the cars do the impossible 
 flips in the air after the crash. Great game, must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj014
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  Test Drive 5, I admit, was like the first racing game I ever played. I unlocked all the cars and 
 maps there are to unlock the first couple of months I had it. After you unlock all the unlocks 
 (unlike many games) it tis still fun to play. Test Drive 5 is one of the few racing games I've 
 ever played that I don't care that you can't modiffy the cars. Overall (for its time) Test Drive 
 5 was an awsum game.
  Haven't play Test Drive 6 yet, nor do I want to. It looks almost exactly the same as 5, just different 
 cars and a little better graffics, sound, etc. If you haven't gotten Test Drive 5, don't. Get 6, 
 better gameplay, but other than that it's pretty much the same. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
