-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tetris Worlds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/tetrisworlds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Blue Planet
Genre: Stacking Puzzle
Date:     Nov 23, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've ever thought that Tetris' brilliant design might have been an accident, just take a look 
 at the missteps taken in Tetris Worlds and you'll gain a newfound appreciation for the original. 
 

  So it hasn't stood the test of time as long as chess has -- but you can probably imagine that, hundreds 
 of years from now, both Tetris and chess will still remain popular. Chess is thousands of years 
 old, but Tetris was invented in the 1980s by Alexey Pajitnov and gained most of its popularity 
 as the pack-in game for the Nintendo Game Boy portable console. The inventor of chess probably 
 couldn't have fathomed how enduring chess would be, and neither could anyone have guessed just 
 how great of an impact Tetris would have. But all these years have proven that Tetris is undoubtedly 
 one of the greatest electronic games ever designed.
 
 The game's ingenious formula is immediately intuitive -- as various blocks fall from the top of the 
 screen, you are compelled to shift them into the proper position to form lines, which promptly 
 vanish, letting you keep on going. The challenge mounts as the blocks start falling faster and 
 faster. It's a perfect, beautifully simple formula -- and yet THQ's recent Tetris Worlds demonstrates 
 that this formula can be botched. If you've ever thought that Tetris' brilliant design might have 
 been an accident, just take a look at the missteps taken in Tetris Worlds and you'll gain a newfound 
 appreciation for the original.
 
 Tetris Worlds isn't a terrible idea at its core -- it's supposed to be a sort of contemporary revision 
 of the original, complete with attractive visuals and a more robust set of options. In fact, you 
 could easily spend your first few hours enjoying what Tetris Worlds has to offer. Its new variations 
 on the classic Tetris gameplay are a decent enough change of pace from the core gameplay. For instance, 
 in Hot Line Tetris, you score only when you clear particular lines on the board -- the higher the 
 line, the better you score, but the closer you'll be toward losing since you can't let the blocks 
 fill the entire board. In Cascade Tetris, there's a "gravity" effect that causes blocks to fall 
 once a line is clear. This effect can be used to trigger chain reactions for big points. Other 
 modes include Sticky Tetris, a variation on Cascade Tetris, where same-colored blocks stick together; 
 Fusion Tetris, where small indestructible "atom" blocks fall intermittently; and even Learning 
 Tetris, which according to the manual is "recommended for people who have never played a computer 
 game before."
 
 Regardless of which mode you play, Tetris Worlds controls nicely using just the keyboard. Horizontal 
 arrow keys move your block left and right, the down arrow drops it down quickly, the up arrow and 
 the Ctrl key rotate it, and the space bar causes a "hard drop," which involves the block instantly 
 appearing at the bottom of the board. Optionally, you even have the ability to "hold" the currently 
 falling block -- to take it out of play for the moment until the time is right.
 
 The fundamental, critical flaw in Tetris Worlds lies in what happens when your block hits the bottom 
 of the board. In the original Tetris, you'd have a moment here to rotate your block a couple of 
 times. As the pace picked up, you'd desperately try to squeeze each block into the proper place. 
 In Tetris Worlds, you can rotate a block indefinitely once it's reached the bottom of the board. 
 You can also continue to move it left and right, and the continuous rotation even sometimes gives 
 the block leverage to "climb" up and over the little valleys that you might have formed.
 
 The ramifications of this perhaps aren't obvious -- but rest assured that this particular quirk in 
 Tetris Worlds, regardless of whether or not it's intentional, effectively nullifies almost all 
 of the challenge inherent to Tetris. In Tetris Worlds, no matter how quickly blocks are falling, 
 you have an unlimited amount of time to consider each move -- and subsequent moves after that. Not 
 only is the challenge of Tetris forfeit, but so too is the intensity.
 
 If you're a reasonably experienced Tetris player, you should be able to complete any of the game's 
 various modes of play within a few sittings. Regardless of which mode you choose, you start at 
 level one and work your way up through 15. Once you've finished a mode, you'll find precious little 
 reason to go back to it. The original Tetris isn't such a great game just because it's fun -- it's 
 because the game just doesn't get boring. But in Tetris Worlds, since there's none of the original 
 challenge, there's none of the original longevity. Ironically, this is partly because you can just 
 go on playing Tetris Worlds until the game ends. It's not a question of how long you can play until 
 you inevitably succumb to the difficulty.
 
 Tetris Worlds is focused on a bizarre "story mode" that takes place in a science-fiction world. 
 Each of the main modes of play found in the game is set in a colorful, attractive fully 3D environment. 
 A cute little eyeball character watches your actions as you play. The game's audio effects are 
 fitting, and you can turn them down or off if you like. Tetris Worlds even has a number of default 
 gameplay options -- for example, the aforementioned "hold" command, as well as the ability to see 
 a "ghost" block at the bottom of the screen, which is where your block would land if you hard-dropped 
 it. The game's techno-ambient music does get a bit repetitive, but even that is pretty good. So 
 how is it possible that the actual gameplay of Tetris Worlds could have such an egregious flaw 
 in it?
 
 In the end, the answer to this question doesn't matter, because the fact remains the same. Tetris 
 Worlds offers multiplayer modes for up to four players on a single computer, but those don't save 
 it any more than the pretty graphics do. Tetris is perhaps the most common electronic game ever 
 made. There are umpteen free Web-based versions and shareware versions of the game available all 
 over the Internet, such as this one. Most of these you can run in a window while occupied with 
 other things -- unfortunately, not even that can be said for Tetris Worlds. Ultimately, this is a 
 completely failed attempt to revive a classic game that really doesn't need reviving, since it's 
 still as ubiquitous as ever. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: one5841
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Tetris worlds is equipped with 5 variations of Tetris game play along with an odd storyline and 
 history of Tetris. The graphics are fair for it's age. All I'm going to complain about is how just 
 plain stale it really is. Take a look on the back of the CD case and just like that got me addicted. 
 When I installed and played the game I was like "YUCK WHAT THE HECK IS THIS???!!!????" Tetris Worlds 
 is just boredom. The only game that's worth getting it for is sticky Tetris. That's the only real 
 fun one. Anyways what I'm getting to is that Tetris worlds is not even worth space on you desk. 
 The music is cheesy as are the sound effects and the voice whispers. 
  
  Whose ever heard of live blocks? Well THQ has in Tetris worlds that's infect who you trying to 
 save but there's no point.
  
  
  Another complaint I'd make about Tetris Worlds is in the ARCADE MODE once you clear ten or so lines 
 YOU WIN!!!! OMG WHOS EVER HEARD OF THAT??!!
  
  
  
  
  Pros:
  Graphics are better than most PC games of it's age
  Sticky Tetris is fun
  Can be addictive 
 to some peole (like me)
  
  Cons:
  Sound effects suck
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The good: Nothing The bad: Crapy graphics, mind numbing game play, super cheasy sound, yet another 
 tetris remake, super super super sucky menu interface
  
  
  This is tetris.... BROKEN tetris.
  Nothing to say about Tetris Worlds besides that the game play 
 is BROKEN! ! ! ! ! . Yu can spin al your pieces indefently and as a result Tetris Worlds
  is SUPER easy. You can do SSSOOOO much better when it comes to tetrin games their is tons upon 
 tons of free tetris on the internet and Tetris DS is very good. This Game Sucks, Don't Play it. 
 This review has been brought to you by Anime_Beast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-of-God
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Beware: this game is for no one! I doubt that even the fans of Tetris would enjoy this game (though 
 strangly, now that i think of it, my wife really loves this game) . This game adds nothing to the 
 tetris world (pardon the pun) and takes away from the whole franchise. Just imagine tetris with 
 slightly amped up graphics but with only half the fun. Really that is the only way i can describe 
 this mess. Do not look at it, do not think of it, DO NOT BUY IT FOR GOD SAKES!!!
  Seroiusly, this game is worthless. I would stay away from ti unless you can get it for under ninety 
 nine cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grae530
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, DONT BUY THIS GAME! Dont waste your money on this Tetris game, there are far better 
 Tetris games available and this simply isnt one of them. This game lacks the addictive fun gameplay 
 that other Tetris games have. I found myself bored with it very fast. I had heard the other game 
 reviews and other peoples comments that this game misses the mark, but I ignored them and bought 
 it anyway hoping and beleiving that bad Tetris games couldn't exist. Well guess what they do and 
 Tetris Worlds is a prime example of this.
  
  Whatever platform you have and are considering buying this game, well save yourself and JUST DONT 
 DO IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 8, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  tetris has always been a popular game, its hard to think of a few puzzle games nowadays that could 
 stand up to the test of time. Actually I can think of a few. Which then makes me think: has Tetris's 
 time finally come?
  
  The new addition of games does nothing to improve the Tetris experience. You have the old Tetris 
 game, then you have new versions such as Cascade, Fusion, and a few others. Once you get the hold 
 of one of these types, its easy to master the whole game. Which is kinda sad. BUt maybe its good 
 that we get to experience new things instead of just the regular old Tetris game. The new types 
 require actual skill to play, and you have to remember which type your playing or you can easily 
 screw yourself.
  
  The graphics are just "flashy flashy." Oh wow, new colors. Changing backgrounds and moving squares. 
 Impressive to a certain extent. It keeps up the title of Worlds by taking you to different element 
 themed worlds. For people who dont have a big attention span, they may not care to play enough 
 to see the worlds at full. But its kinda worth it.
  
  The soundtrack is completely original, I just wish it was like the GBA version and had remixes 
 of the original songs. The voice is kinda annoying, warning you when time is about to expire, saying 
 tetris whenever you get a tetris, etc. And the puzzle sounds are just continuous "kink" and "thunk" 
 sounds. Gets annoying so turn down the volume and turn on a music player under the game.
  
  The length of the game lasts only as long as your patience with Tetris lasts. Im pretty tolerant 
 of the game, so I can hang in there and play until the end. After that, I dont think I'll play 
 this game for a while.
  
  Im a HUGE fan of Tetris, so I love this game. After not playing Tetris for almost 7 years, I find 
 that this game is refreshing. Other hardcore fans might not be as impressed, but I dont care what 
 they say: I love this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
