-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tex Murphy: Overseer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/texmurphyoverseer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Access Software
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Feb 28, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The big disappointment in Overseer is its puzzles - a real shame, given the fine plot and good acting. 
 

 By the time you reach the finale of Tex Murphy: Overseer, there's no doubt you'll have had your 
 fill of adventuring. There's probably 15 or 20 hours of gameplay here even if you solve every puzzle 
 as quickly as possible, and I shudder to think how long it might take to finish if you tried to 
 play the entire game without any hints at all.  

 But there is such a thing as diminishing returns, and Overseer is a prime example. It's one thing 
 to design an adventure game that'll take 30 or 40 hours (or more) to complete, but it's quite difficult 
 to design one that'll have you as interested in that 40th hour of play as you were in the fourth 
 - and for a variety of reasons, Overseer doesn't quite manage to pull it off. That doesn't mean 
 you won't get your money's worth out of Overseer, but when all is said and done, you'll probably 
 feel more sated than satisfied.  

 In this fifth installment in the Tex Murphy series, you once again step into the gumshoes of Tex 
 Murphy, a private investigator in postapocalyptic San Francisco. Up until now, Tex has been portrayed 
 as a down-on-his-luck PI desperately in need of cash (and usually a bath and a shave) , a private 
 dick plucked from the noir novels of Raymond Chandler or Dashiell Hammett and plopped into a futuristic 
 world of decay, mutants, and rampant crime.  

 In this prequel, though, we see a Tex we've only heard about in earlier games: a clean-cut rookie 
 PI whose ideals and principles haven't yet been tested by demon rum, lost love, and the harsh realities 
 of the business. The entire game - or at least the parts in which you're really playing - is a 
 flashback to his first case, with the grizzled Tex we all know and love recounting the story to 
 his girlfriend Chelsee (first introduced in Under a Killing Moon, the third Tex Murphy game) .  
 

 For a greenhorn PI who sincerely wants to help people just as much as he wants to make a decent 
 living, there couldn't be a better way to start than with this case. Things begin routinely enough, 
 almost like an episode of Barnaby Jones or Cannon: A sultry dame named Sylvia Linsky is convinced 
 that her father Carl's suicide was really a cold-blooded murder, and she is desperate for Tex to 
 help her prove it.  

 You've got achingly little to go on at first, but as you start poking around you'll begin to uncover 
 leads - leads that take you into a web of cloudy intrigue and double-dealings that will soon have 
 you convinced that no one can be trusted. And long before you learn the real reason behind Carl 
 Linsky's death, you'll stumble across a ring of conspirators whose goal is nothing less than total 
 world domination.  

 Overseer uses the same game engine that Access created for Under a Killing Moon and The Pandora 
 Directive. Video clips are used during interrogations and expository scenes, with the first part 
 of conversations - where you're trying to convince someone to talk to you - handled with a dialogue 
 tree that lets you choose attitudes rather than specific responses or queries. New names and locations 
 mentioned during conversations are automatically added to Tex's notepad; once you've gotten past 
 the dialogue tree and the source is ready to talk, simply click on a topic in the notepad to ask 
 about it.  

 There's a lot of video to watch during these scenes - I'd guess there's enough for at least one 
 feature-length movie - so the question of how the acting stacks up is pretty vital. Fortunately, 
 most of it is both professional and convincing, with the most enjoyable performances being turned 
 in by Access Software cofounder Chris Jones as Tex Murphy (his third time playing Tex) , Henry Darrow 
 as hard-drinking PI Sony Fletcher, Roger Davis as right-wing gubernatorial candidate Robert Knott, 
 Emmett Grennan as mutant chess fanatic Jorge Valdez, and of course Michael York as entrepreneur 
 J. Saint Gideon. There are a few disappointments in the thespian department, but all in all the 
 acting's at least as good as you'd expect from a high-dollar TV movie.  

 But the real adventuring in Overseer is done from a first-person viewpoint - dubbed the "VR environment" 
 by Access - that gives you completely unrestricted freedom to scour each locale for clues. We're 
 talking the whole enchilada here, folks. You can look up and down, walk in any direction, examine 
 any object, and even get down to floor level to peek under beds, tables, and desks. Movement is 
 handled via mouse or keyboard, but mouse movement is a slightly awkward affair based on navigation 
 buttons; most gamers will use the keyboard for movement and the mouse to manipulate objects. The 
 interface is slick and functional, with pop-up menus at the edges of the screen for examining and 
 using inventory items, traveling between locations, accessing game utilities, and using mouse-based 
 movement.  

 In short, Overseer is practically identical in game mechanics to Under a Killing Moon and The Pandora 
 Directive. And that raises a troubling question: Why isn't Overseer as fun or as satisfying as 
 those games were? The answer lies in two areas: performance and puzzles.  

 Overseer might be one of the first DVD games, but don't get too revved up about it. The only advantages 
 the DVD version has over its five-CD cousin is that you'll see higher-quality video playback and 
 you won't have to swap discs. Further, the only 3D support is for AGP cards, which leaves the hundreds 
 of thousands of us with 3D cards using popular chipsets such as the 3Dfx and Verite pretty much 
 out of luck. To my mind, it's almost inexcusable that Access didn't support at least Direct3D in 
 Overseer; without support for 3D hardware, the CPU has to handle the rendering of 3D objects all 
 by its lonesome, which in turn means that players with lower-end systems will experience some of 
 the choppiest animations since Descent to Undermountain.  

 I had to reduce the view window to 240x180 and knock the texture quality down to the lowest setting 
 in order to achieve something somewhere between seven and ten frames per second. It's true that 
 my system just barely meets Overseer's minimum requirements - but on the other hand, I'm seeing 
 killer performance in games like Jedi Knight and Quake II because they either support Direct3D 
 or provide native hardware support. And the real kicker here is that Overseer doesn't even look 
 that impressive - better perhaps than Under a Killing Moon, but not noticeably improved over 1996's 
 The Pandora Directive. The bottom line is this: I can't think of a single justifiable reason why 
 this game runs as poorly as it does.  

 The other big disappointment in Overseer is its puzzles - a real shame, given the fine plot and 
 good acting. I appreciate the inclusion of puzzles requiring you to combine inventory items in 
 creative ways, but at the end of the day it seemed that all I'd done was use keys on doors, passcards 
 on computers, and combined poles, ropes, and wire to either grab hard-to-reach objects or to make 
 an escape. A big bulk of the game involves moving objects to see what's behind them - usually a 
 key or computer passcard - and what should be a challenging and engaging adventure instead becomes 
 more or less a scavenger hunt.  

 But the real problem with the puzzles is that there's an insane amount of cryptology crammed into 
 this game. It seems that every five minutes you're required to decode messages or number sequences, 
 and before long you feel like Tex should have gotten a job as a code breaker at the CIA instead 
 of as a PI. Sure, a few of them are fun, but with so many coded messages to decipher you get the 
 sneaking suspicion that someone started ladling them on to artificially lengthen the game - perhaps 
 because they knew that 95 percent of gamers wouldn't hesitate to use built-in codes to automatically 
 solve puzzles. (By the way, Access does get my kudos for including the online hint system rather 
 than trying to rake in a few extra bucks off a strategy guide.)   

 In the end, Overseer feels like a very good movie stuffed into a very average game. Hopefully, Access 
 will focus on making the next Tex Murphy game playable on more gamers' systems - and season it 
 with the sort of puzzles a real private investigator might actually face.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Tex Murphy: Overseer is the fifth (and so far final) installment in the Tex Murphy series of adventure 
 games. It continues using the same basic format of its two immediate predecessors in that it uses 
 FMV for the cutscenes and the actual gameplay occurs within a fully explorable 3D environment, 
 unlike many adventure games.
  
  Overseer is a remake of the story from Tex's first adventure Mean Streets, which is pretty inaccessible 
 to most modern day gamers thanks to some of its annoying gameplay elements. Overseer does away 
 with all of these annoying bits, and creates a compelling story out of the much more simplistic 
 story of Mean Streets. Tex is hired by Sylvia Linsky (Rebecca Broussard) to find out the truth 
 behind her father's death. It was ruled a suicide as there were witnesses that saw him jump from 
 the Golden Gate Bridge, but Sylvia doesn't believe it. As Tex investigates he gets tangled up in 
 a plot involving mind control and a crooked political party trying to get their hands on the technology. 
 There are a few familiar faces, including Clint Howard, Henry Darrow, and a great performance from 
 Michael York. Suzanne Barnes returns as Tex's love interest, Chelsee Bando, and of course Chris 
 Jones returns as Tex. He continues to shine as Tex Murphy and make him a truly great character.
 
  
  Overseer uses a completely different 3D engine than the previous two games, and is, for the most 
 part, an improvement. Unfortunately, the visual quality of the various locations is all over the 
 place, with some locations looking quite nice for the time (1998) and others looking far too blocky. 
 This is rectified somewhat by 3D acceleration which is the norm nowadays anyway. The game was also 
 an early adopter of DVD technology and if you can get it to work (it's unfortunately extremely 
 difficult due to a very limited list of supported MPEG decoders) the video sequences are quite 
 nice. The DVD version also has no disc swapping, an issue if you choose to play with the CDs, of 
 which there are five. Making images of the discs and mounting them to virtual drives eliminates 
 this, as each CD can be assigned to a different drive within the game.
  
  Gameplay is quite similar to its predecessors in that you search locations for clues. Puzzles are 
 again rarely nonsensical, and a complete hint system allows you to find out what your next step 
 should be if you get stuck. Movement through the 3D world is more awkward than in Under a Killing 
 Moon or The Pandora Directive thanks to an odd choice of requiring the player to hold the right 
 mouse button while moving (done completely with the mouse) . Keyboard controls for movement are 
 now available, but are not very good. The movement issues don't detract much from the game, though, 
 as how and exactly where you move isn't very important in most cases.
  
  As far as replayability goes, Overseer is a step down from its predecessor, The Pandora Directive. 
 There is only one ending and the choices you make throughout the game will not have any effect 
 on anything else down the line. The game does have two difficulty levels, Entertainment with 1500 
 points available, and Gamer with 4000 points available, but there are no added puzzles in Gamer 
 mode, and the extra points are entirely from bonuses obtained by finishing logic puzzles within 
 a certain time. While this does add a bit of replayability, there really isn't much point in playing 
 the game on the harder mode unless you want to get the maximum score in both modes. Tex's usually 
 humourous descriptions of the world around him are still present, and you can still find new things 
 to see and do every time you play the game.
  
  Overseer was intended to be the first game in a series of games, and as such ends on a cliffhanger. 
 Unfortunately, after Microsoft bought Access Software in 1999 Tex Murphy faded away, and a sequel 
 at this point in time, though possible (the people who created Tex keep trying) is probably not 
 extremely likely. That said, the cliffhanger doesn't mean the story is left unfinished. The main 
 plot is finished, and is quite well done, and there are some amazingly well done scenes throughout 
 the game. The cliffhanger involves a subtle subplot that goes on throughout the entire game.
  
  All in all, if you enjoyed Under a Killing Moon or The Pandora Directive you're sure to like 
 this game too. It's highly recommended to any fans of adventure games. The Pandora Directive is 
 probably the best choice for newcomers to the series as it truly is an amazing piece of work, and 
 may help increase your appreciation for Overseer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
