-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Theatre of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/theatreofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic battlefield sizes, vision, and weapon ranges.
 five huge campaigns modeled on actual World War II battles spread across Europe.
 tremendous detail with soldier and weapon stats.
 solid artificial intelligence governs both your attackers and your soldiers' responses under fire.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unnecessarily slow in spots, especially when battles are first developing.
 a bit of a system hog.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 6.9, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 339 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software Entertainment USA
Developer: 1C
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     May 19, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Theatre of War makes World War II real-time strategy seem fresh, with outstanding attention to detail 
 and realistic battlefields. 

  Word War II real-time strategy game exhaustion is so well established in gaming these days that 
 the genre seems incapable of surprising anybody. Even the standouts, such as Company of Heroes, 
 follow a template so well worn that it has grooves; thus, Theatre of War comes as a shock. 1C Company's 
 take on the old Axis-versus-Allies thing replaces RTS conventions with realistic battlefields, 
 line of sight, and weapon range. Its tactical focus and total absence of resource gathering or 
 base building make the learning curve a little twisty for tank-rush types. However, the authenticity 
 and atmosphere bring the Second World War to life in impressive fashion.  

          Uh-oh, here comes Hitler's finest.     

  Scope and scale are the biggest differences 
 between Theatre of War and the usual WWII RTS. Five campaigns, plus a handful of standalone battles, 
 let you guide troops from the US and UK, USSR, France, Poland, and Germany through more than 40 
 lengthy engagements. Multiplayer support for up to eight players also lets you take your fight 
 to the Net or a LAN. There's a full suite of tutorials and a mission editor if you want to roll 
 your own battles. However, it's the scale of each mission that is most notable. While the standard 
 gaming re-creation of something like the aftermath of D-Day or the siege of Stalingrad shrinks 
 the battlefield and adds artificial elements like fog of war, the average map here is at least 
 a few kilometers across. You can see all the way across this expanse unless you're blocked by trees, 
 hills, or buildings. Such tremendous size gives the game a feel that's considerably grittier than 
 the standard, scrunched-together RTS and an authenticity that makes every engagement seem like 
 a chapter out of a history book.  

  It may take you a little while to get used to this rigorous accuracy because weapon ranges and 
 damage effects are as realistic as the breadth of the maps. For example, instead of blitzing forward 
 into an enemy-held village, you have to carefully advance because snipers and tanks far off in 
 the distance can pick you to pieces the moment you step out of cover. Examining the entire battlefield 
 before committing to any action is crucial. Just looking at what's in the immediate vicinity of 
 your troops will quickly turn a farmer's field into an impromptu graveyard because you have to 
 take into account such factors as artillery a couple of kilometers away or machine gunners hidden 
 behind a hedgerow in the distance.  

  Thankfully, the interface makes scouting easy to handle. All information is spread out perfectly 
 for you in menu boxes below the main map screen. These numbers include soldier and weapon stats, 
 such as range, so ignorance is never an excuse. Units are also highlighted by icons over their 
 heads, which lets you check out the field of battle in a glance. You can also freely scroll across 
 the entire map to get up close and personal with enemy positions. You need to take full advantage 
 of these features to line up artillery strikes and call in air support. Also, the loss of units 
 can be devastating. There are no gimmicks here, such as on-the-fly reinforcements (although a points 
 system allows you to tweak your forces before going into battle by swapping default troops with 
 reserves) , so scratching just a couple of tanks can put you behind the eight ball.  

  All this long-distance danger and resulting caution means that battles occur at a moderate (if 
 incredibly tense) pace. Micromanagement also gears things down. Individual soldiers are given names, 
 ranks, and ratings in such skill categories as leadership, driver, gunner, scouting, marksmanship, 
 and intelligence. Soldiers also earn experience points that carry over between battles in campaigns, 
 so you need to carefully control grunts to deploy them as best befitting their abilities. For example, 
 if you commandeer a tank, you have to make sure that you've got the right guy driving and the right 
 guy doing the shooting. At times, this bogs engagements down. At first, it can be fascinating to 
 oversee nearly every soldier, but it can get tedious in the later stages of battles, especially 
 when the result has been decided and you're just playing out the string. There is no fast-forward 
 button either, so you have to patiently wait for troops and vehicles to move into position. Because 
 you routinely begin battles a long way from enemy positions, this makes the opening stages of each 
 mission somewhat slow to sit through, especially if you're replaying it to avenge a defeat.  

 
  Although Theatre of War drags in spots, it's still fascinating to watch battles develop because 
 of the outstanding artificial intelligence. Soldiers are modeled after real human beings, not typical 
 game automatons. So while you can order up suicidal commands, such as sending a solo sergeant to 
 lob grenades at a German half-track, chances are very good that he will panic at some point before 
 getting killed and either freeze or flee in the opposite direction. Enemies react in the same way. 
 If you put pressure on an artillery emplacement, the crew might freak out and run away. If you 
 hit an enemy tank a couple of times, you might just see the hatch pop open and the crew head for 
 the hills. These features make battles as much about psychology as they are about firepower because 
 it can be as easy to break enemy willpower as it is to break enemy arms or armor. That said, it's 
 not as if enemies break and run all that frequently. It's tough to beat a mission on your first 
 try because enemies smartly flank you, bluntly attack when appropriate, and even hunker down behind 
 cover or seize high ground. Difficulty can be dialed down, and unit morale switched off on the 
 two lowest difficulty options, but assignments are brutal no matter what you do.  

          Suicidal runs, such as this one-man attack on a German armored car, result in panic more 
 than success. Doesn't seem like everybody is interested in winning the Medal of Honor.     

  Just a few drawbacks mar the finish of this otherwise outstanding game. Although maps are lifelike 
 in terms of size, they don't present much in the way of variety. You get a lot of farm fields, 
 copses of trees, tiny villages with nearly identical buildings, and trenches, so the terrain looks 
 the same from France to Poland. Only the occasional use of weather effects, such as snow or rain, 
 liven up the look of the game. At least the tanks and other vehicles are perfectly realized, with 
 intricate details that even show battle damage. But visuals aren't a big deal because you spend 
 much of the game zoomed so far out that troops look like little more than stick figures. Audio 
 is sparse and repetitive. There are few voice samples, the music is so bombastic that it seems 
 out of place, and weapon effects seem oddly timid. Even though the graphics and sound are more 
 workmanlike than striking, the engine is a hog. Animations are a bit choppy, particularly where 
 soldier movements are concerned. You could practically build a time machine and go back to watch 
 the Battle of the Bulge during mission loads. It also takes the game quite a few minutes to release 
 its clutches on your hard drive after shutting down. Granted, there is a lot going on here with 
 the huge maps, as well as all the weapon and damage modeling, but everything could be smoother 
 and quicker.  

  If you're looking to graduate from some of the more simplistic WWII RTS games out there, give Theatre 
 of War a shot. It's definitely weightier than the usual RTS game set during the last good war yet 
 still easy to learn and accessible for casual grognards.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lordbrutin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  Take a familiar set up presented in Blitzkrieg and its successor, a unit detachment built up as 
 you please over a successive amount of missions and thrust that detachment directly into World 
 War II. The object is to survive long enough to accomplish the missions and with enough fighting 
 strength left over to fight the next mission. Just like in real life, your combat losses are replaced 
 with fresh conscripts, men who haven't fired a weapon before or been in the chaos of combat. 
 
  
  Add to this familiarity a larger map, covering kilometers and making everything in it destructible. 
 Myriad maps filled with lush vegetation or stark white plains of snow with scattered brown trees. 
 More buildings making villages larger and more complex, and not as repetitive as the previous attempts. 
 
  
  Then we get to the detail to accuracy. Each shot calculated and accounted for, you shoot at a tank 
 and miss? It has to land somewhere, and it is common to see two tanks in a gun battle denude the 
 trees around them fighting it out, that will teach you for not training your gunner better. What 
 about those pesky hits on a tank that don't kill it? Zoom in and watch pieces and parts fly off 
 the tank, damage is damage, but the key is, does the round you just shot penetrate the armor? 
 
  
  And then there is morale. The newer the troops the more likely they are to throw caution to the 
 wind and head for the hills. Yes, it is frustrating to watch a man in a trench under fire panic 
 because bullets are streaming overhead and then watch him get out of the trench and run away, all 
 the while every single enemy rifle suddenly points at the easy target... and he makes it across 
 the hundred meters to cover! 
  
  Every aspect is covered, every angle considered. This is war. It isn't pretty, but it is very dirty. 
 Prepare to dig in and get your hands dirty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Chernuska-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Well first let me tell you that the GFX is realy great. Also the maps are well done. The units 
 are well done also. But thats all i liked in this game. Maby because its full RTS in slow motion 
 and nothing like CM. The LOS isn, t work well and close combat is also not well done. Also that 
 you cant enter buildings is realy sad. Maby its because i like more TBS games but to control the 
 battle field is sometimes chaotic. The problem is that this game isn, t a RTS game like C&C or a 
 TBS game like CM or even better Panzer Command Kharkov. Its something in between and thats the 
 main problem with this game. If you realy like to work with LOS, different ammunition and some 
 real combat tactics for movement, defending, assaulting, entering buildings etc and like more TBS 
 in 3d you are better done with Panzer Command Kharkov or the CM series. Or if you like RTS you 
 are better done with Company of Heroes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgr8one
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is very user unfriendly and is very difficult to get used to if you are a regular RTS 
 gamer. Its controls are very different from the traditional strategy game and I especially found 
 controlling the camera around very irritating. After hours of playing you still don't get used 
 to it. Playing the game overall is very uninteresting. Being a WWII game, there's no overall blitz 
 in the game- with not even one cinematic in the game too. It's too dry and bland.
  
  The graphics were pretty average compared to modern games but with some great unit animations. 
 The game is designed in very much detail which is awesome for a WWII game but all the elements 
 of the game are hampered by its "sucky" controls. Just a proper good control system of the game- 
 especially the camera controls, would make it much better. I mean who uses the num pad for camera 
 control? The AI is really bad- I leave a tank standing in the middle of enemy troops and it won't 
 fire until I direct it to fire.
  At first I thought it'd be a really bad game but is quite fun when played for a longer time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyd777
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I see the bad reviews of this game and scratch my head. This game is very good after the Uberpatch 
 is applied to fix all he minor problems. If you take the time to go through the tutorials and learn 
 the system, the game rewards you with a fantastic challenge every time!
  I will warn you, a GOOD system is needed to get the most out of this game and initial scenario 
 load time (even in the tutorials) are a bit long.
  There is something you have to use in a game like this and that is YOUR BRAIN! Its not a point 
 and click C&C style game that assures destruction of targets. You have to plan... out maneuver the 
 enemy forces and flanking is your friend. A squad of riflemen is NOT going to take out a tank! 
 This isn't your typical RTS... you can't replenish troops you have lost. There are no resources 
 to gain and no troops or vehicles to produce. What you have at the start is what you have to work 
 with.
  
  On the visual side, it is a nice game to look at. the camera controls are a bit fiddly at the start... but 
 I was use to them after the tutorial, Up close look at troops look nice and their actions seem 
 designed rather well especailly with gun emplacement set... nice job. The sounds are done well and 
 add to the game!
  
  If you want to enjoy a REAL RTS game... look no further! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigresse_mg
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you have Vista 64 bit, the game will work, but you will not be able to use the game 
 generator or the mission editor. So to make these work, I design the games and do the mission editing 
 on my older PC (P4 2.4 Ghz) with XP, and voila, I could play it. It's too bad it wasn't made considering 
 the Vista syndrome, but works great on my PC in single player ( I have a P4 Core 2 Quad, Q9300 
 2.5 Ghz) . I would like to see a patch for this. In general, the game is interesting to play, but 
 if you have too many units to manage, you lose the control of the micro management. The graphics 
 are great (GeForce GT8800) , the action not bad, but some nice features makes it interesting to 
 play, such as tank crew exit and capture of other vehicles, unit detailing and action. The artillery 
 is all over the place and not concentrated, but I still need to experiment with this. The AI is 
 good, but I had to stop my tanks from moving ahead a couple times, even though I gave them the 
 STOP or defend order. Maybe because I was on an offensive mode! The maps are very well made, and 
 the 3D view is enjoyable to play with. This is similar to Steel Panthers in term of creating your 
 own missions, map editing and creating your own scenarios, but with much greater quality of image. 
 There is a limit as to the quantity of units allowable when creating a scenario, but controlling 
 all of these may be difficult for some. The view and navigation is excellent. You can view from 
 above, behind your units, behind enemy, etc similar to world in conflict. For those who like WW2 
 combat, without the resource management, then this game is highly recommended. I can't wait to 
 try it against an opponent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  After 1 hour of playing this game I would have written it off as quite possibly one of the worst 
 games I had ever played. But the persistent gamer that I am paid off in the long run. .. well, somewhat.
 
  
  Let me start off by saying that this is quite possibly the hardest pc game that I have ever played. 
 I am no master at RTS games, but I am no slouch either. I actually had to resort to novice mode 
 on one or two maps because it was so difficult that it just became boring.
  
  Graphics- Nothing out of this world, but very paid very close attention to the minor details. I 
 didn't experience any stuttering when scrolling across the screen, and the zoom in and out was 
 flawless. I did however, get quite a few crashes which was quite the buzz kill.
  
  Gameplay  Did I mention tough? Holy cr*p was this game tough. It seemed like every map was my 
 squad against the entire opposing army. Wave after wave to the point where I found myself putting 
 down the keyboard and thinking, "come on, you have got to be kidding me." Part of the problem was 
 just how long it took to get from point A to point B. You could speed up the mode by 2X but still 
 moving your troops and watching water boil were about equal in fun. Sure, sneaking a sniper across 
 enemy lines should take time, but not 45 minutes. 
  
  AI- It felt like taking 20 hyper kids to Chuckie Cheese and letting them go. Tanks going everywhere, 
 troops running on their own, sometimes to places off the map. If you didn't constantly tell the 
 tanks to stop and defend, they would go on suicide missions and take on the entire opposing enemy 
 on their own. Throwing a grenade was just about worthless, including throwing them into walls and 
 watching them bounce back in my face. Despite a 20 minute beef up of my tank squad to near perfect 
 levels, I could go toe to toe with an enemy tank and get taken out with 1 or 2 shots vs. (and I 
 kid you not) I counted 24 direct hits from two of my tanks vs one of their before a kill. Not to 
 mention that they could take me out 4-5 miles away from the battle. My military strikes with bombs 
 seemed to just float all over the screen, vs. the computer AI having strikes that had the precision 
 of laser guided missiles. The fact that some of my tanks, if not told to hold fire, would drain 
 all of their heavy weapons, long range missiles on a single lone soldier located 100 yards away, 
 was a real pain. Once drained of weapons the tanks were obviously worthless. I did like the fact 
 that my soldiers could pick up the dropped items from the enemybut having to constantly tell a 
 soldier that using a handgun on a tank vs the rocket launcher got a bit old.
  
  Maps  The best part of the game by far, and only saving grace. Each map was different enough that 
 it kept me wanting to play. However, trying to find that last single soldier located off the map 
 in a bush, just so I could take him out and win the battle took away much of the fun.
  
  Controls  Easy to control, easy to navigate, and easy to manage troopsthat is a good thing considering 
 most of the time was spent babysitting.
  
  Customization  They did a fantastic job with the details on weaponry and troops, and the customization 
 of tanks and squads was well done.
  
  Overall  This was a game with a lot of potential, but fell short on delivering. If the developers 
 could go back and address all the issues and launch a follow up game I would spend the $. But if 
 they launch a sequel then they wont get any more of my money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Bugs_
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for about 3 hours, I had to uninstall it because it was a waste of time, this 
 game has something that I apreciate what so ever, and something that I look in every game, "The 
 Graphics", they were good, but everyone says that the graphics don't make the game, I didn't believe 
 it until now, this game is abysmal, the structure of this game has no sense, it doesn't show any 
 new features, instead it takes away primordial ones like having long term battles by building bases, 
 and recruiting armies.
  It really got on my nerves the infantry.
  I really whish this game had more options like skirmish, I whish we had features like base building 
 and stuff like.
  it might be an historical game, so for those looking for an historical game, this will be fine, 
 but for some one that looks to play a vivid battle as real as posible, I do not recomend this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shpa
Rating: 6
Date: May 27, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  i don't know why but the infantry seem to just run up to a German machine gunner to say hello if 
 you don't order them to stop, and the infantry will run up to them, try to shoot them at point 
 blank and fail, and then get shot, i lost an entire squad against one German submachine gunner 
 because they kept running up to him whenever going across the corner, 
  When you're playing battles in big fields this game is more idealistic, but when you're in close 
 combat situations, say less then 100 meters, and near buildings and stuff, the infantry can't shoot 
 over walls, they prefer to run up to the Germans and get shot, or try to throw grenades at them 
 instead of using their rifles, this game has great potential, if they make a patch to fix these 
 AI problems i will fish this game out of the garage.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RickGArmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  I love this game it is the best RTS to date by far, it is second to none. The realism and attention 
 to detail is outstanding it is truly just what hardcore WW2 RTS fans have been waiting for. I don't 
 understand why it has such a low score on GS. I've given the game an 8.5 and i did this before i 
 downloaded the new patch from Kalypso which in my opinion only made the game even better. The only 
 small problem i have is with the new battle generator, It limits you to the number of units you 
 can have in your army which is a bit disappointing. It would also have been better in the campaign 
 mode if you had more units to command plus more support elements but having said that i still feel 
 this is the best RTS available. It is hardcore it keeps you thinking all the time about the safety 
 of your men and armour. You need to use correct ammunition for different enemy i. e soldier's, anti 
 tank gun's and enemy armour such an outstanding game i can't wait for the next game to come out. If 
 i was to re-score this game i would give it a well deserved 9.5. Go out and buy it and immerse yourself 
 into WW2 if your hardcore enough to take it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge wargramer, despite my efforts, so take this review with the proverbial grain of 
 salt. 
  
  A few initial thoughts regarding this game. First of all, well done! I love the attention to detail 
 with the authentic WW2 equipment... the tanks and guns all look great, and everything on a battlefield 
 is modeled, down to every bullet. The graphics look great and the game runs well so that's an accomplishment 
 in itself. 
  
  Secondly, either it's my imagination or this game is pretty difficult. I started with the Polish 
 campaign, and historically speaking, it's to be expected that it would be very difficult to fight 
 the Germans as the Polish. So a person can't really complain but after several attempts I finally 
 made it past the first mission and almost felt like a true grognard. 
  
  The pace of the game is kind of slow... you issue orders, and watch things unfold. It's kind of 
 like watching a good WW2 movie. Of course, things happen and you have to react and modify your 
 tactics. But it's definitively more of a thinking person's game than, say, a more fast paced RTS 
 like Starcraftt, Command and Conquer or Company of Heroes. The developer's were going for realism, 
 and that shows in the slow pace. 
  
  Overall, I think it's a good game and I don't regret buying it. I'm a WW2 buff, so that really 
 helps. The good and the bad of the game is the realism -- as mentioned, it can be brutally difficult 
 and I didn't even mention the realistic ranges at which tanks can blow away your forces. However, 
 it's nice that someone had the guts to make a game without modifying gameplay too much and thereby 
 sacrificing some weapon ranges or damage modeling. 
  
  Note: I spent most of my time playing with the massive patch, which I understand fixed many issues 
 and is mandatory to enjoy the game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Battlefront just released their "uber" patch for the game. This game is so much better now. Many 
 of the issues with earlier versions are either fixed or substantially improved (like the LOS issues) . 
 Plus, it is much easier to play the game in multiplayer now as well. If anyone was on the fence 
 before, this new patch makes this game definitely worth it if this type of game appeals to you. 
 Also, the game now has a number of campaigns spanning WW2 in Europe. The "uber" patch also added 
 a robust mission generator, which only leads to even more fun -- once the community has had time 
 to do their thing.
  
  All in all its a solid game. Decent, but not great graphics. Decent sound. Fun, fairly realistic 
 gameplay. Fairly accurate WW2 units. Decent MP. Campaign and mission editor. 
  
  Grab it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salwon
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Theatre of War has every piece that a great strategy game needs. It's not as fast as Company of 
 Heroes of course, but it really can't be beat in the realism department. The only problem is that 
 it really doesn't work as it is. Trying to get a tank column to drive along a road, deploy into 
 line, and attack is an exercise in futility. The waypoint system is awful, and the ai never does 
 what you want. Your tanks will use their machine guns against enemy armor unless you specifically 
 tell them to use the main gun. Micromanagement of individual vehicles is necessary, but obviously 
 that gets impossible during even a medium sized battle.
  
  Infantry control has two problems, one minor and one major. The minor problem is that there is 
 no cover system - your units don't hide behind trees, etc like they do in CoH. Before they work 
 on that though, they need to fix the situation where infantry units will literally walk within 
 5m of each other without firing. Clicking the attack button doesn't seem to do anything; if you 
 don't tell them to attack individual units, they'll walk right by them.
  
  The game is also punishingly difficult, but that's mainly because your units are so stupid. If 
 they were able to find targets without your help, things would be much better. As it stands, you'll 
 end up restarting a battle five times to get it right.
  
  The graphics are excellent - this is as good as a game like this should look (not every developer 
 has THQs bottomless cash well) . The sounds are all good, there just aren't enough of them. Each 
 faction has one thing that they say, and they say it over and over and over and over again. It 
 gets a little annoying.
  
  It's hard to recommend this game until they patch it. It's possible to have fun here, and I personally 
 want to like this one a lot - as I said before, all of the pieces are in place to make a perfect 
 wargame. Until they fix the nagging AI issues though, it's just a little too much work for all 
 but the most hardcore wargamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akwar
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 16, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. Well theres no positive way of doing this. The game stinks. As people have said 
 above the AI is indeed broken. The missions in the campaigns are very poorly designed. There isnt 
 much realism to this title at all. The only thing going for it is eye candy. Playability comes first 
 and Im sad to say this game is far from that. It would need a major overhaul to get any enjoyment 
 out of it. Its a shame because they really seemed to put a lot of love into the graphics (tanks, guns, halftracks 
 looks outstanding) but it would seem all their time was spent in this area. I cannot recommend this 
 game to anyone unless you enjoy beating your head againt the wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unltd
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 15, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have been looking forward to this game since Oleg Maddox first announced work on it 
 several years ago. Knowing his team's work on the IL2 series of WW2 combat flight sims, I expected 
 great things and am pleased to say that he once again raises the bar on realism for a historical 
 WW2 RTS. Having once been a student and practitioner of small unit tactics and maneuver on the 
 modern battlefield, I can say that this game enables you to use real world techniques to great 
 effect. Bluntly, tank rushes are out and detailed terrain analysis coupled with a sound recon and 
 manuever to bring max firepower on your opponent are in. Further expect to be surprised and plan 
 for it with your reserves accordingly. The AI is good, as in most recent sims, almost too good. 
 It can seem almost too easy when your plan goes well and utterly frustrating and impossible when 
 it doesn't. Graphics are dated but adequate (the engine is an updated version of the most recent 
 IL2 iteration) . Terrain is bland and uninspired -- perhaps too realistic. More effort should have 
 been put into designing interesting terrain rather than grabbing map data. Unit animations and 
 damage effects are quite nice when you have time to view them. Some sort of playback engine should 
 have been included. Sounds are especially good on a 5.1 or better system. Sometimes I wish that 
 the authors would realize that we still want to have an adictively fun time playing these games. 
 This game is a save and restore fest with major fun stuff left out. Grognards would say to try 
 to play through without saving, but that is utterly frustrating. Most lacking here is some kind 
 of engrosing campaign system that would allow resource management a la Medieval Total War, alternate 
 historical endings a la Panzer General, and a multiplayer experience like Civ4. I realize that 
 is asking a lot ,but if you don't ask you'll never see it.
  
  Overall, this game is only for the serious WW2 wargame buff. RTS speed freaks will be especially 
 thrown off by the more realistic pace which ranges from agonizingly slow to hyperspeed -- much like 
 a real battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glory74
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 15, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I really had high expectations for this title. Having come over from the Combat Missions series. The 
 designers of this title advertised it as realistic which is far from the truth. The AI is totally 
 broken and needs major fixing. The allied side is uber strong and no matter what you do to try to 
 beat them you seem to fail the missions every time. unit waypoints are also broken and your units 
 often do not follow your orders, when asking a unit to stop often they will keep advancing right 
 up to the enemy only to die a horrible death. The wargame fans are better off avoiding this title 
 all together. This game as is is better off in the bargain bin and even there I would not purchase 
 it as is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 13, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  This has been a huge disappointment. I expected the same level of greatness from Battlefront that 
 was attained with their Combat Mission series. It's not even close. The game is virtually unplayable 
 in its present form. It is riddled with bugs, and my advice it to pass on this game.
  
  The AI is unbeatable on anything but the easiest level. The game routinely crashes and will not 
 come to conclusion no matter what the circumstance. The graphics are state of the art, but it quickly 
 becomes apparent that graphics alone can not salvage this title. From the makers of great games 
 such as Combat Mission: Beyond Overlord and Barbarossa to Berlin, I watched this title and tracked 
 its progress with great anticipation. When Codemasters dropped it, I was very disappointed, yet 
 when Battlefront announced it was reviving the game, there was great rejoicing.
  
  The final verdict is not as upbeat. Not even the mighty Battlefront was able to fix the miserable 
 coding problems. Work on a patch is underway, but I stopped playing it within a few days. I was 
 duped. So, now it's time to move on. Trust me, it's not worth $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skunker4455
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Theatre of War has gotten quite a bad bunch of reviews from these posters. To be honest with you 
 all, I'm not sure why. The game has plenty intuitive control, and the tutorial covers everything 
 from movement to line of sight. Theatre of War offers some of the most detailed controls of any 
 RTS, which are complex and take time to get used to. Using preset functions your squad AI is decently 
 enhanced, and you can focus on the big picture more. Don't think you can leave them sitting though, 
 soldiers need orders. The main thing about Theatre of War that is unique is the size of engagement 
 zones. No longer is the battle taking place on a small farm, it's taking place across a massive 
 length of fields and countryside. The enemy is excellent in the game, and puts up a hell of a fight. 
 No battle is a pushover, which means you have to work to win. You won't appreciate the game fully 
 if you don't have a love of realism and a want to play one of the most challenging and realistic 
 WWII rts games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravinhood1
Rating: 2
Date: May 6, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst piece of crap to come out of Battlefront and I do not recommend buying this at 
 this point in time. It has more bugs, problems and issues than you can shake a stick at and at 
 $55 a pop that's just giving them free money so you can BETA test it for them. This is yet another 
 one of those clickfest games and has no true realism to it, no entering buildings other statements 
 like these pop up on the general forum
  
  was it intentional to not allow units to hide in ambush?
  was it intentional to not add smoke 
 grenades?
  was it intentional to hardly give any cover possibilities for the infantry?
  was it intentional to not add a sense of suppresion for the soldiers?
  was it intentional not 
 to ad a dynamic campaign mode?
  
  The game is just incomplete and once again tossed to the blinded and uninformed masses for purchase 
 when it isn't even a finished product. Woe to those that buy this game now. Wait 6 months to a 
 year. Fact is you're better off waiting 6 months to a year to purchase most any computer game anymore. 
 They are all doing this now just putting incomplete trash out into the market and living on the 
 reliablity that most people are still idiots and will buy this tripe upon release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtkfox
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The only bad about the game is that u can't enter house's. But it has realistic armor penetration 
 and the big gun's can fire and hit target from over 2000 meter's as it can in real life not like 
 the other C&amp; C clones where the big gun's can only fire at units less than 300 meter away lol. 
 But if u don't like realistic games it gonna be horrible watching your units get slaughtered from 
 far-far away. The editor is very difficult too use if you haven't used some of the old editor where 
 you have too script some of the things too get it work right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlMcload
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 1, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game has minor issues with LOS and pathing but it's version 1.0 and from a small development 
 house. There is already a patch in the works and looks to be a game that has great potential. The 
 engine is pretty close and simulates WW2 battles over huge battlefields with a nice mix of units. 
 The editor is complex and deep though the map editor isn't out yet (on the game forum a developer 
 said it will be out shortly) . Once user content starts hitting the net this game should really 
 shine. In it's present state it's somewhat raw. However, it offers something very different from 
 the usual RTS fair and looks like it'll be a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fxaxtxax
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite people claiming this to be the most realistic WW2 RTS out there its not. Infantry cant 
 enter buildings. no smoke for cover, well not really any cover at all since trees and shrubs do 
 not block line of site. this feels much more like an updated version of, yes im gunna say it, GI 
 Combat. Game feels sluggish and arcade like. maybe it has started a new genre. its a realistic 
 arcade game. anyways dont buy if you looking for realistic and fun warfare. Gameplay: hardly playable. 
 doesnt feel like you have any control.
  
  Graphics. Graphics are generally good. Tank look very good. Infantry on the other hand are ugly.
 
  
  Sound: sound is just ok. no better then CC2 many years ago.
  
  Authenticity: i guess you could say its authentic. has ww2 tanks and infantry. if you forget about 
 the soldiers firing the M1 Garands and SVTs like they are bolt-action rifles.
  
  Maps: this is one of the worst parts about the game. the maos are all the same. assault this trench 
 and that trench and this trench. and they are all square bloack of trees and shrub with the occational 
 town. and the buildings all look like russian buildings even in france. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattus21pz
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I liked this game, but it has many, many problems that need to be worked out. The 3D graphics are 
 the best I've ever seen and the most realistic. When a tank is knocked out, the crew abandons the 
 tank THROUGH ITS HATCH. AT guns (called Artillery in the game) have a ridiculous amount of detail, 
 everything from the loading of the round to the recoil of the barrel is modeled, amazing. The fact 
 that you could rearm your troops with captured weapons is another nice feature, a good way to get 
 some use out of the crews of knocked out tanks. Sound is mixed, the weapons don't have a realistic 
 feel to them. Granted, a 37 mm gun doesn't sound like an 88 but I just don't feel it in this game. 
 The bad things, however, are almost crippling to a game like this. The AI is actually decent in 
 the game BUT this could be because there is no way to hide anything from it. There doesn't seem 
 to be any LOS for the AI, so an attempt to use any tactics more subtle than a sledgehammer against 
 a nut will be fruitless. I've also found their Arty barrages and Air Support to be underwhelming. 
 It seems that the kill radius of Arty rounds is far less than the realworld 100 meters. This can 
 be frustrating when you are trying to bludgeon your way through an enemy nest of AT guns (which 
 seem to be laserguided in AI hands) ... Another BIG problem is command and control, unless you are 
 willing to micromanage your troops with the rudimentary control than there is NO way to control 
 their aimless wandering. I can't tell you how many times my troops got schwacked by not HOLDING 
 THEIR POSITION... they always want to advance, even on the defense... This added to the lack of LOS 
 for the AI kills any hope to defend against the AI. My last and least important beef with this 
 game is the lack of historically accurate troops and weapons included in the game, tanks in particular. 
 The Germans went through a whole myriad of tank models during the early part of the war but all 
 you get until 1941 is the Pz IVc... no Pz IV Ds, Es, Fs.... nothing of that sort. And don't even 
 look for the famous 88 mm AA gun, it's not in the game.... Finally, one of the weirdest things the 
 designers left out is streetfighting, there is no way to access buildings in this game, frustratingly, 
 but I doubt that would really have changed much in regards to the other problems I mentioned. My 
 last word is, if you are looking for a real time Combat Mission, keep looking, this is nothing 
 more than a typical RTS pig dressed up with some lipstick... A bit of a dissappointment, but still 
 fun. With any luck, Battlefront will fix many of these problems in future patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty good for this type of game. The sound isn't very good. I just don't hear 
 the sounds of war that one would expect of a company-sized fire-fight. The AI is fairly decent, 
 but the enemy AI doesn't seem to obey LOS/LOF rules. I had a platoon of 4 infantry squads on one 
 end of the map, they had just arrived as reinforcements. Between them and the enemy (Polish) were 
 several fields, a hill, several tree-lined roads and a ditch. They were well over 500 meters away 
 from my guys and my guys were in tall wheat/grass. They were still picked off by the Polish like 
 nothing. The game was touted as having advanced AI, so I should NOT have to tell an infantry squad 
 to hold positions in cover while they waited out an artillery barage.
  
  The interface is ok. When using the mouse wheel to zoom, its backwards from what other games do, 
 but too overly cumbersome.
  
  The gameplay is decent and I like the after-action XP dispersal. Ifound myself following a couple 
 of my men throughoutthe campaign and when one of them bit the dust it I reloaded rather than suffer 
 the loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chazman1946
Rating: 3
Date: May 4, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Battlefront and 1C games for years, owning the great Combat Mission series 
 and Ilusion2 flight simulators from these respective companies.
  
  TOW on the other hand is a complete disappointment, the game is almost unplayable, and certainly 
 not FUN.
  
  There is a complete lack of LOS/LOF in that nothing blocks the view of the AI enemy, it is like 
 the entire map is feature less when it comes to LOS, rows of trees, buildings, grass, etc, nothing 
 can be hid behind for cover.
  
  The enemy AI will spot your infantry lying prone in high grass from over 500 meters and pick them 
 off.
  
  Manuvering around the camera to get a close up of the action is an excerise in futality, and most 
 the time by the time you have zoomed in the action is already over.
  
  Your troops wander around aimlessly and don't seem to heed any of your commands, etc. etc.
  
 
  Troops cannot enter buildings, there are no portable machine guns or mortars, no digging in, no 
 placeable mines, fortifications, or camoflage, etc. etc. The game stinks! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
