-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Ant Bully
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/theantbully/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tells more of the story.
 decent selection of actions and weapons.
 insect world is larger than life.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions lack variety.
 too many cookie-cutter enemies.
 too few boss battles.
 graphics are years behind the curve.
 dry dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 4.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 4.1, 64 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: A2M
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     Jul 24, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This 3D adventure game does expand on the movie's story, but it's also uninteresting and repetitive. 
 

  Like many movie tie-ins, the video game rendition of The Ant Bully is a far cry from the feature 
 film that it's based on. This 3D adventure game tries to expand on the movie by putting players 
 through a sequence of missions that delve into what Lucas, the insect-sized boy, went through off 
 camera to learn the ants' ways, but it mostly succeeds at showing why events such as these weren't 
 portrayed in the movie in the first place. Nearly every mission involves fetching items or fighting 
 the same enemies over and over again. Moreover, the noninteractive scenes that accompany each mission 
 spend more time preaching the story's morals than they do developing the characters or building 
 toward an exciting conclusion.  

          Most missions involve fighting the same badly rendered pill bugs, spiders, and wasps over 
 and over again.     

  Regarding the story, the game and the movie take place in the same time period. Both center around 
 the exploits of a young boy named Lucas, who is reduced to miniscule proportions by a magic potion. 
 The movie follows Lucas's story from a social perspective, giving the viewer insight into the ants' 
 hierarchy as he works his way up from slaving in the mines to fighting alongside the soldiers to 
 stop various predators. At various points in the movie, we see Lucas use the ants' tools and abilities 
 to outwit his opponents and save the day. The game, meanwhile, takes a hands-on approach to telling 
 Lucas' story. It shows how Lucas acquired those tools and learned all of those tricks. Apparently, 
 the process involved completing 20-odd missions tasked to him by the various leaders of the colony, 
 because those missions are what you have to do in this game.  

  The play mechanics and controls are about what you'd expect from any game like this. The basic 
 idea here is that you need to explore the environment, find the items you're looking for, and pummel 
 any enemies that cross your path. For exploration's sake, Lucas can run and roll, and he can perform 
 a number of contextual abilities when he's close to specific objects and spots in the environment. 
 When you run off a ledge, Lucas will jump automatically. When you're next to a marked wall, a small 
 rock, or a rose petal, you can push the action button, and Lucas will climb the wall, hoist the 
 rock, or use the rose petal like a glider. In some spots, he can call together nearby ants to form 
 useful structures, such as bridges, catapults, or battering rams. To deal with enemies, you can 
 make use of any of Lucas's four weapons. The wooden stick can be used to attack enemies up close, 
 while sticky silk shooters, dart guns, and bombs let you deal with enemies at a distance.  

  Various flaws become apparent once you get into the habit of fighting multiple enemies. The controls 
 are sometimes slow to respond and the lock-on isn't always reliable, which can make it easy to 
 miss shots and waste ammo. The hit detection is unpredictable, to the point that Lucas's attacks 
 will sometimes pass through an enemy, or an enemy's attack will pass through Lucas, without doling 
 out damage. This is nice when you're the beneficiary but not so nice when you're sandwiched between 
 two ferocious purple spiders. Also, for some bizarre reason, Lucas doesn't jump as high in the 
 PC version of the game, so you really have to line up your leaps in that version. These flaws are 
 unfortunate, but they're not too troublesome, since much of the time you'll have lobbed a seed 
 bomb into a crowd of spiders long before you get up close and personal with them.  

  What kills the game, ultimately, is how the missions themselves are structured. They all feel the 
 same. Supposedly, by speaking to one of the four caste leaders, you'll be sent on a mission involving 
 rescue, scouting, foraging, or all-out combat. In reality, nearly every mission either involves 
 collecting a bunch of esoteric items or fighting the same cookie-cutter enemies over and over again. 
 A person can only see the same spiders and wasps so often. The game does throw a couple of boss 
 stages into the mix, and you're always free to visit the areas you've previously cleared to hunt 
 for fire crystals at your own pace, but these token nods to adventuring are much too modest to 
 overcome the doldrums brought about by so many lame missions.  

  They probably could've lessened some of the monotony by making the noninteractive scenes that play 
 between missions at least marginally interesting. Unfortunately, the aftermath of each mission 
 tends to be anticlimactic. The ants cheer, and the spiders or wasps run off. That's pretty much 
 the extent of the game's cinematic aspects. There are a few fleeting bits of humor in the dialogue, 
 but the script generally tends to hammer home the same moral messages of teamwork and honor at 
 every opportunity. While that's nice and all, Bruce Campbell's legendary talents could've been 
 put to better use on dialogue more suited to his comedic range.  

          Sappy dialogue scenes duplicate and expand the movie's story.     

  In general, the 
 graphics and audio are weak. The characters are colorful and passably animated, but they're not 
 what you'd call detailed or lifelike. The large shrubs and monster-sized insects in the environment 
 succeed in conveying the larger-than-life scale of the insect world, but again, if you stop and 
 look around, you'll notice that the same plants, insects, and objects are recycled constantly. 
 To add insult to injury, the game is easily three years behind the curve when it comes to technical 
 aspects such as polygon count, draw distance, and overall texture quality. As you'd expect, the 
 PC version pushes more polygons and has better lighting effects than the PlayStation 2 and GameCube 
 versions of the game, but the leap in quality isn't as significant as it ought to be. Games such 
 as Jak &amp; Daxter, Super Mario Sunshine, and Beyond Good &amp; Evil all look better than The 
 Ant Bully, and they were released years ago. The audio isn't much better, but at least the generic 
 insect noises, pop-pop sounds, and stereotypical jungle music fit the action without offending 
 the ears.  

  Unless you're absolutely smitten with what you saw in  The Ant Bully  movie, you should probably 
 avoid this game. While the game does indeed tell more of the story, it does so in a way that's 
 preachy and uninteresting. Fighting the same half-dozen insects and repeatedly gathering trivial 
 items is no way to spend five or six hours of your life, especially when you can't even rely on 
 the graphics or cinematic scenes to salvage anything from the experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: devilcallum
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Horrible graphics
  
  Baaaad audio
  
  Repetitive gameplay
  
  bad voice acting
  
  not addictive at all
  
  Short... Very short!
  ____
  
  Even if the price point at release 
 was $5.00 i wouldn't buy this!
  
  This is just pure BAD! Why do they even create these movie games!? They all suck! ... Really! Everything 
 except for RE4 sucked!
  
  This pile of crap gets a 0/10! Sadly the worst i can give it here is a one!
  
  
  Dont go 
 near this thing! STAY AWAY!
  
  
  
  Do not go near this 
 thing, blah blah take up 100 words blah blah!
  
  This game sucks! It blows! dont touch it! Dont look at it! Dont watch it! Dont rent it! Dont buy 
 it! Dont do anything involving the name The Ant Bully .
  
  DO NOT DO ANYTHING WITH IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cranbar
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  why do they even bother everyone knows that its just going be a gathering floating things for the 
 ant. i mean com'on . and why am i even looking at this game!~! Dont bother bad game sdont pick 
 it up dont even rent it , diont even look at it! The gameplays horrilbe. i never played it but 
 see what it is it is horrilbe. ftgjfgjtyjhfgjh dfjasdjfnasduifcb sdfasdbhfbasdiobfhasdbuhfb dshfbsduzyhfcuyh 
 asduyhfbasdubcfuyh asdfuhbasduhcfb sdufyhbasduh sdfbsdhbcfusdf sd fuasdbfuhasdbuyhb uyhdb dasyb 
 uyasdbf uyasdbuysdagbu sdau uyhd sduyh uyhasd buhasdfuh basduyhf uhasduy asduyh buyasbhu asb jhasbu 
 basuh basu uas buasuyh buyuy ghvguy fv ghv gh vgh vg vg vgh vgy vgy vgy v hb hgv uh vyv gyv 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
