-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Bard's Tale
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/thebardstale/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid voice acting.
 Original Bard's Tale games included.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not as funny as it thinks it is.
 Makes half-baked tweaks to action RPG formula.
 Takes the fun out of treasure hunting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 657 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: InXile Entertainment
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 27, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In light of the legacy created by its namesake and the previous landmarks in the genre, The Bard's 
 Tale is a disappointment. 

  Despite the fact that it bears the name of a much-loved mid-'80s computer role-playing game, and 
 despite the fact that it's the handiwork of one of that game's creators, InXile's reenvisioning 
 of The Bard's Tale is not a nostalgia piece for fans of old PC RPGs. But the inclusion of the first 
 three games in the series as a bonus certainly does give the overall package a nostalgic boost. 
 Borrowing Snowblind's Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance engine, as well as its overall structure, the 
 new Bard's Tale is a decent dungeon crawler that invests some energy into lampooning RPGs and high 
 fantasy in general. But like a stand-up routine about airline food or the line at the post office, 
 the game's perspective isn't very interesting, and it lacks any real follow-through. If you're 
 not looking for an unofficial sequel to Monty Python and the Quest for the Holy Grail, and you 
 can see past a few problems, you'll find that The Bard's Tale is a decent enough action RPG.  

 
          The Bard is back, and he has a really bad attitude.     

  The game puts its best foot forward at the start, opening with a cinematic sequence in which The 
 Bard, a traveling musician of flexible morality who has no interest in noble adventure or becoming 
 a celebrated hero, tries to con his way into a free meal by using his lute to magically conjure 
 up a rat in a rural pub. He then strolls into the pub and offers to get rid of rat in exchange 
 for a bed and a hot meal. He ultimately ends up getting more than he bargained for when he's subsequently 
 sent into the cellar to face a more serious vermin problem. From here The Bard is launched on a 
 series of archetypal quests, ultimately getting locked into a quest that requires him to climb 
 a series of ominous towers to fight wizards and rescue a fair princess, all the while making snide 
 comments. The Bard comes off as kind of a jerk, and his nonstop sarcastic barbs ride the line between 
 being funny and mean, often leaning toward plain old nastiness.  

  But, even though The Bard's Tale would like to mock the conventions of wizards, warriors, dungeons, 
 and dragons, it ultimately ends up relying on the things it's supposedly trying to make fun of. 
 Most of the people you meet, places you visit, and enemies you encounter wouldn't be at all out 
 of place in a straitlaced high-fantasy RPG, but here it makes the somewhat halfhearted humor often 
 feel like an afterthought. There are a few genuinely funny moments, though they're usually because 
 of the talented voice-acting cast rather than the writing. There are scores of missed opportunities 
 for puns and silly names, and yet the game manages to find the time for a head-shakingly out-of-place 
 reference to  You Got Served .  

  As a hack-and-slash dungeon crawler, though, The Bard's Tale isn't so bad. It has much in common 
 with the likes of Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance or Champions of Norrath, which is unsurprising, 
 considering that it runs on the same game engine. So, from an overhead perspective, you'll battle 
 wolves, boars, kunal trow, finfolk, evil druids, various forms of the undead, and a few different 
 types of elementals as you make your way from one dungeonesque environment to another. This hacking 
 and slashing makes up the bulk of the game, and for the most part, the action feels pretty familiar. 
 You are presented with a few side quests in each town that you visit on your journey, but even 
 if you aim to complete every side quest, unlock every unlockable, and see all the different endings, 
 the game shouldn't take more than 16 hours of your time. There's no multiplayer, however. The PC 
 version of The Bard's Tale comes packed with the first three Bard's Tale games, all of which were 
 originally released in the mid to late '80s. These classic PC RPGs bear almost no resemblance to 
 the new Bard's Tale, but they're fantastic nostalgia pieces for players who remember them, and 
 they serve as a good history lesson for younger players. One would have to go to great lengths 
 to be able to play these games in their original form, which makes the PC version of The Bard's 
 Tale the most compelling of them all, since it plays the games in their original form, right down 
 to piping the music out of your PC speaker.  

          The Bard's Tale finds its own jokes funnier than you likely will.     

  The game does 
 add a few of its own unique twists to the modern action RPG formula, most of them ostensibly for 
 the sake of streamlining the experience. For instance, The Bard has no inventory to speak of. Any 
 items that you liberate from a fallen enemy or find in a treasure chest are either automatically 
 converted into silver, or automatically equipped (in which case the gear it replaces is automatically 
 converted into silver) . The upside is that there's no worrying about your carrying capacity or 
 whether you'll regret selling that morning star later down the road. The downside is that it basically 
 takes all the fun out of hunting for treasure and buying new equipment. There are only a few shops 
 where you can spend your silver in the game, and their inventory is extremely limited. You are 
 also given an inordinate amount of money, so when you do happen upon a shop, you'll basically have 
 enough money to buy whatever you please. The intent behind this simplification is admirable, but 
 as it turns out, a good dungeon crawl actually benefits from a bit of micromanagement. As it is, 
 it feels like there's something missing.     

  The Bard himself is pretty proficient with melee weapons, and you'll pick up swords, flails, axes, 
 and bows over the course of the game. If you have a proclivity for magic users, this may be a little 
 disappointing, though The Bard's musical talents do allow him to conjure up fighters to aid him. 
 You'll pick up tunes to learn how to summon a total of 16 different companions over the course 
 of your adventure, and each serves a fairly unique purpose. You'll occasionally come to a point 
 where you'll need to summon a specific companion to move forward, but for the most part, it's up 
 to you to choose who fights alongside you. At the beginning you can summon only one companion at 
 a time, but by the end you'll have a full-fledged fellowship to help you cut a swath through the 
 forces of evil. Though these companions have trouble avoiding traps and navigating the occasional 
 narrow doorway, they're quite competent. This companion system is easily the most unique thing 
 The Bard's Tale has to offer, and it's done pretty well.  

          Despite a few tweaks, The Bard's Tale is a pretty straightforward hack-and-slash RPG.  
    

  There's no proper inventory, so The Bard doesn't have anywhere to keep any sort of healing potions, 
 which leads to one of the more ham-fisted parts of the game. You have two options for regaining 
 health. One is the crone, a companion you can call upon who will periodically cast healing spells 
 on The Bard and any companions who are in need. The other is Princess Caleigh, the very princess 
 you are trying to rescue, whose spirit you can call upon to restore all party members' health. 
 The problem with both of these options is that neither is a particularly good choice for instantly 
 healing yourself when you're in a tight spot -- which is, arguably, the time that you need healing 
 the most. Summoning Princess Caleigh requires a series of three button presses, and the action 
 doesn't stop while you're accessing this on-the-fly menu, which can create some frustration. In 
 addition, once you've actually summoned her, all the action comes to a halt while an overly long 
 and unskippable sequence in which she floats down from the sky and heals you plays out. It's an 
 interesting idea, but it just wasn't thought all the way through.  

  The Bard's Tale makes pretty good use of the Snowblind engine, though it doesn't look quite as 
 clean as Snowblind's own Champions of Norrath, which came out on the PlayStation 2 last year. The 
 game covers a great variety of environments, from light, breezy forests to dank Viking tombs, and 
 the scenery changes up often enough so that there's always something new to look at. One of the 
 more unique touches in the graphics is the way that the taller trees feel like they're almost brushing 
 up against the camera, which adds some depth to the gameworld. Everything animates pretty well 
 while you're in the actual game, but the characters look jerky and mechanical during the cutscenes. 
 The overhead camera seems locked onto the Bard's running gait, which makes for a somewhat sickening 
 lunging motion. The lighting and particle effects in the PC version of The Bard's Tale take on 
 an especially pixelated look, due largely to the higher resolution.  

          Ultimately, there are better games of this kind to be found.     

  There are quite 
 a few cutscenes in The Bard's Tale, and during these sequences, the game's voice acting -- arguably 
 its biggest strength -- is allowed to shine. Cary Elwes ( Hot Shots!, Robin Hood: Men in Tights ) 
 does a fine turn as The Bard, a real devil-may-care scoundrel. He affects a thicker British accent 
 than you might be used to hearing from him, which is fine, though it might have been more fun to 
 hear him as The Bard with his full-on  The Princess Bride  level of upper-crust pomposity. Tony 
 Jay has a perfect voice for a medieval fantasy adventure, and he does a good job as the antagonistic 
 narrator for the game. The background music kind of comes and goes as you play, usually relying 
 on lots of lutes, flutes, and harps, ultimately sounding like something you'd hear in an Irish 
 pub, which isn't entirely unfitting. There are also several full-on musical numbers, some of which 
 pop up multiple times. Musically they're fine, but they often go on for too long, and their humorous 
 elements aren't as funny as the game seems to think. The in-game sounds of hacking and slashing 
 are OK, but most of the death knells for the monsters sound a bit too much like regular guys using 
 some weird vocal filters.  

  The Bard's Tale has some genuinely good ideas, but much of its execution falls short. The funny 
 stuff isn't as funny as it needs to be, and the humor at its apex is just kind of amusing. The 
 straight high-fantasy stuff it employs is actually pretty good, and the game might've even been 
 better if it had played it straight all the way through. The core hack-and-slash stuff is solid, 
 and the changes it makes to the genre's formula, though not entirely successful, do help give the 
 game a bit of its own personality. It's certainly not an out-and-out failure, but in light of the 
 legacy created by its namesake and the previous landmarks in the genre, The Bard's Tale is a disappointment. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: michaeltex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  Fun for a PC game without massive amounts of resource management or mind-numbing rat killing. Very 
 linear and everything you do affects the ease of accomplishing later tasks. Story line is interesting 
 enough to keep your attention and side quests are limited but very rewarding. I wish more PC games 
 would pay attention to the fun and not focus so much character development.
  
  Fun for a PC game without massive amounts of resource management or mind-numbing rat killing. Very 
 linear and everything you do affects the ease of accomplishing later tasks. Story line is interesting 
 enough to keep your attention and side quests are limited but very rewarding. I wish more PC games 
 would pay attention to the fun and not focus so much character development.
  
  Maybe someday game development will remember that they are supposed to be FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing a demo for this game back when it was released. I loved it. Played it over and 
 over and never got bored. I couldn't find it anywhere in the stores thanks to the moronic publisher 
 screwing it up and no press at all (positive press as well) , this game was lost. But I finally 
 found it in 2008.
  
  After years of playing Baldur's Gate 2, Neverwinter Nights to even Indie games like Fate, I finally 
 get to play the game using Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance engine (it was released in consoles only, 
 bastards) . 
  
  Guess what? It rocks.
  
  - It's funny, no questions asked. It has tons of 'sarcastic' humor and amazingly all the elements 
 it makes fun of are still used in all RPG's, pretty shameful for these AAA developers that after 
 years they are still stuck with same old formulae in quests and dialogues (Oblivion) .
  
  - Gameplay is simply, to the point click and hit adventure/RPG affari like Dark Alliance. It's 
 fun, get's repititive but other elements make up for it. You block, you attack, you summon. It's 
 that simple.
  
  - Enemy AI is bloody brilliant for a top-down game. All enemies do something unique. All enemies 
 know how to block and when to block your attacks and counter-attack at the same time. Ranged units 
 rely on melee units to block you while they attack you from distance. You have to be quick and 
 take them out fast before the horde of enemies surround you and beat you to pulp.. a dead pulp 
 that is.
  
  - Traps. Lots and lots of traps. Love that.
  
  - BEST PART. The Bard summons different warriors or adventurers to help him in the battle (I got 
 upto 3 summons later on, don't know if there are more slots) . From a crazy witch that heals you 
 in battle to a sexy rogue assassin that leaves the enemy clueless and literally stabs them in the 
 back. Then there is a drunk merc that passes lewd comments at women, a knight that fights for king 
 and country... list goes on.
  
  They all have their personality and you will have to find the correct group for different levels 
 and enemies you face (traps heavy levels calls for the Adventurer that just loves to jump on the 
 nearest trap disabling others as well) .
  
  - The other stuff this game does right is how the useless loot is automatically converted to gold 
 leaving you no need to manage useless items in inventory. There is NO inventory.
  
  - The game automtically replaces your weak weapon with the powerful weapon, leaving no need to 
 manage this stuff again wasting time reading stats for weapons you pick. Love that.
  
  - BEST SHOPS EVER. Every shop keeper has it's own character and dialogues. Love it. Items are few 
 but have detailed descriptions/histories (all voiced by shop keepers) and give the shop more authentic 
 look instead of usual random generated item crap found in other RPG's. Love this.
  
  
  
  
  IN THE END:
  
  9.0 (-1 cause it could have used even better textures and even longer 
 SP campaign. But of well, can't have everything.)
  
  If you find it, buy it. Gamespot is the last site on the earth you'd wanna bother reading reviews 
 from and then actually take them seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azwhtknight
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Take an OK game and add outrageous humor and you now have a must play title. The Bard's Tale is 
 an instant classic that is hard not to like. With a decent plot, decent graphics, and decent game-play, 
 the voice-overs and dialogue are the true shining stars.
  
  The storyline follows a some-what reluctant hero in the form of an overly horny, sarcastic, scruffy-looking, 
 Bard who is out to save a well endowed princess in return for the promise of a little umm.. er.. affection 
 (to put it nicely) . While this might sound a little racy to some, it is done with taste and humor. 
 Along the way the Bard will encounter a host of bawdy characters and be pitted against some not 
 so clever foes. You will also be joined by a few choice companions and be aided by magical servants.
 
  
  The game-play is pretty basic and the controls and camera action, while a little temperamental 
 at times, is quite familiar to most rpg game enthusiasts. The in-game menus and displays are easy 
 to use and are easily accessible. The Bard can find and use a decent variety of weapons and apparel 
 and there is plenty of loot to go around. The in game movement is pretty fluid and the battles 
 are along the line of a hack-and-slash variety.
  
  You can't help but snicker at the character dialogues and in-game movies. The humor reminds one 
 of a Benny Hill sketch and you will find yourself playing the game over and over again just to 
 have a laugh. 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone as a light hearted break from the norm.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  The game was entertaining overall. The graphics were fine, the music was entertaining and it was 
 different from other games in the way the writing was creative, funny at times and worth listening 
 to. The gameplay was fairly repetitive and the fighting was pretty easy. The vast array of hirlings 
 made combat interesting since different combinations worked better than others in different situations. 
 It did take up a lot of hard drive space and loading was slow at times, but the game had it's own 
 unique characters. It was a fun, easy to play game that was actually funny more often than not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkirius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The Bard's Tale is the third part of the fantasy saga, which origins date back to 1985. Make no 
 mistake here though - it is a totally stand-alone game with no traces of serious and epic adventures 
 in previous titles. I should also add that this game was developed by Brian Fargo, a true legend 
 of cRPGs, father of games like Fallout 2 or Baldur's Gate.
  
  And it was Fargo's reputation that made me not to think twice and dig into the game as soon as 
 it came to my hands. Story is simple - our character, named simply Bard, is one of the Chosens 
 that venture through the realms to destroy all evil and, by chance, save the beautiful princess. 
 So, after a short introduction consisting of couple of minor quests we finally meet our fate and 
 set out to save princess Caleigh. The whole plot is of course poured with loads of humour and irony, 
 at quite a good level I should add. I smiled really often when playing the game, occasionally burst 
 out with laughter. Bard's Tale is a cRPG, so it is obvious that we have a character to develop 
 properly... is it really? Well, Bard has 6 attributes- strength, vitality, luck, dexterity, charisma 
 and rhythm - and both in the beginning and after gaining a level we do do distribute the points 
 among them Additionally, every two levels we can gain a new ability, but that's basically everything. 
 It is a big disadvantage - hello, it's an RPG after all! I understand that this simplicity is a 
 consequence of 'let's laugh at RPGs' approach, but I think that developers went much too far. The 
 only thing that cheered me up were the melodies Bard can learn - thanks to them, he can summon 
 various allies (only one in the beginning, but can end up with more at one time) . They are really 
 helpful - some are just good fighters (both ranged and melee) , others use magic - there is a total 
 of 16 creatures we can generate. But soon we are back at simplicity pains. Equipment is at the 
 level of a fantasy game for 8 year old kids. Just a few types of armour, one or two swords, a bow 
 and a couple of bonus items - that's all we can buy. Fortunately, there are some rare items we 
 find, with weapons or armours among them, but that's surely too few. A slight plus in equipment 
 is tha automatic transformation of found items into money - we don; t have to sell everything in 
 shops, at least.
  
  The world is much smaller than I expected, too - there are actually two islands with couple of 
 'chapters' on each of them. Locations don't make it back either - they're usually very simple. 
 Exploration? Forget it. The number of side quests is very low, but I have to admit that there are 
 SOME. They bring rare weapons for example, but it's not something you can't survive without. I 
 thought that rewarding players who want to explore areas is a common thing - it appears that I'm 
 wrong. Fortunately, the characters we meet are well thought of. Dialogues are often funny and perfectly 
 match the whole idea of Bard's Tale - for example, in one of the cities at the very beginning, 
 Bard meets a girl who says, that they spent a very adventurous night in the stable. Problem is, 
 that our Chosen one left her right after it and what's more, doesn't remember her now. She runs 
 away promising vengeance and soon we have to face the consequences of Bard's behaviour. Such small 
 details make up a good ambience. And while sounds, voices and music are at proper level, the graphics 
 are much too old, even for a 2005 game. Bard's Tale uses the BG: Dark Alliance engine and unfortunately 
 we won't experience any stunning effects; I can't say it's ugly, but could've been better. Same 
 thing goes with movement and animation, which is just awful. I think that the first Harry Potter 
 game would outshine Bard's Tale in this area.
  
  Well, I have mixed feelings. There is something to this game that drags us and we continue on playing, 
 but at the same time we're perfectly aware of the tones of disadvantages. It could have been a 
 brilliant game, but unfortunately it's only a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EbonDrake
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I often wonder why developers offer ports of console games on the PC if they aren't going to address 
 the target market. The console heritage on this is obvious from the start: grainy low-res cut scenes, 
 checkpoint saves, and worst of all, a horrid camera and control scheme which makes it almost impossible 
 to play. I think such developers as InXile must take no pride whatsoever in their work and must 
 only be after the money. Greedy bastages. This might have been a good game - the humor is there 
 - but the awful controls take the fun out very quickly. If you like console controls wouldn't you 
 play this on a console? PC gamers: avoid this like the Black Plague.
  
  For a game which takes it's origin from PC gaming this is shameful. The original Bard's Tale games 
 were far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I didnt know much about this game when I purchased it. I remembered playing a demo quiet a good 
 while ago which didnt carve any good memory in the role playing fresque of my gamers mind. 
 
  Therefore that was quiet a good surprise for me when, on a desperate day, I stumbled across a 
 budget version of it in a store sales. 
  As soon as I started playing it I immediately fell in love with the smooth graphics and the comedy 
 accent of it. The only version of Baldurs gates Ive ever played was the PS2 cut down version 
 and I quiet enjoyed it because of its simplicity, though I could have done with a deeper story 
 line and a few guess that hardboiled fans of RPGs such as Fallout or Neverwinter Nights will not 
 necessarily smore subquests.
  Thanks to The bards tale all my wishes came true. Those who played Baldurs gate or Diablo 2 before 
 will be on familiar ground here. The hack and slash combat system is simple though effective and 
 you can summon loads of creatures to help you in your struggle thanks to a handy interface. 
  Though youll acquire new weapons, and spells overtime through your quest, all your pick ups are 
 instantly converted into money which saves you the burden of going to the next shop to sell a pair 
 of panties or a wanted poster of yourself to clear your inventory of all sort of junk. Talking 
 of which, there is no inventory at all, you can review your spells and items, such as weapons and 
 tokens through a menu but all you need is equipped at all time and you select it with a simple 
 and effective interface. If you pick up or buy a better weapon the previous one is automatically 
 replaced with the latest one.
  Though the story line is set in the familiar heroic fantasy premises, what makes the difference 
 here is the comedy bits which lighten up the set up without falling in the trap of making it too 
 silly. For example, through the game, a voice off narrates the events the bard is going through 
 in a Monty Python kind of way (think the Holy Grail) , and the Bard often interferes with what the 
 narrator is saying. Youll come across loads of very well thought characters speaking with a very 
 strong Scottish, or northern Irish accent, and there comments are often hilarious. The voice acting 
 is good too.
  The landscapes youll be passing through are full of details and lighting effects that even a low 
 range graphic card can handle for most, and they look great (it works fine with my ATI Radeon 9550) . 
 
  There are a few subquests which allow you to gather some extra powers and weapons, but the plot 
 is essentially linear. The focus here is on managing your summons and equipping yourself with the 
 right creature, weapon, or spell at the right time. I often think of it as a real time final fantasy. 
 For example at some stage you can summon 4 creatures at the same time, so you can have a Healer 
 to look after the rest of your party, and then bring up the knight who is good at close combat, 
 then the weak but effective rat for multiple attacks, and so on. I quiet enjoy this. 
  I share my liking for this type of approach. If your stuff is about customizing characters and 
 classes, then you should look away from this game but if you are looking for a fun, and simplistic, 
 adventure then this may be just for you especially if, like me, you get it for 10 euros. 
  In conclusion I would say that this game doesnt bring anything new to the genre but exploits what 
 has already been done and does it well, with a touch of humour, which is a refreshing factor. So 
 nothing groundbreaking here but nice and smooth graphics, hilarious caracters and situations, and 
 a very arcade (console) orientated intuitive gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnaSummoner
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This is a really funny game; even if you don't like the story that much, or are not liking the 
 game that much I bet you'll forget that when the Bard speaks. I loved the interaction between the 
 Bard and the storyteller, it made me laugh many times. The battles should have a better close-on 
 camera, for you really feel like zooming sometimes. I think that's the most annoying part. Anyways 
 the story leads you to really stupid, yet very funny, events. There are also some funny weapons 
 and never forget to take the little doggy with you. :P Actually the whole game is funny. Give it 
 a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BADuel
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Bard's Tale ... nearly a lost memory ... I played all the episodes on my 286. Time has passed and 
 now I see it reappear also in a modern key. Hey, he's our hero! He is one of us! Everyone can be 
 him! He can be coward, loyal, thief, smart, dumb ... he combats, uses magic, summons creatures 
 ... but it is not an RPG. It's more like a Final Fantasy gameplay. U have to do certain steps to 
 go on with your quest (u can do them different ways at the end, but the journey is the same) . OK, 
 u change level, add stat points, but there's no inbentory, no total freedom. It's neither an adventure. 
 It seems they grabbed something of this and that ... and it almost works. I hated the visual from 
 the high, the impossibility to keep objects and weapons (unnecessary if u think that it change 
 them directly in money) , sometimes the combat system, but I love the situations, the speaking and 
 the reactions of the NPCs. The saga and the songs of the "Choosen One" will remain -nearly- forever 
 in my mind, the jokes from and to other games ... ... ... well, if u want to pass a lot of funny 
 time, go out, buy it, play it 'till u find all the sketches, the ends and the other songs, but 
 remember that it is only a big toy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  What can I say about the Bard's Tale, But GREAT! This game has a refreshing twist on the already 
 saturated RPG genre. The voice acting was fantastic and the story plot was wonderful. The graphics 
 could have been a little cleaner and the camera angles could have been more advanced and also the 
 weapon systems could have been more extensive giving the player more choices for both the bard 
 and the summoned creatures. I have to admit I had never played the original series and just recently 
 acquired them, but I do not believe that it will change my opinion of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting the game to be anything near what I witnessed. I liked the comedy relief it 
 has. It just keeps surprising me every corner I turn. Especially with baud? Well the 5 guys that 
 had the same name! That was totally retarded, but way funny! The characters in this game are well 
 thought up. I enjoy this game totally. It handles well with great graphics. The sound is ok. I 
 haven't got far, but I intend to play this game through out. I can't wait to get back to it actually. 
 I don't see how anyone woudln't like a game that's just plain fun, and tries to make you laugh. 
 While installing it I noticed the CD says turn over to see something horrid... or something along 
 those lines. I was like wha!? They are crazy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  I must say I really enjoyed this title. I was sceptical at first after reading some of the reviews 
 on this website. Nevertheless, undeterrred I started the game anyway, not expecting much and was 
 treated to essentially Baldur's Gate Dark Alliance but with character interaction and humour thrown 
 in. 
  
  I am not really a fan of console RPG's, too much arcade hack 'n slash, little character interaction 
 or story development, resulting in a mindless action game - not my thing (just so you know where 
 I am coming from - I do NOT like Diablo or games of that ilk) .
  
  Right so back to The Bard's Tale. This game uses the same engine used for the Baldur's Gate Dark 
 Alliance games on the Playstation. You can see the similarities immediately if you are familiar 
 with those titles. Like in those games, you control a lone hero running around completing quests 
 usually assigned by central non player characters (NPC's) scattered around the land. Unlike those 
 games however you can summon a host of bizarre (and not so bizzare) uncouth misfits that accompany 
 you throughout your travels
  each with their own abilities.
  
  Pros & Cons
  
  The graphics - As mentioned, the engine used is from BGDA (Snowblind I believe it's called) and 
 is now starting to show it's age. It does the job however and displays a nice array of effects 
 for the spells you cast. 
  
  The Sound - Good sound effects and great sarcky/cheesy voice acting that goes well with the overall 
 theme of the game. Above all, praise must be given to the whimsical humour of the designers for 
 the inclusion of comically sung tunes (usually by goblin-like creatures with high pitched voices) . 
 These songs are paced by a little cursor almost in a Disney Sing-Along style and vary depending 
 on your actions. The only downside is that no background music was included which would have been 
 nice - this wasn't too detrimental to my overall enjoyment.
  
  The Gameplay - I think the game works well overall. You are given the option to be nice/honest 
 or sarcastic/rude in your conversations which actually does influence what transpires in the story 
 and results in obtaining different items. The saving grace of the game however is in the humour 
 - this sets it above the rest of it's type purely down to it's originality. Your character (the 
 Bard) is an unsavoury fellow who cares not for doing the good deed or even evil stereotypical option 
 - he simply does not care about anything other than Money, Cleavage and Beer and goes to great 
 lengths to voice that impression in all his travels. Example: You meet the fair maiden you are 
 to rescue - the Bard, with no remorse, can easily decide that women can't be trusted and prefer 
 a beer at the local pub leaving the said maiden to rot in her prison .... the narrator of the game 
 (who incidentally is the same voice talent used in Dungeon Keeper) continuously has a go at the 
 bard for his dastardly behaviour, to which the bard often makes a sarcastic riposte - this all 
 reminds me of the Monkey Island sense of humour.
  
  The Combat is nothing special to talk of and can get a tad repetetive, you have a very limited 
 selection of attacks and really the varietly lies in the small choice of weapons in your arsenal. 
 The interesting part is the aforementioned summonings at your disposal. This troupe of characters 
 is limited in number by the type of musical instrument the bard plays to summon them and vary greatly 
 in abilities that will aid the bard in combat, exploration and enhacement.
  
  With 3 endings, multiple optional quests, a non-linear format (it is linear to a point as far as 
 main quests go, but does offer freedom on the main game map and optional quests) , and varied conversation 
 choices, this game is one I recommend on any platform even if just for the comedy value.
  
  P. S. The part I don't understand is why the Dark Alliance games received such praise and this title 
 is on a 6.7 rating when it has so much more to offer?!!? Very harsh from Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Definitely, The Bards Tale its a subject of discution because of two important points:
  
  One: Its true that a game must have essence, whats the point in playing a empty game no matter 
 how good it looks, this kind of game has to have a true hooking story to catch the attention of 
 the people... this game doesnt have a very original story (since its a remake, in the first place) 
 but you can tell that its told in a very particular way, the way of the selfish and luxurious Bard 
 that cares no one but himself, a very sarcastic and funny character.
  
  Second: The engine of the game, the graphics, the sound and the gameplay... a game can have the 
 best story of the world, but if you put it on the worng system it will crash. It happens with this 
 game, i can believe that in this age and technology level a company develops a game with this kind 
 of OLD view, the game system of skills is barely interesting, but the view of the game kill it... 
 I felt like playing the games i played in the 80s or first 90s.
  
  Overall, The Bards Tale its a funny and dark humor game that you will enjoy if dont care about 
 old techniques of gameplay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladyrosebriar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  It's all about the Bard. If you understand that then you get the whole point of the game. Get into 
 the role and you'll have fun with this game! Presented as a storybook, the narrator will "tell 
 the tale" of the Bard's adventures which in a way is a complete parody of the RPG genre. (Think 
 of the movie Ella Enchanted) Obviously, you are playing as the Bard, a sarcastic, selfish fellow 
 who's primary motivation is beer, bucks, and babes. (Officially its billed as a quest for coin 
 and cleavage) . Other than some off-color remarks and scantily clad buxom bar maids, there is nothing 
 to warrant any censorship concerns. 
  
  The Bard has the magical ability to summon various creatures to aid him. He begins the game extorting 
 money from bar owners by sending in a summoned rat then offering to rid the bar of the rat. Roaming 
 the fair countryside you stumble into a bar and wind up getting yourself in the whole main quest 
 of the game: save the Princess and get rich while doing it. There are a few sidequests you'll happen 
 upon and you can unlock secret areas by purchasing maps (provided you have the coin) from a wandering 
 pixie trow on the world map. 
  
  Interacting with other characters gives you the choice of being nice or "snarky" which can affect 
 the price of services, possible rewards and offers of assistance. Contrary to your intuition, the 
 nice answers aren't necessarily the best answers. In fact, alot of times being sarcastic is the 
 only way to go. Combat is pretty simplistic as you get a move based on the type of weapon you wield 
 (sword, flail, bow) . Moves are upgradeable to increase damage as you level up. You'll quickly find 
 that it is your choice of summoned companions that make or break you in combat. 
  
  The game is much larger than I had imagined it would be, taking up over 5 GB of space and gave 
 me hours of gameplay. Throughout the game there are funny comments, put-downs of other famous RPG 
 type games, and some spoofs from movies. Won't reveal them here but it kept me laughing and playing. 
 The graphics are pretty good and sound is excellent. Cutscenes are great, usually filled with witty 
 remarks. Oftentimes the narrator and the Bard trade insults. I can't say enough about the voice 
 acting. Cary Elwes (Princess Bride, Robin Hood: Men in Tights) plays the Bard to perfection and 
 that is what makes the whole game.
  
  If you appreciate a keen sense of humor and can get past the shortcomings of the combat, then I 
 think you'll enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaldx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm playing The Bard's Tale on two PCs, two different "tales" in parallel.
  
  i had to do this since there is simply no way to play the game once and "get it all." 5.6GB of 
 free disk is required just to install it! OMG!
  
  The variation in gameplay is quite impressive at several levels. First, the "attitude" of Your 
 Bard has a large impact at many junctures in the game. If you play the game as "smiley," you will 
 have a completely different game than if you play it as "snarky." The sexy bar-maids prefer "snarky," 
 just for example. :)
  
  If you are snarky, you may get sent on a wild-goose chase. Other times, snarky is the only way 
 to get what you need from the characters whom you encounter. 
  
  Also impressive is the variation in play coming from stat-allocation and weapon-selection. You 
 can really see and feel the difference that your selection makes, which is the kind of positive 
 role-playing feedback that adds to the fun. If the enemy has really strong armor, you will have 
 better luck hacking away at it. If the enemy is sneaky and fast, you will need your bow (s) .
  
  For example, with stat auto-allocate, using melee weapons, I cannot get passed the kunal trow 
 in Highlands Park. (Fairly early quest) .
  
  But if I focus on dexterity, vitality, and using bows -- the kunal trow are mowed down like grass.
 
  
  Not to give it away, but the most important stat in end-game is rhythm. Yes, rhythm! How funny, 
 but the Bard plays music to invoke magical healers and fighters, so he needs "stronger rhythm" 
 to improve the stats of his helpers! And better helpers, in the right combination, is a MAJOR FACTOR 
 to the Bard's final success! 
  
  Early in the game, you will probably choose between a magical spider or a bodyguard (or a rat or 
 a firefly) .
  
  But as the game progresses, the Bard will have multiple magical assistants (a knight, a crossbow 
 heroine, a trap-finder) , plus his faithful dog and sometimes an additional party member. When you 
 can call three helpers from your lute, there are synergistic "combinations" possible. Sometimes, 
 the least burly assistant (such as the firefly) turns out to be the best helper in a melee battle, 
 since he can distract some of the foe while the bard heals up; or temporarily blind the foe while 
 the knight hacks away. So many things to discover in this game.
  
  The game plays well, and it is full of wit and merriment. 
  
  The Bard goes into a bar and 
 "jams" with the drunks. They sing a song about how a town was just destroyed by a demon, caused 
 by some idiot spiling the blood of an animal inside the magic circle. Only we know that it was 
 the Bard who did the despicable deed, quite by accident -- but he sure aint gonna mention it and 
 get strung up. 
  
  This is my kind of game. I am not looking for a first-person shooter, where I need a $3000 machine 
 just to avoid getting lag-killed. Besides, I ain't got the reflexes. I am looking to relax, contemplate 
 strategy and just be entertained when I play a game. 
  
  Bard's Tale does it for me. 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradfriedrich
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Funny clever and witty story. Very captivating character and the attitude is skewed the way you 
 want it to be. Characters develop well with a sense of attachment. Gamewise this is very enjoyable, 
 though not the viewing pleasure it deserves to be. Graphically unappealing, even with a great gaming 
 rig. Enemies all appear to be the same with no real variation between classes (eg missile vs melee) . 
 Skills are leveled up like a diablo or wow character with skill points being allocated per level. 
 I don't think there's anything available to retrieve these if you make a mistake though.
  
  I was expecting a lot more visually from this game, though it's still a lot of fun (kinda like 
 playing mario bros again :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great disappointment. The games takes 5GB of space in the hardware providing crapping 
 graphic, ill-design game. The games uses wierd camera angle where during battle you see the character 
 from above~~ like bird's perspective, while during conversation the camera changes to the 3rd person 
 camera angle . I feel the bird-perspecital this takes away gamers to see at the details in surrounding 
 or the NPC.. when all you can see is the head and shoulder of the character..... which things for 
 you to see are very limited (even they create the whole body of the NPC) 
  Hence, you will start to feel this game isn't worthy to take 5 GB of space in your computer. 
 
  
  The game is very shallow, which there isn't a lot of items for you to find becasue all the items 
 you get are turn into coins. As result, you got alot of money.... but they are basically good for 
 nothing when you had bought the best equipment. The Movies in the game are the most ugly I seem, 
 it is very blurry. On the other hand the real time in game movie are much higher resoulation. 
 
  
  The combact is ok, but it works better with gamepad rather than mouse and keyboard. using gamepad 
 give you more control of the direction where you are hitting. Healing is very time consuming which 
 it takes 9 second to heal your teamate by summoning an fairry that come down from the sky to cast 
 healing magic.
  
  Basically I think there are lot more games in the market or old game made years ago that are better 
 design than this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword_stalker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  god... i couldnt care less about the action because the action in this game is... bad. All that 
 makes this game great is the inn where you begin your quest... all the characters make me laugh 
 so much... rent it first because talking to everyone in a inn doesn't take an eternity... lol
  
  the fighting couldn't get any worse... it was a kind of 3rd person view and you couldnt really 
 control the bard... the summoning monsters (well... they just su*k) ... they are pretty cool but 
 they dont help you much... the enemies get stronger faster than you... but the beginning is still 
 funny
  
  with all respect 
  
  Sword Stalker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silentshot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  Now down to the meat and bones of the game. CONSOLES are the bane of PC RPGs when a console game 
 is planned I can just see the Planning Guide.
  1. small levels.
  2. Smalls levels to be portable to PC
  3. Arcade game play
  4. Arcade game play must be portable 
 to PC.
  5. Done.
  Do not get me wrong the game is fun but Bards Tale was originally with large levels and dragging 
 the dead back to the Inn or temple to get revived. The combat is very easy and to be honest does 
 fit in the game and you get use to it. Brian if you read this I do love the game. A few of the 
 things that kept me hooked.
  1. the Humour
  2. the story
  3. its bards tale and what will happen next
  
  What I missed was leveling stats and spells 
 and a few team mates not the Tune made ones. Which on one side was a great idea since you did not 
 have to look for NPCs to help you but on the other removed the thoughts should I take that NPC 
 or I should find a warrior, A HEALER a KINGDOM for a HEALER. Not that Old healer that seemed to 
 heal me after combat.
  BRIAN what happened to inventory, everything turned to Cash. It took away our indecision on what 
 to use! But then again I always had enough cash for the few shops. The weapons always change to 
 the latest and greatest which was ok for my wife but I missed my backpack also the shuffling from 
 stuff around from player to player.
  
  The Visuals. Well the barkeeper look sweet and well rounded Oh yeah back to the games visuals. 
 The Graphics fitted the game well and made the over all feel right. I missed a better Camera control. 
 The cut scenes seemed in a very low resolution and sort of spoiled the whole feel when seen as 
 a whole.
  
  Now down to the bard part the tone of the game, Great. Or should I say tones of the game. The in 
 games sounds were good and I thought well done. The voice acting is really great and stands above 
 and beyond a lot of games. NPCs fit well within the whole sounds and game play. Beer, Beer, Beer. 
 That song was a blast. Over all a great sound experience.
  
  Is it worth the Silver you would shell out? In one word is YES. I loved it and will recommend to 
 my friends.
  
  If it had a better inventory and a better camera I would have rated it higher if I could. I will 
 not lie but I had hoped on a cross between the original Bards Tale and this. Well I can not complain 
 since I am having a whale of a time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  (revised) 
  
  Bottomline: If you enjoy dry, British humor and can appreciate all the fun the game pokes at CRPG 
 cliches, you should enjoy this game. It's the kind game that will have broad appeal, and be though 
 by most as an above average to good game. Because of the dialogue and humor I definitely favor 
 the good rating.
  
  Gameplay: The game is fun to play. You can tell it was designed with consoles in mind as the combat 
 is very, I mean very, arcadish. However, as arcadish combat goes it's well done and fun if not 
 somewhat mindless at times. I love the humor in the game, and it gives me an extra incentive to 
 play the game. Without the humor and the very well done story, NPCs, and satire, I'd give this 
 game a 5 on game play. However, with all of those things, I give it a 8.
  
  Graphics: The resolution isn't so great, but the graphics are well done and add to the experience 
 when they're good, and are only a minor distraction in the few areas (like the movies that were 
 done in lower resolution for the console ports) where they're not so good. Overall, I'm giving 
 the graphics an 7. 
  
  Sound: The sound is fantastic. If the voice acting in this game isn't the best I've ever heard 
 it's darn close. The non-voice sound affects are good, but the voice acting and dialogue really 
 stands out in this game. Beyond the voices, the NPC personalities are very well done. Definitely 
 a 10 for sound, dialogue, and NPCs.
  
  Value: If you love the humor and dialogue like I do, it's got to be at least an 8 for that alone 
 and I'll bump it up to a 9.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I'm an old school CRPG'er so the great dialogue, witty satire, and good overall 
 game experience make this an 8 for me. If the game play and graphics were better it would be a 
 10.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
