-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Black Mirror
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/theblackmirror/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 349 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Future Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 20, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If it weren't for its horrid acting and clumsy writing, The Black Mirror would be a solid adventure 
 game. 

  Good voice acting can bring a game's characters to life or at the very least make a flat story 
 seem a little livelier. As vital as it is, voice acting still seems to be an afterthought in many 
 games. For some games, it seems like the hiring criteria are merely that the actors can speak English 
 and can stay awake through the recording sessions. For a perfect example of how bad voice acting 
 can almost single-handedly ruin a game, look no further than The Black Mirror, where the voice-overs 
 are so horrid as to make the gameplay almost unbearable at times. That's actually just one of The 
 Black Mirror's faults. It's true that the game has some real strengths, too, but the lousy voice-overs, 
 clumsy writing, and glacial pace make it too hard to appreciate them most of the time.  

          The usual (boring) suspects gather at the castle.     

  The Black Mirror's story feels 
 like a rambling mishmash of Edgar Allan Poe, H. P. Lovecraft, Scooby Doo, and the board game Clue. 
 You play as Samuel Gordon, scion of the ancient Gordon clan that has inhabited Black Mirror Castle 
 in England for centuries. Samuel's grandfather, William Gordon, has died under the oddest circumstances. 
 Prone to secrecy and increasingly odd behavior, the elder Gordon started locking himself away in 
 one of the castle's towers, where he was researching mysterious family legends. One night someone 
 or something made its way into the locked tower, and Gordon fell -- or was pushed -- out the window, 
 impaling himself on a wrought-iron fence far below. With the family in mourning, Samuel returns 
 to the castle and reacquaints himself with his grandmother and meets various family friends and 
 servants, like the butler and family doctor. In his quest to get to the bottom of William's death, 
 Samuel also explores other locales, like a quaint nearby town, an old church, a morgue, and a mine. 

  The Black Mirror is pitched as a nightmarish mystery, but there's precious little about it that's 
 frightful, and you'd be hard pressed to find a less emotionally engaging game. There is one neat 
 twist near the end of the story, but almost every character along the way is bland and forgettable; 
 no one seems particularly real, let alone worth your interest. The game's protagonist is downright 
 annoying with his prissy, affected mannerisms, generic appearance, and generally silly air.  

 
  This is all doubly unfortunate because a huge chunk of The Black Mirror revolves around making 
 Samuel have interminable conversations with everyone he meets. Talking is the main way to gather 
 clues and to make the tediously linear story progress from point A to point B. Yet who wants to 
 listen to such boring nonentities? Hackwork dialogue certainly doesn't help, nor does the comical 
 propensity of many characters to avoid contractions and needlessly announce whatever they're going 
 to do next: "I will go now," and so forth.  

  It's not merely the bland, unfocused writing that makes these conversations so tedious: Voice acting 
 stumbles to a miserable new low in The Black Mirror. Almost everyone speaks in an unbearably slow, 
 stilted, declamatory style, as if trying to explain something to a small child or give directions 
 to a foreign tourist. Couple that with the sometimes comically posh British accents, and you get 
 a recipe for disaster. The drying-paint pace that the actors adopt, coupled with the clunky dialogue, 
 makes the simplest exchanges stretch out for a seeming eternity -- The Black Mirror is painfully 
 slow even by adventure-game standards. Not surprisingly, the actor who voices a grave-digger literally 
 sounds like he was falling asleep behind the microphone during the recording sessions. Since adventure 
 games typically lack any real action, character building is vital. Here it's almost impossible 
 to care about the characters, both because they're fleshed out poorly and because they often sound 
 so unrealistic or downright laughable.  

  Another problem with all the conversations is that they emphasize just how linear The Black Mirror 
 is. This game unashamedly thrives on "game logic." You know full well, for example, that a certain 
 object is at the bottom of a fountain, yet you can't simply reach down and pull the object from 
 the shallow water. Even when you learn where the drain pump for the fountain is located, you can't 
 work the controls or find out how they work until you find another object related to the one in 
 the fountain. This sort of thing happens throughout the game: Regardless of what you've figured 
 out on your own, you're forced to talk to one person before you can interact with another or forced 
 to stay in one locale until the game decides you can leave. Worse still, you're forced to leave 
 certain objects alone until the time magically becomes right. This makes it too easy to spot an 
 object early on, conclude that it's unimportant window dressing, and then forget about it. Just 
 as bad, you'll need to return to some characters quite a few times before they'll divulge necessary 
 info, which emphasizes the incredibly slow pace of the game. Thanks to problems like these, you 
 often feel like you're being dragged around on a leash instead of exploring and making decisions 
 on your own.  

  Happily, there are some things in The Black Mirror that save it from being a total loss. The interface 
 is clear and helpful: Pressing the Tab key highlights all known exits from the current area, for 
 example. If you hold the cursor over an exit point, text will appear to tell you exactly where 
 the exit heads. The game is also rather lengthy, with plenty of diverse and colorful areas to explore 
 (though lengthiness is a mixed blessing considering some of the things you'll suffer through in 
 the process) . The puzzles are generally varied, entertaining, and challenging. Some are inventory 
 based, like finding the right key to the right lock, while other challenges include riddles, jigsaw 
 or sliding tile puzzles, or manipulations of mechanical devices. Unfortunately, some puzzles repeat 
 each other, demand way too much traipsing back and forth, or require a lot of blind fumbling to 
 find a proper sequence of levers or wires. Also, it's way too easy to overlook a number of tiny 
 items you need, and some puzzles are just too obscure.  

          Visit creepy locales, like an old sanatorium.     

  Looking around for objects is at 
 least reasonably fun to do, thanks to the diverse, finely detailed visuals. Some areas do look 
 rather cheesy: Black Mirror Castle looks like it was decorated by Gomez and Morticia Addams, with 
 looming portraits of evil ancestors, giant skulls above archways, and pseudo-gothic bric-a-brac. 
 Students of the humanities will also get a laugh out of the way a portrait by Hans Holbein is passed 
 off as a Gordon ancestor and will wonder about an incongruous portrait of Ludwig II of Bavaria 
 staring down at them from another wall. This art-history-book clip-art approach seems rather lazy. 
 Despite some hiccups like that, most of the scenes are attractive and suitably autumnal and melancholy, 
 particularly when it starts to rain outside during part of the game. The character animations are 
 jerky and very slow, but swaying willow trees, a crackling fire in a hearth, and other scenic animations 
 add a little vitality to an otherwise stiff game. Fine ambient sound effects and suitably chilly 
 music offer some recompense for the abysmal voice work.  

  It's a real shame that The Black Mirror suffers from such execrable acting and clumsy writing. 
 If those had been handled better, it would have been a flawed yet rather entertaining game graced 
 with some attractive locales and interesting puzzles. As it stands, it's only for very forgiving 
 adventure-game fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fobeus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  [Plot] You play Samuel Gordon, who returns to his family's home after 12 years to attend his Grandfather 
 William's funeral. Who died under mysterious circumstances. You have to uncover the truth about 
 William's death and with this it leads to even more hidden mysteries of the family and the real 
 reason why Samuel left [End of Plot] .
  
  The interface is standard inventory based point & click. There's lots of exploring, talking and 
 pixel hunting to be done. But that's what you'd expect in a adventure game, right?
  
  My reasons for loving this game as much as I do, is as follows. The game is filled with beautiful 
 pre-rendered backdrops that really pull you in, water and weather effects looks realistic, scaling 
 of characters against backdrops are realistic, sound is really well done, atmosphere is also top 
 notch, logical puzzles and a story that kept me hooked until the end. I personally had no problems 
 with the voice acting.
  
  Downsides are. The characters themselves are a little dated even for 2003, but your not playing 
 adventure games for graphics anyway so it shouldn't bother you to much. North American version 
 has Starforce protection which apparently makes the game unplayable on Vista.
  
  I recommend it for any hardcore adventure fan, or anybody who likes horror themed stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Black Mirror plays out like any other adventure game. Find the clues, solve the puzzles, pick up 
 items and talk to a bunch of characters. The only thing I found tedious was the fact that you have 
 to revisit locations to pick up items since they have to be triggered during dialogue. So if you 
 see a hammer you can't pick it up right away unless you either A. Find the location where the hammer 
 is needed or B. A character brings it up in a conversation. This then allows you to go back and 
 pick up the hammer. Also a few times characters had to look up research for you and in those cases 
 you have to keep revisiting the character until he says ok I've got the information for you. I 
 had to revisit one character 6 times before he had the info. It was just a needless waste of time 
 since I couldn't do anything while I waited. 
  The puzzles are really easy. Beginner adventure gamers will do fine. The locations you visit are 
 interesting and well done and the voice acting isn't bad. There are a few cheesy funny moments 
 during gameplay. Let's just say your character can die in this game. 
  The story was interesting and held my attention until the very end when the ending played out. 
 The ending just seems rushed and some things were left unexplained. I wonder if it is because there 
 is a Black Mirror 2 coming out. However i believe they could have made the ending a bit more interesting 
 instead of using a tired old cliche. Other than that its a must play for true adventure gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I'm not really all that interested in adventure games for the PC, to be honest. I was really into 
 them on the Commodore 64 back in the 80s, which is weird considering how much more visual and dynamic 
 they are these days. The Black Mirror does have some gorgeous graphics and an impressively Gothic 
 atmosphere, but it's ruined by perpetual slowness and many, many scenes of long, long conversations.
 
  
  Samuel Gordon (the most arrogant man in a video-game ever) is the wayward heir to the Gordon Manor 
 (Black Mirror Castle) who returns to his rural England roots when his grandfather is killed in 
 suspicious circumstances. It's up to you to guide him around the Manor and village, talking to 
 people and investigating.
  
  Typical 'adventure' gameplay mechanics are involved in progressing through the chapters. Which 
 is fine, but when the game makes you wait for other characters to do stuff for you, boy does it 
 make you WAIT. I've had the game running for over 6 hours while other characters waste you're time 
 doing stuff for you (or not doing it rather) . And there's nothing else for YOU do to when this 
 is going on. It's infuriating.
  
  The ending to the game is profoundly weak. A lame twist I should have seen coming is capped-off 
 with dull, whogivesadamn cut-scene and then the end credits. When I play a game for so long I expect 
 more than that! It also leaves many questions unanswered. Who EXACTLY killed William Gordon? Where 
 did Uncle Robert really go? What's the deal with Samuel's long-dead lover? How did the Priest not 
 find the secret crypt halfway through the game? Why is it set in 1981? I was impressed with the 
 game at first but in the last third it got pretty damn tiresome and the end is no real pay-off. 
 For serious adventure gamers ONLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  The Black Mirror is described as a horror-mystery adventure, although I find that description to 
 be somewhat misleading, as horror is an exaggeration.
  Nevertheless, the game is set in a pretty dark atmosphere, as you take on the role of Samuel Gordon, 
 a member of the Gordon family who returns to his family mansion after the passing away of his grandfather, 
 who has supposedly committed suicide. Of course, Samuel does not believe this and he decides to 
 investigate what has really happened.
  
  
  The game
  
  The game is a classic point-and-click adventure game and getting the hang of it is really simple.
 
  As mentioned, you are Samuel Gordon, grandson of the lately departed William Gordon, who has also 
 left behind a wife and a son, presumably your uncle. Since William lived in a big mansion, you 
 of course also get to meet the butler, the stable hand and the gardener.
  After a short time of playing, youll find that Samuel had left the mansion many years ago never 
 to return again, but he got not ignore the death of his grandfather. Youll also find that Samuel 
 often has headaches and what appear to be visions or disturbing dreams.
  There are many aspects of the game which will be liked by true adventure fans, the somewhat harder 
 puzzles in the game that surface every now and then, being an important one.
  Besides the puzzle solving, the game does indeed play like a classic point-and-click adventure 
 as you need to talk to and use and combine objects a lot to progress.
  The game is pretty mysterious indeed as youll investigate the death of William which wont be 
 the only death youll encounter through the six chapters of the game. And Im not just talking 
 about your own death, which can occur at some points in the game.
  I am only aware of one point in the game which has a time limit on it and although you have enough 
 time to solve that part, it can be a bit repetitive because youll have to figure out what to do 
 in that limited amount of time. But this shouldnt be too hard (I got it the second time) . If you 
 like mysteries that are set in a dark atmosphere, this is certainly a game youll want to play.
 
  The main character however, is not one that I sympathized with, however. Often I found him to 
 be pretty insensitive or quite frankly rude (tsss, aristocrats) . This does not only go for the 
 main character, but for many others in the game as well.
  I cannot say much more about the game itself, without giving too much away about the story. I can 
 tell you this however: you may want to find the ending a bit of an anti-climax. I personally wouldnt 
 go that far, but I can imagine that youd expect a bigger ending than this. I however, found part 
 of the (near) ending pretty predictable, as I already had figured that part out for myself somewhat 
 earlier in the game.
  The story of the game isnt too bad however. Of course you could say its farfetched, but hey: 
 it is a mystery adventure game, so what do you expect? Not that it is that highly supernatural 
 or anything, but there are some supernatural elements in the game.
  Nonetheless, an adventure game is an adventure game, so if youre a fan of point-and-click and 
 youre not frightened off by mystery adventure games, then youll probably amuse yourself with 
 this game.
  A thing that I particularly liked about the game is that you can travel around with a map. Although 
 this isnt that big of a deal, it gives you the idea (like Broken Sword 1 does) that the game is 
 somewhat less linear, although it is of course quite linear due to the fact that it is an adventure 
 game.
  There is also an aspect about the game which I found to be quite annoying. At certain points in 
 the game youll have to wait for another character to perform a task for you. Since that is the 
 only way to progress in the game, youre stuck until that person performs that action for you. 
 The actions seem only to be triggered by you walking out of the screen with that character and 
 then back in again to ask that person if hes performed his or her task already. Only after a certain 
 number of you asking the person, the task seems to be done. You can imagine that this is quite 
 annoying, since apart from walking around and asking the character numerous times about it, you 
 can do nothing.
  
  
  The controls The controls couldnt be more simple: you use your left mouse button and on very few 
 occasions you use your right mouse button. The left button is used for almost anything: walking, 
 using, talking, picking up, looking, etc. On some occasions the right mouse button will let you 
 examine a person/object closer (as it does with all objects in your inventory) , but often nothing 
 happens when you right-click an object. There are very few occasions when you use your right mouse 
 button to turn certain objects in your inventory, but its pretty easy to find out for yourself.
 
  The inventory is very straightforward as well: move your mouse pointer to the bottom of the screen 
 and the inventory appears.
  The options screen can be accessed by moving the mouse pointer to the top right of the screen.
 
  
  
  The graphics
  
  According to the information I have, the game was released in 2003, which make the graphics okay. 
 Theyre not exceptionally good, but they arent bad either: theyre decent.
  Backgrounds are in 2D, which gives you some pretty detailed surroundings set in a dark atmosphere.
 
  The characters appear to be in 3D, although I wasnt too impressed by them. They lack expression 
 and their movements arent very natural. But the graphics arent too bad.
  
  
  The sound
  
  There is some music in the game, but to be honest, I cannot recall how it went 
 at this time. I think this tells you enough about how good the music was: okay, but not so good 
 that youd remember it the day after.
  As for the voices: yes, once again a game that I have in German. I thought the voices were done 
 quite okay, though. Nothing unnatural about them actually. The funny thing is that in a few reviews 
 Ive read about the game, which were obviously about the English version of the game, it was said 
 that the voices were absolutely horrible (I am not certain if the voices were originally in English, 
 since the company that made the game is Czech I believe) . Maybe this has something to do with the 
 Germans having much experience with voice-overs and all that.
  Theres nothing special to mention about the other background sounds and everything: they were 
 okay, but not remarkable.
  
  
  Overall
  
  A decent adventure which could entertain you for some time. Especially if you like point-and-click 
 adventures and if youre into longer conversations. This game is also quite doable if youre new 
 to the genre: with the exception of a few puzzles the game is not too hard. So if you see this 
 one somewhere in the bucket bin, and the above applies to you, go ahead and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The Black Mirror
  
  
   : Future Games
  : 
 The Adventure Company
  :  
 
   : Oct 20, 2003  
   :
  Game Spot: 5.5
    
  . Game Rankings:62
  
  
      
     
    
     
  .
  
   :  
     
      
      
     . 
      
    
 (Samuel Gordon)     
     
      
  .   
    
       
      
    
  .   
  ) 
     
  .   
      
     
     
     
     
   .   
   
 (  ) 
   ( 
 )   
  .    
    
     
  .   
     
      
 .    
     
     
      
 ...
  
   :   
     
      
  .   
       
     
        
   . 
      
      
     
     
     
     
     
     . 
     
     
      
     
     
     
   .  
     
     
     
 .    
     
   .  
     
     
    
 .     
      
   .
       
    . 
     
     
     
      
 .   
      
     
       
  .
      
      
     
       
      
     
     
      
 .   
     
    
     
      
     
  .
      
     
      
     
      
   .
  
  :   
       
   .  
      
     
 .   
      
    . 
      
      
     
     
      
 .    
     
  (  
   )   
    . 
     
      
   .  
      
    Black Mirror  
     
     
      
      
    .  
     
 !    
      
     
     
   .  
     
     
      
      
     
 .    
     
     
     
    .
 
      
     
      
      
 (    
 )   
  .
  
  :   
     
    . 
     
     
     
      
     
  .   
    
    
      
     
     
      
   .  
   GamePlay    
    
     
  .   
      
       
    . 
     
     . 
  voicer    
     
     ! 
      
      
      
     
      
    2003    
  .
  
   :  
     
      
     
  .   
     
    
    .  
     
     
     
   .  
     
      
       
   .  
     
     
      
      
   .  
     
    
      
       
   .
  
   :  
      
     
     
 (    
       
  )    
      
     
    .
 
  
  
  
      
  The Black Mirror    
     
    .
 
      
     
   
      
     
      
     
    .
  
  : Darinoos. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Black Mirror is a traditional adventure game with a splendidly created Gothic atmosphere. You play 
 as Sam Gordon, a young noble who returns to the family estate, Black Mirror, to witness the burial 
 of his grandfather, who (apparently) committed suicide. Sam decides to get to the bottom of this 
 and soon becomes entangled into a story of black magic, family mysteries and murder. The plot is 
 well-executed and rather compelling, although it gets rather predictable toward the end.
  The games graphics are truly eye-candy. You get to see many beautiful, meticulously created places, 
 such as castles, parks, cryptc, etc., some of them at different times of day and in different weather. 
 You will probably replay the game just to see them again (I did) . The characters are more crudely 
 done, though; their movements are somewhat unnatural, and there is a glitch where Sams hood keeps 
 appearing and disappearing. But that is only a minor flaw.
  The sound effects are good, and the eerie music adds much to the games mysterious atmosphere. 
 I cant say anything about the voice acting in the English version because I played the Russian 
 version.
  The interface is very easy. You use the cursor to move your character around and for different 
 actions. If the cursor becomes red when it passes over some object or location, it means that some 
 action is possible. Generally, you use the left mouse button to interact with such locations, but 
 sometimes you have to use the right mouse button for an in-depth exploration of a location. 
 
  Naturally, you have an inventory which is shown at the bottom of the screen. When you click on 
 an object in your inventory, the cursor takes the shape of that object and you can try and use 
 it either on other objects in your inventory or on the elements of the game world. When an object 
 can be used on something, it begins to glow. 
  The gameplay itself can be a bit annoying because you have to search every pixel of the screen 
 to make sure you havent missed anything  and you often have to do it multiple times! The reason 
 is that some objects or locations become active only after you have done something somewhere (talked 
 to another character, for example) . Likewise, you have to return to other characters again, and 
 again, and again, to see if any new dialogue options have appeared. This can be a bit frustrating. 
 Also, the uses of some objects are less-than-obvious (to put it mildly) , but I guess that is a 
 common curse of all adventure games. The tidbit of the game, however, are the puzzles; there are 
 quite a few of them (though not as many as I would have liked) , and they are sufficiently varied 
 and challenging without being well-nigh impossible to figure out. 
  To sum it up, Black Mirror is a game well worth your money and one of the classics of the genre.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrystlDrgn2005
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out in a dry sense of state that could deceive some new players to the game. The 
 juicy part of the game is not discovered until about the 4th or 5th plot is uncovered and the true 
 nature of the crime committed is discovered. The game would have been better if there were better 
 quality graphics and the point-click interface was a bit better. This game was not my all-time 
 favorite but after playing it for some time it slowly got better. 
  
  The sound effects in the game sound like something taken out of an old record. A mystery game needs 
 to have that sort of up-close appeal when trying to draw the gamer in to partake of its fruits.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game took me by surprise, but was recommended to me by a friend who is an Adventure nut. All 
 in all I would recommend it and think the Gamespot reviewer was far too critical.
  
  Generally my perception of the Adventure gaming archives that I have played is that they consist 
 of many great classics from the late 80's to early 90's when they were in their prime (Secret of 
 Monkey Island, Kings Quest Series, Simon the Sorceror, Lure of the Temptress etc) , followed by 
 a few great games in the mid to late 90's such as Gabriel Knight, Broken Sword, Myst and hybrids 
 like Dark Earth. Since then I have rarely come across a good adventure game. The only ones of note 
 in recent years are The Longest Journey, the last two Monkey Island games, Broken Sword Sleeping 
 Dragon, Grim Fandango and lastly Indigo Prophecy. 
  
  The reason for the drought of good adventure games (except those just mentioned) is largely due 
 to the sheer number of cheap Myst spinoffs, poorly acted FMV interactive movies and boring lackluster 
 stories inundated by uncohesive puzzles. Sure an adventure game should have decent puzzles but 
 they surely must have some significance to the story or development thereof and not act as a constant 
 barrier every step of the way. Likewise voice acting (an ever present condition of most modern 
 adventure games) should be at the very least passable.
  
  There we already have two of my five key requirements for an adventure.
  the others being Story, 
 Atmosphere and Graphics.
  
  So how does Black Mirror fare when compared to the recent top of the pack I listed. Well I have 
 mixed feelings. In some ways it is an excellent piece of work from an relatively small newcomer 
 developer from Poland and they should be commended for a stout effort, in other ways the game fails 
 on the key requirements. 
  
  Lets cover the criteria:
  
  1. Voice Acting - I shall mention this first as the Gamespot review complained about this most. 
 I personally thought that the acting was passable if a little slow paced. For the most part the 
 characters had acceptable voices. The main exception to this was the protaganist who for some reason 
 seems as though he has taken too many of those pills he carries around with him and talks as if 
 in slow motion. You do get used to this however and it does not detract from the general enjoyment 
 of the game.
  
  2. Puzzles - This game throws a good variety of puzzles, such as your typical item combinations, 
 picture jigsaws (e. g. assembling a torn letter) , sliding tiles and colour assortment (e. g. positioning 
 coloured marbles on a grid) . None of them are too taxing nor are they easy. For the most part you 
 will only be given visual clues as what to do. Most importantly the puzzles do not feel out of 
 place with the game. One slight qualm I had initially was with the game designers decision to make 
 inactive & selectable items on screen only obtainable after specific motions have been carried 
 out (that is to say once you have spoken to a specific person or done a specific task) . 
  This does involve going back and forth a few times checking every screen. Believe me you do get 
 used to this after which it becomes second nature. Thankfully the areas are not too big and so 
 careful examination will reveal all, additionally you can double click on the screen edges to get 
 to areas faster. THIS GAME IS NOT FOR THOSE WHO PREFER EASILY DETECTABLE HOTSPOTS (like in Grim 
 Fandango etc) .
  
  3. Atmosphere - This games crowning achievement. It merges together an interesting blend of medieval, 
 victorian, rural and modern settings and concepts. Much of the story delves in ancestry and the 
 past as well as current events. The feel of the game can be quite ominous at times, death literally 
 does lurk in some areas and some scenes depicted are not for the squeamish (impaled via ones eyeball 
 and decapitated heads sound nice? ... well I thought so!!) . Appropriate music plays accordingly 
 in specific areas and at other times falls deathly silent. Attention to detail on the sound effects 
 is excellent, you can even hear the different effect of the rainfall depending in which room you 
 are in. Weather varies throughout the game and gets progressively darker the further you progress. 
 Overall very little to fault here.
  
  4. Story - The story is another strongpoint for this game for the most part. It develops nicely 
 both through written documents (read out initially for you by the protagonist and thereafter overlapped 
 by the authors voice) and through conversation. Sometimes you will even get to select a negative 
 or positive behavioural response - I am not sure how much this influences the overall outcome but 
 it does help differ the mood of some conversations. The main negative aspect of the story, sadly, 
 is it's final outcome, not so much the ingame end but the cutscene itself. Without spoiling it 
 I shall simply say it does follow suit with the mood of the game, it just leaves you expecting 
 and hoping for so much more - oh well, the important thing is the game was an enjoyable ride.
 
  
  5. Graphics - This games visuals are quite stunning at times. The nice blend of moving animations 
 within static 2D scenes is done remarkably well. The light reflections, water effects and weather 
 all contribute commendably to the atmosphere. As for the character animations, they are quite fluid 
 if a little grainy and lacking detail. The only real criticism is their near zombielike pace moving 
 around. In someways it does suit the mood of the game and generally take up very little game time, 
 so no real worries there. Finally the game animations are limited but are of an acceptable quality 
 and the dream sequences certainly add to the story.
  
  Overall I can say this game is certainly worth playing for Adventure gamers and novices alike, 
 some aspects of the game are somewhat lacking and can put off the casual gamer. If you persevere 
 and accustom yourself to the game style and mechanics you can rest assured this is a diamond in 
 the rough. I would not rate it as good as my favourite recent games I listed at the beginning of 
 my review but it is a worthy contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  This is a quite ambitious game, even though poor in locaitons it is quite rich in atmosphere and 
 it's quite long too.
  
  Some puzzles are hard (especially the zodiac one, which is unsolvable unless you already know a 
 certain... order) and you can die in some parts of the game. Unfortunately the game does not let 
 you restart from the point in which ypu died, so you'll have to reload the last save so save frequently 
 you have a plenty of slots :)
  
  The characterization of the characters is not poor, but not even deep. It could have been better 
 adding profundity to an already dark atmosphere.
  
  Well, the ending, despite being quite logical, is very... unpleasant and leave some questions open. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game promises so much but delivers so little! In the right hands this could have been a fantastic 
 game, as it has a great story full of interesting twists and genuine horror. However the people 
 who made this either have no idea whatsoever or were working on a budget akin to a childs weekly 
 allowance.
  
  OK, so I'll be fair, this game has some positive points. The most significant of these is the plot. 
 I was able to pick this game up for less than 5, and having read the back of the box I couldn't 
 wait to play. The story is a dark fantasy horror and from the short overview it sounded really 
 interesting. And it was. I enjoyed solving the mystery, I was always keen to find out what would 
 happen next and some of the plot twists were genuinely shocking. The story is a sinister, brooding 
 creature, but it rewards those who persevere with the game. 
  
  Secondly, for the most part the game looks very nice. The backgrounds are detailed and believable 
 (I found the morgue really unsettling!) . The movie sequences are also attractive, though by todays 
 standards not overly memorable. The character animation is average, though this in itself is not 
 something that detracts from the game. Also the puzzles are logical and for the most part varied. 
 Almost all the actions you take are logical and realistic. Some puzzles are a little obtuse, but 
 this is to be expected with this genre of game. There are no puzzles that will completely stump 
 you.
  
  These elements come together to give a taste of what this game could have been. Sadly they are 
 not enough to hold it together.
  
  The main problem is in the script and voice acting. Clearly the games producers didn't realise 
 what a fantastic plot they had on their hands as they put together the most unrealistic wooden 
 script I've ever encountered. The characters dialogue is unbelievably stiff, unrealistic and lacks 
 emotion. The main character Samuel goes through a rough time in this game, but I found that I didn't 
 really care about him or the other characters seeing as they all lacked depth and spoke phrases 
 that you'd expect more from a robot than a human. The acting also is abysmal. I have no idea where 
 the actors got their "English" accents from. They sound completely unrealistic. 
  
  The poor voice acting and dire script give the game an almost comical feel to begin with. After 
 a few minutes when you realise that its not supposed to be funny it just becomes tiresome and ultimately 
 I was looking forward to the game ending just so I didn't have to listen to it anymore. 
  
  Not all is bad with the sound though, the ambient music is appropriate and there are some nice 
 sound effects, particularly the storm.
  
  The other key problem is the pace of the game. It is poorly balanced. The story lurches along very 
 slowly (this sensation of course enhanced by the tiring dialogue) , before speeding up rapidly at 
 the very end, thus making the ending feel rushed. The ending seems very contrived as well, a real 
 let down considering the brilliant plot. Its almost as though the writers didn't know how to end 
 the story properly. Also, with one ending (that I know of) and only one way of reaching that ending 
 the game has no replay value at all.
  
  So in all, this game should have been excellent. Visually it is appealing, it has a brilliant plot, 
 and the puzzles are good. However it is let down by a lack of care. I get the impression that it 
 was made very quickly by people who didn't put enough money or effort into it. This is a great 
 shame, as it could have been one of the best games of its genre, but because of this lack of care 
 it ends up as one of the worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of P&C (Point & Click) type of games in the past, and I still play as many 
 as I can get a hold of. This one is for some reason my favourite one todate.
  
  I think it has something to do with the whole dark gothic atmosphere that the game gives off. I 
 like that sort of thing, which is why I liked "Still Life" as well. This game feels as if ti is 
 set during the early 1900's but is set during the 1970's or 80''s I think. I mean you see the caretaker 
 mowing the lawn and the type of mower he had wasn't used back in the early 1900's. .
  
  Puzzles are hard (for me) at times as I am not too good at puzzles. Which makes you wonder why 
 I play such games likek P&C games. The reason is because the storyline and atmosphere of most of 
 them pulls you in and takes you to the world on display. And speaking of which, I wished I were 
 there helping Samuel Gordon solve the mystery :) , the game gives you a sort of who done it feel 
 to it and it has the vibe of the old Peter Cushing Hammer Horror movies to it as well.
  
  The music is top notch stuff, it does the job it is meant to do and makes certain areas you are 
 in feel creepy. Anyway the game I think has to be played for the atmosphere to totally be explained 
 as putting it into words is kind of hard to do. Play it at night only, lights out, never during 
 daylight hours. And wear headphones as well to add to the whole experiance.
  
  The game has some really nice weather effects too, when it rains it really is raining. The scenery 
 of every area you go into as some really nice details as well. Mineshafts, Cemetery's, a Sanitarium, 
 villages, etc. All are well detailed.
  
  If you like this type of game and can pick it up, cheap or not, you should go for it. Dont expect 
 it to be flawless as it isn't. The only really big flaw in it is that when you speak to characters 
 they take a second or two to react to you. That isn't a fun killer, not to me anyway, also some 
 speak of the acting in it, the dialogue as such. It was translated from a foreign language to english, 
 maybe not 100% perfect but I dont have any complaints on it. It is totally understandable so that's 
 all I look for with such things as language.
  
  This game took me 8 months of playing to finish it, why did it take so long?. Well because I enjoyed 
 it that much, I didn't want it to end. I kept putting it off when I had the notion to play it. 
 But eventualy I just sat and finished the game. I was gutted when it ended as I totally enjoyed 
 it.
  
  The Black Mirror is a worthy title to add to your point and click collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Adventure with very nice drawing locations over 150 in game.
  
  best in game !!!! 5 hours of spoken word.
  
  Diction of characters turn you in 19 century the 
 most cultural age in civilization of human race.
  
  After many years, our hero, the nobleman Samuel Gordon, returns to his dominion in England where 
 he had spent most of his life. His memories of long passed events prevented him from returning 
 here for long twelve years and that is why he had long ago given up all his property in the manor 
 belonging to his ancestors. He was firmly hoping that he would never again have to come back to 
 the place that would bring back dark images of the past to his memory and that would exacerbate 
 his soul with a burning knife of guilt. He would probably spend the rest of his life as far as 
 possible from the Black Mirror manor if it had not been for his fate that once and for all diverted 
 his future from the path of oblivion...
  
  Story has twisting and most unexpected finish.
  You must play this game. I love this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
