-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Beast Within: A Gabriel Knight Mystery
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/beastwithinagabrielkm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 9.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 420 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Interactive Movie
Date:     Dec 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is well-executed, visceral, mentally exhausting, and exciting entertainment. 

 This is the best interactive, live-action video adventure game to date. Everything about it is first 
 rate. The script weaves werewolf mythology and Bavarian history with sexual intrigue and businessmen's 
 quests for their primal roots. The puzzles and problems are challenging and cleverly integrated 
 into the plot, and there is an ever-present sense of danger and anxiety. This is well-executed, 
 visceral, mentally exhausting, and exciting entertainment.  

 You control two characters operating in concurrent and parallel courses. Gabriel Knight is the seemingly 
 less-than-bright but smart-as-a-fox mystery writer and bookstore owner; Grace Nakimura is his less-than-trusting 
 assistant. Knight has inherited a castle and the title of Schattenjaeger (a German word invented 
 by the game's writer, which means shadow hunter) that comes with it. Local villagers implore him 
 to investigate the mysterious death of a little girl caused, they believe, by a werewolf. 
 Knight and Nakimura's search for clues takes them to Munich, King Ludwig's famous Neuschwanstein 
 castle and Bavaria's forested countryside. They encounter real-life drama, problem solving and 
 detective work.   

 In crafting this title, author Jane Jensen did some serious investigating and research of her own. 
 Her knowledge and love of things Bavarian comes through brilliantly as the game's climax approaches. 
 Knight and Nakimura's efforts lead them to uncover the "truth" about King Ludwig's mysterious death, 
 discover the "lost" Wagner opera, and come face-to-face with a werewolf in the maze-like cellar 
 of the opera house.  

 The scope of this game is immense, ranging from the multitude of photo-realistic locations and superb 
 actors, to the excellent Wagnerian music and operatic performances. This is what interactive entertainment 
 is all about. The first Gabriel Knight adventure suffered from tedious clue-gathering and arduous 
 gameplay but enjoyed reasonable popularity nevertheless. This second installment is light years 
 beyond the first and should be on every adventurer's PC.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  When producers launch a game, they are aiming for perfection. They always try to make 'their' gaming 
 experience far better than the competition. Gabriel Knight: Sins of the Fathers did that in 1993. 
 It was a well made, intelligent and thrilling game, focused on more sinister storylines compared 
 to the main adventure genre at the time. When a game that good is released, expectations for the 
 sequel can't help but rise. 
  
  However, few games 'rise to the challenge'. Few are the expansions better than the first games, 
 few are the sequels that actually add anything to the original title. 'The Beast Within: A Gabriel 
 Knight Mystery' is one of those rare exceptions: a sequel that feels part of the first game. The 
 same characters are there, the brilliant storyline is there, the downright amazing attention to 
 details is there. If you have the winning formula, named Jane Jensen, you'd have to be really incompetent 
 to let a game flunk.
  
  The first game asked for more... You see yourself as Schattenjgger, you know the immensely charismatic 
 Gabriel Knight will fight against darkness all across the globe, you get the idea there's something 
 more to come to the Gabe-Grace equation. The game asked, Jensen complied.
  
  The colorful feeling of New Orleans has been replaced by the cold ruthlessness of the Bavarian 
 woodlands. Rittersberg - a small part in the first game - is the new scenario, along with Munich, 
 and a handful of German castles and churches. The 'move to europe' helps the game's atmosphere. 
 Ancient evils lurk in the woods, and while you had voodoo cultists to deal with in the first game, 
 werewolfs now prey on the local villagers, the latest victim being the child of a nearby peasant.
 
  
  Do not, for a moment, think that the introduction of such villain is done without care and elaborate 
 background. The murdered child's parents seek the famous Schattenjgger to find and 'cleanse' the 
 girl's killer, a huge wolf. Gabriel, reluctantly, agrees to help, leading him to a fantastic tale 
 involving a local hunting club, Ludwig II - King of Bavaria - and a lost Richard Wagner opera, 
 all done with all the care in the world, so that each puzzle, each dialogue, feels like a line 
 within a huge tapestry.
  
  The graphics are done in 'Full Motion Video', which can help or hurt you at times of finding items. 
 It's harder to find an item (hint  duck tape, chap 6) when it ALWAYS seems part of the background. 
 Still, the rich environments more than make up for this small glitch, the trip through the many 
 castles in the game being almost as detailed as a real life tour. The Wagner museum, the Rittersberg 
 castle, the town's cathedral... All so richly designed that at times you can just lay back and 
 tour the scenery.
  
  The characters and their real life actors are beautifully designed, this being one of the few games 
 that no dialogue feels untrue or badly rehearsed. The casting director deserves huge applauses 
 for this. The characters' voices are either awkwardly speaking English through thick German accents, 
 or speaking German smoothly (as much as I can identify, not speaking German myself) . The overall 
 sound effects are just brilliant. The classical music fitting well with the 'ancient evil' storyline, 
 complete with a beautiful opera interlude near the end of the game.
  
  The point and click interface was simplified, the take\look\operate\open\etc mouse cursor present 
 on the first game was replaced with a dagger-shaped one, something that helps on the few 'life-threatening' 
 scenes (can't tell you how much I hated dying again and again for taking too long to switch to 
 walk after the using the snake rod in the first game) .
  
  You can truly find few enough flaws within 'The Beast Within'. So little, in fact, that you can't 
 possibly take them into consideration, weighting up all the positives. It's a remarkably pleasing 
 gaming experience, so much that to this day it remains unchallenged.
  
  The Beast Within: A Gabriel Knight Mystery is quite simply the best Adventure game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Gabriel now understand some things of the Great 
  burden that bestowed upon him, so he tries to learn 
  how to use that against all the dark forces 
 that threaten this 
  world, that he try to protect :D
  
  This time after he finish his first great adventure 
  and have many sad memories but also and 
 wins
  he is now ready to confront one of the most horryfic enemies
  of nature ... werewolves .... 
  
  So our adventure this time travel us to Germany, 
  the 
 power this time in this game is that is not cartoon style 
  anymore but Cinematic !!!
  
  That makes it more real and more fantastic, for example one of the 
  most nice cinematics is 
 the dream of Grace about Wolves ... :D
  
  You must play it !!! 
  
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gabriel knight 2: The beast within was my favourite game, this time the game was too expensive 
 for a 16 year old boy like me, but still, i never regret it. What can i say.... movie theme, living 
 actors, horror atmosphere, p&amp; c adventure, orkestral music exlusive to the game, JANE JENSEN, 
 great storyline... locations in old european core... Germany... it was all over me... i skipped school 
 to play it... all after i saw sierra trailer while playing phantasmagoria. Yes, game worked in DOS, 
 win95 max 640X480, but still looking awesome. Feel just like watching the movie, but also making 
 changes. I highly recommend this game for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanedajjj5757
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  i am a big fan of the Gabriel Knight series and even played Gabriel Knight: Sins of the Fathers. 
 it was a riveting and yet shock gaming experience. playing The Beast Within, i did not know what 
 to expect, for i was still unaware of what the Gabriel Knight game formula consisted of. however, 
 the user interface and the way you acquired clues and talked to people, the more you got sucked 
 into the game while progressing further into it. also, the in game cinematics were derived from 
 live action and were much more realistic, which was a huge step up from the previous game. and 
 i wont deny that the game kept me guessing al the way until the climax of the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doors69
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  have you ever found yourself sitting in front of your pc, looking at all the games you have and 
 said: damn, i have nothing to do, nothing to play! 
  probably never but you had that feeling, don't lie.
  GK2 is the perfect game for you, it's the 
 only game i can play over and over and still enjoy it, think about it, you have AMAZING plot line 
 with mystery and historical stuff, the whole game is basicly a film, a real one and you control 
 it, the music is outstanding (hay, those guys actuely wrote an opera for this game) and in those 
 chase parts with the wolf, this close to a major heart attack.
  
  GK2 is one of those games that will go down in history as one of the top, everybody saw it, tried 
 it, loved it or hate it ( i can't see why, really) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impulse1195
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The title says it all, if you were one of the select few who were lucky enough to experience the 
 Gabriel Knight phenomenon with Sins of the Fathers theres no question that you should play this 
 game.
  
  Everyones favorite Shadow Hunter returns to Schloss Ritter in Germany to battle werewolves in this 
 second installment of the series. This time around, the characters are actual actors, using FMV 
 footage instead of graphics! At the time, this was considered immensely superior to traditional 
 graphical representation, but as time went on we found that to not be so true. Its hard to say 
 why, but for starters it means that the voice actors you grew to love from the first game are gone, 
 since the actors need only speak with their own voice. And secondly it detracts a little bit from 
 an imaginative standpoint... most gamers feel that if they want to watch a movie they'll go to 
 their television, not their computer. I'm not sure if I would be that harsh on this game, but those 
 things definately hold true.
  
  While the game itself is much more grand in presentation than the original, it seems to lack that 
 extra spark Sins of the Fathers possessed. The story IS very good, and to their credit the acting 
 is good as well. However you may find yourself feeling like some part of the original game didnt 
 translate over into the sequal... just the mood in general, the shadowy Gabriel Knight atmosphere 
 feels altered. I think this is mainly because of the setting. The game takes place in Germany, 
 so already this takes you into new territory. New Orleans has so much rich history that the first 
 game just made it that much more mystical to me, and it just felt more true to what the world (as 
 we know it) was like. Except for the obvious fictitious elements of course.
  
  One definate good thing about Gabriel Knight 2 however, is they take the time to give you a lot 
 of back story and history on how the Ritters (Knights) came to be, and also just elaborated much 
 more deeply on the type of life the Schattenjagers live. This is probably the biggest hook for 
 me, as I am a big fan of this series.
  
  You'll remember this game as well, but probably not on as deep a level as Sins of the Fathers . 
 In my opinion this is the 2nd best of the series, and truly.. if your a fan also, the simple fact 
 that this continues the story of Gabriel Knight should be enough to hold your attention anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'm glad that FMV adventures are deeply buried in the past. But this one was nice. Actors did a 
 good job, and they contributed to add atmosphere and descriptive power to the game. The interaction/integration 
 with the backgrounds was a bit primitive, but acceptable.
  
  The story about lycanthropes seems trite. True that it is well narrated and rich of details and 
 intertwining events, but this does not prevent you to feel like having a deja vu.
  
  Sometimes you'll have the feeling you've missed something while the sotry unravels. But it is limited 
 and partly depending on the fact that many facts and people come into play, and it is not always 
 easy to keep track of everything.
  
  In this episode you'll impersonate both Gabriel and Grace (in different times) . I was a bit skeptical 
 about this duality, but it works fine.
  
  Puzzles are mostly not difficult, but with some you'll have hard time, and some others will piss 
 you off... (timed actions, death behind the corner, and stuff like that) . As for the predecessor 
 (GK: Sins of the father) , this game also suffers from the Sierra-syndrome : do something illogical, 
 or you do not suspect you can do, to unlock the situation. For me this is a big letdown.
  
  Final note: I was almost shocked about the idiocy of the last puzzle (the basement one) . WTF is 
 that supposed to be?! The freaking Pacman?! Whatever... the game ends, pain's over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that I actually bought the actual imported box with my own money when it first 
 came out :) 
  
  The Best FMV adventure game that ever came out. With engaging plots (if you are into this genre) , 
 professional actors, great sountrack including a wagnerian opera, and immersive historic background 
 make this game a masterpiece.
  
  Sequal of the cult hit Gabriel Knights: Sins of the fathers. The story continue after Gabriel relocated 
 to his inherited castle in Germany while Grace maning the shop in New Orleans. A group of villagers 
 comes to the castle asking for the 'Shadow Hunter' to help them rid of the werewolf which has kill 
 a young girl in their village.
  
  The quest will take you, Gabriel and Grace through many parts of Germany and Bavaria, visit the 
 famous castle that inspired the Disneyland's castle, the Black Madonna of Altotting and proding 
 into the myth of King Ludwig II of Bavaria.
  
  It is the game you need to have if you considered yourself an Adventure gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_grunge_fan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  The Beast Within: A Gabriel Knight Mystery is a really excellent game which puts you in control 
 of Gabiel Knight, who else. If i say anything about the story I think it will spoil the game so 
 go play it to find out more, but the game is mainly based around Germany, Wolves and a Woman, sound 
 amazing yet? no?
  
  The Beast Within is unlike any other usual point and click adventure games as it uses real life 
 visuals for the game, this means the characters are all human, the backgrounds are all real life, 
 interacting with something in the game will usually break into a real life movie which makes the 
 game somewhat interesting to play. This game has a grand total of 6 discs making the game a really 
 lengthy game which will keep you entertained for ages, also there is a score system, to get points 
 you must figure puzzles out and generally do a useful task. The Beast Within hits you with tons 
 of puzzles to figure out which at times can be frustrating but when you manage to complete them, 
 its a wonderful feeling.
  
  The Beast Within is easily the best in the series, any point and click fan out there should buy 
 it although now it is kinda hard to get hold off. Classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountGrafOrlok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time I got my hands on this game. And I owe it to my
  step-dad, cause the game change my total view on PC-games in general.
  
  Since the game came 
 out in 1995 and I was around 11 (but got it around
  the age of 13) it then told me alot of things that I did not think was possible 
  to capture 
 on CD-ROM (I played a lot of games on console but was not
  able to try games on the computer back then.... since it was so expensive
  to buy one. And yeah, 
 was well aware of new groundbreaking games on PC
  back then)
  
  Mid 90's was more or less the golden-age of FMV-based adventure
  game and it's sad that it's 
 excluded since it's so expensive to make.
  But I grew up under that period so for me it was and still is a great period of
  my life. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
