-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thechroniclesofnarnia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 15 varied levels require you to use the unique abilities of each sibling.
 Tons of footage from the actual movie to set each scene.
 Lots of abilities to purchase for each of the children, including special tandem abilities.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fixed camera angle can be annoying.
 Some of the collection tasks feel completely tacked on.
 Lame artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 361 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Buena Vista Games
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 14, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This console and PC trip through the Wardrobe is a mostly run-of-the-mill action adventure that 
 might hold some measure of appeal to fans of the film, but not so much anyone else. 

  The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe is a video game based on the just-released 
 film of the same name, which is, in turn, based on the classic book series from C. S. Lewis. The 
 game is a basic fantasy adventure with plenty of puzzle-solving and some light combat. It closely 
 follows the events of the movie and actually uses quite a bit of footage from it to set up and 
 close each stage of the game. As a result, you might not want to play this game until after you've 
 seen the film, lest you run the risk of spoiling the plot. Even if you haven't seen the movie or 
 read the books, you'll still be able to appreciate some of the interesting and varied levels, each 
 of which present unique challenges that require you to utilize the special abilities of each of 
 the four playable characters. This isn't a basic hack-and-slash platformer, as it actually requires 
 a bit of critical thinking, which is a nice change of pace from the usual game based on a movie 
 license. That said, there are still plenty of better, family-friendly, action adventure games available, 
 and unless you find the Narnia license to be especially appealing, there's no reason to go too 
 far out of your way to play it.  

          Oh great, another game based on a family film...     

  If you're interested in the 
 game, then you're probably already familiar with the basic storyline. The Chronicles of Narnia: 
 The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe is based on the Disney movie of the same name. The game follows 
 the events of the movie and actually uses quite a bit of footage from it to set up and close each 
 stage. Even if you haven't seen the movie, it doesn't take long to get the gist of what's going 
 on. You can play as any of the four Penvensie siblings: Peter, the older brother; Susan, the older 
 sister; Edmund, the younger brother; and Lucy, the younger sister. One day, while playing hide 
 and seek, young Lucy wanders into a magical wardrobe that transports her to the fantasyland of 
 Narnia. Eventually, all of the children end up in Narnia, where they embark on an epic adventure 
 to save the world from the evil White Witch. The story is filled with your basic fantasy standbys 
 like ogres, Minotaurs, dwarves, and talking animals.  

  There are 15 levels in the game, although some are fairly small. For example, one entire level 
 is a boss fight. Depending on which level you're playing, you'll be able to play as at least two 
 of the four children, although some levels require you to use all four. This is because each character 
 has special moves and abilities that are required to overcome certain obstacles. Peter is the strongest 
 of the bunch, so you can use him for fighting off enemies or breaking through barriers. Susan is 
 your ranged attacker, and she can throw snowballs and tennis balls, as well as use a bow and arrow. 
 Edmund is a decent melee fighter, but he's also light and athletic enough that he can climb trees 
 or posts and walk on delicate surfaces like thin ice or weakened floorboards. Lucy is small, so 
 she can crawl through small passages to reach areas that the other children can't. Lucy can also 
 charm animals and use them to attack, and she can use a first-aid skill to heal all the children. 

          But wait, this one is actually pretty decent.     

  You can switch between the characters at any time with a press of a button, and you'll often have 
 to do so to complete various challenges. In one boss fight you'll have to attack the boss with 
 Peter, then use Lucy to climb on the boss' back to distract it, and then have Susan take out the 
 dwarven archers that attempt to shoot Lucy off the boss' back. It sounds complicated, but once 
 you figure out what you have to do in a given situation, it's fairly easy to manage all of the 
 characters.  

  There are also tandem abilities that require two of the children to team up. When you move close 
 to a character you can press a button to initiate a cooperative attack. You can team up with Susan 
 and Lucy to slide Lucy through breakable barriers or to fire a volley of flaming arrows into the 
 air. Also, Peter can grab Edmund and swing him around to inflict radial damage or to break down 
 tough barriers. There are multiple different cooperative attacks for each combination of characters, 
 although most of the challenges don't require you to use cooperative attacks at all.     

  The biggest problem with this multiple-character system is that the artificial intelligence is 
 completely useless. You can only control one character at a time, so there's always at least one 
 character being controlled by the AI. Most of the time, the characters just follow you around and 
 don't do anything helpful. It's frustrating when you're trying to get a shot off with Susan, only 
 to have a bunch of enemies attack you while the other children stand there doing nothing. Likewise, 
 the AI doesn't know how to use any of the characters' special abilities. It would be extremely 
 helpful if Lucy could automatically use her first-aid ability when a character is about to die, 
 rather than have to switch characters each time you need to use that skill.  

          If you can get past the occasionally frustrating camera angles and the brain-dead AI, you'll 
 have some fun with this game.     

  When you aren't fighting enemies or solving puzzles, you'll spend a lot of time collecting coins, 
 statues, and bonus items. Coins can be used to purchase new abilities and upgrades for each of 
 the characters. You can buy health upgrades, special moves, and cooperative attacks at any time, 
 although some abilities only become available later in the game. You can unlock bonuses like movie 
 clips by collecting other bonus items and statues. All this collecting feels tacked on here, though, 
 and at times it just makes the game feel awkward. In an early level you can get coins by hitting 
 pieces of furniture, so you have to run around the house beating the crap out of chests of drawers 
 and end tables, which just seems ridiculous.  

  The game does a decent job of emulating the overall presentation of the movie. The characters are 
 all modeled after the actors from the movie, and although they look a bit plastic, they are fairly 
 detailed and animate well when attacking. We saw a bit of slowdown in a couple of areas, but it 
 isn't sustained or pronounced enough to be much of a problem. The biggest visual problem is the 
 fixed camera angles. You don't have any control of the camera, which can be really frustrating 
 when you're trying to see what's going on around you. The sound is about average. The soundtrack 
 seems like it's lifted directly from the film, and it works well in the game. The sound effects 
 are pretty weak and are repeated so often that you'll quickly get sick of them, especially some 
 of the more annoying screeching and grunting noises that enemies make as they attack.  

          Narnia does a good job of emulating the movie -- just beware of potential spoilers.     

 
  The three console versions look about the same, although the Xbox version is slightly sharper 
 than the other two. The game looks the best on the PC if you have the hardware to max out the resolution, 
 although some of the lighting effects make the characters look even more like shiny, plastic dolls 
 than they do in the other versions. The controls are simple and easy to pick up on all three versions, 
 so it's just a matter of your preference there. The PC supports a gamepad, which is really the 
 only way to play this game, because the default keyboard controls are rather awkward.  

  If you like the movie and the book, you'll probably enjoy The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The 
 Witch, and The Wardrobe game for the five or six hours that it manages to stay entertaining. And 
 if you have a friend or sibling that wants to play, he or she can simply pick up a controller and 
 jump in at any time for some two-player cooperative action. The best thing that can be said about 
 the game is that it makes good use of the license, and it feels like the developer actually put 
 some thought into the design, rather than simply taking the characters from the movie and slapping 
 them into a basic button masher. On the other hand, if you don't care one way or another about 
 the license, you won't find anything here that hasn't already been done better in plenty of other 
 games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: msp19
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:58 am PT
Review:  Okay, here we go. This game is based on the movies of Narnia. That is easy to say, and Bu eno vista 
 (can't type the good name without getting a spell error) games has tried to make a game based on 
 this movies. What is the result? 
  Here's my opinion. Lets first say that i beat this game today, after some very frustrating moments. 
 This was not because of camera issues, or bad AI, no. This game is way damn hard some times.
  
  First, you start at your home in London. No big deal, as it say so. Indeed, you must search 
 for your partners, or lets say, brothers and sisters, which will aid you through the rest of the 
 game. After that, your mom takes you to a shelter, and then a cut scene is shown where you've been 
 set on a train, to a disgusting aunt. 
  
  Okay, enough spoilers now. Lets focus on the main thing.
  After that first intro level, you can 
 select any level you wish, but, as always with level select games, you can only join, if you complete 
 the previous one, or if you beat the game. But the nice thing is, that every level shows you a 
 short cut scene of whats happening. Maybe not nice to you all, but for me, this was handy.
  
  After rushing through the first easy levels ( don't forget to attack every single object you 
 see, like tables, chairs, harnesses, and so forth) the game gets interesting for a novice player. 
 It's a bit like a combination of an adventure, and an action game for kids. Kill some wolves, hide 
 for your aunt, kill some bats, and finally, or should i say, when you start, you discover the wardrobe 
 after you have started a hide and seek game. When in Narnia, you discover that only Lucy is there, 
 but after a while, Edmund is joining her there. But im typing a bit spoilers again, so i won't 
 do that for now.
  
  Rushing through the levels as i say, i came to the first boss. This was not that hard, but it was 
 confusing a bit. But, believe me, this was only the beginning.
  After that boss-fight, it becomes a lot more difficult. Even a few levels later, i began shouting 
 at my screen, and throwing some things through my room, because it was way damn hard. But, after 
 getting on again, and getting on again, and getting on again, and many times dying, i came to the 
 last boss, which was in my opinion not the most difficult boss, but the most frustrating one, which 
 makes it difficult. She (I wont say more) can only be hit, by a series of combo's. Lucky was it 
 that the same pattern must repeat 3 times. Thank heaven for that. But as i say, to get at this 
 point. You must be a die hard gamer, and a fan of hack and slash to get there. And even then, its 
 frustrating.
  Finally after a hour or 11, i beat the game. I've played non stop.
  
  Okay, here are some other things. The game is made to be played by one or two players at the same 
 time, you can switch between characters and this is even an essential point. In the meantime that 
 you play levels, you must collect shields, and statues, and especially for the statues, they are 
 essential. Really!
  There is also an opportunity to collect coins, which can be traded to get more skills. All with 
 all is this nicely done, and you wont get bad things for ramming on your keyboard and mouse, and 
 shouting at everything, cause there is a reward for 100% completion (look at the bottom of the 
 wardrobe) .
  
  Conclusion is that the game is good, it follows the story pretty well, the dialogue is good again. 
 The cut scenes are from the real film, and there is a reward system. But, at sometimes the game 
 is WAY, WAY damn hard. Not nice. But overall, good!
  
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 7/10
  Voice acting 10/10
  Game play 8/10
  Difficulty 5/10
  Storyline 9/10
  
  And again, i say 
 that it's a good game, but too hard at some points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piratesmvp
Rating: 2
Date: May 21, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been and should have been better. It didn't take me long to realize problems. 
 One of the main issues I have with it is the bad battle engine. The battle design is very bad, 
 and it reminds me of black label game's Fellowship of the Ring (which was a flop) . It takes forever 
 to kills someone, and it is also hard to hit an enemy. There are only two ways to attack: Normal 
 Attack and Hard Attack (forgive me if I have the terms wrong) , and this provides a limited gaming 
 experience. In comparison, the Lord of the Rings features Normal Attack, Fierce Attack, Killing 
 Move, Physical Attack, to name a few. Further, the other character just stand around during battles 
 and don't do a thing to help you. In this modern day of age, they could have done better. Also, 
 the graphics look very unreal. They look like toy dolls, as the official review here said, and 
 it is just not realistic by any means. In the end, my general impression of this game is that they 
 put very little time into assembling it. If you're really serious about getting the game, please 
 download the demo or borrow it from a friend to see if you really want to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajabinks123
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Well hello i decided to write a review about this game, so bear with me.
  First off let me tell you that i read all of the narnia books years ago, and last year saw the 
 movie narnia, the lion the witch and the wardrobe.
  So being a fan i got the game and played it.
  Its not the longest game ever made granted, but 
 it is great fun, it uses the same game engine as the popular lord of the rings return of the king 
 video game.
  Once you complete the game on your own, i would suggest you invite a friend over and play the whole 
 thing over with him/her.
  
  The game lets you take control of Peter, Edmund, Susan, &amp; Lucy.
  Peter and Edmund are my 
 favorite's and they are the most powerful.
  While Susan has a long range bow attack, and lucy is good for lots of things,
  like healing teamates, 
 taming enemys for a short amount of time and so on.
  
  You can play many missions some are hard and some are not.
  The game pretty much follows the 
 movie, so i dont need to tell you what missions are involved.
  
  Over all its a great game thats fun, i'll let you decide if you want to buy it or not :-)
  
 
  Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Yeah, that's right. Just forget it and try something else.
  It's very short, it's very much like the 99999 harry potter games, the camera breaks your nerves, 
 the whole gameplay sucks and it's AWFULLY borring!!!
  Try another game, it's a very bad way to waste your money (not that there are good ways to waste 
 your money) .
  
  The only good things are that it's just like the story (most of the time) and it has pretty nice 
 graphics.
  Other than that it really sucks!
  
  Just stay away from it!!! \unless you'r only interested in low value action games, or you're a 
 huge fan of the game, it's not worth your monay and it defenatly doesn't worth the time to bother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalasgalefist
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 11, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Now this game has great graphics don't get me wrong, but I've seen better games at Newgrounds. Now 
 a cool feature to Crhonicles of Narnia is the movie clip game graphic switch off. The game itself 
 follows the storyline of the movie, but from what i've seen one level is very annoying. You go 
 and kill some wolves, then go and rescue one of the beavers, you then go and kill some goblins, 
 then you go back to kill sme more wolves, then you go and rescue the beaver again and of course 
 you then go back to kill some more goblins, and maybe just maybe you can proceed to the next level. But, 
 in the end, it's just a game about children killing wildlife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHomestarmy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Chronicles of Narnia so i just had to but this game, Ive only been playing 
 for 2 days and have nearly finnished it, bit i find it very addictive. Overall the graphics are 
 good, especially the river rapid sequence, The game flows very well using movie footage and cut 
 scenes so you know exactly where you are in relation to the film/ book. During gameplay you control 
 all 4 children in varying combinations, each have there own unique abilties which can be upgraded 
 throughout the game, these can also be used in conjunction for more powerful attacks or for breaking 
 down obstacles etc. The gameplay is varied, as this is not just a hack n slash game, there are 
 action levels but there are more puzzle levels where you have to use the childrens abilities to 
 progress, such as finding pathways over ice without falling in and stealthily moving through a 
 narnian camp trying not to be seen. 
  
  On the whole this game is very enjoyable although some are the camera angles are anoying at times, 
 and the Ai is in some parts useless, you could be controlling one child while the rest bascially 
 just stand there getting hit. but it think the overall gameplay and graphics make up for this. 
 There are also alot of bonus material that is unlocked during the game such as a movie of the making 
 of the game, the 4 child actors recording there dialoge and bonus levels. 
  
  A game worth playing and a must for any Narnia fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roencaco
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is a great recreartions of the movie with plus, many task to do to complete what you 
 see on the movie. Even if you are one of the few than did not saw it, playing the game you can 
 enjoy the movie.
  
  Of course, the fixed Angle is a limitation, some time when you switch between rooms you get lost 
 running around without any orientation even going back to the same room you exit. But with time 
 you will figure how to play without any problem.
  
  Regarding Artificial intelligence, this is easy, but remember this suppose to be like the movie, 
 4 childrens completing basic task to help Narnia to be free, you can not expect a real hard enemy 
 otherwise will be another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kangwoolee
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I hate this game wat the hell is it. Camera sucks. Characters sucks. Gameplay sucks. Graphics suck. 
 They don't even move their lips for christs sake when they talk. I hated it so much because the 
 camera was messed up i broke it just to relieve my anger. I mean just looking at ot reminds me 
 of this cheap made game. Their powers or so called powers are worthless I mean they have seriuos 
 problems, one climbs POLES, one has anger problem, and one's a midget. YIPPEE a game that has no 
 replay value AND no reason to beat it. Get Spider Man 2, Hulk Massive destrution I think, or get 
 LOTR if you need to find a movie that actually is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marjo498
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  The game of Narnia should be fun for players as anything, the consumer should have the ability 
 of changing difficulty levels from easy to a very hard for the guy who program it. In addition 
 it should have clues of what the objectives are and hints during the game to gide the kids or adults 
 who play through the Narnia adventure... It shall be an adventure, but instead is like hell... 
 It is no doubt that most people will be confused in many levels and that each of them will become 
 even harder, making you feel bad as you continue... I wish the creators of a sequel think about 
 the user, as for me i would not recomend buying a game like this for children since there is no 
 fun in not acomplishing what is not understood. Please forgive me if harsh but the designers should 
 learn from this mistake and make it better next time or send a patch or you will lose your potential 
 customers for the next movie game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Very good combination of harry potter series and lemony snickets interface gaming .
  Four different characters with unique skills , littlerpg genre elements and arcade platform games 
 collecting coins and armours and extras from the movie.
  Spectacular graphics on snow levels. Very good rendering of objects and possibility of changing 
 resolution advance this game above harry potter money-making series. (I don't mean that HP is not 
 good by that)
  Beautiful music all the time can put Us in Fantasy World.
  Maybe is short but you can run again and collect all bonuses.
  Little dificult to play cause 
 is made primary for consoles and on keyboard is dificult to copy comands but ok.
  Must play this game cause it's better then Harry Potter goblet of fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonds
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is a team based hack and slash sort of thing. You have to use the four siblings' different 
 abilities to move around the levels. The fighting it (like I said) , hack and slash. You get coins 
 in various ways, and you use those to buy new combos and abilities. It is not a super hard game, 
 but I found it to be rather fun still. it reminds me of the Return of the King game by EA. I would 
 recomend it mostly for younger people who have older siblings, because the older ones will like 
 it, but they will not want to admit to owning it. I guess that is all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  What's at the back of your wardrobe? Maybe a few old clothes and toys, but certainly not a world 
 of enchantment and mystery. That's what Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy find in theirs and it's not 
 too long before the boring world they thought that they knew changes forever. 
  
  It's the middle of World War II and British cities are thought too dangerous for children. So the 
 Pevensie children are sent to live in the countryside. They arrive at the stately home of an elderly 
 professor and are looked after by his nasty maid, Mrs Macready. During a game of hide and seek 
 they discover Narnia. 
  
  As soon as you enter the new world you find tasks to complete and fictional animals to fight off. 
 There are over seventy different creatures including Ogres and Minotaurs. No need to be scared 
 though, because they can all be taken care of with a fine selection of weapons. You can alternate 
 between the four characters at any point of the game and it is important to do this as each of 
 them have different strengths. There is also an option for a friend to join the crusade in the 
 two-player mode. This game has lots of things to unlock so hit everything in sight because each 
 one gives players more attributes. It is also important to collect coins because they can be used 
 to buy special powers. 
  
  The game is graphically beautiful, but it takes a long time to load each level. There are excerpts 
 from the movie which do enhance the gameplay and Narnia is a massive place to explore. It's really 
 fun to wander around although tasks can be a little tricky. This would be a great game even if 
 it had nothing to do with a film. One thing's for sure, you'll never look at your wardrobe the 
 same again after playing this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegade300
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  With the upcoming release of the first movie in the Narnia series, Buena Vista games and developer 
 Traveller's Tales have been hard at work converting the experience into video game form. As expected, 
 the game follows the events of The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe closely, starting with the 
 children's discovery of the mysterious closet and progressing quickly into a tale of an epic battle 
 between good and evil. 
  
  Most video games adapted from movies are more marketing ploys than fully realized games, created 
 as part of the merchandising package for fans to spend more of their money. Though The Chronicles 
 of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe is not without its faults, it is one of the rare 
 exceptions to this rule. Developed by Traveller's Tales and released by Buena Vista Games, Narnia 
 is an action-adventure title designed with a youthful audience in mind.
  
  Like its source material, Narnia follows the exploits of four siblings who escape the Nazi blitzkrieg 
 and take refuge in the country estate of an aged professor. During a game of hide and seek, Lucy, 
 the youngest girl, stows away in large armoire and inadvertently stumbles into a mystical land 
 populated by mythical beasts. Fulfilling a prophecy that the sons and daughters of Eve will emancipate 
 the creatures of Narnia from the tyranny and perpetual winter imposed on the land by Jadis, an 
 evil White Witch, the Pevensie children escape one war only to be at the center of another. Together 
 they face unimaginable odds and scary monsters in their quest to reinstate the rightful ruler Aslan, 
 a majestic and eloquent Lion, and win the decisive battle between good and evil.
  
  Interspersed with cut-scenes directly from the movie, players need to utilize the skills of all 
 four children to traverse 15 levels of dangerous terrain and to survive harrowing skirmishes. Each 
 child has their own unique abilities and fighting styles: Peter, the eldest, is a strong melee 
 fighter; Susan, the eldest daughter, is a projectile maven; Edmund, younger brother, is a weaker 
 master of arms, with a natural agility that allows him to reach areas inaccessible to his older 
 siblings; and Lucy, the youngest, is the crew's medic with the ability to charm and ride opponents. 
 Promoting teamwork, each character can link with another to perform more devastating attacks or 
 to get past obstacles blocking their path. As players progress, upgradeable combo attacks become 
 available to help the children best greater foes, like Ogres and Minotaurs. Though the team-up 
 function is not without its flaws, the wide array of solo and cooperative maneuvers diversifies 
 the combat and mastery of these skills are indispensable for completing latter stages.
  
  Even though the game is encumbered by unresponsive controls, the game-play also suffers from camera 
 hang-ups and the inability to lock-on opponents during melee combat. Each level has an ever-increasing 
 opposition force consisting of ravenous wolves, angry dwarves, aggressive ghouls, and other fairy-tale 
 baddies. Boss battles require players to utilize the unique abilities of each character and prove 
 rather difficult for a kid-oriented game.
  
  With beautiful texturing, decent voice-acting and similar likenesses of the original cast, Narnia 
 makes good use of its source material and will prove rather satisfying for fans of the film. There 
 is a lot of questing over the tightly laid out levels as the game does a fine job mixing action 
 with equal parts of adventure. Though the offerings are a tad anemic for hardcore action-adventure 
 aficionados, this game is great for children and teens that seek to save the day but find their 
 efforts ineffectual in a grown-up world.
  
  The Chronicles of Narnia: The 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -0p3rat0r-
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  why is it that everytime a hyped movie comes around a game should appear as well?
  the hype from the movie lasts only a few days after one has seen it. why play the game? i can't 
 name it but there is this game company that pulls a new mask over the same game engine over and 
 over again. All they do is change the models a bit and change some names with the mission/quest 
 generator.
  
  i don't play games like those
  
  fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill 
 fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill 
 fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill 
 fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill fill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hepburn22
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Chronicles of Narnia so i just had to but this game, Ive only been playing 
 for 2 days and have nearly finnished it, bit i find it very addictive. Overall the graphics are 
 good, especially the river rapid sequence, The game flows very well using movie footage and cut 
 scenes so you know exactly where you are in relation to the film/ book. During gameplay you control 
 all 4 children in varying combinations, each have there own unique abilties which can be upgraded 
 throughout the game, these can also be used in conjunction for more powerful attacks or for breaking 
 down obstacles etc. The gameplay is varied, as this is not just a hack n slash game, there are 
 action levels but there are more puzzle levels where you have to use the childrens abilities to 
 progress, such as finding pathways over ice without falling in and stealthily moving through a 
 narnian camp trying not to be seen. 
  
  On the whole this game is very enjoyable although some are the camera angles are anoying at times, 
 and the Ai is in some parts useless, you could be controlling one child while the rest bascially 
 just stand there getting hit. but it think the overall gameplay and graphics make up for this. 
 There are also alot of bonus material that is unlocked during the game such as a movie of the making 
 of the game, the 4 child actors recording there dialoge and bonus levels. 
  
  A game worth playing and a must for any Narnia fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooklynsez
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Chronicles of Narnia, is a cute game, totally away from the usual dark and disturbing action adventures 
 that are out there en mass. The story is fine, the characters are very managable and you have no 
 trouble rotating between them. Nothing is better than a co-operative game shared between buddies! 
 The story is interesting enough, the game play takes you from a wild ride on some Ice rafts to 
 a couple of very intense button mashing battle sequences.... and then.... POOF! it is over! This 
 is definitely a rental game...... the length compared to the cost to purchase this game is very 
 disappointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtColJaxson
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is way to straight forward and the designers weren't even thinking of the graphics. Basically 
 all you have to do is kill some enemies which keep respawning... break through a log kill some 
 more enemies break through a wall kill some more enemies and so on. After about 5 minutes i got 
 bored of it. There is no alternate paths or anything. There are little bonus paths but they just 
 lead right back to the main path. I though this would be more like a crash bandicoot but it's not... 
 it's just sad. So really i recommend you don't get it... unless your an 8 year old who doesn't 
 know what graphics are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix_cornelus
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I suggest that everyone should see the movie. DECEMBER 9 WOOT!!! But the game just 
 made me depressed, because it was LAME. The graphics... alright... I suppose. The main thing that 
 sucked was that it was hard to see objects that needed to be hit or mainly dwarfs that needed to 
 be killed. The game would have been better if it was in a first person point of view. That way, 
 the detail of the game would truly have been glorious to see. Also, there were many times during 
 the game where I had no idea what to do because I couldn't find what to do. Like do I need to be 
 Lucy for this or Susan? And there were many wasted minutes just looking for some stupid circle 
 indicator for a certain character to find. A first person point of view, I think, would have solved 
 those problems.
  Another thing that really bothered me was the camera angle. I could never see a different angle, 
 which sometimes was truely needed. Once again, if the camera angle was movable, the graphics would 
 have been move enjoyable.
  The sound was disappointing. I know that WETA workshop worked on the movie (the same people who 
 did LOTR and are doing the HALO movie) , but I would think that they could have done a better job. 
 The wolf sounds from the game, are the same sounds a wolf makes from the game Age of Wonders 2: 
 The Wizards Throne, which was an uber game. 
  
  The fighting... lame. The game has the same move against a variety of enemies, and calls it "name 
 of the monster" then "bane". Not creative. 
  
  There aren't many games that can copy a movie and be as good as the movie. Chronicles of Narnia 
 is no exception. Again I say that I was very disappointed because I was looking forward to this 
 game in June, and to find out now that the game isn't worth it, is very sad to me.
  GO SEE THE MOVIE
  ANDREW ADAMSON ROCKS
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
