-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Corporate Machine
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/corporatemachine/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  2, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 44 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Stardock
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 14, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Winning design, powerful artificial intelligence, and a great sense of humor make The Corporate 
 Machine one of the best strategy games so far this year. 

 World domination through cola: That's the focus of The Corporate Machine, a real-time strategy game 
 from Stardock Entertainment that expands upon themes first presented in the company's cult hit 
 from 1997, Entrepreneur. Like the earlier effort, the sequel turns economic competition into a 
 form of warfare that looks and plays a lot like Risk. Imagine swapping traveling sales reps for 
 infantry units and marketing campaigns for cannons, and you'll have a pretty good idea of what 
 lies in store for you in The Corporate Machine.           The Corporate Machine is filled with 
 black humor...    

  Another noteworthy aspect that The Corporate Machine shares with the classic board game is in how 
 addictive it is. Anyone who fondly remembers spending untold summer evenings battling the other 
 kids on the block for control of Kamchatka will be right at home here. Playing The Corporate Machine 
 is a spectacularly compelling experience that can practically take over your life. Easy-to-learn 
 basic elements draw you in, and cunning computer opponents and constantly shifting economic terrain 
 keep you returning for more. Mastery always seems just out of your grasp, so you continually learn 
 from your mistakes and adopt new tactics in an eternal attempt to "get it right." Of course, in 
 a game such as this, the beauty of the design is that there is no such thing as getting it exactly 
 right -- meaning that you will be playing for a very long time.   

  The beginnings are rather humble. You start your climb up the corporate ladder by choosing a name 
 for your fledgling enterprise, a product to represent, and a business specialty (laboring skill, 
 marketing, or engineering) . From a small head office located in a randomly chosen territory, you're 
 expected to build a global empire and amass enough sales to become the undisputed market leader 
 in your field of expertise. Opposing you are up to seven computer-controlled businesses aiming 
 for the same goals as you are, so don't expect the road to victory to be an easy one. Sales executives 
 serve as shock troops that can be sent across continents to pitch wares to new regions. All of 
 the elements that go into real-world corporate marketing can be found here. This includes the hiring 
 and firing of employees, opening sales offices to boost the company's image in disparate areas, 
 building training centers and recreational facilities to increase worker productivity, researching 
 new and improved products, and even developing marketing campaigns to boost your wares or to undermine 
 a rival's efforts.           ... and it's also a lot of fun to play.    

  Cola, cars, aircraft, and computers make up the merchandise available. There are few differences 
 to the way in which each is designed, marketed, and sold, however. Basic selling principles remain 
 the same whether you're shilling for the latest in gas-guzzling SUVs or a hip soda laced with caffeine. 
 Furthermore, the names of computer opponents remain identical no matter what they're trafficking 
 in. So don't be too surprised to witness IDM take over the cola market or Mitrosoft dominate the 
 automotive industry. Still, what you choose to sell does dramatically affect the character of each 
 individual game. Researching and building a safer car might not be that different in the nuts and 
 bolts of gameplay from developing more hygienic ways to produce a soft drink, but it does have 
 a significant affect on how you approach everything. There are also some unique frills -- such as 
 the ability to design cool new bottles for your cola -- that add character to each commodity.   

 
  Further distinction is added by a dark sense of humor that livens up the proceedings at every 
 turn. Frequent random events are spiced with goofy stories that lend personality to what could 
 have been a very dry experience. These wacky elements, which include such outlandish occurrences 
 as rumors of mutant monkeys being hired as replacement workers causing mass strikes, are balanced 
 by more realistic news items such as government grants and consumer protests so that The Corporate 
 Machine never gets too silly or too serious.    

 More black humor is provided by direct action cards. You get three of these at the start of the 
 game, and one more is dealt out at the start of each year. These allow for all sorts of activities, 
 from blowing up opposing factories to nuisance lawsuits to enlisting child labor. Perhaps the funniest 
 moments are provided by the stereotypically slimy sales executives, who respond to every click 
 with comments like "You're brilliant!" and "I'm all over that!"           Conquer the world with 
 soda, cars, aircraft, or computers.    

  Yet perhaps the most involving aspect of The Corporate Machine is the quality of the computer opponents. 
 Even on the easier difficulty settings, your opposition will make every effort at building a powerful 
 presence and attempting to take you right out of the marketplace. The computer players typically 
 begin at a distance from your corporate head office, depending upon which map you choose to play 
 on (everything is available, from regional maps to the entire planet) , and insidiously move closer 
 to your home turf with the passing of each year. The invasion begins slowly, but quickly accelerates 
 until you suddenly discover that there's more than double the demand for a Calvin Kleen car in 
 your host territory of Egypt than there is for one of yours. Computer enemies will pull out all 
 the stops in doing so, using every available direct action card and dirty trick available to make 
 sure that Joe Sixpack chooses their product.   

  Of course, this works the opposite way as well. As you expand, you must advance toward districts 
 controlled by your rivals. You can do so in just about any way that you can imagine. You might 
 go the honest route and simply try to win consumers over by offering the best car, soda, plane, 
 or computer for the money. Technology trees branch off from the construction of different types 
 of buildings, letting you fashion a specific approach for success. Go research heavy, and you'll 
 want to construct the lab, enhanced lab, and lab complex. Try for top productivity and worker satisfaction, 
 and you'll order your contractors to design a manufacturing plant and training facilities. You 
 could also be a bit more devious and specialize in the questionable art of selling. Put up a marketing 
 complex, and you can stage television and radio ad barrages promoting the coolness of your merchandise... or 
 you can sink right into the sewer and set up a FUD (fear, uncertainty, doubt) whisper campaign 
 smearing the opposition. Any way that gains you a foothold into an enemy-controlled region is fair 
 play, so you might as well pull out all the stops.           There's plenty of variety to keep 
 you interested for a long time.     

  The success or failure of these endeavors is communicated to you in the form of statistics. These 
 numbers aren't hard to break down into sensible factors governing your future actions, as much 
 of it devolves to simple laws of supply and demand, though it can be very difficult to figure out 
 where to find this data. Both the interface and the manual for The Corporate Machine are Byzantine, 
 the former because of a complex jumble of graphs and the absence of tooltips and the latter because 
 of horrendous organization and a lack of specifics. Although the game itself is strong enough to 
 overcome such inherent weaknesses, it would be a lot easier to approach The Corporate Machine if 
 it possessed a better menu system -- let alone an in-game tutorial. Presentation might also be a 
 barrier to some. The game's graphics and sound are at least several years behind the times, though 
 they're adequate.   

  These few shortcomings are all minor when viewed in contrast with the game's numerous great qualities. 
 Winning design, powerful artificial intelligence, and a great sense of humor make The Corporate 
 Machine one of the best strategy games so far this year.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2004 11:45 pm PT
Review:  The Corporate Machine puts you in control of a major corporation, one that is facing off against 
 several other tycoons in one of three industries: Cars, Planes, and Computers. Stardock has done 
 a good job researching all three areas, as each one feels like it could be its own game.
  
  The gameplay is rather simple. You are given access to the entire world map, and must research 
 different market regions to find out who's products are selling best there, and what values the 
 customers there prefer. After you can view a segment, you can send out sales represenatives, marketing 
 campaigns, set up a manufacturing plant, build a distribution center, or donate to increase the 
 wealth of the region.
  
  Wherever you have a base of operations, you can build several types of buildings, which give you 
 different bonuses. Most important to your success are the manufacturing garage, which builds your 
 product, and the research lab, which comes up with new technologies. Since you start the game at 
 the dawn of the modern era, you'll research a lot of new technologies to make your product the 
 best.
  
  The computer opponents range from downright stupid to insanely difficult, based on the difficulty 
 setting chosen at the start of a new game. But where this game really shines is in its multiplayer. 
 Stardock has gone through a lot of trouble to set up a good online system that alllows you to compete 
 with others online, or locally. To enjoy the games appeal you really need to play it - luckily, 
 there is a demo available for free, and registering is only a few dollars. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
