-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Curse of Monkey Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/curseofmonkeyisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 2,345 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like its predecessors, The Curse of Monkey Island has all the makings of a classic. 

 Amidst the mad shuffle of holiday releases, LucasArts quietly wrapped up work on an adventure game 
 many of us have been waiting five years to play. The Curse of Monkey Island is an animated, graphic 
 adventure based on the characters introduced in The Secret of Monkey Island (1990) and its sequel, 
 Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge (1992) . Like its predecessors, Curse has all the makings of 
 a classic: great gameplay, fantastic graphics and music, challenging puzzles, a complex plot, and 
 hilarious dialogue.   

 In Curse, you must once again help our wanna-be pirate hero, Guybrush Threepwood, in an epic struggle 
 against the evil zombie pirate LeChuck, who just refuses to stay dead. Once more, LeChuck schemes 
 to kidnap and marry Elaine Marley, governor of half the Caribbean and Guybrush's true love. Drifting 
 into the story just in time to thwart LeChuck's plans, Guybrush stumbles across a cursed diamond 
 engagement ring in the hold of the now thrice-dispatched LeChuck. Unfortunately, our hero slips 
 the ring onto Elaine's finger and transforms her into a gold statue. Just when the situation looked 
 as grim as it could be, a group of mysterious pirates steals Elaine and sails away. So now Guybrush 
 must find his love and discover a way to remove the curse. The adventure can be played on two difficulty 
 levels and is split into six parts. The first is integrated into the introductory story outlined 
 above and is basically a warm-up period. The rest of the game is played much like Full Throttle, 
 Sam 'n' Max, and other LucasArts adventures. You start out on Plunder Island, near the bustling 
 town of Puerto Pollo. Wandering around the island, you'll need to speak to everyone you meet, pick 
 up everything you can carry, and solve a number of bizarre and hilarious puzzles. Eventually, you'll 
 track down Elaine and lift the curse, but only to find yourself faced with an even tougher challenge. 

 The interface is similar to the one used in Full Throttle. When you want to interact with a person 
 or object, you pull up a simple action menu that lets you use your hands, your eyes, or your mouth. 
 For example, when you run across a large block of tofu, you might pick it up, look at it, or eat 
 it. Conversations in Curse are crucial and often hysterical. The wit of earlier LucasArts games 
 is alive and well here and the voice acting is excellent. Keep an ear out for some well-delivered 
 references to Star Wars, Myst, William Shatner, and even the LucasArts game design philosophy. 

 Curse has a great, cartoonish look to it. Throughout the game, you'll marvel at the spectacular, 
 film-quality animationThis game is as much fun to watch as it is to play. The music, as you might 
 expect from LucasArts, is phenomenal. In fact, you'll hear updated versions of a few familiar themes 
 from the original Monkey Island games. A few familiar characters will pop up too, including the 
 Voodoo Lady and Wally the cartographer. There are also some great new characters like Murray the 
 demon-spawned skull and Haggis McMutton the pirate barber.  

 The game's many puzzles are well designed and challenging, but without being utterly frustrating. 
 For the most part, the puzzles are well integrated into the story. Only one - right near the end 
 of the game - struck me as random and a bit disjointed. When you come across a puzzle you'll usually 
 need to solve it using one of the objects in your inventory. If it works, you'll know immediately. 
 If it doesn't, Guybrush will either tell you or offer subtle hints about the correct puzzle solution. 
 Often, you'll need to combine multiple items before you can use them to solve a puzzle. Don't forget 
 to check and recheck your inventory for items you haven't yet tried. Nine times out of ten, you'll 
 have the answer right in the palm of your hand. Also, make sure you revisit locations after significant 
 moments in the plot, since new items and locations often appear as you move through the game.  
 

 At one point, you'll get to try your hand at ship-to-ship combat. This segment is like a combination 
 of the memorable insult sword fights of the original Monkey Island and the arcade-style combat 
 of MicroProse's Pirates! or SSI's Buccaneer. For those of you who hated the combat sequences in 
 Full Throttle, you'll be happy to know that you can bypass most of the ship-to-ship action (but 
 not the insult sword fights - one of the game's many high points) .  

 There simply isn't much to dislike about this game, except possibly the ending, which seemed a bit 
 abrupt and anticlimactic after 20 hours of gameplay. Still, The Curse of Monkey Island should more 
 than satisfy the cravings of the Monkey Island faithful and even appeal to gamers who don't typically 
 go in for graphic adventures.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Amras_Calmacil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Monkey Island 3 is the third instalment of the epic Monkey Island series of games from Lucas Arts, 
 made during the golden age of point'n'click adventure games it, and, obviously for fans of the 
 series, features the loveable protagonist and mighty pirate Guybrush Threepwood.
  
  The game starts with Guybrush floating at sea, obviously hopelessly lost, in a fairground bumper 
 car after the end of the second game, an ending which I refuse to mention for anyone who has not 
 played the previous games. After a series of jokes regarding floating objects that Guybrush is 
 writing about in his journal yet not actually noticing (i. e. Fresh fruit and clean drinking water) 
 the camera moves away from our hero, who has been floating towards the battle being raged between 
 the island and a large pirate ship that the camera has turned towards without noticing, the thunder 
 of guns quickly brings his head up as he examines the scene. Zooming in on the ship players that 
 are new to the series will see their first glimpse of the series' antagonist the zombie pirate; 
 Captain LeChuck, who, after noticing Guybrush, rather politely shoots his bumper car and gives 
 the order to fish him out of the water. After LeChuck has his cutlass short out of his hand by 
 a character I have so far not mentioned, (The love interest since the first game) Elaine Marley, 
 a young Governor of seemingly almost every other island that Guybrush goes to. Gladly after that 
 the nice people at LucasArts grudgingly decided that the intro had gone on long enough and decided 
 to let me play for a while until the next cutscene.
  
  The two first things you'll notice playing this game if you've played one of, or both of, the previous 
 games is the graphical update as well as speech, bringing the characters to life in ways we could 
 only dream of in the previous games.
  The graphics are excellent and well suited to a comedic adventure game as they have been changed 
 from simple pixels to a beautiful and well shaded cartoon style, adding all manners of bright colours 
 to the tropical settings.
  
  Despite my moaning in the second paragraph the cutscenes after that are few and far-between allowing 
 people to make the most of the wonderful gameplay. At the start you are given a choice between 
 Hard and Normal modes of playing the game it doesn't really make too much of a difference and only 
 some puzzles seem to be effected by it, never the less, the puzzles are well thought out and put 
 you in a variety of situations including being swallowed by a snake, winning a banjo playing duel 
 , and being smuggled onto a ship in the guise of some fried chicken. For fans of the Insult Swordfights 
 in the first game you can't help but be happy when you hear that it's back and better than ever, 
 and as a new addition to the game, you also get to have some rousing sea battles with other ships, 
 making this feel like the most piratical game in the series, and in my opinion, this is also defiantly 
 the best, even if you're new to the series the game doesn't punish you too hard for not knowing 
 who or what people are, although the series has never really punished you for that, usually starting 
 with some kind of journal entry or story that brings you up to date. Last but not least it's chocked 
 fully of jokes that everyone (Although mostly the young and the immature) can laugh at. 
  
  This game has all the classic Monkey Island material and a bit more, making it one of the best 
 games of all time and great for veterans of the series and newcomers alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD4ME
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  I find myself attracted to many game genres on a whole range of consoles, and while all my gaming 
 needs are primarily based on my Xbox 360 these days, I cannot forget the countless hours i have 
 wasted clicking that mouse and dancing my fingers across that keyboard. 
  
  I had had some experience with Monkey Island games in the past when I first picked this beauty 
 up from Kmart for a price of only $10, and while I knew the kind of clever puzzles and witty humor 
 that the series was famous for, I didn't expect much else from the game to deliver: the sounds, 
 the visuals and all the rest. But as soon as the introduction sequence started I knew I had just 
 embarked on an epic journey, and one that I wouldn't be able to get away from until the end of 
 the final credits. 
  
  So what is there for the gamer - young or old - in this game, one that is so often dismissed as 
 a "bargain bin" title? Well even at the earliest stages of the game, in fact even in the main menu 
 screen, you get a taste of the music and shanty's you will be hearing throughout the game, as well 
 as some of the cleverly written and excellently performed voice acting intertwined into a brilliant 
 story of twists, adventure and accidents waiting to happen.
  
  The puzzles are back and there are a lot of them. Some of the things you have to do to achieve 
 your goals are so outrageous you wouldn't even try it. I played this game on the regular setting 
 and I am a bit ashamed to say i had to check the net once or twice when I got stuck. Still it is 
 easy enough for gamers of any age so don't be discouraged. Also for those who are used to thinking 
 outside of the box and are up for a real challenge, there is always a harder difficulty - Mega 
 Monkey - which will certainly keep you scratching your head late into the night.
  
  The 2D graphics may turn some of you off, assuming that they will be ugly, squarish or restrict 
 the flow of the game, and in many games this can and has been the case. This however is a problem 
 you will never encounter on one of your Monkey Island adventures. The imaginative, well designed 
 backdrops to which you will be plundering throughout your quest not only compliment the rest of 
 the game, they enhance it, and to change the Monkey Island series into 3D, such as in Escape From 
 Monkey Island was a shame in my opinion. Still, I am sure there are many out there who enjoyed 
 it, and if you want to join Guybrush on another of his legendary mishaps, don't discount this as 
 just a previous game with nothing more to offer. So if you're into a bit of looting, sailing, evil 
 pirate curses, zombie pirates and a barrel full of insults, I encourage you to give this one a 
 try. And at the price it is, who could be disappointed.. 
  (I said 20-40 hours playing but it could be even more!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilguy12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  After playing Grim Fandango (my favourite game of all time) I became hooked on LucasArts adventure 
 games. This was the first adventure bought after playing GF and it did not dissapoint me.
  
  Synopsis: I'll try to not give away any of the story so I might miss out a few details in this 
 short summary... Guybrush Threepwood, mighty pirate, asks the love of his life Elaine to marry him 
 but the engagement ring Guybrush puts on her finger is cursed and turns her into solid gold. Meanwhile 
 LeChuck, the evil pirate who wants to marry Elaine himself is building up a zombie army. Can Guybrush 
 save Elaine and defeat LeChuck once more? 
  
  Positives: The best 2D graphics I have ever seen, wonderful hand painted backgrounds, unbeaten 
 animation, in my opinion if the resolotion was higher (It looks slightly stretched on a resolotion 
 of 1152x864) I'd say this would be the only movie-quailty game I have played. The music is brilliant, 
 superbly written and is never seems out of place. The voice overs are also fantasic, definately 
 some of LucasArts finest voice work. Humour is unbeaten in this game and it is one the funniest 
 games I have played. What other game has pirate barbers who can sing ("every haircut is an adventure") , 
 an evil demonic pirate called LeChuck and a main character with a name like Guybrush Threepwood? 
 The Puzzles all seem relevant and logical until part 5...
  
  Negatives: There are six parts in this game, but parts 5 and 6 seem extremely lackluster. Part 
 5 takes place in a carnival but it is only takes up one screen , and there is only one puzzle to 
 solve before Part 6, where you have to destroy LeChuck, which is possibly one of the easiest puzzles 
 in the game (for me, and I am terrible at adventure games) . The ending is also meh.
  
  Gameplay: The Curse of Monkey Island is a point and click graphic adventure game. In this game 
 you click on an object or person and a number of choices appear. USE, LOOK or TALK. There are puzzles 
 you have to solve to advance in the game like in all adventures.
  
  Verdict: Buy this game or LeChuck will make you into one of skeleton pirates! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnotherKill
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  This game has a great storyline, cutting edge humor and intriguing, well developed characters. 
 It's the perfect example that you don't need graphics to make a good, fun game.
  First off, The humor in the game is at its best, it's as sharp and as wacky as ever. Humor is huge 
 in this game. There's not a single spot that doesn't produce a funny remark of some sort if you 
 choose to explore it, and I was amazed at the unique and funny comments. 
  "The tongue is mightier than the sword" Describes the "combat" system perfectly. I loved the way 
 you had to defeat enemies with your insults in this game, It added to the humor and could be really 
 tricky at times to find the right comeback.
  Although we have to collect many items in this game, It's not all about hunting down objects with 
 your mouse. Any object that can be interacted with is marked with a red X cursor. It doesn't take 
 much time to get used to the controls and they're very userfriendly.
  Also some other things that make this game even better is that the voice acting is outstanding 
 and the graphics are well done. The graphics are rich and colorful and never boring and they fit 
 really nice with this Humor-Adventure game.
  I would recommend this game to almost anyone who loves a good puzzle or a good laugh. This game 
 will always hold a special place in my heart and I'm hoping for a 5th Monkey Island. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoBear
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey Island is, by far, the best adventure game I've ever played. It's got inteligent 
 and funny puzzles, smart dialogues and a great set of charismatic characters. In other words: what 
 is not to like? 
  In the third game of the Monkey Island Series, you help Guybrush Threepwood while he tries to break 
 a curse that turned his fiance&eacute; (Elaine Marley) into a golden statue.
  In order to do that, you ask help from the voodoo lady, have to find a map, ship and crew and fights 
 a bunch of blood thristy pirates in a duel of insult sword-fighting .
  These and many other tipical Monkey Island Elements are presente in the game and turn it into the 
 best adventure game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillo87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say about The Curse of Monkey Island, this game is completely awesome I love it, 
 because this have all the elements of an excellent game, it&acute; s fun, it&acute; s intelligent, 
 I absolutely love it, my wish I that more games likes this exists, because it completely satisfies 
 me, because you can pass hours and hours playing and you never get tired, and laughing!
  Monkey Island saga rules, and this game is a masterpiece!
  I mean there are many funny characters 
 like Guybrush, Lechuck, Stan, Murray and many others that will make you laugh for hours and hours, 
 and the soundtrack of the game game is amazing, with the epic music of iintroduction, it&acute; s 
 awesome, if you don&acute; t have this game, you should run and buy it NOW!
  &iexcl; Mira detr&aacute; s de ti un momo con 3 cabezas!
  &iexcl; Yo soy goma, tu cola! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  The Monkey Island series is considered by many people, including myself, as being the best adventure 
 games (or games, for that matter) of all time. That's a big title to hold and if you've played 
 the two previous games in the Monkey Island series, you should pretty much understand why these 
 LucasArts classics got this title. But does the third game, The Curse of Monkey Island, live up 
 to these high expectations?
  
  Of course it does! The Curse of Monkey Island sees our hero Guybrush Threepwood proposing to Elaine 
 Marley with a big, diamond ring he found in LeChuck's treasure hold at the start of the game. Unluckily 
 for Guybrush, the ring is cursed and it turns Elaine into a gold statue. Guybrush's aim is now 
 to find a way to lift the curse (bring on the Voodoo lady!) and once again try and defeat LeChuck 
 who is after the same women as he is!
  
  Returning characters include Stan and his crazy arms, Wally who is now a member of LeChuck's undead 
 army (can Guybrush convert him back?) and where would a Monkey Island game be without the infamous 
 Voodoo Lady?
  
  The artwork in this game (Bill Tiller, Maria Bowen, Kathy Hsieh) is an absoloute treat. The backgrounds 
 are superb and have so many little details included in them, you could spend hours just staring 
 at them and admiring it all.
  
  The sound and voicing is amazingly good and the difficulty of the game, although hard, is not impossible 
 and will challenge you without getting you frustrated and shouting at the game!
  
  To round up, if you've played the first two Monkey Island games you can't rest until you've played 
 this and if you've never played any Monkey Island game you can still play this and enjoy it, but 
 you may not understand a couple of things unless you play the previous games.
  
  (This game does work on Windows XP and Vista: www. scummvm. org) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the previous two installments of the Monkey Island games, you know what you 
 should expect from this game. For those who had not played those before, expect to be thoroughly 
 entertained -- humoured and puzzled. As expected, the curse of the Monkey Island is an instant hit.
 
  
  The previous two games were made for DOS. This time, you get to play it on Win 95/98. This means 
 more colours and high quality sound. Lucasarts redefined the look of the monkey Island characters 
 making Guybrush and Elane livelier and Le Chuck funnily deadlier. The cut-scenes are fully 3D, 
 adding spice to the series and the in-game scenes are a mixture of 3D rendering plus 2D background. 
 Very artistic by all standards. The game still plays on point-and-click basis. Monkey Island's 
 main attraction had been its humour and compilation of funny characters. Some of the scenes are 
 outrageously funny and the story revolves around wackiness. If not anything else, the humour itself 
 pulls the player deeper into the story where Guybrush must free Elane from Le Chuck's curse as 
 Elane has turned into a gold statue.
  
  I have achieved all my Money Island games -- unfortunately I can't play this game on my WInXP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey Island is one of my favorite games of all time. Its an excellent adventure 
 game with fantastic voice acting, clever puzzles, and a great story. In CoMI you play as Guybrush 
 Threepwood a wantabe pirate. The game starts with you in the evil ghost pirate LeChucks ship. 
 After a little bit you escape, soon after that you propose to your true love Elaine Marley but 
 of course following in the traditions of the previous Monkey Island games just as soon as everything 
 seems great it all goes wrong. Because the ring Guybrush gives to Elaine is cursed and turns her 
 into a solid gold statue. You then spend the rest of the game trying to figure out a way to get 
 Elaine unfrozen.
  
  The gameplay in CoMI is really awesome. You move around by a point and click interface. You point 
 the mouse to where you want to go and then click to move there. You can also hold down the mouse 
 button to bring up options such as the ability to talk, examine, or use. To make your way through 
 CoMI youll have to use everything in sight so this interface is great and really helps you out.
 
  
  Interacting with people and objects is one of the best things you can do in CoMI. You can try to 
 talk to almost anything if you talk to people it will bring up many different things that you can 
 say. Many of these are very humorous and add to the great sense of humor that CoMI has. However 
 if you try talking to inanimate objects Guybrush will respond with some sort of line about how 
 he isnt crazy.
  
  One of the best things about CoMI is the amount of puzzles. Some people will think of the amount 
 as too large but for me its the perfect amount. All of the puzzles are different and unique in 
 their own way. To solve them youll have to find an object and use it in a certain way. At times 
 the object that you need is a rather obscure object that you wouldnt think of using.
  
  The graphics in CoMI are outdated now but still look nice. The game has a great cartoony feel to 
 it. All of the places you visit in CoMI look great and are just very cool to look at. And the characters 
 all have their own different styles of walking and talking that look very cool.
  
  The sound is absolutely fantastic. The musical score is amazing and the voice acting is even better. 
 Many of the hilarious dialogue lines are made much better by the incredible voice acting. And the 
 musical score has a great calypso feel to it and never gets annoying. The sound effects have a 
 nice quirky feel to them that goes great with the style of the game.
  
  Value wise CoMI is a fairly long game clocking in at about 10 to 15 hours. But there are two different 
 difficulties. There is the regular difficulty and the Mega-Monkey difficulty which changes some 
 puzzles and adds some more puzzles.
  
  All in all The Curse of Monkey Island is easily my favorite game of all time. Its a fantastic 
 adventure game filled to the brim with great puzzles, nice graphics, a fantastic musical score, 
 and tons of hilarious dialogue. So if you can find a copy of this game I highly recommend you pick 
 it up because you wont regret it.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537
  
  P. S. Just as an added note this is my 100th review on Gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anas_ramzi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  it's one of the geatest games i've ever played with an enjoyable mood, mystry and fun and funny.
 
  
  there is two modes of difficulty which you can choose from, (Mega Monkey) mode provides many more 
 puzzels in this lovely adventure. the game is very refreshin to play and puts you in the pirates 
 commedy adventure with lovely and hilarious puzzles to solve with no boring time to spend in solving.
 
  
  you will eventially find yourself unable to leave the game before finishing all the puzzles with 
 the lovly and comedy outcome of each action you do in order to help gybrush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofthecloset
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  If you don't laugh at this game, check your pulse. In possibly the greatest installment to the 
 Monkey Island legacy, you return to the Carribean as the eccentric swashbuckler, Guybrush Threepwood.
 
  
  Fans of the previous games will note how far the game has progressed. The first Monkey Island game 
 was ingenious, no doubt, but lacked sound and voiceovers. The second game included some rather 
 catchy music, but still couldn't support the vocal aspect. However, Dominic Armato captures Threepwood's 
 voice perfectly. The lanky, blonde haired hero comes to life in the 3rd adventure.
  
  Along the way, you'll meet an entirely new cast of characters. This is one of the games many strong 
 points. Whether you're chatting it up with the restless, talking skull Murray or inviting a group 
 of buccaneer hairstylists to join your crew, you'll surely find humor brimming out of every spoken 
 word. There are certainly recurring characters too, each animated with their own unique attitude. 
 Guybrush's nemesis LeChuck, to this day, remains as one of the more notable vilians in PC gaming. 
 The two are after the heart of the saucy Gov. Elaine Marley. In the beginning of the game you will 
 also meet up with the Voodoo Lady from the first two games and Wally from MK2. Even later, at the 
 game's climax, you'll run into the cannibal-turned-vegan tribe from MK1.
  
  The gameplay concept is much the same from the previous two MS-DOS games, but this is in no way 
 a hindrance. Your destination is determined by a point and click x cursor. The games does not deal 
 with a life meter, and is still all about the puzzles. What separates this from its predecessor's 
 is the ability to play the game on two different difficulty levels. In this, you'll find, examine, 
 and combine various items you come across in order to make your way towards Elaine. Many puzzles 
 require some serious logic, and examining EVERYTHING is the name of the game. For example, you 
 get a laminated card (amongst a million other items) and you're supposed to used it on a locked 
 door. Seems logical, but usually locked doors are opened by keys.
  
  The music is no less catchy than the other games and never gets in the way of gameplay. It's simply 
 enjoyable, to say the least.
  
  Fans will probably agree that insult-swordfighting is the game's strongest point. MK1 contained 
 much of the same fight pattern, but the idea was sadly removed from MK2. If your wit is a sharp 
 as your sword, as the game suggests, you'll have loads of fun fighting the pirates with your words.
 
  
  Overall, the game flows exceptionally well, although you may find yourself backtracking to many 
 rooms, trying to figure out a puzzle you already have the pieces for. As tempting as checking the 
 walkthrough is... DON'T.
  
  To this day, a few friends of mine still laugh at and quote some of the lines in the game. Especially 
 the swordfighting. It's one of those games you play, beat, leave alone for awhile, and then enjoy 
 all over again. And I mean, c'mon, it's got pirates! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerErman2001
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a hilarious adventure game, anyone with a sense of humor should play it. I reccomend 
 it to people who like Black Adder, pirates, or graphic adventure games. The graphics are great 
 only problem is they are low res. The audio is very good. It really shouldn't be missed! The game 
 is very challenging, you must have a lot of patience and think logically. This is one of the best 
 games ever. It tops The Secret of Monkey Island, Monkey Island Lechuck's Revenge, and The Escape 
 From Monkey Island. The only problem is that the ending is rushed and it deosn't run on new pcs 
 easily. If you have problems running this (or MI and MI2) check out www. scummvm. org and try running 
 them in SCUMM VM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu-pendous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  The third in the Monkey Island series shows a lot of improvements and additions to the stale point-and-click 
 genre. Curse Of Monkey Island boasts a goregous vamp in graphics, impeccable sound and a genuinely 
 funny script. Dominic Armato brings perfect comic timing to the lovable protagonist of Guybrush 
 Threepwood in his would-be piratey mishaps, which is one of many things that take the world of 
 Monkey Island to greater heights.
  
  As always, Monkey Island plays on random humour much in the vein of an Americanised sequence of 
 Monty Python skits (read: most of it should fall flat on its face, but it holds up surprisingly 
 well) . Expect insane characters, lush environments with silly names and obscure items that make 
 for amusing inventory puzzles. All of which successfully helps LucasArts step up the series to 
 the new generation of adventure gaming.
  
  Curse Of Monkey Island begins with Guybrush floating in the sea in a dogem car, writing a letter 
 to his beloved governor of Monkey Island, Elaine Marley. Typical humour soon follows as he lists 
 food and drink he craves, only for them to pass him by without him noticing. Soon, however, Guybrush 
 floats into a battle between Elaine Marley and LeChuck's undead army. LeChuck holds the same romantic 
 feelings towards the Elaine, whose moral conscience is still on vacation when it comes to firing 
 a shotgun at him. Anyway, Guybrush is captured by LeChuck's side and placed in a vault with Wally, 
 the little mapmaker from the previous game whose monocle was stolen by none other than Mr Threepwood 
 himself. Those who doubt the power of karma might find it a hard job explaining why Wally is pointing 
 a gun at him.
  
  The humour throughout is certainly commendable. With support characters ranging from a eerily spoken 
 skull (Murray) who has been struck with the unfortune of being foiled by Guybrush (after he dismembered 
 his body with a cannon) and the Welsh ghost boatman with no sense of direction, the script manages 
 to be really funny. Like Rincewind from Mortality Bytes, Guybrush is destined to be the hapless 
 fool; of course, this amasses immense empathy towards him. His sense of humour can be intellectual 
 enough to enter the matrimony of cult classics such as The Life Of Brian but then renders itself 
 into the more ridiculous, obvious trappings of Carry On and other modern day sitcoms. Despite a 
 few minor gripes with the jokes, grins will become frequent throughout.
  
  One of the most radical things in the gameplay in Curse Of Monkey Island is the control panel. 
 It's farewell to the usual list of commands such as talking, using and examining for a gold coin 
 depicting the commands. Your inventory is now held in a treasure chest. Not a moving one like in 
 Mortality Bytes, but a screen showing the inside of the chest with all your items in there. Clicking 
 and holding onto them brings up the same option box, which operates the same for environment interaction 
 and characters.
  
  Mini-games prove to be the biggest delight in the gameplay, and they're spread out nicely throughout 
 COMI. There's a guitar duel, where your objective is to match the opponent's guitar notes, followed 
 by the genius Insult Sword Fighting. A game where to win you have to match your opponent's insult 
 with a rhyming insult. For example, when insulted, you select from a list of dialogue options that 
 rhymes. Such would be: 'You look like a monkey in a negligee', to which the answer would be: 'I 
 look that much like your fiancee?' It's arguably the funniest part of the game.
  
  Guybrush's traverse of the islands is celebrated in vibrant 2D graphics, complete with fluid animation 
 and flawless lip-syncing. The Carribean has never looked so beautiful. As you'd expect, being that 
 if you've actually been or live in the Carribean, the locations are colourful and bright, boasting 
 gorgeous beaches to romantic night time backdrops, in this case rendered sumptuously with moody 
 colours. Sometimes you have a watercolour look going on, before it shifts into an animated cartoon 
 look. Character designs are also impressive. Guybrush's waif-thin body (and blonde mullet) only 
 add to the slapstick comedy he'll be performing. The best would be LeChuck, who now has a firebeard, 
 making him seem to possess some evil powers with comical taste instead of an actual scary ghoul 
 entity as he was in the previous games.
  
  Voice acting has never been used more effectively in a video game, bar Metal Gear Solid perhaps. 
 Dominic Armato manages to be sarcastic, aloof and lovable at the same time. The same praise can 
 be given for the rest of the actors. The soundtrack is equally impressive, so ethnic that at times 
 you may feel like you're wandering through the Carribbean. There is nice timpani music throughout, 
 great variations from wind to percussion, and some mellow tunes also.
  
  Curse Of Monkey Island is a perfect example of how fun adventure games are and how to capture a 
 unique sense of humour. Arresting wit, gorgeous graphics, wonderful music, hilarious acting and 
 bizarre charaters, Curse Of Monkey Island is by far the strongest game in the series and possibly 
 the best LucasArts game yet. You would be a doody head to ignore this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammy777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  One Of The Best Indeed
  
  Graphics - Best what ive seen, cartoony and unique and humorous too! funny and never boring to 
 look at, best and should been keep as an primary graphics for adventure games
  
  Gameplay - Hidden gags, fun puzzles, humorously items, great point &amp; click, the best to use 
 the SCUMM Bar Engine, LucasArts best adventure games like the others Sound - Awesome! never boring 
 and soothing music, and great voice acting
  
  Must Buy and for both fans and casual gamers!
  
  ONE OF THE BEST CLASSIC ADVENTURE GAMES EVER!
 
  
  Drink The Grog, Sail The Ships And Prepare For A Swashbuckling Adventure with the lovable and unforgettable 
 characters
  
  buy the game and you'll never regret it and you'll have a blast from the game both for young and 
 old
  
  never gonna be a disappointment and for good laughs too, one of my favorites indeed, for a 1997 
 game the graphics and style can beat most of all modern games today! LucasArts please return to 
 make games like these 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Now there were times when games could literally destroy you social life, and those games were the 
 greatest ever made in which is included this one Monkey Island series.
  
  This is the game that offered me the best fun i ever had. It is funny , it is ironic, it's a cartoon, 
 it's an adventure. This game is unique it guarantees tons of fun for every type of gamer. If you 
 haven't played this one it would be best to play it as soon as possible.
  
  There are no words that could describe it, if you are looking for special effects and advanced 
 graphics then go play shooter games and never return to this forum again, but if you enjoy adventure 
 you'll surely enjoy this release.
  
  Considering the release date it has wonderful graphics as well as the sounds and the voice acting.
 
  
  It's a brilliant game, do not miss it!!!
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comedyco
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect. There's no other game quite like it. It even beats out it's predecesors and 
 it kills Monkey 4. If you have yet to play this game, that's unfornuate for you. The voice acting 
 and music is great. The graphics are incredibly creative and well drawn, I've played this game 
 over and over and over again, and it's just a hell of alot of fun. One of, if not, my favorite 
 game ever. It proves that you don't have to have lives and big fast FPS to have a fun game. A timeless 
 classic since the day I popped it into my computer and got stuck on the first hard puzzles. Funny 
 as hell too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey Island is the third game where you take control of Guybrush Threepwood (A mighty 
 pirate) . All I will say is you have to stop the evil pirate Le Chuck (Again) and save the day!
 
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  It really is easy to get used to. Like the adventure games of old you can pick up, examine, eat, 
 use etc etc. Simply hold the left mouse button over something or someone and the three options 
 appear. You can right click and enter your items page, here you can select an item to use or combine 
 with another. It definetly doesn't take long to get use to. If you have never played an adventure 
 point and click game then you should take about 30minutes to get used to it. There are two difficulties, 
 normal and mega monkey which involves more puzzles. I highly recommend starting the normal mode, 
 it is a tough game and after completing it you can have fun trying even more puzzles with the other 
 mode.
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  This isn't Half Life 2 or Metal Gear Solid. It isn't meant to be. It's a fun cartoonish adventure 
 game. It looks fantastic, a major step up from the first and second... and the fourth was a step 
 down from this.... even if it is 3D! It looks great and is fun... just like the game. You can try 
 enabling 3D graphics in the options, with hilarious results.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  I went as far as to get a hold of the soundtrack. It usually isn't my style of music but it was 
 great to listen to whilst playing. Some atmospheric music and some pirate sounding music. The voice 
 acting is terrific and without this, many of the jokes would have fell flat.
  
  VALUE 10/10
  
  I bought this as part of a bounty pack along with the first and second game 
 for only &pound;20. That was years ago and you can get this game mega cheap nowadays. It is really 
 worth it, you will have lots of fun. I have completed it many times, at least 12. ------
  Giving this game a 10/10 is justified. Im basing this on adventure games. The gameplay, graphics, 
 sound and replay value are everything you want from an adventure game like this. There are few 
 point and click games that equal this one. If you have never played any of these types of games 
 before, this is definetly the place to start... it really is Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey island is the third installment of the amazing Monkey island game series. You 
 play as Guybrush Threepwood again and this time you are playing as Guybrush Threepwood and you 
 are out sailing to another island and then Guybrush is about to propse to Elaine to marry her and 
 so he gives her a ring but it turns Elaine in to a golden statchue. When he leaves Elain of the 
 beach to get a cure and comes back he finds that she has just been kidnapped by lechuck and sees 
 him sail off with her. Now he gose off on a crazy adventure to muster up a crew and go after his 
 love of his life. :)
  
  Gamplay: The gamepllay is a little different from the other previous Monkey Island games. It is 
 still point and click but the whole thing about picking action menues have been hidden so it is 
 only visible when you go up. There is still the great humorus diologe in the game that we all love 
 and same old great sword fighting with some new funny insults. The puzzles are quite challanging 
 and make you really think to sold the puzzyles but sometimes the puzzles have a odd sence of logic 
 to it but owell it dose not matter. 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics has changed from the past two games from 2D pixelated and color deighn to 
 2D Cartoon Animation which is not a bad thing, though some people miss judged it only finding out 
 that it was not such a big deal and realizing that gameplay was more imortant. Anyways the graphics 
 are amazing and fluent. 10 out of 10
  
  Sound: We finally had some voices to the characters and more sound in the background like the sound 
 of the waves, seagulls and of course monkeys. Also some of the ealier tunes of Monkey Island was 
 always great along with some new intro music and such. I give the Audio a 10 out of 10.
  
  Value: This game has great replay value you can play the usuall game quite a few times it will 
 be challanging the first time or so playing it though but once you know what to do you can mostly 
 just enjoy the story after that. There is a second CD were there are extra puzzles to add to the 
 game which is nice to know.
  
  All in all this game is worth getting expecally know were you can get it at a low price but it's 
 getting hard to find now. All gamers should go out there and get this game because this is one 
 of the best games in the series and should not be looked over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey Island is the third game in the Monkey Island series and surely the best one. 
 The first game, The Secret of Monkey Island introduced Guybrush Threepwood, a young man who wishes 
 to become a pirate. To demonstrate his courage, he goes to Monkey Island in search of the legendary 
 Big whoop treasure. On the Island, he meets the evil zombie pirate, LeChuck, who will from now 
 haunt his nightmares forever In the second game, LeChuck wants to take his revenge, but Guybrush 
 escapes from the Monkey Island.
  
  Lost in blue after his escape from the Monkey Island, Guybrush Threepwood is captured by LeChucks 
 pirates who are attacking The Plunder Islands fort, defended by Guybrushs girlfriend, Elaine. 
 LeChuck loves Elaine and is trying to capture her as his bride. Guybrush manages to escape from 
 the pirate ship and he reaches the beach where Elaine is waiting for him. Guybrush ask her to marry 
 him and gives her a ring he found in the pirate ship. But at the moment Elaine touches the ring, 
 shes transformed in a huge, golden statue. Guybrush now has to save his girlfriend from this terrible 
 curse. The Curse of Monkey Island is full of crude humour that will make you laugh for hours) . 
 It features an environment of piracy, full of mysteries and puzzles. The whole game is based on 
 puzzles which you can solve by finding items around the 3 islands: the Plunder Island, the Blood 
 Island and the Skull Island. There are two ways to play the game: the Normal Mode, and the Mega-Monkey 
 Mode (with more puzzles) . The story is divided into six parts (chapters) :
  
  -1 The dead of the zombie pirate LeChuck
  -2 The curse gets worse
  -3 Three sheets in the wind
 
  -4 The barman, the thieves, his aunt and her lover
  -5 Kiss from the spider-monkey
  -6 Guybrush kicks butt once again
  
  The first part is quite short and is used as an introduction 
 to the game. The adventure begins on the Plunder Island, near a city called Puerto Pollo, where 
 you will have to find a way to save Elaine. People on the island will give you precious hints to 
 move further in your quest so it would be better to talk to everyone. Conversations are pretty 
 useful and are often very funny. It would be good to pick up as many items as possible too. All 
 items found on the islands will be used to solve a puzzle later in the game.
  
  Guybrush moves in 2D comic-like environments all around the islands. By clicking, you can choose 
 Guybrushs destination. Then, the young pirate will move to the selected place by himself. The 
 2D graphics are pretty good and the characters moves are well-made too. They often use gestures 
 when talking which make them look more real.
  When theres an object or a person whom you can interact with, your cursor will turn red. To interact 
 with the object or a person, you have to click and press the left button. A gold piece will appear 
 with 3 signs on it. The hand means take or hit person, the skull means examine and the bird 
 head is used to talk with people or, sometimes, to eat something. Everything can be examined 
 (including people) but some objects just cant be picked up and stocked in your inventory.
  
  There are some cut-scenes all around the game. These anime like movies teach you a little more 
 about the story and are very well made for the time the game released. Through the game, you will 
 meet many characters from the first games such as the Voodoo Lady or Wally and some new like Murray, 
 the very, very, very funny talking skull or Van Elden, Cutthroat Bill and Haggis McMutton, the 
 singer pirate barbers. The games puzzles are often very difficult and are great challenges to 
 the player. Even if theyre sometimes frustrating, theyre often funny and well thought. As I wrote 
 before, you can solve puzzles with items you found before in your quest. But it isnt as simple 
 as that. Sometimes, you will have to combine two or more items to make others which will help you 
 to continue your quest. For example, to cut a rope or a piece of wood, you would need a knife or 
 a pair of scissors. Take time to examine things before doing anything. By carefully watching something, 
 Guybrush would often be able to give you useful hints about how to use it properly.
  
  The games sound atmosphere is great. There are many different songs for each places and situations. 
 The tropical like songs are very nice and instantly bring us in a world of piracy in the Caribbean. 
 Each character has a distinct voice that helps players to recognize them. You will need around 
 20 hours to beat the game. The story is quite short, but some puzzles are so difficult that you 
 will have to think long and hard before to solve it. The game has a good replay value. If you beat 
 the game in Normal Mode, why not try the Mega-Monkey Mode? The game is so fun that you would easily 
 beat it many times before to get boring
  
  The Curse of Monkey Island is a great, fun and hilarious game. To me, its an instant classic and 
 I will probably continue to play it all my lifetime. The game is already almost 10 years old but 
 Im sure you would enjoy it.
  
  Hope you liked this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wo33eR1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Summery:
  Years have passed, technology has improved and we still dont know what the secret of Monkey Island 
 really is. But whats this? Monkey Island 3, 2D yet different! Lets take a look!
  
  Body:
  Lets dive right in and talk about the first thing anyone thinks when playing Monkey Island 
 3. What The HELL Are These Graphics, I must admit when I first saw the graphics I was pleased; 
 well that was when I was young and stupid. Now, upon playing the game and experiencing the previous 
 two games of the series I have a different opinion.
  
  Now older and probably still no wiser, the new style felt to me a major insult, on behalf of Ron 
 Gilbert. Since Ron left Lucas Arts, I can understand them taking the game further as the story 
 was not complete but no, never! I thought to myself. Only one man, the man who started it all knows 
 how the story should go, how to conclude the series, and the secret of Monkey Island! 
  
  After experiencing the game I am undecided on this opinion, on one hand I thoroughly enjoyed the 
 game (as I WILL get into, soon I promise) . Yet hearing that Ron has the story wrote in his head, 
 having the next instalment (MI3) ready for the conclusion of the series, and to share the secret 
 of Money Island, I find it a shame we will never experience that. Surely Im not the only one that 
 thinks Ron should get to conclude the Star Wars series, its only fair!
  
  With that off my chest, the graphics actually do work. Whilst I dont see them to be as attractive 
 as the previous pixel style Monkey Island 1 and 2, they do suit the series very well. Comic style 
 drawn graphics with comic style written dialogue, they did well. The best aspect of the new style 
 is the removal of the GUI interface, holding the mouse button brings up your choice of actions.
 
  
  The sound is more of the same from Monkey Island 2, in better quality. As for the new voice acting 
 I am extremely impressed. Instead of cramming in voice acting and removing lengthy good dialog, 
 the story was kept intact and the characters are now brought to life.
  
  The length of the game is a shame; I completed the game in two days, without the most hardcore 
 of play. However the difficulty of the game is far improved, to provide more simply yet effective 
 puzzle design, helping reduce the want to smash the keyboard with your fist. I wanted to leave 
 this last line to add, Murray is simply an amazing inclusion to the storys character line-up.
 
  
  -
  
  Monkey Island 1 was amazing, the best yet. Monkey Island 2 continues a great story but adds much 
 frustration. Im happy to say this new direction Monkey Island 3 provides a great addition to 
 the series. There was not much hope of success, but the new team pulled it off. Well Done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Genre: Quest, Adventure
  
  Year Of Release: 1997
  
  About: In The Curse of Monkey Island Guybrush finds himself at sea floating on a bumper car. He 
 ends up at Plunder Island where Elaine and LeChuck are battling. The battle ends with LeChuck being 
 killed, but of course that doesn't stop him. Afterwards, Guybrush proposes to Elaine with a big 
 diamond ring he found in LeChuck treasure hold. Elaine accepts, but as soon as she puts on the 
 ring Guybrush learns that it is cursed and Elaine turns into a gold statue. Guybrush has to find 
 a way to undo the curse on Elaine, but at the same time he has to battle LeChuck, who has returned 
 from the dead and wants to marry Elaine. 
  Minimal System Requirments: Pentium 90 MHz Processor; Windows 95; 16 MB RAM; 4X CD-ROM Drive; PCI 
 Graphics Card; 100% Windows 95 Compatible 16 Bit Sound Card; 2 MB of Free Hard Drive Space (Additional 
 20 MB for Multiple Saved Games) ; Keyboard; Mouse 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeTer__GriFFin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Me and my friend recently decided to have a competition spaning over 8 hours, to see who, without 
 the use of a guide, could beat the game. Though, we only got around 2 hours into it before deciding 
 to help each other, because this game is challenging! The puzzles are great, and leave you with 
 a feeling of accomplishment upon completion of them.
  
  The point and click adventure game genre is my all time favorite type of game. The puzzles are 
 challenging and fun. Everything runs well, and loads quickly. Also the puzzles make sense, and 
 arn't just on the guess and check system. 
  10 / 10
  
  The graphics used in this game are hand drawn and 2d. This is my all time favorite graphical style 
 used in adventure games. However, there are no brightness adjustment settings, or anti-aliasing 
 options, which can leave the game rather dark, and jagedy. But they still look great. 9 / 10 
 
  
  
  The voice-overs used in this game are really good. Generally nothing sounds scripted, and the dialog 
 is often very funny. The music on the other hand, is not very good. It gets kind of repetetive. 
 But its not bad enough for me to give the sound overall a bad score. 8 / 10
  
  The feeling of accomplishment you get upon finishing the game is great. However, there is no scoring 
 system unlike many adventure games, which is disappointing, because i would have liked to have 
 seen how i did. 9 / 10
  
  I really like adventure games, but have not enjoyed Monkey Island games up until this installment. 
 So this game is one hundred percent worth buying and playing. Just make sure it includes the more 
 challenging Mega-Monkey version of the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourmajesty90
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game?
  This is an amazing game for sure! It's even better than any Final Fantasy, Metal Gear Solid, Xenogears 
 putted togheter. I'm a die-hard Monkey Island series fan. I've bought it the same day when it appeared 
 on the shelves (I was 7 at that time and was really exited) and i'm still impressed now! First 
 of all.... the Graphics! The Graphics are simply amazing. I'll give 10 to them. I really like the 
 cartoonish feeling of them (just like Day Of The Tentacle and Sam & Max) . The Sound is great, the 
 acting is phenomenal. Dominic Armato job is great and amazing. This one needs a 10 too, my friends. 
 The Gameplay: this game has a simple point-n-click interface. You just only need to hold the left 
 button for 1 second and drag the pointer to the action you need to do. And press the right button 
 for the inventory. Simple isn't it? This gets a 9 (because it was copied from Full Throttle and 
 Sam & Max) .
  Longevity: Has a normal longevity, just like Monkey Island 2, it can be played for 2 times in a 
 row and for a first time user it will take at least 12 hours to complete it. This gets a 10.
  
  The overall score i'll give to this game is 10. This is a must-have and need-to-play game. 
 This is a piece of gaming history and you can still play it, at an affordable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  CMI is indeed one of my favorite games of all time, along with the rest of the series, Grim Fandango, 
 S&M and DOTT. Due to some minor flaws, it's unfortunately not the classic it could have been. It 
 just seems that in the end, the time was up and the budget tightened. Still, there is no possibility 
 for Guybrush and Lechuck to be in a bad game. It's still WAY above average. The point n' click 
 interface has been simplified to just 3 commands: look, talk or use, which works pretty well. The 
 puzzles are just insane - ever stole a map that was tattooed on somebody's back or fought a banjo 
 duel? - it's just hilarious! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Its hard to describe the atmosphere that this game sets you  
 comes even close. The phrase:"they don't make them like they used to" certainly applies here.
  This game made me an adventure fan. I've played a lot of adventure games after this one (the Broken 
 sword series, Monkey Island 1,2,4, Syberia1&2, Post Mortem, Indigo Prophecy, Still life, Longest Journey, Grim 
 Fandango...) but nothing came close to this game.
  The humor plays a big part in this game, making it very enjoyable, therefor easier to play. Every 
 character is a piece of the puzzle. This game has the best bad guy i ever met in a game. Le Chuck 
 is the funniest villain you'll ever meet. The sword fight is a touch of genius, the quotes are exceptionally 
 funny. Lucas arts made an astonishing game.
  The characters, the conversations, the places you visit give this game that something that most games 
 don't have. The graphics in this game isn't revolutionary, but this game has exactly the graphics 
 you need to set you in the world of Guybrush Threepwood.
  Everything in this game is funny, the characters, the puzzles, the music, its simply perfect. From the 
 beginning to the end you are on a journey to become a pirate playing the young rookie Guybrush. You 
 embark on a journey witch catches you from the beginning and won't let you go till the end. The 
 puzzles, the combats, the magic, the conversations, the characters you meet on you're journey, al of 
 these make this game highly enjoyable.
  I don't want to sound cheesy by praising this game to much but i simply love this game and i want 
 to make other people at least curious about this game so they would give it a try. I recommend it 
 to every one, no mater what age. When i started to play the game i knew nothing about the game and 
 that really helped enlarge the impact this game had on me. I simply can't find a flaw in this game, it 
 would be like searching a needle in a hay stack. Of course others would find this and that in this 
 game that would bother them, but everyone is entitled to his or her opinion. This was just mine.
 
  The best thing i can say in the end about the game is: ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wozzathewalrus
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  dosn't have to say more than PLAY IT! you won't get dissapointed
  Hard game, I LOVE HARD GAMES! and if you get stuck, read a guide!
  i''ve played through this 
 game about 30-40 times it's do ***** good i can't describe itwith words!
  also try the other games in the series, they rock too! almost as good as this, the other games 
 i would rate 9.5-9.7
  
  so if you can't get this game, go home and cry, because once you have completed it you still want 
 to play it again! or you can just *cough*download*cough* it ;D
  
  guybrush is so damn funny ;P always the coolest situations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamike15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  the curse of monkey island is the thrid game in the monkey island serices. you play as guybrush 
 a cabin boy looking man out on a quest to save is soon to be wife from a spell that truned her 
 to a staue. there are two diffaculty to chosse from. the reguler mode with less puzzeles and the 
 mega monkey mode with more puzzles. the puzzles are great and you need a look of logic to salve 
 them. the diolong is really good there are alot of funny moments in the game. the chracters have 
 a cartoon like look now that make them look better then before. the game is about 20 hours long 
 and comes in two discs. over all if you like the monkey island games or adventure gammes this is 
 a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chileanguy2
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game is such an intellectual challenge! That's exactly why I love it. A game that makes 
 you think has no comparison. LucasArts really made a good game. I almost always hate games from 
 this company, but this is the exception. Besides being frustrating and extremely hard sometimes, 
 this game is an awesome experience.
  
  Today, when I see the graphics, I don't really think that this is a terrific game. I own a GameCube 
 and I have excellent PC games, so I sometimes feel that the graphic work is simply obsolete. However, 
 I have to remember that this is an old game, and when I do, I really find it good. It takes all 
 the good things from an old PC.
  
  The sound track is awesome. I really enjoy the background music, the voices and the effects. The 
 music is an important factor in this sort of games. It relax you while you are thinking and helps 
 you to get less-frustrated, something that you'll need very often with this game.
  
  The difficulty sometimes makes you forget about the game. I received it as a present when I was 
 only 10, and I stopped playing it in less than a month. I really got tired. However, now I really 
 enjoy it.
  
  It's a shame that I currently can't play this game because my new Windows XP doesn't support this 
 game made for W95 (at least that was the only version released in Chile)
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic, mind-challenging and packed with awesome graphics and sounds. 
 I really recommend it to you if you actually have a system that supports it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_judge
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I have play this game since I was 7, and this game is still my best game
  The excellent side (very much)
  -Excellent sound & music
  -Excellent voice for each of the 
 character (espescially Guybrush Threepwood)
  -Excellent 2D-cartoon graphic
  -Excellent story
  -And excellent funny, espescially in the game's menu...
  But the bad:
  
 -Pretty hard, like the insult part (but this part is very interesting)
  What make me love (or addict this game) is:
  -The beautiful Carribean ocean, island in game
 
  -The funny, interesting music (thanx to Lucas Art Studio)
  -The character voices (as I've said)
  -The super-funny and humorous story, events, and the conversations 
 between character in game
  Thanks to Lucas Art for making this excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Perfection in a story. The originals are terrific but this is pure perfection. LucasArts and SCUMM 
 should never quit making games... ever.
  Insult fighting is back and this time they're better than ever!!
  Musical barbers.
  Graphics 
 have been revamped to a new degree of art. It's amazing looking. Also the voice acting is celebrity 
 top-notch.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Sometimes, this game is downright hard to figure out what to do next. Luckily, you can just download 
 a FAQ or hint guide somewhere (GameFAQs) and just get to the next point.
  On today's systems with today's hardware, it's hard to get this game loaded up and running correctly 
 without crashes, random sound/video issues.
  Clicking through multiplayer options for an hour.
  
  :Overall:
  For a fan of top-notch 
 humor, a fan of the adventure genre, and a fan of monkeys and pirates, this is definantly a game 
 to get into. Celebrity voice acting. Great story. Pirates. What more do you need? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  THE CURSE OF MONKEY ISLAND (1997) 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 7/7
  Fun Element: 7/7
  Camera: 6/7
  Traditionality: 7/7
 
  Atmosphere: 7/7
  MPAA Rating: 6/7
  Plot: 7/7
  Music: 7/7
  Originality: 7/7
  Likeability: 7/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 9.4/10
  
  Genre: Classic PC Point-And-Click 
 Piratey Comic Adventure
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every year
  
  + : amazing and original story despite being the third 
 game in a quadrilogy, the funniest jokes and characters ever, legendary memorable characters, classic 
 arm/foot/mouth/eyes point-and-click controller, logical and smart puzzles, 2 difficulty settings, 
 awesome 2D graphics, fully audible, amazing music score by Micheal Land
  
  - : nothing, except maybe a bit too short
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game made all expectations possible, the game is perfect for its genre, its the king of it.
 
  
  The sounds are very realistic, and funny+ the graphics that are great, more for that time +the 
 gameplay that is very easy made it all possible for us to keep going and defeat the hot beard of 
 LeChuck, with a nice suplement of snow. 
  
  The Difficulty is quite easy but its right because kids plays this too. So try megamonkey, that's 
 hard enough, right? of course it is!
  
  The plot is very silly, but innocent with humor that makes this game comfortable for all ages.
 
  
  Combination of the factors listed above, and the production of this game are excellent. Very good 
 for Lucas.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tevaplaidman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey Island is one of my absolute favorite games -- along with the other three games 
 in the franchise. Once again, the dashing Guybrush Threepwood bumbles his way across the Caribbean 
 to save the love of his life, Elaine. As with all of the Monkey Island games, the best part about 
 the game is the tongue-in-cheek gags. The puzzles are great; some of them are tough enough I'd 
 be surprised if too many people can get through it without taking a peek at the walkthroughs, and 
 some are certainly frustrating, but none of them are so absurdly difficult that they detract from 
 the gameplay in the least. The stylized cartoon graphics are eye-catching, the voice acting and 
 campy music are strong, and the new system of player interface is less cumbersome than the old 
 "walk to, talk to, look at, pick up, open, close, give, push, and pull" commands from previous 
 iterations of the franchise. Playing through this game will give you an idea where some of the 
 more modern RPGs such as the Knights of the Old Republic games and Jade Empire have drawn their 
 inspiration. Get this one as soon as you get sick of playing Halo, Half-Life, or Grand Theft Auto 
 -- its compelling story and amusing characters are sure to satisfy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey Island is the third of the 4 amazing adventure series of all time! Monkey Island 
 is a wonderful adventure game that is very puzzling and very fun to play. The Curse of Monkey Island 
 is a very lengthly game that has challenge! Challenge is once again.... something that makes a game 
 better. Length also can make a game better.
  
  The game has excellent graphics, SUPER GREAT music, and SUPER SUPER AWESOME gameplay! The value 
 of the game would be very high because this game is 100% guarantee to make you have a time of your 
 life!
  
  The game has VERY UNFORGETTABLE characters... such as the main "mighty!" pirate... Guybrush Threepwood! 
 Guybrush is a very funny character that you would love dearly. His arch enemy, the ghost pirate 
 LeChuck... a very humorous character indeed. Elain Marley.... Guybrush's girlfriend (but wife in Monkey 
 Island 4) ..... she is fierce but very smart. Lots and lots more characters are in the game that 
 can surely make you laugh or either make you happy.
  
  This is a MUST buy game! Go to your nearest PC game shop, and buy it! You shouldn't care if it's 
 expensive or not, just buy it, you won't regret it for sure! 
  
  This is, I gotta say.... the 3rd best creation of LucasArts games! Please buy this GREAT game... it's 
 fun! I hope the people who will buy this awesome game will enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheonite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Superb game that brings joy into the gaming world. If you are done with all your new mega-graphics 
 games like Riddick etc. then you should take a look at this game. The Curse of Monkey Isand has 
 given me something that no other game has ever done. Complete joy. Even though it's a bit tricky 
 (Rund DMC anyone?) you are gonna love this game. The game set's of in a cell on a ship, and the 
 owners are pirates. Cool ehh? ; ) . Anyway there's not much to say about hte story without giving 
 anything away. I sugest you buy this game just to be able to play one of hte best adventure games 
 ever made! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  As a Monkey Island junkie I really enjoyed the games third installment. The storyline is clever 
 and keeps you glued just like in the previous 2 games. I really enjoied from begining to end and 
 was left thursting for the next game in the series.
  The graphics are all you really need from a game of this genre, and quite fitting to the pirate 
 theme. The sound is 10/10 and i felt it really added another level to the enjoyability to the game.
 
  I think there are some quite clever inivations in this growing on the series. The ship battles 
 that are actually commanded by the player in real time provide an enjoyable change of pase, and 
 the evolution of sword fights is also quite fun.
  Another 10/10 from lucasarts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and ignored it for a while and one night i thought, "why not give it a try?" well 
 man oh man. I'm glad i did. this game is awesome. you're main character, Guybrush Threepwood (im 
 not kidding) , is hilarious. before the game is over you will have found hilarious dialogue refering 
 to other lucas arts games and actually a couple of star wars movies. This game really makes you 
 think, and if you aren't patient and you go running to a walkthrough to help you, you'll spoil 
 it. i did with the hard difficulty. i made it through the normal mode without any help but the 
 harder really is harder. enough to make you cry? no. enough to make you frusterated? yes. but don't 
 get down. if you figure out what you need to do it'll feel like it was worth it. This game is a 
 must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sokuni
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Oh yes he does. Monkey Island is back here with the best 2D -outfit you can imagine. ALl hail SVGA 
 -engine! Oh right. Personally, I loved this Monkey Island game the most. It may not have as intriguing 
 plot as the first game, but it sure has the most beautiful landscape.
  
  Oh well, as always, you control Guybrush Threepwood, the ever-wannabe pirate that loves the Governor 
 Elaine. Period. Well, there's also a nifty plot which I'm about to reveal a bit. You see, Guybrush 
 is sailing the sea in a crash car. You read it right. Those crash cars that are in amusement parks 
 and such. While writing his diary, he floats into the middle of a battle between Elaine's forces 
 and the evil Zombie-Pirate LeChuck. He's the arch-enemy of Guybrush, as most of you surely know.
 
  
  Oh well, LeChuck picks you out of the water and throws you into jail. What a nice day isn't it? 
 Well, the main thing in the game is that Elaine gets a curse of LeChuck, which Guybrush has to 
 break. And so begins our jolly adventure in Plunder Island. 
  
  Enough of spoilers. You see, the humour is great in this game, and there are so many good laughable 
 jokes in the game that I'm not going to list them. I've had some of my best laughs from this game, 
 since they're really that funny.
  
  Monkey Island has always had the most memorable characters in adventure games. So does this game. Haggis 
 McMutton, Eddie Van Helgen (he can play BANJO pretty well, haha) , Cutthroat Bill... they all are 
 their own personalities. How LucasArts did this every time?
  
  Since they all are personalities, they must have good voice acting, and thank goodness they have. 
 I couldn't find a single flaw in the voices of the game, and I'm very pleased of what I heard. 
 Especially Dinghy Dog made me laugh like a horse. Oh well... Also, the expressions and gestures 
 are very well made, so it's something like perfect. Really, it is.
  
  Curse of The Monkey Island wears a graphical layout that is the best possible for a point 'n click 
 -adventure. A well-drawn SVGA. Ahh, everything is so clear and can be recognized, also it's extremely 
 beautiful. Animation is simply flawless, and you can do nothing but enjoy. When it comes to cutscenes, 
 they are even better than the game's graphics. It's like you're watching a full-sized cartoon!
 
  
  Talking about the interface, it's the usual one that was in the games like this back to the old 
 days. You point and click where ever you want to go, and hold your button to open the action menu, 
 which enables you to use your mouth, hands, eyes or nose on things. Also there is the compulsory 
 inventory to make your puzzles even more challenging. Yup.
  
  You can play the game in two modes: The normal and the Mega-Monkey -mode. There's no real difference 
 except the puzzles are a bit larger in the Mega Monkey -mode. I've played the game through with 
 both modes so it adds some replay -value to the game. Excellent.
  
  Also, the thing I loved in the first Monkey Island is back and it has a set of new clothes! Umm, 
 I mean that they have changed the Insult Fighting a bit and added it to the game. This time it's 
 Rhyming Sword Fighting which is even more intriguing! You see, here's an example: "Every enemy 
 I've met, I've annihilated" and the answer is "With your breath, I'm sure they all suffocated!". 
 Haha, you see them rhyme? And the humor! I just love it!
  
  Well, what can I say? This game is truly a classic, and deserves a golden medal for having such 
 good jokes. I can't praise this game enough, and you've gotta see this by yourself. Get it!
  
  En garde, Touche! Oh, that's so cliche... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best in the series (Arguably) The 4th installment is too short with too 
 many references to the other 3. The 2nd is too difficult to understand even if, for the most of 
 the game its quality is undoubtable. And the 1st Monkey island. Well probably the most hilarious 
 and fresh of them all. However its graphics make me laugh nowadays.
  This game is a must have. Impressive in its conception. Impressive in the details of every single 
 place you visit. You finally find Big Woop. And your brother does the same things he has been doing 
 all along.
  I have finished it several times. I even memorized some of the paragraphs of this spectacular moment 
 when your sailors mutiny and start singing.
  All in all ... Do you like Monkey Island series? Then this is for you. Do you not know anything 
 on those series? It is for you too.
  After Grim Fandango, Tim Schaffer's second greatest adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  The Curse Of Monkey Island, the game of quirky barbershop buckaneers, giant chickens, angry firey 
 zombie pirates and best of all hundreds of pickups to find. The games very diverse with it's different 
 factors. Characters vary from the tiny tough-ish pirate Wally all the way to the head nacho, Le 
 Chuck, the flaming zombie buccaneer himself. The animation is very good by today's standard and 
 I still play on it for a laugh. The scenery is beautiful with tons of pickups intergrated into 
 it, ranging from a gold tooth to beef flavoured bubble gum, a serrated bread knife to a magic wand, 
 a book on vantiliquism to a handful of lice, yummy. The game also includes ship sailing, insult 
 swordfighting and a age-weight guessing game at the end, just to through in some variations on 
 the game. With a magical pirate music score, great voice acting, a song by a barbershop trio and 
 a great plot of love, humour and adventure makes COMI one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyerok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the last game to use the legendary SCUMM engine. There are a lot of improvements in this 
 one in terms of graphics, sound and gameplay. This time they have brought in voiceovers and better 
 music. The sound itself is fantastic and the dialogues are as witty and as sharp as ever. The voice 
 actors have done a sweet job on the voiceovers which literally takes you one step further in the 
 game. 
  Graphics are more cartoonish and this is by far the best looking game on the SCUMM engine. In fact, 
 I feel that they are good enough for todays standards. For a game released in 1996, the sound 
 and graphics are top notch and you can tell how hard the devs worked on this one. The music is 
 never annoying and is pretty fantastic.
  The game starts off with Guybrush on a floating Dodge em car after he escapes from the evil 
 treasure of big whoop (where he was trapped for 5 years) . He approaches plunder Island and finds 
 himself in a battle between Elaine, his love, and Lechuck, his arch nemesis. Eventually he defeats 
 Lechuck and proposes to Elaine offering a ring he found in Lechucks hold. Elaine then turns into 
 a gold statue which is stolen by pirates. Now he must retrieve the statue and turn Elaine back 
 to her former self. The voodoo lady is back and this time she tells guybrush to go to blood Island 
 and find another ring which will undo the curse. But Guybrush is without a crew and a ship
  
  The story is filled with hilarious dialogues, characters and such. Its impossible to not laugh 
 or even smile while playing through the game. Throughout the adventure, Guybrush will encounter 
 unique characters and obstacles. Things like scarring the Paul bearer with the help of a talking 
 skull, Banjo playing competition, Log throwing, looting and sailing the Caribbean, Insult sword 
 fights etc will catch you by surprise because of the way they are executed in the game. This is 
 how an insult sword fight goes:
  Attack: I'll hound you night and day! 
  Response: Then be a good dog. Sit! Stay!
  
  You're as repulsive as a monkey in a neglige. 
 
  Response: I look that much like your fiance?
  
  This game got several awards like Adventure game of the year by PC Gamer Computer Gaming World. 
 It also got special achievement in art direction by Computer Gaming World.
  Watching my brother playing the game was almost as good as playing it. I cant describe the feeling 
 I had playing itit was just so great and no matter how much I played, I never got tired of it.
 
  BUY IT wherever you find it. just go ahead and play it and I doubt it will disappoint anyone.
 
  Play it or the Devil Chicken El Diablo is gonna get you for eatin all the chickens
  
  pros:
  -awesome graphics.. SCUMM engine at its best
  -amazing puzzles and superior writing.
 
  -interesting and unique characters
  - fantastic sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cutsiemoosie
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I just recently replayed all of the Monkey Island games that I own. And though I love the first 
 two and I found the fourth pretty good, The Curse of Monkey Island is my hands down favorite. Part 
 of the reason is the graphics, which I find great in their 2D simplicity. I also love finally being 
 able to hear Guybrush speak, and I must admit his voice fits perfectly what I thought he would 
 sound like. It's also just an all around fun game. The two difficulty levels makes it easy enough 
 for people not familiar with the games to make it through, but the harder one is just hard enough 
 to make it tough for seasoned Lucas Arts adventure gamers. The jokes are still original and the 
 characters retain their personalities. I also enjoyed all the new characters in the game, who were 
 all rather quirky. I simply love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J4CK_0F_SP4D35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  If you got me started I'd forever rant on how wonderful I think this game is. This game provides 
 you hours apon hours of humorous adventuring fun. I'd played this game over three times and I never 
 get sick of it. Although Adventure games is a next to dead breed (especialy since Myst just declared 
 their last game) this provides an old school PC gamer appeal to it. It's generaly hameless humor, 
 so any age can play it, but the jokes arn't childish so it's still amusing to the older generations. 
 LucusArts has always put out the best in Adventure games and since they don't seem to be putting 
 out a Monkey Island 5 (even though they announced it forever ago) this is the best thing your going 
 to get to an adventure game. If it's possible and your looking for some fun, I'd deffinaly go out 
 and buy this, plus it's so old that it will probably be really cheap and you won't be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a classic. It includes puzzles, and great humor. Guybrush Threepwood, (the hero 
 with a funny name) has found himself trapped at sea with no food, water, or just about anything 
 else. As he is explaining his situation to everyone, he happens to flow into a battle between the 
 evil zombie/ghost pirate LeChuck and Elaine Marley. This sets the pace for the funniest game you 
 will ever play.
  
  As the game progresses, you realize that the gameplay is flawless. You move your cursor over the 
 item you wish to interact with, then click on it (simple so far) then hold down the button while 
 choosing how you want to interact with it, talk, examine, use. Although this is dificult to get 
 used to, as you progress in the game, you won't really notice it at all.
  
  The graphics are great for the style they used. It looks cartoony, which is the feel of the game. 
 3D graphics would not be the best option for this game.
  
  The sound in this game is, yet again, flawless. The music is great, the voice acting is great, 
 and overall, there is no part of the sound I dislike.
  
  This game has replay value beyond belief. I have beaten it 4 times and still go back again. This 
 game has a good story, perfect gameplay, and the graphics are great. I have still not found any 
 reason anyone wouldn't want to play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiaspb
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  When Monkey Island came out it was different compared to the other adventure games out.
  
  What I mean by "fun-to-play" is that you couldn't get stuck some place, or forget some object and 
 had to play a part of the game to heve this object with you. Neither could you die.
  
  All this made the adventure game (I think) harder to make for the creators, but made it that much 
 more enjoyable than the other competitors.
  
  And the atmosphere was head and shoulders above anything else available. Especially the graphics 
 mixed with the brilliant music made the atmosphere so good. And it made it impossible to stop playing 
 the game.
  
  That was most about the technical aspects of the game. But the storyline was (and still is) absolutely 
 brilliant.
  
  You play as a wannabe pirate named Guybrush Treepwood :-)
  
  If you havent played this one and like humorous adventures, you should really run out (or around) 
 to get your copy. This is history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerka_xl
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  cool game i like it :) it rocks :) i'm MONKEY LOVER ! MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY 
 LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER 
 MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER ! Exclent game do you agree ? I think there 
 should be more parts of this game, cuz escape from monkey island sucks =/ MONKEY LOVER 4ever !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY 
 LOVER ! MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER 
 MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY LOVER MONKEY 
 LOVER MONKEY LOVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  There was a time in the computer video game timeline that the market was flooded with Adventure 
 games. These were the titles that pushed the limits of your PC hardware because of the voiceover 
 work, built-in videos and detailed backgrounds. The influx of RTS and FPS games slowly pushed these 
 games off of the market; or, the over abundance of the genre phased out the popularity. Whatever 
 the case, you do not see this genre on the market anymore. 
  
  Well, getting back to the subject at hand, this game was released at the zenith of the popularity 
 of the genre. When the market was focusing all of its attention on games like Myst, LucasArts released 
 the third, and best, sequel of the Monkey Island series. 
  
  The series included full voice-over acting for all of the main characters and several of the supporting 
 character. Detailed animation was added to the story scenes that drove the story and greatly added 
 to the comedic elements. Deep story lines and well thought out puzzles are in this title that was 
 not seen in a lot of other titles released at the time. It is so good that it that it made just 
 about all other titles shrink in comparison. It could be the type of title that people would enjoy 
 so much that they look into other titles and it disappoints them so much because it did not live 
 up to the enjoyment that Monkey Island brings.
  
  One of the best elements of this game is that it was 100% CD ROM while the previous two titles 
 were DOS run and cannot run on current PC machines. To play my copies of the first two games, I 
 have to use a DOS emulator and it glitches and does not read the games well and I have yet to find 
 an application that can read my games. The same goes for Maniac Mansion 2, but that is a review 
 for another time.
  
  This game, for those who have never played an adventure game, is the title to at least check out 
 the genre. It will make you laugh and genuinely drive you to advance in the game to completion. 
 You should be able to locate a copy for as little as $5 in the discount software section. I highly 
 recommend dropping the five and grabbing a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Man I loved playing this game. A little on the short side but still very fun. I love doing these 
 point and click Adventure games. Keeps you mostly stress free from worrying about reflexes.
  
  The graphics were really good in the game. Some of the best 2D graphics as go as a TV show 
 or a movie. Maybe a little pixelation, but overall very good.
  
  the sound, wonderful in the game. Nothing to compain about. The voice acting is wonderful in the 
 game, the voices for each character is perfect. the music is pretty good in the game, there is 
 better music out there, but still very decent.
  
  Gameplay is good in the game. All you need is use a mouse and easy to remember Hot keys on the 
 keyboard. There is very little to worry about reflexes in the game, some but very mild. the gameplay 
 is perfect for any skill level so anyone can have fun.
  
  The value, maybe for one more replay but not much else. I did try to harder mode but got a little 
 too difficult for me to get that far in finding the right items. The game is pretty much on the 
 short side, even if it runs on two discs.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone in any skill level. I do miss that there not enough of good 
 point and click adventure games out there, they can be so much fun to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodzillaX8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite simply the pinnacle of adventure gaming. I have not played a funnier game in 
 my entire life, and I don't think I ever will. The puzzles are refreshing and intelligent, and 
 the characters are hilariously memorable. The graphics are beautifully hand-drawn, and the sound 
 is exquisite. If you're a fan of adventure games, or just looking for a laugh, this game is definitely 
 for you. Quite simply, adventure gaming perfection. Buy it, you'll find yourself playing through 
 over and over just to go through the hilarious dialogue trees differently to hear even more jokes 
 (It's packed full of them)
  
  "You're a cartographer, not a pirate!"
  "I am not, I'm a vicious pirate!"
  "You've got 'I luv maps' embroidered on your shirt!"
  "... That's 
 a coincidence!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osopolar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to this game by it's demo, and I was hooked a second later, I couldn't wait 
 to get this game, and when I finally got it I couldn't quit playing and was one of the most rewarding 
 game experiences I've ever have.
  
  The graphics in this game were marvelous by the time it was released and it didn't even need a 
 3d graphics card, and by today the graphics still look pretty good. The music and sfx are awesome 
 as well, the tunes are catchy and the sound is clear. The gameplay is one of the best I've seen 
 ever, is incredible simple yet not plain by any means; the mouse is all you need to play this game, 
 and is more than enough. The jokes in this game are hilarious, and one of the main reasons I play 
 it again from time to time.
  My only complain is that the game is not 3 or 4 times longer, sure, it took my a while to figure 
 out all the puzzles the first time, but now I can go through it in about 1or 2 hours, but of course, 
 I know the game by heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sooske_pa_talay
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  its 2005 and monkey island 3 released in 1997 !!!8 years passed and i think its one of the best 
 adventure game of all time!! you all know it ,cause i love this game i decided to write a review 
 for this game, or maybe i should do it becaues itsone of the first adventure game i ever played.
 
  many years ago!! when lucas arts liked to make adventures game more that this Star wars games everything 
 was better that now!!! all of the great adventure games made in 1990-2000 .. after 2000 this genre 
 failed!!
  you cant find any adventure games that can satisfy adventure players.
  monkey island 3 is 2D game.. with beautiful graphic even for now.
  puzzles are some kind of crazy 
 ones .. adventure fans know this stuff, but its cool adventure games must have this puzzles make 
 your brain work all the time .. Not this damn adventure games that coming these days like 'Broken 
 sword 3" and.............
  monkey island 3 is point and click adventure game... i think it's the best gameplay for adventure 
 games not keyboard controll.
  story of monkey island 3 is just a story that an adventure game must have.
  charecter are well 
 disigned you really stick to them. Every thing .. is Great.. Lots and Lots of funny scene.
  after you find the ship and 3 crow .. the ships battle are awsome.... after you defeate the ships 
 and sword play with the captains ... those dialogs.. uhhh... i really want go too old days and play 
 this game once more.... every adventure fan want it....... This is a Classic Game ... you will not 
 see these games in there years ... 
  "The adventure genre is Dead"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulxcs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game made all expectations possible, the game is perfect for its genre, its the king of it.
 
  
  The sounds are very realistic, and funny+ the graphics that are great, more for that time +the 
 gameplay that is very easy made it all possible for us to keep going and defeat the hot beard of 
 LeChuck, with a nice suplement of snow. 
  
  The Difficulty is quite easy but its right because kids plays this too. So try megamonkey, that's 
 hard enough, right? of course it is!
  
  The plot is very silly, but innocent with humor that makes this game comfortable for all ages.
 
  
  Combination of the factors listed above, and the production of this game are excellent. Very good 
 for Lucas.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game, blew my mind when i was a kid. And still does, actually im installing now... just had 
 to play it again. I must have played this game like 20 times, man it still rocks so hard!
  
  The voice-acting is silly, the graphics are GREAT. This game is REALLY funny and i recommend 
 it to ANYONE who has not played it yet. It's not to late! Give this game to your kids, they will 
 love it. I promise. It's cheap, fun, does not require a fast machine and no disk space at all almost.
 
  
  The plot is really stupid, silly and hilarious. You have to rescue your girlfriend, who has been 
 turned into gold... and this takes you to some really strange places where you meet even stranger 
 characters... like the talking skull... man he really rocks :)
  
  I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great adventure game. I have played Monkey island 1,2 and 4 and This is one of the best 
 in the series. Accually I love the whole series ever since the fisrt one came out in 1990. Even 
 though THis game is old and the others are older I still have a great time playing them. The Humur 
 is very good and the gameplay is still click and move kind of thing like the first one but it's 
 still fun. If it's still in stores BUY IT you wil not be dissapointed if not get it off ebay or 
 Amazon. anyways back to playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  What Can I say about this game? It is just Great! Like the two Monkey Island Games before it (The 
 Secret of Monkey Island and Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge) Curse of Monkey Island has everything 
 a classic adventure game should have: great gameplay, marvellous graphics, a very nice plot, fantastic 
 music, challenging puzzles, and hilarious lines. 
  Once again you have to help Guybrush defeat LeChuck and save Elaine from a horrible curse that 
 turns her into a gold statue! You start in Plunder Island where you have to wonder around a lot 
 and solve puzzles until you finally find a way to get Elaine. Then you travel to Blood Island and 
 also visit Skull Island to get all the things you need to lift the curse.
  The puzzles are quite challenging and that is that makes the game so great. I spent hours wondering 
 around and trying to work things out and I really loved it. The cartoonish graphics are just fantastic, 
 and the dialogue lines are hilarious. The characters that you will meet throughout the game are 
 some old ones from the two games before and some new funny ones, like Murray the talking Skull 
 and the barber Pirates.
  I totally recommend this game to anyone that enjoys classic adventure games. It is a masterpiece!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortman190
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game, The Curse of Monkey Island, certainly is one of the funniest games that I have 
 playedever. The wanna-be pirate Guybrush Threepwood has gotten himself into hot water again in 
 another memorable adventure from Lucasarts. 
  
  The ever present humour (and sometimes subtle humour) is yet another strong point of this game. 
 From subtle references to Star Wars to vegetarian cannibals, the humour in this game keeps even 
 the dullest moments enjoyable. The plot is simple yet fun and enjoyable. You run across your arch-nemesis 
 Le Chuck (who, might I add, is a zombie pirate voodoo master) , and of course, you get captured 
 and put in the ships holding cell. After teasing the guard, you finally escape, which involves 
 getting pushed through the door by a cannon. Eventually, you come across a huge diamond ring with 
 which you propose to your love, Elaine. The diamond ring however is cursed. Like I said earlier, 
 Le Chuck knows his voodoo, and as a result, Elaine is now a gold statue. As Guybrush tries to get 
 help, some no-good, scurvy infested pirates steal his love-of-his life. 
  
  The game is filled up to bursting with puzzles. Sometimes hilarious, sometimes dumbfounding, the 
 puzzles are another strong point of this game. Along with the music of course, as most of the classic 
 tunes from the previous games have been redone. The graphics are also quite good, although they 
 are in a cartoon style.
  
  All in all, a great game, depicted in a witty style. Two thumbs up!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddalet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review, you are the choir so to speak, so I wont preach to you. Just 
 join me in appreciating how great this production is. It is a shame that these days Lucasarts has 
 abandoned the one genre it was good at. All in all, what direction exactly, if any, has this company 
 taken that has led to better profits/quality products other than having pursued this genre? 
  
  But fear not my friends, as gaming continues to gain steam, and the community ages, we will 
 undoubtedly see a revival of our treasured genre.
  
  For now, join me in thanking Guybrush and the gang for the root beer, the three headed monkeys, 
 and the memories.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chozojedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2004 5:23 am PT
Review:  I have always loved Monkey Island. I played the original back on Sega CD. And while the minute-long 
 loading times got very irritating, the REST of the game was priceless: great story, humorous slap-stick 
 comedy, a three-headed monkey, and the great Secret of Monkey Island. (So great, I STILL don't 
 know what it is.)
  
  I have yet to play MI 2, but this third installment, aptly titled Curse of Monkey Island, is just 
 spectacular. Once again, Guybrush Threepwood - mighty pirate - is sailing the high seas of the 
 Carribean, in search of a cure for his one true love, Governor Elaine Marley, who has been turned 
 into a solid gold statue. Along the way, you'll encounter a pirate vessel manned by a crew of poo-slinging 
 apes, a cosmopolitan/Voodoo Priestess, a talking demonic skull named Murry... umm... fierce feral 
 chickens, an overly-superstitious gypsy, a drunken bartender, vegetarian cannibals, and a pirate 
 named SnuggleCakes!
  
  With it's crisp (hand-drawn) cartoon classics, carrbiean-themed musical score and it's hilarious 
 dialogue, Curse of Monkey Island is a sure classic for any Monkey Island vet... And something you 
 new guys will definitely like. And the plot's great, too. 
  
  Along with it's many puzzles that are sure to turn your brain inside out, there's TWICE the puzzle-solving 
 goodness - this game has two difficulty levels: Classic and Mega-Monkey. 
  Mega Monkey is similar to Classic, except that there more puzzles to solve, and some of the puzzles 
 that you can solve in Classic need to be taken a further step, while others must be solved in a 
 totally different manner altogether.
  
  While the swordplay level could've been a little better and the last level couldn't been JUST a 
 tad longer, this game has to be, without a doubt, one of THE best adventure games I have ever played, 
 second only to the legendary Myst trilogy. Even after playing it straight through TWICE, you may 
 feel compelled to play it yet again - the script (especially it's humor) is a masterpiece. You're 
 sure to love it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 7, 2004 1:47 am PT
Review:  Third in the marvelous series of Monkey Island adventure games from Lucasarts, 'Curse' brings voice 
 acting, traditional animation and a new inventory-combination system that leaps over the previous 
 two games farther than you can toss a rubber caber. Funny, and I mean funny gags, in-jokes and 
 pirate-slapstick are found throughout the game. Mini-stories abound, each one bringing you closer 
 to removing the voodoo curse off your solid gold sweetheart some dunderhead afflicted her with. 
 That dunderhead is you, Guybrush Threepwood, mighty pirate. I dare you to play the game through 
 without muttering a pirate-y Argh! just once.
  
  * Gameplay: Wickedly devious puzzles with compounded yet logical layers keep you smacking your 
 head when you figure them out. The dialogue is so full of wit and charm you cant help but enjoy 
 every character in the game. Curse plays out like a movie, with plenty of eye and ear candy to 
 absorb while you're figuring out puzzles.
  
  * Graphics: The game uses an artistic animation style reminiscent of a childrens book, with exaggerated 
 perspectives and color-rich backdrops. The cinematic cut-scenes are in the same art style. This 
 would have made a great Saturday morning cartoon.
  
  * Sound: Every voice in the game is perfect. They even got Alan Scrooge McDuck Young himself! 
 If you dont find yourself occasionally singing A pirate I was meant to be, trim the sails and 
 roam the sea!, then theres something wrong with you. The music expands on the familiar Caribbean 
 themes that sounded great even back when they were in MIDI form. They sound even better now. And 
 lets not forget the smooth bossa nova cocktail beats that play whenever you visit the beach club. 
 "Oh, Cabana Boy!..."
  
  * Value: Better than a lot of animated films and containing enough entertainment value to justify 
 buying it at full price even today. Replay value is limited since you pretty much have to do and 
 see everything in order to finish the game so there is little chance you would have missed something. 
 Then again, its fun to see and do all the same stuff again anyway. I have!
  
  * Tilt: Ive played and enjoyed all the Monkey Island games and this is by far my favorite. Ive 
 also played lots of other Lucasarts adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamvego
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Monkey Island game on the Amiga when I was a lot younger, and so understand 
 where the whole game series is coming from.
  
  I bought The Curse Of Monkey Island as part of the Monkey Island Bounty pack, which included the 
 first 2 games on 1 CD. However, the 3rd game came on 2. The reason for this is because the game 
 is much higher resolution, and the characters have been given the cartoon treatment. The introduction 
 is a mini-cartoon in itself, and the production quality it excellent. LucasArts have clearly put 
 their back into this game. Something introduced into this game not in the previous two is voice-acting. 
 All the characters are given their own voices, which means no more peering at text and more attention 
 devoted to the atmosphere of the game. LucasArts didn't stop there, they've also included an interactive 
 song, which I shall leave you to find out about ;)
  
  As expected, The Curse Of Monkey Island remains a point-and-click adventure, meaning there's no 
 learning curve when it comes to getting used to the game. I can't imagine anyone not enjoying this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19428264612504649237498268957163-MichaelDietz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 28, 2004 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The Curse of Monkey island is the third title in the Monkey Island series, started by LucasFilm 
 Games in 1990, where players take the role of aspiring pirate Guybrush Threepwood. Embarking on 
 a rather comical quest to defeat the feared LeChuck and rescue his beloved Elaine is what the series 
 is built on. The first two games are widely considered masterpieces, so it was only certain that 
 LucasArts would treat fans to another delightful adventure.
  
  The Curse of Monkey Island starts off with Guybrush stranded at sea longing to see Elaine again. 
 He gripes and moans about how such a swashbuckling pirate should not die, and finally chances looking 
 up at the sound of a gunshot. The perfectly in tune series theme kicks in, putting Guybrush on 
 yet another humorous quest.
  
  It turns out that LeChuck has been reincarnated yet again and is looking to be Elaine's loved one. 
 For whatever reason, he chooses to show this affection by attacking the island Elaine serves as 
 governor at. Guybrush thwarts LeChuck's ploy and attempts to propose to Elaine only to find out 
 that the ring he put on her finger is cursed; turning Elaine into a statue. Though the plot may 
 be predictable to veterans of the series, it is still enjoyable and fun to watch unfold.
  
  The gameplay of The Curse of Monkey Island is sound, but nothing innovational or new to the genre. 
 The player controls Guybrush in the classic point and click manner and can talk, eat, and use various 
 objects. As always, there is an inventory screen wherein Guybrush can easily use and combine items 
 he has picked up. The combining action is very important in most puzzles, and provides for some 
 interesting match-up to make things work.
  
  Curse of Monkey Island is just about a pure adventure game. Only one small bit at the very beginning 
 and ship battleing in the middle do not use the point and click gameplay. Even sections where one 
 would expect to play with the arrow keys are not so. Yes, insult sword fighting has returned. Insult 
 sword fighting appears about halfway through the game and comes into play when fighting the pirate 
 captain of a ship. The player duels with various pirates by trading off insults. If the insult 
 can be matched be the opponent, then the one who made the insult is fought back. Likewise, if the 
 insult cannot be replied to, the opponent is pushed back. It goes on like this for about 3 insults 
 against one person. Upon winning, Guybrush walks away with plunder and new insults or comebacks, 
 but upon defeat, only the latter. The system works incredibly well and should keep the player laughing 
 throughout.
  
  The old point and click system paired with combining items provides for some frustrating yet entertaining 
 puzzles. There are some extremely annoying puzzles that will keep players confused and begging 
 for help. Some combinations of items are overly obscure and are usually found by guess. These gripes 
 don't really detract from the gameplay though. Nothing beats the feeling of success after conquering 
 a puzzle worked on for days.
  
  The graphics in Curse of Monkey Island are absolutely amazing. It takes a giant leap away from 
 the first two games' visuals and presents itself in dashing hand-animated colors. All the characters 
 are smoothly animated and shaded by the talented folks at LucasArts. Everything is smooth except 
 for some uncommon anti-aliasing faults that make the outlines of characters more jaggy. Nothing 
 that detracts from the game's eye searing beauty, though.
  
  The sound in The Curse of Monkey Island is excellently instrumented. The classic theme returns 
 and is as catchy as ever. Other locations have their own fitting music that add to the general 
 look and feel of each place.
  
  Voice acting was a very contemplated aspect prior to the games release. Many thought giving Guybrush 
 a voice was a bad idea because everyone had their own opinion on how he should sound. Upon finally 
 hearing the voice work, it turned out that everyone had the same sounding Guybrush in their head. 
 Everything is pronounced clearly and in a perfect tone. All the supporting characters have their 
 own unique voice that fits their appearance well. The larger, tougher characters have gruff voices 
 while the smaller types have the same type of excellently matched pitch.
  
  It is widely known that adventure games do not have the best replay value, and The Curse of Monkey 
 Island would be expected to have the same. This is a misconception though. The game comes with 
 two starting options: Normal play and Mega Monkey mode. The Mega Monkey mode adds a few extra puzzles 
 and makes the roadblocks from Normal mode collapsed bridges. This mode seems to be intended for 
 more for the defiant audience and may steer away newer players.
  
  The Curse of Monkey Island is an excellent game on all fronts. Beautiful scenery, flawless sound 
 work, brain straining puzzles, and original character design make it a top tier choice for both 
 Monkey Island fans and anyone who wants to get into the adventure genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha__13
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2004 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Superb, the whole thing's very fun to play, all of the characters are really funny. You're 
 put in the shoes of Guybrush Threepwood, a wanna-be pirate, he accidently turns his girlfriend 
 into a gold statue when he gives her a cursed diamond ring as an engagement ring and has to go 
 to Blood Island to find an uncursed diamond ring.
  
  Graphics: I liked the graphics of this game, it's got a cartoon feel to it without the cell shading.
 
  
  Sound: Some good pirate music, the characters are acted out very well.
  
  Value: You'll be playing this game for a while, once you've finished it, I'm pretty sure you're 
 gonna wanna play it again.
  
  Overall: This is one of my favorite games, it's a classic. A comical story of a wanna-be pirate 
 making a series of bad mistakes. I'd have to say my favorite character is Murry, the talking skull.
 
  
  Guybrush: You're about as fearsome as a doorstop.
  Murry: Is it a really evil looking doorstop? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  In 1997, LucasArts released the last great Monkey Island game. Capturing the evolving spirit of 
 the new aesthetic design philosophy, and bringing it to the screen for the first time in SVGA and 
 in full-voice, CMI was a giant leap forward for adventure gaming.
  
  Rejoining the adventures of the hapless pirate wannabe, Guybrush Threepwood and his twice-dead 
 adversary LeChuck, Curse takes you on another island-hopping adventure of epic proportions. This 
 time, Guybrush and Elaine have now become a couple, and Guybrush is ready to pop the question. 
 Little does he know that his engagement ring is actually a cursed stone that turns its wearer into 
 solid gold. No sooner than Guybrush learns this the hard way, Elaine is stolen by gold-hungry pirates. 
 And thus, the adventure to reclaim his bride-to-be begins.
  
  The graphics in CMI are absolutely superb. Excellent environmental and character design abounds, 
 and the decision to take Monkey Island in the cartoony direction is a solid one. The animation 
 is excellent, and the sheer variety of different animations is very impressive. At the time of 
 this review, it's been six years, and the game still looks absolutely incredible.
  
  The sound, always a high point of LucasArts games, is also excellent. Many fans were worried about 
 lending a voice to Guybrush, since we all had imagined our own Guybrush voice in our heads while 
 playing through Monkey Island 1 and 2. Turns out, we all had dreamt up the same voice, because 
 Dominic Armato's Guybrush is spot-on. The other voice acting is excellent as well. And, as always, 
 CMI shines in the music department.
  
  Of course, adventures have never depended on graphics and sound... adventures are all about gameplay. 
 Well, Curse delivers one of the best and most replayable adventures in the history of adventure 
 gaming. The story is fun, the dialogue is snappy and witty, the puzzles are quirky and interesting, 
 and the game is long. So much detail was poured into the game that it's hard not to sit back in 
 awe at how painstakingly the game was crafted. And, of course, what would Monkey Island be without 
 some mini-challenges... all the insults are back, but new to the party is a wonderful swashbuckling 
 interlude where you sail the seas and engage in old-school Star Control type battle. It's a lot 
 of fun.
  
  Adventure fans, this is a classic for all time. Those who find recent adventure games unimpressive 
 would do well to check out CMI, and see what true adventure gaming is all about.
  
  How appropriate... you fight like a cow. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
