-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The City of Lost Children
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/cityoflostchildren/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 6.0, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 31 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEE
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An adventure game with no adventure and no game. 

 The City of Lost Children is an adventure game with no adventure and no game. What it does have 
 is extraordinary and gorgeous 3-D graphics, lush music, and some terrific motion-captured animation. 
 But that sensuous beauty does not begin to make up for the disappointing lack of real puzzle solving. 

 The game is based on the bizarre and captivating film of the same title. You play Miette, a 12-year-old 
 orphan girl who is sent on various illegal errands by her Siamese twin headmistresses. Each task 
 is replete with gameplay frustrations and tedium.  

 Using only arrow keys, you navigate Miette through the dismal streets, elevated metal walkways, 
 and dark alleys of a foreboding city set sometime in the near future. While you will quickly tire 
 of the necessary but time-consuming meandering, you can't help but be captivated by Miette's appearance. 
 Her motions are lifelike, her dress flows as she moves, she throws real-time shadows, and as she 
 passes from darkness to light, her appearance changes accordingly. Additionally, you have many 
 opportunities to view Miette and the city from multiple camera angles, each more stunning than 
 the last. Despite its gameplay drawbacks, City is a graphical tour de force.  

 There is a story that is obliquely alluded to in the difficult-to-follow opening sequence. The world's 
 gone to hell and some mad scientist has created an evil man who can't dream. That dreamless man 
 kidnaps children to tap into their dreams then pickles them when their dreams don't meet his expectations. 
 But damned if you can figure that out. And, unlike the film, Miette's wanderings through this game 
 have little or nothing to do with that story.  

 Inventory gathering is an arduous and excruciating process. Virtually all needed items are hidden 
 from view. You'll find most behind objects or in darkened foyers. As Miette wanders near an unseen 
 object, it appears in a small box on the screen. Then you click to put it in your inventory. This 
 means you have to move Miette everywhere, and if you don't happen to move her over the specific 
 pixel, the item won't show up onscreen. Even with a step-by-step walk-through, you'll have a hard 
 time finding the objects. Good luck to those flying blind.  

 There are several actions Miette needs to take, such as hiding behind some boxes, ringing a bell, 
 operating a periscope, or giving a tin can to a fisherman. Each requires that you not only know 
 you're supposed to do something but that you find the specific pixel on which to do it. Completing 
 the fisherman sequence requires starting three steps behind him, asking a question, moving one 
 step closer, asking another question, then moving another step closer and giving him the can. This 
 is an incredibly nonintuitive game that seems to have been released with no play testing.   

 The game appears greatly truncated when compared to the movie. All the game's action takes place 
 in the city, but the film has a lengthy closing act in the offshore oil rig that served as the 
 madman's experimental laboratory. In the film's closing sequences, Miette and her strongman friend 
 One have to solve many additional problems leading to a spectacular, pyrotechnic conclusion. But 
 in the game, the problems and accompanying plot development are all neatly wrapped up into a brief 
 cutscene, minus the fireworks. It appears the developers ran out of time and money and cut their 
 losses. It's a most unsatisfying denouement to a frustrating but beautiful game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Stu-pendous
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  It is perhaps fair to say that City Of The Lost Children's transition to the video game world was 
 a surprising move. The film was superbly directed with strange characters, beautiful imagery and 
 unlikely epic plot - but what conviction did it hold as a video game, and one that would sell to 
 the public? Obviously something according to the developers. Weirdly, the video game is mostly 
 out of context with the film, leaving the finished product without the actual essence of adventure.
 
  
  Set in the hazy future of misery, City Of The Lost Children revolves around a declining world and 
 a deranged scientist who has created a man who cannot dream. That man kidnaps children to steal 
 their dreams and stifles wasted ones in a vault. The protaginist is the young girl of the actual 
 film, the twelve year old orphan Miette, who begins the game being ordered to do criminal deeds 
 by her evil siamese headmistresses. Her journey is frustrating and you're led into believing that 
 her tale has no relevance to the film until you get to a certain stage for the film's bulk to suddenly 
 kick in. Judging by the film, the only element of gameplay that could have been derived from the 
 film into an actual game would have been at the end where Miette and her friend One delve into 
 the mad scientist's laboratory. The developers miss a brilliant opportunity to play out this scene 
 and instead reduce the laboratory sequence to a mere cutscene. Consequently, only a portion of 
 the film's story is adapted into the gameplay.
  
  As a heroine, Miette is as annoying as whiny brats come. At least Oliver Twist could sing. She 
 makes the frustrating tasks even more tedious with her dull personality that qualifies her nothing 
 more than a irritant brat at best.
  
  It's your job to guide Miette via your arrow keys through the dirty and dismal streets, docks, 
 elevated walkways and dangerous alleyways throughout the game as she wanders the town in the future. 
 The actions Miette takes are very low-key compared to the exciting events of Broken Sword. Instead 
 of murders, explosions and intricate puzzles, Miette simply has to sneak and duck behind boxes, 
 ring bells and run away, pick items up and give banal items to characters. There is hardly any 
 really stimulating events in the game, and the concentrated way of doing things (such as asking 
 questions from a certain stance) seem to be insipid and nonintuitive. The game's short length is 
 criminal to qualify it being worth a meagre amount of the price tag, collapsed on top of the fact 
 that you won't be tasting any of the delights the film gave you.
  
  Inventory gathering is the most baffling concept ever. Most items you need are hidden behind boxes 
 or in some dark place that is normally hard for to find. Luckily for us that when Miette is beside 
 an item, it will appear in the upper right hand corner in a small box indicating you to pick it 
 up. Unfortunately though, it means you need to make sure that Miette wanders everywhere as you 
 need to be on a right pixel to view the box to pick the item up. Finding the items is plain hard 
 because you can't see the items and to be frank, you're basically looking for the exact pixel to 
 be standing on to access the option. Also, some of the items are unneccessary and it is highly 
 irritating when you find out that you didn't need them in the first place.
  
  Why City Of The Lost Children blagged a release on the Playstation console is beyond me when you 
 look at the terrible graphics. However, this PC version is much more polished with very uniquely 
 watercoloured shading and perfectly lifelike motion from the characters appearances that grab a 
 spot of the captivation the film did when it was released. It's true that the gameplay is hardly 
 anything to raise a smile about but wandering the gloomy streets with Miette is just a joy to watch 
 because of the graphical grandeur of things; such as Miette's flowing dress and real time shadows 
 that show her in a different light. The many close ups of her innocent face is great testing of 
 the console.
  
  The musical score is also quite gripping. Some of the music will be sinister and dismal when Miette 
 is in the gutter slewn streets and at the dock there will be a more ambient sound. The introduction 
 musical sequence is orchestra music on liberating top form and it's only a pity that City Of The 
 Lost Children didn't hold more scenarios to invite more of the wonderful music into the game. Voice 
 acting is also used and Miette is given a typical English accent which sounds snobby and prude, 
 as if she was far too above being an orphan with hardly any emotion in her dialogue other than 
 when she's whining about not being able to do a task you've given her. With the lack of character 
 interaction in the game, the time you get to hear speech from them is distinctly underwhelming.
 
  
  Trounced by a poor budget and no immense detail attention regarding the gameplay, City Of The Lost 
 Children has no conviction over its maker that is the film and to be honest, there is no real justification 
 why it should have been released as a game. It will do absolutely nothing whatsoever for the stagnant 
 adventure genre other than to set an example of why the genre is struggling to appeal to new audiences 
 in the first place. The heart of the game is entirely marred with mocking, comatose gameplay and 
 an upsettingly stale plot development. City Of The Lost Children neatly wraps up the film's memorable 
 imagery in a beautiful world of 3D graphics but in the end is just a pointless and tiringly below 
 average game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
