-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chroniclesofriddick/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible blend of first-person shooting, stealth, and exploration.
 Excellent story, dialogue, and characters.
 Breathtaking visuals and audio.
 Exquisite pacing--never a dull moment.
 Great PC-exclusive content--new gameplay sequence and DVD-style commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 On the short side--only about 10 hours long.
 A few graphical and AI quirks.
 You might expect multiplayer, but there is none.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.1, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 6,314 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 8, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Chronicles of Riddick isn't a highly anticipated first-person shooter sequel, but don't let 
 that make you assume it can't be one of the year's best action games -- because it is. 

  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay is one of those exceedingly rare types of games 
 that delivers exceptionally high quality through and through and single-handedly ups the ante for 
 all similar games. The fact that it also happens to be based on a movie franchise -- something that's 
 usually a bad sign for a game -- makes it all the more incredible. You could call it a first-person 
 shooter, but that would be selling it short. This ambitious game is played mostly from a first-person 
 perspective, and it effectively and innovatively combines excellent shooting, hand-to-hand combat, 
 stealth, and adventure elements with a solid story and truly outstanding, highly atmospheric graphics 
 and sound. The game debuted on the Xbox earlier this year, but it has turned out to be every bit 
 as surprisingly good on the PC, thanks to an excellent translation that shows no traces of the 
 game's console origins. Furthermore, some exciting, brand-new extras that are exclusive to the 
 PC version make it worth experiencing even by those who've played and enjoyed the original version 
 of the game. No, the Chronicles of Riddick isn't a highly anticipated first-person shooter sequel. 
 But don't let that make you assume it can't be one of the year's best action games -- because it 
 is.  

          To make a long story short, The Chronicles of Riddick is one of the best PC action games 
 of the year.     

  Those familiar with the Xbox version of The Chronicles of Riddick should know that the new PC "Developer's 
 Cut" version is fundamentally the same game, but with a few key differences: Its visuals have been 
 enhanced to be proportionally outstanding even when measured against the PC's extremely high standards; 
 its controls have been optimized to make it easy to pick up by anyone who has played a PC first-person 
 shooter lately; it features a new and exciting gameplay sequence that has been seamlessly integrated 
 into the middle of the story; and it boasts an unlockable "commentary" mode, which annotates the 
 entire game with extensive, often fascinating DVD-style audio commentary from the frightfully talented 
 development team at Stockholm-based Starbreeze Studios.  

  The commentary mode is a great treat, and its implementation is surprisingly clever, so much that 
 we expect such a feature to become commonplace in games before long. Commentary tracks appear as 
 actual floating objects in the game (complete with descriptions of who's speaking, what about, 
 and for how long) , and they show up in specific contexts and seemingly around every corner. So 
 the experience of playing the commentary mode is comparable to what it might be like to play this 
 game with the developers sitting next to you with nothing better to do than indulge your curiosity 
 about any little detail that catches your eye. It yields great insight into how such a one-of-a-kind 
 game came into being, and you get to listen to as much or as little of it as you wish while playing 
 through the adventure once again. This level of behind-the-scenes detail would seem pretentious 
 or pointless in a lesser game; here, it's a revelation and a great reason for fans of the Xbox 
 version to justify playing the game again. The fact that the PC version retails for less than the 
 price of most new games should make it all the more tempting.  

  As for the new gameplay sequence, it's a relatively brief but satisfyingly brutal romp from within 
 the confines of a mechanized riot armor suit bristling with heavy firepower (you fought against 
 guards wearing these in the Xbox version of the game) . The whole scene plays out like a faster-paced 
 version of the incredible "heavy guard" sequence that happens later on, and it's almost as good. 
 And it has been carefully spliced into the game at a time when a furious shoot-out feels just right. 
 For good measure, there are some impressive, new enemies featured in this sequence, so, much like 
 the commentary mode, it's not to be missed by fans. Meanwhile, those who don't have the original 
 version of the game as a frame of reference will count this as just one of the game's many memorable 
 parts.  

  If you're fortunate enough to have seen the 1999 sci-fi horror movie  Pitch Black , then you're 
 familiar with the violent, resourceful Richard B. Riddick (played by Vin Diesel, who seems like 
 one of the only actors around who can pull off a part like that) . He's also the main character 
 of this game and of the recent movie that shares the same title (minus the game's subtitle) . Riddick, 
 a hardened criminal, is as threatening and intimidating as they come -- yet there's something genuinely 
 admirable about his no-nonsense, no-holds-barred approach to survival. At any rate, you don't need 
 to be a fan of  Pitch Black , its sequel, or Vin Diesel to appreciate Escape From Butcher Bay. 
 Leave it to the game to make you one if you aren't already. The game's plot is spelled out in the 
 title. At the beginning, Riddick is delivered by a bounty hunter to Butcher Bay, the hardest and 
 most dreaded prison in the galaxy. And Riddick doesn't waste a minute in his attempts to find a 
 way out, even though it is said that no one has busted out of Butcher Bay before. The game is actually 
 a prequel to  Pitch Black , which takes place before the most recent movie. As such, no previous 
 experience is expected or required, though  Pitch Black  fans will appreciate that the game features 
 a few sequences that are referred to in the movie but have never been shown until now.  

  There are too many great little touches in The Chronicles of Riddick to mention, but they all add 
 up to make it the superb game that it is. Here are just a few specific points: Each of the dozens 
 of inmates you'll come across in the game is a unique character with his own name, voice, and likeness, 
 which lends the game a sense of depth and personality that few other games of any genre can touch. 
 Vin Diesel delivers all of Riddick's lines in a menacingly low growl that's perfect for the part. 
 But it's not just Diesel, though, because literally all of the voice-acting performances in the 
 game are outstanding. The game boldly defies the conventions of the first-person action genre's 
 form by putting you in a variety of situations that are uniquely dangerous, rather than just letting 
 you use stronger and stronger firearms against tougher and tougher foes. That is to say, The Chronicles 
 of Riddick continually keeps you guessing and never gets tedious by forcing you through repetitive 
 sequences, though it does make you double back through some previously explored territory on occasion. 
 The game wears its mature themes with aplomb. What other game is so dark, so gritty, and yet so 
 ironic that it tasks you with searching for dozens of different intergalactic cigarette packs to 
 unlock extra features like concept art and movie stills?  

          Enhanced visuals and exclusive extras make the PC version even better than the Xbox original, 
 though you'd never know from playing it that this started as a console game.     

  If the actual game itself has any shortcomings, they're minor and worth acknowledging just to temper 
 all the praise. The Chronicles of Riddick, despite its overall spectacular appearance, lacks a 
 bit of visual polish. For instance, there are some barely noticeable seams in some of the character 
 models during several of the dialogue sequences. Also, when you're taking cover from enemy fire, 
 you can see bullet tracers that seem to jut through the wall at times. These are issues that were 
 present in the Xbox version and are still here on the PC. Furthermore, you'll need a high-end system 
 to enjoy the visuals in all their glory. Even then, you'll probably see the frame rate dip during 
 some of the more intense shoot-outs. Also, the richly detailed environments of the game are relatively 
 small, which may not come as a surprise since the setting is a claustrophobic prison. However, 
 brief loading times will interrupt your progress through these areas fairly often, but (luckily) 
 they are the only things that take you out of the experience of the game. Incidentally, the PC 
 version of the game includes conventional quicksave and quick-load features. But these are mostly 
 just there to make first-person shooter traditionalists feel better, since the game's transparent 
 checkpoint system means you never have to worry about manually saving or loading your progress 
 unless you want to.     

  Any other shortcomings are things that aren't actually in the game, so it seems almost unfair to 
 even bring them up. The Chronicles of Riddick is paced extremely well for an action game and it 
 will leave you riveted for the 10-or-so hours it takes you to finish the first time through. That's 
 about standard for the single-player portion of an action game, but then again, you can never have 
 too much of a good thing. Fortunately, in addition to the commentary mode, the game has multiple 
 difficulty settings (the toughest of which is great to play after you've finished the game on the 
 default setting) , and it's open-ended enough and simply good enough to warrant playing through 
 at least one more time. There's no kind of multiplayer support to give the game long-term replay 
 value, but the memory is going to stick, and that ought to count for something. In all seriousness, 
 the absence of a multiplayer mode in The Chronicles of Riddick only bears mentioning because of 
 the notion that first-person-perspective games all ought to have both single-player and multiplayer 
 features in them. Judged purely on its own merits, though, The Chronicles of Riddick offers a wholly 
 satisfying single-player experience that concludes as memorably and as impressively as it begins. 
 Furthermore, it leaves you wanting more, and not because it's short but because it's just so good. 

          No game has ever combined hand-to-hand combat and shoot-outs as terrifically as this one. 
     

  You'll pick up on the particulars of the gameplay in the game's introductory sequence, where you'll 
 find that The Chronicles of Riddick basically plays like any recent first-person shooter. You'll 
 notice, though, that there's no heads-up display of any kind onscreen, which really helps draw 
 you into Riddick's cruel world. In most games, you've got your ammo readout and your health gauge 
 and such things along the periphery, with good reason. However, The Chronicles of Riddick doesn't 
 settle for convention. For instance, when wielding a gun, your aiming reticle isn't a crosshair 
 drawn in the middle of the screen as in other games, but it's the gun's own laser sight. And your 
 health only appears as a row of simple, white boxes as you're taking damage. You have a limited 
 ability to regenerate your health if you crouch down to avoid further injury for a few moments, 
 which is a good system that encourages a tactical approach to combat. But rest assured that the 
 game does have plenty of parts in which full-on, run-and-gun-style shooting is called for. Of course, 
 you begin the game unarmed and will actually spend a considerable length of time fighting either 
 bare-fisted or with hand-to-hand weapons, including various shivs, knuckle-dusters, and clubs. 

  The hand-to-hand combat in The Chronicles of Riddick is leaps and bounds better than that of any 
 other first-person action game to date, but frankly, that really isn't saying much. Still, this 
 is a great system that's just deep enough to be interesting without being too complex to easily 
 pick up. You can execute different punches or strikes by moving forward, back, left, or right while 
 attacking, and you may discover various combos by stringing together these different moves. You 
 can also block melee attacks with the right mouse button. Most importantly, the melee combat just 
 has a great, solid feel to it. Riddick's attacks look immensely powerful and painful (especially 
 when he's cutting his foes with a shiv) , and enemies' attacks that hit home will likewise send 
 your first-person-perspective view careening side to side. This is as close as you'd want to get 
 to being punched in the face. Best of all, Riddick has a few countermoves that he can use against 
 armed and unarmed opponents alike. You can pull these off with proper timing, but since they're 
 executed by pressing the attack button, you'll sometimes land them by accident -- which is fine. 
 That way it's all the more shocking when you see Riddick grappling an armed guard and suddenly 
 forcing him to blow his own brains out.  

  It's too bad for you, but not for the game, that you usually can't just grab his gun and carry 
 on. One of the unique twists of The Chronicles of Riddick is that most of Butcher Bay's guards 
 carry DNA-imprinted assault rifles that administer an electric shock to any unauthorized users. 
 Of course, Riddick will still manage to get his hands on several different firearms at various 
 points throughout the game, and he will unleash hell with these in a manner befitting a man like 
 him. The ranged combat in the game is straightforward but highly gratifying. There's (thankfully) 
 no sniper rifle in the arsenal, so all the shooting takes place at close or medium range with direct-fire 
 projectile weapons, including pistols, shotguns, and assault rifles. There's an admittedly small 
 variety of firearms in the game, so it's fortunate that the ones to be found feel so powerful and 
 are so satisfying to use. They make a terrific sound, pack plenty of punch, and helpfully display 
 the number of rounds remaining in the clip. The bigger guns also feature an optional flashlight 
 to help you see in the darkness, but using the light may tip off any enemies in the vicinity -- or 
 the other way around when they use theirs.  

          The commentary mode, multiple difficulty settings, optional mission objectives, and diverse 
 tactical options make The Chronicles of Riddick worth coming back to after you've finished it. 
     

  The artificial intelligence of the game's characters is remarkably good, especially during shoot-outs. 
 Enemies will realistically dodge from side to side and use cover, and rather than rushing headlong 
 toward you, they'll often hang back to fight from the proper range. These are tactics that naturally 
 encourage you to attack using stealth when they're armed and you're not. The enemies will patrol 
 plausibly when they're unaware of your presence, but if you give yourself away, you'll have to 
 fight your way out. During battle, many of your foes will relentlessly and arrogantly taunt you, 
 thus making you want to take them down that much more. Late in the game, when you turn the tables 
 on your foes and get your hands on one of their best weapons, you'll be thrilled to hear their 
 panicked cries. And, during relatively nonviolent sequences -- when you're supposedly just being 
 a good inmate -- guards won't attack on sight but they'll savagely beat you with their rifles if 
 you get too close. Not all of your foes in The Chronicles of Riddick are human, either, and suffice 
 it to say that these other types of opponents are challenging in their own rights and make for 
 great changes of pace.  

  Riddick is human, but he's extremely strong, hardy, and fast. He has a few other special abilities 
 as well. Those who've seen  Pitch Black  know that the character has mysterious, shining eyes that 
 allow him to see in the dark. You'll gain this special vision mode during the course of the game, 
 and you'll need to manage it thereafter. It's very useful for getting the drop on bad guys in dark 
 corridors, but the flashlights on their weapons or various other light sources in the environment 
 will be blinding to you when using the eye shine. Fortunately, you can instantly toggle your vision 
 mode with the touch of a key. It's also possible to switch to a crouched stance, which has the 
 added effect of giving you a wide-angle view of the environment, as if Riddick is cautiously scanning 
 his surroundings rather than focusing dead ahead. There's much more to keeping a low profile, though. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (188 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The game truly delivers a more intense and realistic First Person Shooter to the genre. Step into 
 the shoes as Riddick ( voiced by no other than Vin Diesel ) and escape from the biggest slam in 
 the system, Butcher Bay.
  
  Cutting to the chase. This game gives so much to the players, there's a sense of sandbox freedom 
 although you will progress through newer areas. 
  
  For those who enjoy a bit more detail in their gameplay, there are side missions to do with rewards 
 that can uncover Extra Content based on Concept Arts and Movie Clips.
  What's more fun is that this game reminds you alot about Prison Break. Both main characters are 
 bald and have an intention in breaking out.
  
  For a 2004 game, it really is a wonderful game. The gameplay is fantastic and the visuals still 
 look stunning , even up till today and could easily compete with most games we have now.
  
  If you do not have this game, by all means get it. If you really enjoy stealth games, this is for 
 you but it's also action packed if you want it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Today's standards for being a good game were set up high by Call Of Duty and Crysis. But this 2004 
 game just beats the crap out of those standards. What Crysis said is, you must have good graphics, 
 and this game, even being to many people "outdated", is very well designed, everything is just 
 great. And what call of duty said was Gameplay and FUN! And guess what? It's an amusing game, fun 
 to play even being short, and the mix of FPS+Stealth is genius.
  
  Butcher Bay mixes FPS Fast Themed Action, with Slow and Tactical Stealth gaming, it actually is 
 a great mix... At the beginning you can't adapt yourself very well if you are a fan of Splinter 
 Cell games, It is a little bit the same... just on first person.
  
  The soundtrack in this game just kills me, I love playing, just to hear the soundtrack, I even 
 finished every single side mission, i got everything you can get, so I could play longer and listen 
 to awesomeness.
  
  The story is also something amazing, it just sucks you into the universe of Riddick, It has something, 
 that almost all the games lack, Originality. Of course, it is based on a movie, you can ask where 
 the originality in that is, but hey, it is the only game of the genre and even better, it is the 
 best game based or related to a movie, let's face it, movie adaptations just suck.
  
  Another Great thing in this game, is the lack in bugs... well not really lack, you actually have 
 to get some bugs... but lack in errors, yes it doesn't crash XP or Vista, it doesn't lose the sound 
 the animations are great, there is nothing to complain.
  
  The only problem in this game is the short campaign, it took me less then 5h to finish the game, 
 but i still loved every single second of the time I played, and when i saw Assault on Dark Athena 
 will actually come out, and for PC, i think my balls fell off.
  
  -----
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  Sound - 9.4
  Gameplay - 9.3
  Fun-Factor - 11
  Time - 5
  
  Overall Score: 
 9.0
  
  ----
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  All joking aside, this very gritty sneaker FPS was a joy to play. Hardly any bugs (except for the 
 moths in game) . Lots of alternative ways to acomplish tasks/quests/objectives. And it's a good 
 first person shooting too. The enemy AI is pretty good, they are pretty good at defending themselves 
 against frontal attacks, making sneaking worthwhile.
  
  Did I mention all the cool special and combo attacks you can do? Well there's spcial hand-to-hand 
 combos, back stabbing combos, even some weapons have combos. Lots of variety to keep it interesting.
 
  
  The level designs were OK, but the atmosphere was top-notch. This has aged very well, and runs 
 and looks great on my tired machine.
  
  Vin Diesel, well, whatever. Don't really care much about the character, but I haven't seen or read 
 any of the Riddick stuff.
  
  The story was OK, but what makes this game is the gameplay. It's what really matters.
  
  It's 
 a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Csaba
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  Before reading this you should consider the following:
  I despite first person shooters.
  I never saw a good game based on a movie. (yet)
  I couldn`t 
 play any high tech graphics game on my PC. (yet)
  I value games that have thrills, drama and a bit of comedy.
  I like Sci-Fi games and movies, 
 but I am very sceptic when I review one. Basically I had no favourite. (yet)
  I've finished about 7 or 8 games in my life, but I've played about 100 (for a few minutes) .
  
 If I don't like a game from start I will never finish it in my life. EVER!
  If I like a game I will start thinking of anything that I dislike in it. (I didn't find anything 
 in this one)
  I love movies or games of prisons or inmates.
  
  I very much liked Chronicles of Riddick Escape from Butchers Bay. I've finished it more than 7 
 times. I have never been bored playing the game despite the fact that I've listened to and watched 
 every cut-scene every time I've played it. Why?
  It's easy:
  
  It has wonderful graphics. (Far better then any other game released that year. Today those graphics 
 still amaze me.
  Graphics 10/10
  Gameplay is far more exciting and colourful than in any other game I've played. When you play you 
 don't feel like you're playing a game.
  Gameplay 10/10
  It has a story that the makes Prison Break look un-entertaining. It gives a replay value to the 
 game. It isn't a brainless shooting action game, where you massacre every one you see, so if you're 
 a fan of such gaming, go play Postal or Quake or something. This is an interactive movie, you get 
 to think before you move a muscle You have to be patient and smart to really enjoy this game.
 
  Story 10/10
  Character animations, AI, in-game music and voice acting proves my earlier statement. Riddick is 
 not a superhero, he's not even a hero, but you wouldn't wan't to say something bad about him in 
 person, wouldn't you? The guy is smart, agile, brave and elegant (not in clothing ofcourse)
  Everything 10/10
  
  Chronicles of Riddick Escape from Butchers Bay is something you will never 
 forget if you played it.
  
  Cheers,
  Csaba Szilveszter
  
  Note: Obviously I missed some things... but you'll find out if you'll play it. Excuse my english, 
 I'm working on it. So if you find spelling errors ignore them, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan117a1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  Riddick is truly a fascinating character, and it gets you involved with his story, the game tells 
 nicely how everything happened, the eye-shine and quest to get to the infamous spaceport hangars. 
 This is one of the best games i ever played no doubt, but is one of the shortest too, and that 
 makes you want more of it like a sequel, that's the fun part ! And if you see the movie you will 
 get fascinated by the universe around it too. Its a very innovative game, principally the first 
 person hand-to-hand combat and the third person climbing and other animations that make you feel 
 that you really are the character.
  other thing is that the graphics are stunning even for the engines of today's games, smooth facial 
 animations very detailed enviroment and good physics makes the chronicles of Riddick escape from 
 Butcher Bay a awesome game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDumb1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Butcher Bay is a classic, one of the best action games for Xbox, 2004, or even ever. Not to mention 
 it's one of those rare movie games that are actually good, let alone great, even by today's standards. 
 There's almost nothing to complain about,. It's addictive, immersive, and will keep you on the 
 edge of your seat the whole way through.
  
  The Good: 
  Even by today's standards, this game is fantastic. To start off, the graphics and presentation 
 are top-notch, making it even more unbelievable when it first released. The lighting, textures, 
 shaders, etc. are all great and there was nothing like it at the time. Everything looks crisp and 
 sometimes real, but keep in mind, this is a 2004 game so it isn't Crysis. The gameplay is a nice 
 mix between stealth and FPS, though mostly stealth. Your screen turns blue when you're in the shadows 
 and the stealth kills are amazingly brutal and satisfying. There's always a way to go undetected, 
 or at least not have every soldier in the level coming at you. The shooting is great and replacing 
 a typical reticule with a laser sight is a nice touch and makes aiming a little easier actually. 
 The hand-to-hand is the biggy. As I already stated, stealth kills are cool and fun to watch, but 
 that's not even half of it. Basically, you press the buttons you would normally use to move while 
 punching to do different moves: uppercut, left and right jab, and beat in the face with your elbow. 
 Also, if you time it right you can perform counter-attacks that always look cool and the hand-to-hand 
 is so good that if you're close enough you could take down someone who has a gun with your hands. 
 Sound is spectacular, everything sounds great and like it should. Voice acting is well-handled 
 and while some might comment on Vin Diesel not having emotion, well that's exactly what a character 
 like Riddick needs and it suits him perfect. The story is great and while it picks up a little 
 slow, it unfolds steadily and comes to a solid conclusion and contains a lot of originality into 
 its writing.
  
  The Bad:
  The only few bad things about this game start with the length. The game being so fun actually makes 
 it that much more disappointing how short it is. I can't give you an exact number, and it may just 
 be the fact that its so fun it goes by too fast, but you end the game feeling like you want more. 
 Also, while the difficulty is well-handled when you have the option to sneak, it feels somewhat 
 difficult on the rare occasions when you HAVE to get in a shootout, mainly because how fast enemies 
 gunfire can drain your life. Still, these moments are rare and even then its not impossible. as 
 well... um... actually, that's all the bad I can think, except the occasional bugs. So, yeah.
  
  Butcher Bay is extraordinary and should not be missed. Early next year comes Dark Athena, a 
 remake of Butcher Bay as well as a "Sequel" (some would say its not, but its a new campaign as 
 long as the first, so I call it a sequel) and added multiplayer modes. So if you haven't experienced 
 it yet and have a little patience in you, wait until Dark Athena releases so you get This game 
 as well as the "sequel" plus some multiplayer. There you go, my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Go ahead and google "sbzengine. exe + 'runtime error'" right now. You'll see a written moan of despair 
 across various forums, all crying the same thing: Chronicles of Riddick just crashed.
  
  Dual-core performance issues aside (sloooooooow transitions between normal and night-vision and 
 short cut-scene animations and normal gameplay) , the entire last portion of the game was almost 
 ruined by crashes like the one above. While a rare crash is something that I've experienced before, 
 it takes frequent crashes like this (once every 3 minutes) combined with long load times, I was 
 staring at my desktop more than playing the game.
  
  The only other issues that I had were cut-scene animations out-of-sync with the audio files, and 
 a slow pace midway through the game. Those aside, this game is a must-play. With those issues, 
 the game becomes a must-play after you finish all of your other near-perfect games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seraphym_k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game just made my day, was playing till 6am and it doesn't happen to me often these days. 
 First of all, I didn't expect Riddick to be a stealth action, thought more of all-flesh-terminator, 
 but ney! You'll have to spend decent amount of time prowling around, and sneaking on guards' backs.
 
  
  What made me even more pleased - firearms were not all that useful. With bare hands or some kind 
 of melee weapon Riddick is more robust. Taking out guards quietly and hiding them is the way to 
 success, but for a change of pace you'll also have a chance to drive some mecha units shooting, 
 stomping and blowing up everything on your way. 
  
  Add some puzzles just to keep you working, dark humor, good graphics, audio and you've got yourself 
 a game worth playing. Actually it would've been 10, if not for some annoying "errands" you have 
 to run to advance on the plot. Weird enough Riddick had to do favors for some thugs, at least I 
 couldn't find any other way. For example you need something, and prisoner has it - but you don't 
 have an option to beat him up and take it, no, you'll have to do what prisoner wants. And even 
 though you usually have some choice of errands, but I couldn't find a way to manage on my own, 
 hence 9,5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  This game is totally cool! The combat system and shealth action and tactics combined to be perfect 
 gameplay even till nowaday's standard, doom3 styles of graphic, but better.. seamless and integrated 
 combat and moves make you totally addicted to it.. evading guards on patrol in utter darkness, cut 
 their neck and dig their body to dark corners.. shealth action is VERY important to your survival 
 and remember, you are on the role to escape and evade not run and gun... since in game battle rifles 
 need to be DNA confirmed.. so you wouldn't be able to use one but only on very occasion ones.. this 
 make the game make challenging and exciting, also, it has RPG element like you can receive missions 
 from other prisoners and a open world of prison..
  
  The only thing that make this game couldn't get above a 9 is because of it short gameplay.. this 
 is kinda sad.. only 15-20s hours of gameplay on normal/hard level.. there is few chances to re-play 
 'cause you won't wanna go back and feel the max prison and deaths.
  
  The story is also a bit bad.. I mean.. you have succeeded in escaping for 5 times before you make 
 the real escape.. but those all in the end put you back to the start to escape, again. 
  
  I mean, that doesn't make any sense, why would the gaurds still let you live if you have almost 
 escape from max. prison, where those guards don't care about prisoner lives and shoot whenever they 
 have a chance? Morever, you got lots of gaurds blood on your hand.. is it silly for them to just 
 let you live?
  
  And they let you live for times..
  
  The other bad part is that the story grow a bit insanity near the end.. figthing robots..
  
 
  The most frustating part for this great game is that it don't have any multiplayer.. if there is 
 one.. it would be perfect!!! dozens of players fighting close-quartters, or standards gun match.. or 
 even include with robots combat... perfect! 
  
  But there isn't. Making it a solid singleplayer with limited re-playability, this also limiting 
 the total game play to 10-20 hrs only.
  
  Presentation-7.5/10
  Graphic-8.5/10
  Gameplay-10/10 (excellent!)
  Sound-8.5/10
  Value:7/10
  Multiplayer-none=0/10
  
  Overall 
 8/10.. I am very disappointed with it having no multiplayers..
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick EFBB is a ver, very good game, especially when you put in the fact that 
 it was made after a movie, which is usually a bad sign. Graphicwise, you couldn't ask much more 
 than this back in the day it was released, and even on today's standards it still looks pretty 
 cool. The game manages to do what many movie-games fail: it makes you actually feel like you were 
 Riddick. The HUD is simple, showing you just your health in a little corner, no crosshairs, no 
 nothing, just the laser sight and the ammo indicator on the gun, so it's more realistical, especially 
 on those days' standards, but even now. The sound is also well-done, with great gun effects, terrific 
 voice acting, believable explosion sounds, and other high-quality audio stuff in there. And so 
 we get to the part that matters most in a video game: gameplay... What can I say other than it 
 controls as your typical FPS, the controls are responsive and feel just right so it's almost perfect. 
 Of course it has minor issues like all games: I don't know if this one that I'm going to mention 
 only happens to me or if it's the game, but, sometimes when the game auto-loads checkpoints after 
 your death, I get the Windows's blue screen of death. Other than this the only minor glitches are 
 clippings and sometime the AI is godlike, they know where u are even in stealth mode even if u 
 walk carrefully, they'll turn they're back to you immediately, or sometimes it can be too stupid. 
 That's all I have to say about this, and overall, it's worth checking out, especially that now 
 it's sold at cheap prices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila1975
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  I`ve just finished this game, having never played it before. It was a thoroughly enjoyable experience.
 
  
  I`m very hard to please with commercial entertainment. Most movies are boring to me, most first 
 person shooters and real time strategies are monotonous and soulless, while most RPG`s are much 
 too heavy and pretentious.
  
  This game felt absolutely perfect for me. And I actually can`t stand Sci-fi in general.
  
  
 But this game was about a very likeable character`s personal quest, whom I was very much able to 
 identify with.
  
  Once this foundation was there, I was able to be immersed in the details of the gameplay. Nothing 
 too heavy, cos it`s a first person shooter, you don`t need to waste your time and energy on `building` 
 a character, because it`s already given, and it`s a great character. You can just get on with the 
 mission.
  
  Technically I had a few issues with graphics. Most importantly, Anti-aliasing is below par in the 
 game, in fact I needed Nhancer to enable it, but even at max setting, there is still plenty of 
 aliasing. Must be traces of the original Xbox port. Then, frame rates dropped very heavily occasionally 
 in areas of rich lighting effects. I wasn`t expecting this with a 8800GT.
  
  All in all, this is a great gaming experience, immersive but not too consuming, and doesn`t ever 
 get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  It's rare to think of a crossover game rising to the expectations of the best a franchise had to 
 offer.
  
  Let's face it, ever since E. T. arrived on the 2600, and almost took the gaming industry down in 
 the process, expectations for crossover projects has been low. Not just in gaming, either. Movies 
 based on comics come out every day, and for the most part, we learned to expect them to be bad. 
 Typically, the weight of a franchise would weigh down the potential for a game before it even got 
 off the ground. And, forced to fit into the rigid confines of the pre-existing universe, doom is 
 spelled out before dollar one is invested.
  
  Escape From Butcher Bay was a big F-You to that idea.
  
  From the moment this game begins, 
 and the bitter dialogue starts up between Johns and Riddick, this game signals something special, 
 and two minutes later when Riddick is dropped down in Butcher Bay, it is clear... this is a prison 
 for the worst of the worst. From the visual design, to the vulger words spoken out of the shadows 
 of cells as you're taken in... it's clear... you're in hell. You can almost smell it. And, based 
 on your reputation, the guards and inmates alike, all hate your guts.
  
  From that point, the game is an elevator ride into the deepest pit that Butcher Bay has to offer.
 
  
  This game clearly didn't try to glamorize Riddick, as most Hollywood games try to do with their 
 anti-heroes. Riddick is not a bad guy, but neither is he a good guy either. Noble is not what Riddick 
 is about. Riddick is all about doing everything you can to stay alive. He has no friends, everything 
 around him is simply a resource or a means for Riddick to achieve his ends. 
  
  The game does a great job on selling the player into the immersion that Riddick is resouceful. 
 Whether is breaking through a vent, shiving a guard in the back while hiding in the shadows, or 
 kicking the crap out of an inmate who has it out for you, the game gives Riddick both the fearsome 
 presence and physical prowess we felt he was in Pitch Black, but without ever making him seem superhuman. 
 
  
  The gameplay, also, does a good job of blending stealth play and FPS tactics. Neither seem tedious, 
 and both are done as well as any other game out there.
  
  Graphics, too, were top notch, and managed to created a world far more fearsome and intense using 
 the Doom 3 engine, than the title that bears the game engine name. Butcher Bay is forboding, dangerous, 
 dark, intense, and like Riddick, it makes you want to get the hell out of there as fast as possible. 
 Only games like Half Life 2 and Bioshock come to mind as examples of games that have created an 
 atmosphere as horrific and chilling as they are visually enthralling and believable, while feeling 
 'lived in.'
  
  Voicework provided by Vin Diesel and Cole Hauser bring the familiar back to un unfamiliar setting, 
 which I dare say, is the only comfort in this unsettling atmosphere. Storytelling, as well, lives 
 up to the graphics and gameplay, pulling you through a world as equally well conceived as it is 
 god-awful. It's engaging and gripping from beginning to end, and stands apart as unique from both 
 Ptich Black and Chronicles of Riddick as it's own story, while adding as much to the franchise 
 as either (and in the case of the latter movie, arguably alot more)
  
  This game will not dissapoint. It's an excellent example of a crossover done right, standing on 
 it's own two feet as a singular entity. 
  
  It's also an example of a game done right, standing proud among the competition of the year (which 
 in 2004 for shooters, was quite tough) , and in every way, was just as unforgettable an experience 
 as the best games I have ever played.
  
  Butcher Bay might have been the best game of 2004, it might have been the best Riddick story ever 
 told, but those points, while merited, are debatable. What is beyond question is this...
  
  Escape From Butcher Bay is an amazing friggin game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  As one of the few people who actually liked the movie I had pretty high hopes for this game. I 
 had no idea I'd get more than I expected. Instead of trying to mimic the movie, this game takes 
 the characters into a completely different environment. By making it a prequel the developers opened 
 up a whole range of possiblities while shrugging off the usual limitations of a movie license. 
 Not to mention the sequel possibilities this presents. Riddick has a lot of potential history becoming 
 the most wanted man in the galaxy, and this formula allows the developers to explore some of that 
 history without mucking up the movie's story. From the outset this game truly makes you feel like 
 you're there. From the opening scene as they're walking you into the prison you get the oppressed 
 feeling of a new inmate. Character interaction and stealth become your best friends as you're fighting 
 your way out of Butcher's Bay. Sections of the game truly make you feel like you're wallowing through 
 filth and decay to get to the next section. To top it off is some the best voicework I've heard 
 in a video game. From the warden to the guards to Riddick himself, you actually feel these people 
 are who they say they are. The fact that you're not the wrongly accused guy, but probably should 
 actually be there makes escaping all the more satisfying. As for gameplay, there are better shooters 
 out there. Nothing in the gameplay is phenominal. But nothing is broken either. The stealth is 
 very decent, shooting's passable, melee doesn't break new ground, but pounding some inmate's face 
 in does feel pretty good. With a nice amount of unlockables and never a dull moment this is truly 
 a great game. One of my all time favorites. If you haven't played it yet I highly recommend you 
 do so. With the new remake/expansion coming up you'll get an all new chance in the near future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll just give this game 9 I don't actually remember it because it was a few years ago that I played 
 it, but I do want it to be in my list of my legendary games because I remember it being absolutely 
 brilliant. 
  
  The graphics and the entire game may not be as good if you played it now because so many better 
 games have come out, but from the point of view when the game came out I know it deserves at least 
 9. 
  
  Since I did forget the game slightly it does mean that it is forgetable and that's a bit bad, but 
 I guess not all games can be remembered.
  
  I haven't actually started reviewing games until a month or two ago so sorry for a late review, 
 but I mostly do the reviews for myself and if they do help anyone, then so be it, even better.
 
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game. 
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  i really cant believe what i have just expierenced. its better than any half life game, any doom 
 game, or anything in that matter. its graphics are perfect, and extremely atmospheric, and gets 
 you sucked in, and i havent even gotten to the special features yet. the voice acting of vin diesel 
 is top notch, and he adds so much, with his DEEP voice and just the way he kicks everybodys ass 
 no problem. the weapons are nothing special, but are placed at perfect parts in the game. the other 
 chracters are voiced very well, and are very realistic, with the way their mouth moves, and the 
 way they respond to you. the story is great, with an outcast like RIddick commiting a crime, so 
 he has to go to butcher bay, which, like the name, is the most contained prison known to man, and 
 let me just say, the title pretty much sums up most of the main goal of the whole game: to escape 
 from butcher bay. i know you probably dont want to read much more, and this is my longest review 
 yet. lastly, the special features after the game are amazing! i didnt get very many (there are 64 
 in all) and they include art, movies, and stories. thats right, stories. the one that i got was 
 the first 48 pages of the chronicles of riddick novel, and it was pretty interesting. all in all, 
 GET THIS GAME. it combines stealth, first person action, and some roleplaying- ness to make one 
 of the best games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was never hyped and i can't remember anyone talking about it even after release, but 
 the reviews started pouring in and suddenly people noticed. What i love about Riddick is for it's 
 day it did quite alot and put alot of great things together which we didn't see before. Also the 
 graphics were great and it looks like they're based on the Doom 3 engine but don't hold me to that. 
 What i love most though is Vin Disel being a gamer and admitting he used to be a geek playing D&D 
 and that. His involvement in the game and the voice acting is a great thing and it's just nice 
 to see a celeb taking interest in a game and not just being there for the money. However alot of 
 the time it does feel like a ego trip of him tyring to say i can beat up anyone or something lol.
 
  
  The combat is ok but it's not that great, it blends alot of ideas together but just doesn't have 
 the polish to really carry it off as well as other games. The melee combat is a great fun idea 
 for a FPS but it just turns out to be a click fest of the mouse and requires no skill, gets kinda 
 boring after a few fights and repetitive. The gun play is better but i can't help feel that the 
 guns feel cheap and badly designed, however they didn't feel great in Doom 3 too so it's probably 
 the bad engine. I also like the stealth idea but again it just doesn't feel all that polished and 
 doesn't work well all the time.
  
  Another great thing about Riddick is the kinda RPG'ish elements to the game where you can go around 
 and talk to different people and have missions, although they're linear and you don't get a choice 
 of side missions or anything. Theres also a inventory which is good but again cause you can't carry 
 or collect alot of items it becomes abit pointless. It's nice nice though to be able to walk round 
 come of the prison chatting to people and feeling abit more open ended and RPG styled than most 
 FPS games.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, specially for their day but still great today, however they do lack 
 polish and alot of the textures look abit dodgey. I love the intro to the game specially because 
 it really draws you into the game and feels very Half-Life style. However i would have loved it 
 to go on abit longer and to see abit more of the prison and some easter eggs and jokes, but i'm 
 not gonna put the game down on that. The sounds are all great and the voice acting is great as 
 you'd expect coming from Vin Disel. I also like the touch of the music playing constantly int he 
 background and the atmospheric noises.
  
  Another good point is the fact that the menus have alot of options to customise the look of your 
 game. It includes things like AA and to switch between window and fullscreen mode which is really 
 nice as most new games seem to be missing that. Only problem i have with the menus is again they 
 lack polish and abit annoying to use, i woulda rathered a 2d menu than a 3d one.
  
  Riddick doesn't have any multiplayer so the 8 hour long single player (how long it took me) will 
 have to do you, with how cheap it is now that shouldn't really bother you like it would when the 
 prices were high on launch. 
  
  
  Great game but it is lacking polish and could have been better, but so could all games. I really 
 loved the atmosphere and style of the game and i loved playing it. Riddick will go down as one 
 of the greats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standardqueso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Solid, interesting, complex, good story, better acting. Wanna make you watch the movies again. Is 
 surprising how a gamer, D&D lover can pull this off in a right way. The enemies do what is expected 
 form a hardcore prison like this one. Amazing game
  
  Solid, interesting, complex, good story, better acting. Wanna make you watch the movies again. Is 
 surprising how a gamer, D&D lover can pull this off in a right way. The enemies do what is expected 
 form a hardcore prison like this one. Amazing game
  
  Solid, interesting, complex, good story, better acting. Wanna make you watch the movies again. Is 
 surprising how a gamer, D&D lover can pull this off in a right way. The enemies do what is expected 
 form a hardcore prison like this one. Amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  So, I finished playing Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay.
  
  You get to play as Riddick, who is portrayed by Vin Diesel - just like in the movie. They even 
 used his voice for the game.
  
  It's a cool game, it looks and feels very realistic. It has atmosphere, something which not many 
 games have. You get caught in really fast, there isn't a single moment in which you can say you're 
 bored.
  
  You have stealth (felt like I was playing Splinter Cell or Aliens vs Predator - with the alien) , 
 first person hand to hand combat and with weapons - kind of like in Condemned, and then you have 
 your basic shooter. You also have interaction with characters, quests - bit like Deus Ex but the 
 story is more linear.
  
  The story is captivating, dialogs and characters are well thought, graphics and sounds are top 
 of the line.
  
  Bottom line, this is probably one of the best movie inspired games ever made, and an instant classic 
 which you will no doubt enjoy from the start to the end.
  
  An amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The Riddick character portrayed by Vin Disel, lives in a dark place of the universe. Nothing is 
 like we know it, and that is how it should. It is a fantastic universe with a lot of backstory 
 to it, but, we never get to know it. We get it in small portions and that is OK, knowing everything 
 would probably be very depressing. But, good for us, this is not reality, it is a game, a game 
 that is almost like a movie. You have a plot, you have characters, and as you play, the story evolves. 
 This is nothing new, but this is, for me at least, the first time it was done very well.
  
  To set a mood on any game you have to have feeling; and the developers had just that - feeling, 
 and a lot of it, and you can feel it all throughout the game. You see it in the graphics, the details, 
 the voicecasting, and the story; which, for itself, could have been a movie; and that how you should 
 see this game, like a playable movie.
  
  I won't give away any of the story, but just want to state that it is highly enjoyable, although, 
 there are some bugs while installing. You need for example a high-end computer, and don't forget 
 SP.1 for you good old Microsoft-driven machine. When everything is working, you'll have a heck 
 of a good time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Wait, wait. I know what you're probably thinking about The Chronicles of Riddick - Escape from 
 Butcher Bay, especially if you didn't pay attention to the Xbox version released earlier this year. 
 Games based on movie licenses are safely ignored by discriminating gamers, I know. That's a good 
 instinct you should go with most of the time, but The Chronicles of Riddick is a rare exception. 
 The folks at Starbreeze Studios based a first-person shooter around a character from a summer popcorn 
 flick, but they also made it a really fun, really polished amalgam of action, RPG, and adventure 
 genres.
  
  This is the PC port of the same Xbox game, just as you may expect. In it, you play Richard B. Riddick, 
 all around tough guy and bad apple. Worst apple, really. Someone actually managed to capture you 
 and drag you to Butcher Bay, the most notorious penal planet in the galaxy. Of course, it wouldn't 
 make a very interesting game if Riddick just spent his hard time making license plates and earning 
 his G. E. D. through the mail, so he promptly starts his protracted and rather bloody escape attempt. 
 The balance of the game is spent guiding Riddick through the massive prison colony while trying 
 to keep him safe against the twin threats of the prison guards and the other inmates. This is the 
 kind of prison where the guards casually murder prisoners if they feel like it, and prison gangs 
 defend their turf and social hierarchy with blood.
  
  The stealth part of the game is easily the most fun
  
  Riddick (voiced by actor Vin Diesel) 
 is more than capable, though. He's no Boy Scout (he actually does deserve to be locked up in Butcher 
 Bay, when you think about it) and he oozes a potent mixture of malevolence and grim determination 
 that makes him one of the more compelling antiheroes I've seen in a game. We love rooting for him, 
 but we'd do anything to avoid someone like him in real life. The other voice actors and script 
 writers do their parts, too, creating an environment and story that, although not unique, is far 
 from cliched like most shooters. It's also refreshingly mature, replete with the gore, profanity, 
 and moral ambiguity that you won't get from those games with E or even T ratings.
  
  The Chronicles of Riddick is primarily a first-person shooter in that you walk around and shoot 
 (or stab, or pummel) things from the first-person perspective. But while this genre forms the game's 
 roots, it also sips from other genres, like role-playing and adventure. For example, during his 
 trials at Butcher's Bay, Riddick interacts with other prisoners through conversations where you 
 choose from a couple of different options. I should note that the conversation trees are ultimately 
 meaningless (your control over the conversation is illusionary, as they all lead down the same 
 path) , but it's fun to get background on the story and the voice acting is top notch.
  
  Certain characters also dole out side quests. These are optional and largely of the delivery boy 
 or hitman variety, but they do give you more to do and come with their own rewards. Money can be 
 used to buy contraband to add to your inventory. These items are usually packs of smokes that just 
 unlock concept art (none of which is too exciting) , but sometimes you can get weapons or tools 
 that you can use to open alternate pathways through the level. There are also shades of adventure 
 gaming present in the game's palate, like having to collect items so that they can be either used 
 or exchanged for other things. All in all, these disparate gameplay elements add delightful ripples 
 to a game that would have been much less interesting had it stuck to the standard FPS playbook.
 
  
  Even with all the interesting distractions, the lion's share of The Chronicles of Riddick is drawn 
 in great handfuls from the action genre. This part of the game is divided between shooting and 
 stealth, and it's often up to you which route you want to go. Riddick is a big fan of the darkness, 
 and you can use it to good effect by going into stealth mode. This makes Riddick harder for others 
 to spot and makes it easier for him to sneak up to them and score an instant stealth kill by either 
 snapping their necks or skewering their kidneys with a shiv. The stealth mechanic isn't implemented 
 as well as in Splinter Cell or the Thief games, but it's passable and it's definitely my favorite 
 part of this game.
  
  In fact, the pure shooting aspects of Riddick annoyed me greatly by feeling sloppy, sluggish, and 
 unresponsive. Your choice of guns (pistol, shotgun, or assault rifle) is lackluster and there were 
 several times when I would unload a whole magazine at a single guard to little effect. There were 
 even more times when the guard would do the same to me. The best way to win a firefight? Run straight 
 at an enemy and unload on him at point-blank range. In some ways it felt like an FPS designed for 
 console play, but this kind of combat isn't particuarly compelling no matter what platform it's 
 on.
  
  Yep, looks like Vin Diesel
  
  The Chronicles of Riddick was an extremely attractive game on the Xbox, and on a well-equipped 
 PC it looks even nicer with better textures, higher resolutions, and all the other bells and whistles 
 that come with newer video cards. While the game's prison setting precludes a wide variety of environments, 
 what you do see is impressive, with rich textures, well designed and animated models, and some 
 of the most impressive lighting this side of DOOM 3. I also liked how none of the NPCs (not including 
 enemies) looked the same; each had its own unique model and skin. The only complaint I have is 
 that almost everything in the game looks like it's made of plastic and standing under bright light. 
 I'm sure some tech-head will tell me that this has to do with specular bumpmapping whatchamadoodles, 
 but what it boils down to is that it was distracting, particularly on some of the character models. 
 But I got over it.
  
  It should be noted that the PC version, billed as a Developer's Cut, comes with a few fun extras. 
 There's unlockable concept art, stills, and trailers, and there's also an extra sequence where 
 you commandeer a Medium Guard mech. What really impressed me, however, was the Commentary Mode, 
 which becomes available after you beat the game (which took me about 8 hours) . In this mode, there 
 are floating commentary icons scattered throughout each level. Using such an icon freezes the game 
 and plays an audio commentary from the folks at Starbreeze Studios, giving you insight and details 
 into various parts of the level just like you'd get from an audio commentary track for a DVD. The 
 commentaries were often interesting, and they provide one of the best incentives I've seen for 
 replaying a game. (In a perfect world, this would be standard for all games from this moment forward.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bthrustr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game but can't rate it as high as Far Cry or even Halo. But it could be my fault 
 for missing parts of this game and getting lost a few times. Looking back at a walk-thru of the 
 game I see that there were a lot of character interactions that I missed completely. I also missed 
 out on finding the mini gun and got completely stuck in the game twice for about an hour which 
 was very frustrating.
  
  The atmosphere and story line kept the gameplay interesting and it never got repetitive. I recommend 
 this game. It's been overlooked by the masses so look for it in the bargain bin, it's a great value! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damansandhu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  This was a very good game , it was so interesting game that i continued to play it more than 3 
 hours at a day . Graphics were good , Gameplay was Excellent , Most Of all i liked the story of 
 the game and in many missions we have to play by using our brain (u don't have guns) , but it was 
 awesome. This is My fav first person shooter game . Moreover The Pc version of this game has 2 
 extra levels which are very good , Its fun to kill Enemies While driving riot guard and heavy guard 
 , The game keeps getting better and better and we go further . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Games based on movies tend to be rushed productions and, as a general rule, don't live up to the 
 movies they're based on. Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay reverts that logic, it's 
 an awesome game based on a bad movie.
  
  You're in control of Riddick, a criminal being taken to do some time in Butcher Bay, a high security 
 prison. Riddick is the most wanted criminal in the galaxy and is known for his cruelty and coolness.
 
  
  Riddick's personality comes into play very early in the game and has an important part in the background. 
 He's a cold and mean mofo with a bad attitude that does not let anything get to him. That might 
 sound like a cliche personality for an action movie but the game manages to paint Riddick as an 
 enjoyable character, with a twisted sense of justice, facing corrupted authorities and prison gangs 
 in his search for freedom.
  
  The game play is a blend of FPS and RPG. The RPG part involves talking to fellow inmates, doing 
 small favors and facing gang leaders to build your respect. It usually requires exploration, a 
 bit of combat and talking to NPC's. All the characters of Butcher Bay talk to each other, they 
 might just exchange formal greetings, provide you with nice background information about the place, 
 guards, administration or give you hints that might prove useful on your quest. Riddick's personality 
 really shine on those dialogues but the NPC's have their own story to tell. It's really worth to 
 talk with all the inmates and spare some minutes com complete all the side quests.
  
  As one might imagine, inmates are not allowed to carry guns so most of them carry improvised concealed 
 melee weapons, which are very important in the game as it takes a while to find a decent firearm.
 
  
  Combat can be divided in melee and firearms. Personally, I liked best when Riddick used his shiv 
 to backstab a guard or to fight his fellow inmates in the courtyard but there's a fair share of 
 the game where you'll use your firearms. Using guns ain't that bad, it's just not where the game 
 truly shows its potential. Combat fun is augmented by guards and inmates comments on what's going 
 on ... from an occasional - I'm not paid to do this - to - come out, come out wherever you are, 
 motherf*cker - when you hide from tougher armored units, the gritty side of the games is truly 
 its best.
  
  Escaping Butcher Bay will most certainly be a great experience. It'll require a great deal of combat, 
 melee and firearms, a fair dose of stealth but most importantly, to use your wits and to build 
 your respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaflare252
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  A true gem of a game. This game redefines whats possible with a 1st person shooter. Although the 
 entire game does not take place solely from the perspective of Riddick's cold silver eyes. This 
 game picks up with Riddick being sold into the toughest prison facility in the galaxy, Butcher 
 Bay. Turned over to the warden for money from a bounty hunter you'll recognize if you've seen the 
 movie. This game contains all the original voice acting including Vin Diesel who does an amazing 
 job with the voice. The game delivers some amazing graphics along the lines of Doom 3. The cold, 
 dark, metal, facility houses some great areas with amazing shadows and light effects. You might 
 find yourself crawling in a cramped air duct that opens into an expansive underground mining cavern. 
 Or roaming the hallways of the various areas that house prisoners. Eventually moving into areas 
 forbidden to prison scum such as yourself. The game play keeps thing interesting all the way to 
 the end. There are the standard futuristic weapons as well as weapons that are truly native to 
 a futuristic prison, High Carbide Steel Shiv anyone?
  
  Futuristic or not this prison is the same as what anyone may expect from a prison. You'll find 
 the true scum of the galaxy in here along with the authorities who wont hesitate to put you back 
 in your place. This place is full of very no nonsense characters. Needless to say no crybabies 
 in here. This game wont leave you disappointed even though it tends to be on the short side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxsysji
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 27, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  the movie aint even near to how good the game is... this is the best game ever although i wish 
 it was all human caz i dunt like shooting at robot or ghosts but this game forces me to play it. 
 if u got balls try it!! check out the screen shot its the best game ever i m feeling bad caz i 
 tried it too late this game was sold a couple years back but i m just trying it actually its caz 
 the spec is toooooooo high even though its worth playing its even better than far cry. personally 
 i think this is even better than half life2 maybe its bcaz i could knock this game n i cnat knock 
 half life (its really hard ) and it took me just a couple minutes to learn how to play but i dunt 
 want u ppl to think its too easy caz its not and vin diesel n xzibit is in the game wat else do 
 u need me to tell its just a superb game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay i a amazing game. This game is inspirated from 
 the movies CHRONICLES OF RIDDIK and PITCH BLACK. in the movie the principal actor is vin diesel, hwo 
 is the person whit you play in this game. The difficulty of this game is cool: not hard and not easy 
 .is just right. i thik the game has the best a gameplay, whit more moves and tactics. the graphic 
 is amasic, you think you are in the movie when play this game. The sound is a little hard, whit more 
 insults, but is fine. this game is a perfect Sci-Fi First-Person Shooter Action. but ,more times you 
 must be stealth.
  If you want some action combineted whit stealth, you must experience The Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape From Butcher Bay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick demonstrates that a game developer can be damned serious about making its 
 game. This game can stand as the most well-designed movie based game. Normally you will see that 
 movie-based games suck. This one did not because it uses an entirely new plot explaining how Riddick 
 would escape from the Butcher Bay prison. In fact, it is better than the movie of the same name 
 released in the same year earlier.
  
  Firstly in Chronicles the game, they used Vin Diesel's voice extensively. This is good especially 
 when you are actually playing Vin Diesel as you have already known from two movies (first one Pitch 
 Black) . Secondly the plot puts you in a thrilling and challenging context where you get to use 
 a blend of stealth, might and tact. Its not just walk in and shoot -em-all. Plus the over all plot 
 is good.
  Well for most part, the game is great. I however don't like stealth as a basic component of any 
 game. So my complain about Riddick involves just stealth. Otherwise the actions and the graphics 
 are simply too stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psydrone
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay features a very smooth engine with lots of tense 
 stealth gaming- spread out by hectic gunfights and an excellent environment. One of my personal 
 favorite features of the game is the clever dialogue to add to the overall badassery of Riddick, 
 which adds a dash of humor, coolness, and realism. It's also a very intriguing sci-fi universe, 
 which flows seamlessly from the movies and in between, providing an actual decent backdrop for 
 fans, yet doubling as a good introduction to the universe for newcomers.
  
  The 'create your own cover' gameplay is very dynamic and well done, any shadow in the game can 
 be used for stealth purposes, and at any time you can pop out behind your enemy and slit his throat 
 or break his neck, among many other wonderfully violent alternatives. The gunfighting is excellent 
 as well, and because the game makes you learn to fight without ammunition alot of the time, wading 
 in with a shotgun has never been so satisfying. I did find that a few scenarios that were, although 
 decent in concept, somewhat poorly executed, and made me want to skip them. One is a crawl you 
 must go through in a dark, maze-like sewer infested with rampant zombie creatures. It is frustrating, 
 and the enemies respawn continuouslly- a situation that I believe was intended to be scary and, 
 while hectic in its own right, failed on that level. My last complaint is that the game is immensly 
 short, and although there are collectibles, it features quite little replay value. The game is 
 a remarkable licensed achievement in an industry that seems to fail at movie/game translations, 
 and I hope it proves to be a lesson to those who would attempt to create games based on movie universes 
 in the future. In short, if you're looking for an exciting and compelling romp through a darker 
 universe, and don't mind setting it down once you've spent around fifteen hours on it, then Riddick 
 is probably for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  There are real rarities in the world of computer gaming. Things like games being released on time. 
 Games that are pretty much finished when released. Games that provide the experience you paid for. 
 All these things are rare enough but nothing is as RARE as a game movie tie-in that SUPERIOR to 
 the movie that spawned it. Such is the case with The Chronicles of Riddick - Escape From Butchers 
 Bay Not only is this game superior to the movie but it also enhances one's viewing of that film
 
  
  I've seen both Ptich Black and TCoR and actually liked both films. I'd recommend The Director's 
 Cut of TCoR though as opposed to the Theatrical Release. This film meshes smoothly with both and 
 provides significant back story to both films. But this is a game review forum so why don't I get 
 to that.
  
  Installation:
  
  This was a breeze, no probs loading the game and getting it to work with both XP and Vista. This 
 surprised me greatly due to my recent experiences with the new OS.
  
  Sound:
  
  Excellent, great music great sound effects. Sounds track well. You can hear creatures sneaking 
 up on you in the dark. You can also track the vocal taunts of guards and others and get a heads 
 up as to where they're coming from. Vin Dielels voice overs are great and lend much to the game. 
 Visuals:
  
  Another plus for the game as visually the thing is outstanding. With a fast rig and all the eye 
 candy turned up you can cruise the game with nary a hiccup. Even though it's a prison planet there's 
 plenty to see and with a big screen and the proper resolutions you're in for a treat. The cut scenes 
 are seamless and beautiful and lend much to the experience. Game Play:
  
  A great strength for TCoR is the game play. Not your average FPS shooter where you're give a variety 
 of Big Honking Guns and set loose on the world to wreak havoc. Your primary weapon for most of 
 this game is your hands. Neck breaking moves, punches, and weapons as primative as shivs and clubs 
 makes this game unique in the land of BFG's and armor. You' have to rely on stealth and cunning 
 as much as twitch skills if you're to get through this game in a timely and sane fashion. The levels 
 are HUGE and I admit to having been lost many, many times. Another tihing about weapns though, 
 if you're patient and curious you can find TWO levels in the game one scripted from the original 
 and one a bonus for PC players, wherein you get to pilot a powered suit. A mech a big honking mech 
 with glorious guns that shred guards into little red gobs of goo. Marvelous.
  
  Final score:
  
  Sneeking and peekin' might not be your cup of tea and using ones dukes may 
 be old fashioned for some but for me this was a joy. Much fun, way much fun. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azollars
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best video game adaptation of a movie I have ever played. Of course, that isn't 
 saying much since it seems most video games based on movies are just another promotional tool designed 
 to cash in on the movie's hype and help sell a few more DVDs or movie tickets. So given the low 
 standard set by previous games of this genre, I was skeptical. However, after playing through this 
 game twice (and starting my third run) , The Chronicles of Riddick: EFBB raises the bar considerably 
 for movie-to-game adaptations. For $29.99 at release and currently download-able for $19.99, COR: EFBB 
 is a great value, but don't mistake it for a low budget game. Vin Diesel's voice work lends a lot 
 to the overall quality of the presentation. Rather than sounding stiff and scripted, you feel like 
 Diesel was careful in providing continuity between the movie and game by delivering Riddick's lines 
 in the same manner, while not rehashing the same dialog from the movies. The production quality 
 is top notch, with the graphics and voice-acting standing out most. This gameplay is part action, 
 part RPG. It's hard for me to compare to other games I own (and I own a LOT of games) , which is 
 one of the reasons I like it so much. It really does fill a niche, and that is saying something 
 in this overblown video game market. Forget the fact that this game shares a title with a movie. 
 This really is a great game on it's own and, in many ways, more engaging than the movie that inspired 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I don't even remember this game being hyped at all and it just came from nowhere and took everyone 
 by storm. I spose Vin Disels involvement in the game helped too as he is a big gaming geek like 
 DnD lol. Anyways the game follows on a storyline closely tied to the movies which is kool and useful 
 to fans of them films. The gameplay is fantastic, it adds great melee combat with shooting with 
 RPG elements and tactics like splinter cell and combines them to just create a great gameplay experience. 
 The atmosphere the game creates is also very nice and the graphics are great and so's the level 
 design. It'll remind you more of a FPS but it's kinda layout like a RPG type thing and the story 
 will really draw you in.
  
  The game i thought was perfect length however sometimes it did get abit boring and tedious but 
 that didn't last long and i tend to feel like that in most FPS games. I like the length for 8-10 
 hours because it's not too long to egt bored but not too short to feel disappointed.
  
  The sounds are also great and it has really good acted voice work. The games a bargin for the price 
 of &pound;10 too so great value.
  
  However theres no multiplayer so thats a bummer, but i doubt it woulda worked well in multiplayer.
 
  
  Overall it's a great game with abit of a lack of polish but nothing that bothers you and it's a 
 really big suprise and i hope theres going to be more from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  After playing TCoR I have to say it is a damn good FPS.. It takes some getting used to but the 
 dialogue as well as NPC interaction is top-notch. It feels a bit like a RPG-FPS Hybrid in some 
 respects in that you do side missions and do gain upgrades like your ocular implants etc.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent, but as I said people who are new to the game will feel the controls a 
 bit funky at first.. as the game plays much like YOU ARE Riddick.. a sway is there even while going 
 up stairs.. making it FEEL more lifelike than other FPS games.. Also the ability to see your own 
 shadow as well as having your voice known.. (unlike the mute Gordon Freeman) gives the player a 
 bit more storytelling , as well as putting the person into the role of Riddick.. Graphics: Still 
 killer even by today's standards. It has aged extremely well and still one that is easily recommended. 
 The shadows combined with dark areas and your night vision give it an extra dose of reality.. true 
 the game is sci-fi based but for the game emulating the movies Pitch Black and Chronicles it does 
 an excellent job in providing the atmosphere.
  
  Sound: Excellent voice overs due to REAL actors being used in the games' development. The music 
 can be a bit repetitive, but easily ignored when in fire fights etc. Value: I have to say it has 
 great replay value.. though not infinite as other FPS's give more replay than this game.. sure 
 it has the extra content portion but this can be gained with 3 or less run-throughs. Essentially 
 the game is pretty much done after that.. Although the game's difficulty more than makes up for 
 this. Tilt: I give Chronicles a solid 9 taking into account more modern FPS games to date.. Overall 
 a game worthy to be in anyone's collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbiggie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing the game through, and I know that its been 3 years since the release, but 
 I never really wanted to play it. Heck I found it in the bargain bin in a game store, mint condition, 
 and only $10. So I decided to play it. Right of the bat, I had problems with the game first of 
 all it kept on giving me a problem because the OpenGL program was outdated on the disk and mine 
 was the newest version. The patches didn't want to work for some reason. Eventually I found out 
 that I did not have the US version but the EU version, which made sense. After that I had smooth 
 sailing with the game. The graphics in this game are still really good. By that I mean the shadows 
 could use a little work but other then that I wouldn't see any need for improvement. The faces 
 are well designed and the world is imersive and interesting. The game play (sadly to short) , was 
 amazing. playing half the game without being able to use guns really makes it that much more interesting 
 and challenging. The times that you do have the guns I felt there was no need for them because 
 I was able to kill without using it, well until the bots appeared.
  
  The story itself really stood out, I always was a fan of the movies, but wondered how he got his 
 eyes. Not only that but it filled in some history with John's which I also liked. Other then that 
 it does help in moving the whole series forward, without contradicting the story in any way. Other 
 then the ocational graphical error with usually fixed itself before I really got annoyed, the game 
 is a masterpiece. I hope they make another one and do as good of a job as they did on this.
  
  PS the commenter y that is unlocked is truly worth playing the game over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Where the heck was I when this game was released?? I guess at the time, many other more popular 
 titles were available. Anyway, this game is a lot of fun. Very classic FPS. The graphics are very 
 nice. Looks like the Doom 3 engine. Dialog, game play rocks. Voice dialog is high quality. And 
 the action is very good. The game seems too easy at times, but then there is a boss fight and it 
 kicks your a**. I can't say enough how much fun I am having playing this game. There are no major 
 PC releases now, so If you are looking for something to do, buy this game, cheap, clean (not really) 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anjanand
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick is by far, one of the most amazing PC and/or console games ever and is 
 destined to be an all time classic. With an amazing storyline and superb characters, the story alone 
 would have been worth the price. Couple that with stupendous gameplay, killer graphics, fantastic 
 audio...... This game is awesome!
  
  The thing that hits you as soon as you set this up is the graphics. The quality of the visuals are 
 above and beyond the norm compared to its contemporaries. Vin Diesel as Riddick, is rendered in 
 exquisite detail, down to every rippling muscle fiber, every step, every bad-a** comment. Human 
 movement in ALL characters are simply amazing. Though you do notice after a while that they have 
 spent much more time on Riddick himself, than on the other major character. (Especially in Facial 
 expressions) . Environments and Objects are gorgeous....... The Gamespot Review has done a better 
 job than me on explaining the graphics, simply because I cant even think where to begin. Starbreeze 
 really did an amazing job capturing the whole gritty, run down look of a prison. The Colors and 
 detail are great. so good in fact at times you may feel like you're watching a movie and not a game 
 (First time i saw the MENUS, my jaw dropped 6 feet. I didn't think it could drop any more. Till I 
 saw the game....) . There are a few glitches here and there but honestly don't notice them till you've 
 gone through the game a few times
  
  You'd better have a real good pair of speakers or a good pair of headphones, because it would be 
 such a shame to waste the games audio. A lot of effort has gone into putting in every effect as 
 real as possible. Not just bullets and explosions., every grunt, bone smash, knuckle crunch, breathing, 
 knife stab, FOOTSTEP has been exquisitely done. You could take a guy out by listening for his position. The 
 dialog between the characters and the narration by Riddick himself is amazing. Not only are the 
 voice overs done as well as any Hollywood movie, whoever wrote them deserves an award. The profanity 
 filled (oh yes....) , threatening, tough-guy, insane, etc... conversations thrown around are perfect 
 for the game and its atmosphere. Riddick's own dialog is downright SCARY. The audio is an integral 
 part of gameplay. Not only can you navigate and kill by sound, but the storyline and various gameplay 
 information are given to you via conversations with other characters. Its a very real game. Small 
 timing mismatches can be seen between audio and video occasionally, but it doesn't reduce the value 
 at all
  
  Gameplay is simple, fun, and HELL ENTERTAINING. With W, S, A, D, and Mouse1, Mouse2 you can unleash 
 hell on anything that comes in your way. You only get a few guns in the game, but they are simple 
 and VERY effective. As mentioned in GS Review you don't get a reticule except the guns own laser 
 sight. When theres no laser you'll have to make do without one, but as it turned out, it wasn't 
 tough at all without it. It was actually somewhat better sometimes without the reticule blocking 
 the way. But where Riddick turns everything upside down is melee. For something called a FPS, Riddick 
 has an amazingly diverse range of melee weapons at his disposal throughout the game. All very effective 
 in their own way. Riddick's fists are no mean feat either. Riddick can unleash punches like The Undertaker 
 while moving like Muhammad Ali. Plus he's also capable of just sneaking up on somebody and snapping 
 their head off (Sam Fisher has serious competition from this guy) Riddick is capable of taking a 
 guard down with his bare hands while being shot at point blank range ON A REGULAR BASIS. His health 
 regenerates on its own at a decent rate, so you don't have to run around looking for health stations. Enemy 
 AI is great. You have a very wide range of enemies to take out. Some absurdly easy, some you'll see 
 in your nightmares. Your cunning, stealth, and agility comes into play a lot as its far more effective 
 to out-think rather than out-gun
  
  Special mention must go out to Vin Diesel for portraying Riddick so magnificently. it was absolutely 
 chilling and scary listening to the dialogue and seeing the calm, serene confident Riddick and 
 the brutal way the guy takes people out. (if theres ever a gaming Oscar, Diesel should get one) . Riddick 
 is shown as a guy that can walk out of hell sipping an iced tequila. Brilliant.
  
  Simply said, Amazing Story and Characters, Superb Graphics, Excellent Audio, Highly rewarding Gameplay 
 that uses a few simple key combos for a wide range of moves.
  
  Playing this was an experience i could never forget, and one you should never miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing this game. It filled about 20 hours of my time and I just loved the dialog which 
 was very well delivered. The graphics and story also kept me interested even though I felt it was 
 kind of linear (there are some areas of back and forth) . [partial spoiler] There are however twists 
 and twists in the story that will have you thinking it's over when it's not. The graphics are great 
 as well as I had them cranked to the max.
  
  get the game if you like story based FPS. Get this game if you love graphics and well designed 
 environments (the prison just reeks of hopeless humanity at it's lowest) . get this game if you 
 love sass and Riddick or Vin Deisel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is dark, graphic, and pulls no punches. Parents wanting to shield the virgin eyes and 
 ears of their children should not pick up this game. But man, is it ever fun for the rest of us. 
 There is blood, there is profanity, there are drugs, and all of it fits in perfectly without seeming 
 excessive (such as in, say, Manhunt) . The graphics in this game are fantastic, with well animated 
 characters, decent lip-synching, and an effective use of darkness throughout. Sound effects are 
 all done well, with no real obvious stock sounds being used in the place of something better. In 
 an interesting twist on the movies-to-games concept, this game actually takes place before either 
 movie, opting to tell the story of Riddick's brief prison stint that has been referenced in both 
 films, even before this game went into development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Rarely do I get to play a FPS these days that I can honestly say 'wow' this is seriously a blast, 
 excellently done and in many ways is even better than Half Life 2 single player mode. It would 
 be nice if they made a sequel, after completing this twice i'm ready for more action! Bring it 
 on!
  
  Chronicles has a bit of everything for the FPS fan, excellent stealth moments, gun blazing action, 
 amazing cut scenes with Vin Disels voice overs and pretty much everything else you could want, 
 don't forget that all the extra bonus stuff you can unlock by finding packets of smokes.
  
  Sets pretty much the standard for FPS these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Great FPS Shooter. Way under the radar. Great Graphics, Frame Rates, Storyline, Voice Acting, Fighting, 
 Weapons, Hand to hand and on and on.
  
  What an amazing game. I can't believe how great it runs and how good it looks.
  
  One of the 
 better games I've ever played. 1 word of advice. Unless you have a 7800 series card turn off SOFT 
 SHADOWS by selecting Shader Model. 2.0 rather then 2.0++.
  
  This gave my 6800 card a boost of 30FPS 1280 x 768
  
  Also the stealth in this game is very 
 very good. The lack of a HUD for the most part gives you a great feel for the game and makes you 
 feel like you are right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Although this seems like a normal boring shooter at the beginning, after finishing the game I can 
 say that the first impression was completely changed.
  
  Even if the graphics are not very impressive, the action of the game keeps you entertain and the 
 longer you advance in game the longer you'll be sucked in it's atmosphere.
  
  The difficulty is 'just right', you won't have to load previous games to many times, there are 
 'puzzles' all the way which makes the game very attractive, also the shooting part is quite good.
 
  
  The fighting is very challenging and it's not very difficult. There is also some humor in the game, 
 having Vin Disel catching flies is quite funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  I would like to begin by saying that I had just recently finally watched the three Chronicles of 
 Riddick movies, and I enjoyed them. That is ultimately what inspired me to buy this game. I had 
 seen positive reviews all over the place for this game, but I merely dismissed it because at the 
 time I did not have a decent gaming PC nor did I have an Xbox. Over time I merely forgot about 
 the game until recently. Now enough of the story of my experiences, time for the review.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : First off I would like to say that this game has been criticized by others for 
 not having multiplayer. Well, this game was clearly created for the single-player experience and 
 excels in that category. You don't see Ocarina of Time losing points because it is lacking in multiplayer. 
 With that out of the way, I must admit that this game has enough of everything to satisfy you. 
 In fact the back of the box is a good descriptor: The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay is an excellent hybrid of frist-person shooting, adventure and RPG elements, stealth and combat. 
 (said by IGN) . That about sums it up, it has guns (a limited choice but considering that this game 
 is usually about stealth kills, it is ok) , it has hand to hand combat that isn't overly simple 
 or complicated, it has stealth elements and some nice areas where you have to adventure a bit, 
 not to mention an area of the game where you go around merely talking to people. Really this game 
 has it all, and it has all the variety it needs to satisfy (you also get to control two vehicles 
 which are both GREAT experiences) a person. THIS, is how first-person shooters should be made. 
 Now don't get me wrong, I enjoy tactical shooters and mindless shooters as well, but this just 
 has a nice blend of gameplay styles that is, from my experience, unrivaled.
  
  Graphics (10/10) : EXCELLENT. Honestly I must first say that I played this game on a PC that was 
 able to smoothly run at max settings. With that being said, it was absolutely beautiful. The lighting 
 was done well as were the models and the textures were well detailed and clearly this shows what 
 a game being related to a movie series should look like. It is clear a lot of work went into making 
 this game authentic, and it WORKED. Only complaint I have is that the sky when outside looks extremely 
 bad when compared to everything else, but this is seen so little that it is only a minor complaint 
 in an otherwise wonderful looking game.
  
  Sound (10/10) : It isn't often that celebrety voices are done well in games, but I must say, Vin 
 Diesel did an absolutely smashing job for his part. His talent shows through the wonderful voice 
 acting he did in order to fit his character, and one could not tell the difference between this 
 Riddick and the Riddick in the movies, which is EXACTLY how it should be. Now one might say that 
 that is not reason enough to score a perfect. Well the weapons sound spot-on, footsteps are appropriate 
 (although that is my one complaint, could have been more varied) . All of the rest of the voice 
 acting NEVER falls below being good, and usually is excellent. That is good since there are areas 
 with a lot of dialogue. The ambience is also done well and really gets you feeling like you are 
 in a futuristic prison. Lastly is the music, which is absolutely GREAT. Each piece sounds wonderful 
 and generally plays when enemies are present or in a tense situation, so it is well done.
  
  Value (7/10) : Ah, the only thing preventing this from getting a perfect score. There are two 
 factors that prevent this game from being perfect, one is more important than the other, I will 
 allow you to decide which though. First is length. I completed the game in about 6 hours and played 
 it again for 4 hours to listen to the Developer Commentary. So this game is way too short for how 
 good it is. The other problem is that there is really no incentive to play again besides the Developer 
 Commentary. You can collect packs of cigarettes throughout the game to unlock artwork and also 
 the first chapter to The Chronicles of Riddick (novelization) . Now this isn't horrible but considering 
 how short this game is, they could have put more things to do after completion. Although I suppose 
 since the game is so short, if you have the urge to watch the series you could always merely quickly 
 play through this game then watch the movies, but really these are the game's two flaws. Otherwise, 
 this game could have been the first game I would ever give a perfect to. Pity.
  
  Should you buy it? Well if you have a PC that meets the requirements then yes I believe you should, 
 although if you can't run the game well, consider getting the Xbox version since I am under the 
 impression it is just as good (although I believe the PC version has extra scenes and stuff... hence 
 the Developer's Cut) . Either way this game is worth a buy, unless you HATE FPS games or HATE violence. 
 Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emzeesquared
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Since the fist time i played this game to this date, i still maintain it is the greatest FPS of 
 all time. I find it flawless, graphics, gameplay, sound, music, and sheer enjoyment. The graphics 
 surpass HL2, Farcry, and are about equal to Doom 3. But the gameplay in this game is far greater 
 than the gameplay in any of the other games. This game left me wanting more, unfortunatly i haven't 
 seen any starbreeze studios games released yet that are on this level. So what makes this game 
 so special? The realism for one. Rarely am i immersed in a world that i feel is real in a video 
 game, Riddick does this. A great intro sets the game off just right. You are the biggest bad-ass 
 in the universe and taken to a prison, Butcher Bay, and you must escape the unescable prison. The 
 fist fighting in this game is extremly satisfying, the sound and blood being spit out when you 
 punch somebody makes it all the more fun. The realistic bruises and scratches that immediatly appear 
 after each punch are a great touch. The shooting in the game is also very realistic, the recoil 
 and accuracy of the weapons is dead on. Wait there is even a stealth factor in this game? Of course 
 there is, it's riddick. Creep up behind enemies and snap their neck. Or run up to a guard with 
 your bare hands and when he tries to strike you with his shotgun, grab hold of it and shoot his 
 head off with his own gun in his own hands. But don't let me blab on, if you play this game you 
 will not be dissappointed. Bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edric1980
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  When this game was released on the Xbox, it stunned many people including myself. The game was 
 showing many graphical acheivements that the xbox could do as well as refining the whole first 
 person/ movie experience. Few games can pull it off like for example: Lord of the Rings: Two Towers 
 and Star Wars: Rouge Leader, while others *cough* Enter the Matrix *cough* could be done poorly. 
 That has now changed by Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay.
  
  The story is actually a prequel that takes place before he got his eyes shined, which you will 
 discover in due time. The story explains more of Riddick's background on how he got his reputation 
 and also learn more about his relationship his bounty hunter friend, Johns. The story is very well 
 paced making you more immense into the game. This gives you the feeling you're Riddick.
  
  Visually stunning. Once you start the game, you will be impressed of what Starbreeze Studios (Developers 
 working on The Darkness for 360/PS3) was able to pull off at the time, They really payed attention 
 to detail. The cells felt like they were corroded with rust and wear that it actually reminded 
 of a real cell to some extent. Not to mention the toiliets looked like they were $h! t on. But enough 
 with that, the light souring itself is truly the show stopper which gives the experience your in 
 a dark environment and shows off what Normal mapping ( A texture on a low polygon that uses real-time 
 light sourcing to bounce off realistic shadows that looks close to the high polygon seen in computer 
 animation movies) can really push on endless possibilities. And the PC version looks better in 
 polygons, textures, and resolution. You can actually see the mesh on the cell mates pants that 
 could not be seen on the Xbox as well for example. The physics are done well too even though there 
 are some clipping problems like seeing a hand going through the door here and there.
  
  The sound also matches the visual wether the music makes you feel the vibe or emotion to feel or 
 hearing the nosies from gunshots and explosions echoing through Butcher Bay. The voice acting is 
 well done making the charcters more believeable or even alive. Also, exsclusive only to the PC 
 version, directors commentary that is awsome way of interacting while explaining all of the details 
 of what they had to go through to make the game. Now for the important stuff, gameplay. Now you 
 don't usually hear this alot, but for compiling FPS, Stealth, Fighting/Action, &amp; Adventure 
 into one game, the devlopers did a damn good job of getting it right. The gamplay was awsome for 
 its repsonsive controls when it came to the shooting aspect. In fact, when you look at the gun, 
 it tells you how much ammo is in it rather than seeing a bar on the side it helps you focus more 
 on what going on-screen. The fighting is what impressed me for First-Person. One, it actually feels 
 generic, but at the same time deep once you learn the rythem of your movements. Although, I felt 
 like they could have used more moves in punches like the Fight Night series has done refining there 
 gameplay with the use of analogs. But, I am not going to complain too bad since it does the job 
 to entertain you and works well too. The stealth in the game feels like a mix between Theif series 
 and the Prince of Persia series. It works out very well. Your eyes turn to a blue tint telling 
 you if you can bee seen or not by the cell mates or guards. Also, you will be able to do fatalites 
 this way like sneek up behind your enemy and snap his neck for example. Also if you have no weapons, 
 you can use your enemies weapon against them like taking there gun and puting the gun underneather 
 their head and blowing their brains out. Also, your A. I. is pretty smart as well. They will try 
 to find you if they notice things are akward or if they hear something suspicious. You can also 
 play through it again to unluck many secrets like concept art, trailers, prototype video demos, 
 etc. The only problem itself is that the game feels like a short, but exciting, ride leaving you 
 wanting more. But I took it for what it was and enjoyed the hell out of it. What I read inpreviews 
 only made me believe more the hype when I started to play the demos. The game not only did what 
 it said it can do, but proved to be more than I could have ever imagined. Awsome job by Trigon 
 and Starbreeze and hope to see more games innovative, like this one, in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Small developers these days are being overrun thanks to massive companies such as EA. Starbreeze 
 shows that you don't need time restricted games and lots of promotion to have a great game. Chronicles 
 of Riddick takes from the Movie with Vin Diesel who voices Riddick in the game. You are put in 
 Butcher Bay a high security prison run by a powerful warden and ruthless guards and inmates. For 
 a 2004 game CR looks amazing even though FPS can dip at times along with some unpolished areas 
 but for the most part looks great. Throughout the game you are tasked with doing quests for your 
 benefit to your goal of eventually escaping Butcher Bay. From snapping a rival gangmembers neck 
 to stealing back drugs the quests in CR aren't repeatitive and involve the well-designed combat 
 system. With your bare hands you can use W-A-S-D you direct your punches and with a gun you use 
 an attached laser instead of a crosshair. As you progress in Butcher Bay you explore new prison 
 areas and go indepth into the story finally leading up to your escape and a satisfying ending. 
 As the credits rolled after the last cutscene I realized that I really wanted to see what Starbreeze 
 would do with the next installment in the Chronicles of Riddick. One of the Best Sci- Fi FPS Games 
 to date. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick - Escape From Butcher Bay is pretty awesome, its 2 yrs old but the graphics 
 look like a game made early 2006, kinda has a doom 3 look but doesnt have any cool lighting effects, 
 graphics woulda been awesome if i played it in `04, ive had it for a long time but never played 
 it cuase i thought it was gonna blow, I really wish I would have gave it a shot then, oh well now 
 I get to experience it for the first time. Theres good voice actors, Vin Diesel who played Riddick 
 in the movies Pitch Black the first movie, which was an awesome movie and the sequal Chronicles 
 of Riddick, which could have been better but it was decent, quite the difference in story line 
 between the two movies. Escape From Butcher Bay is basically what the title says it is, you have 
 been captured by the bounty hunter William J. Johns (the same guy who was in the 1st movie, same 
 voice actor aswell for the game) and brought to a slam (prison) called Butcher Bay. You must complete 
 missions within the prison, gain connections, get in good with the connected inmates and possibly 
 guards and eventually fight your way out of the prison. You don't need to have watched the 2 movies 
 to get into this game, tho it would really help, also if you didnt like the movies but still enjoy 
 FPS's you will love this game, great graphics, good sound, theres a lot of dialog which is all 
 read by good voice actors, game play is awesome has a unique feel to it. If you havent played this 
 game, give it a chance and you will really fall into the story and enjoy every second of it. I 
 hope they make a sequal to the game with next generation graphics, would be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  It's rare that a game impresses me to the extent this one has. It's one of those rare gems that 
 gets it all right in every way. The action and the story that lends purpose to it are excellent. 
 The game manages to incorporate everything from stealth action to melee combat to run and gun shooting 
 to wreaking havoc in a nearly invincible (but not completely) mech and more. It's an action lover's 
 dream to play.
  
  This title is living proof that it is possible to take a movie franchise and make a great game 
 from that source material. A lot of developers could learn plenty by playing through Riddick.
 
  
  The fantastic gameplay of Chronicles of Riddick is greatly enhanced by excellent visuals that recreate 
 the gritty prison and other environments of Butcher Bay. It's also helped by superb music and sound 
 that highlight the tense action and sometimes creepy sequences as you play. I liked the voice acting 
 too with cutscenes that were interesting and kept the story flowing. You meet a good variety of 
 interesting characters in your travels and the ultimate conclusion to the game is very satisfying 
 but I won't say anymore about that so as not to spoil it for you.
  
  It's hard to think of anything to criticize here and that's a rarity itself. This is just one of 
 those special, memorable gaming experiences that no action gamer should miss. Yes, it really is 
 that good. The consistency with which user reviewers have highly ranked this game should tell you 
 something about its quality. I just wanted to add one more recent review to the many accolades 
 this game so richly deserves.
  
  If this one slipped under the radar for you and you love these kinds of games you owe it to yourself 
 to find it and buy it and enjoy it now while the getting is still good. I believe it can still 
 be purchased on Direct2Drive and probably from other sources. Failing those avenues, there's always 
 eBay. But find this somehow and play it. You won't be sorry. It's among the better games I have 
 ever played and I don't toss that kind of praise around lightly. It really is. I just hope they 
 deliver a sequel of similar quality or if not, I would love to see the next work by this extremely 
 talented development team.
  
  I never saw the film or any of the preceding films but now that I have played Riddick I will definately 
 be renting at least Butcher Bay to see that one. Who knew a game based on a film could be so incredibly 
 good? Well, this one is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigger501
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  i never thought this game would be good!!! i saw it since release and never paid attention to tit 
 coz it was a movie-convert-to-game type of thing... so its been sitting in the shelves for two 
 years and i didnt even know what i was missing.. This game is really good! two years after its 
 release and its still good! it takes a lot to please me, but i must say im quite pleased.
  
  The graphics is really good considering the time of release. The sound quality is the nicest 
 bit, i think. all cast have acted out their voices in the game, but i must say that i expected 
 more from Vin Diesel. But the game is awesome and innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Dont fall for the things peopel say about movie games. It may be based off of a movie but the game 
 rocks!!! GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in the game is amazing realistic. It adds the feel of a 1st person shooter and yet 
 everything is interactive. There is a main quest and many side quests that can either help or slow 
 your chance of escape. Riddick the most wanted man in the univers is sent to a high security prison. 
 One of the only in the Galaxy. But Riddick isnt know to stay in one place. Join him in his attempt 
 for escape.
  GRAPHICS
  Not only does it add the movie feel the graphics may lead you to believe it is a movie. The graphics 
 bases off the Doom3 engine is amazingly realistic. Some places you may believe things such as skin 
 and other aspects look plastic but you easily get over it with the massive lighting and special 
 effects of the game. Even the character models look realistic. You can tell It sure does look like 
 Vin Diesel. Who also does the voiced in the game. DIFFICULTY,
  Sure the game involves much strategy including the sneak ability which is definitly one of the 
 favorite ascpects of the game. There are many parts where you must look an listen to find your 
 way through the many guards or obstacles in your way. Of course the game is very short. Shorter 
 than most games you may plan to play. The main quest can take about 7hours or so to complete. This 
 was a disappointment. The game is so exciting and amazing that i didnt want it to end. It does 
 however have an option that allows you to play the game with creater commentaries throughout the 
 game. This should be standard for all games because it livens the storyline and teaches you of 
 the making process. OVERALL overall the game is amazing. the graphics rock, its fun and fairly 
 inexpensive around $29. You will soon find that there is never a dull moment in the life of Riddick!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  The Good: This game could teach alot of others games a thing or two. Great graphics and gameplay 
 merge to creage an immersive great game. I would like to see a sequal to this game. The storyline 
 is awesome, I loved the movie also.
  The Bad: Some glitches/bugs but they will not ruin the overall experience of the game. Patches 
 will fix most problems.
  
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.5
  Sound:8.5
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:9.0
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: If you like FPS games and sci 
 fi this game is a must buy/try. It is equally as good on the XboX even though I prefer FPS gams 
 on the PC. Even if you aren't a fan of FPS games this game is still a must try for every hard core 
 PC gamer.
  
  My Score:9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04dcarraher
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Well dautley if you read this this is how you fix your problem download the demo offline and replace 
 that .exe is causing the problem with the demo's same .exe and that should fix it. Anyway when 
 I seen this game for xbox I did like it one bit then when it came out for pc I tried it and loved 
 the game. It has a good story with alots of action to keep you busy for awhile. Very good acting, graphics, sound, and 
 gameplay This game is a must for anyone who liked the Riddick movies Never Rate a game if it does 
 work at all because of a problem with the disc or your computer rate it when you beat the game 
 and really see how the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  And what good times i had with this game, this game is a total package its something you want to 
 add to your collection. Im still playing this game today which tells you it doesnt get old. What 
 i like about it the most is it brought the movie into it yet still cept it its own game.
  
  Dont even dout if you will like this game cause you will it has a first person interface that is 
 unexpectedly cool as all hell. And the ratings of this game dont lie. This is a game with a great 
 story line, a great game play system, voice acting, and scenery. I know this game is almost 2 years 
 old but that doesnt effect the game at all it could have just came out yesterday and still been 
 this kind of a hit.
  
  Just buy it and stop reading this, great on all systems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6me1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  See i thought it would be like a 3rd person game where u get to sneek around and kill people but 
 its the game where u run out in the open and shoot. i think it would be better if it was more like 
 splinter cell or Prince of Persia then u could do more fighting moves, more acrobatics (such as 
 swinging on bars etc..) but the graphics are good. so i cant say i hate the game it's just not 
 one of my favorites. And from the previews i saw it did seem kinda like a 3rd person game. but 
 they should make a new one where u sneak around and in 3rd person so u can do cool stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebois
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Xbox games.
  
  Immediately you ask. Why play it again on a PC?
  Well, it runs great even with a medium range PC, it require a super-computer to get a good quality. 
 And it does look better than the Xbox version!
  Then, you get to play a new level, in the middle of the game. You get yourself into a Riot Guard 
 Mech! It's great! Lotta a fun!
  And finally, you can try to do things in whole different way than before. You can always talk to 
 other characters and progress in a slitgly different way. It's not broad like a RPG but it's not 
 so linear like most common First-Person-Shooters.
  
  It's graphically superb, it sounds amazing. With an all-star cast doing the voices. Vin Diesel, 
 Michael Roorke, Ron Pearlman, Joaquim de Almeida.
  
  It's got a great mood. Even considering that it all takes place in one jail. Every area has a diferent 
 look and a nice variety of textures.
  
  The story is very compelling, and if you got time, you'll finish the game in quite a short time. 
 The game isn't very hard, but when you finish it, you'll just want to play it again, and try to 
 collect all the hidden bonus (cigar packs) that translate into game and the COR movies artwork 
 and videos.
  
  It's a must! It's fun and i hope there's more Riddick in the future. In games and cinema! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  (Please note: throughout this review, I dwell mostly on the negative. Remember that this game is 
 full of positives, and I try to mention them. However, it's a games flaws that make it reviewable 
 right?)
  
  The Chronicles of Riddick is a very interesting game. Though it bears many traditional FPS nuances, 
 it is highly innovative in its design. Its graphics were (and still are to some degree) cutting 
 edge, while its sound, voice acting, and music are outstandingly done as well. However, in the 
 end, these things keep Chronicles of Riddick from being superb. The game is meant to be thrilling 
 (James Bond type thrilling) and it is simply put, the most exhiliarating game available today. 
 No other video game keeps your adrenaline pumping like Chronicles of Riddick. Tearing through a 
 research facility in a mechanized indestructible robot, sneaking up on someone and snapping their 
 neck without being detected, and toeing the line with heavily armed and armored prison guards are 
 all gameplay aspects that have yet to be matched in the video game industry. However, because of 
 this, COR is simply, exciting. You love it while you play it, but then look back and have little 
 to think to yourself. (Unlike KOTOR or HL2 for example) . In other words, its action takes away 
 what could be some more memorable depth. That said, this game is so unique in its delivery that 
 it is still worth playing. From the intuitive and innovative interface to the intense soundtrack, 
 which is just as adrenaline packed as the other parts of the game. The graphics, though they are 
 almost on par with those in HL2 and Doom 3, are highly demanding. Even on a system capable of running 
 the aformentioned games at med-high, COR will probably only run at low with 800x600 resolution 
 or worse. (However, as time goes on this is less and less of a factor) .
  
  Another point of criticism for COR is it repetitiveness. Sure you get to play varied missions, 
 but the core remains pretty much the same: sneak, kill, run and gun, sneak, kill, run and gun. 
 Also, there are not really many weapons to choose from, and only a few types of opponents you must 
 face. This aspect sometimes makes the game feel like it drags. The level design is also somewhat 
 repetitive, and linear as well, making many sections of the game feel unnecessary. The environment 
 pretty much remains the decaying prison, with only two notable exceptions the entire game. That 
 said, there are some highly artistic and memorable levels as well, which in the end make the game 
 stand out. Part of the score inflation surrounding this game is the fact that it is so enjoyable 
 while you are playing it. However, once it's over there is not really much reason to go back and 
 play through unless you want to listen to developer commentary, which, depending on who you are, 
 could conceivably double the length of the game. The game is also fairly short. A hardcore FPS 
 player could probably tear through it in less than 8 hours if none of the extra tasks were performed. 
 These tasks are another point of criticism. Instead of being suspenseful and exciting, they typically 
 consist of beating up someone or finding someone's lost item. The idea to integrate such RPG-like 
 elements into an FPS is good in theory, but doesn't work to well in practice in this instance. 
 The Chronicles of Riddick draws its weaknesses from its strengths. However, in the end it is highly 
 reccomendable, especially considering its price today, and any passing fan of the FPS genre would 
 find an exciting, unique experience in Chronicles of Riddick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dowju
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Being a game based on a movie licence, I couldn't help but be skeptical of how Chronicles of Riddick 
 would turn out. Boy was I pleasantly surprised.
  
  Chronicles of Riddick truely uses its licence well by not being set in the movie, but rather around 
 events spoken of in the movies. We all heard Riddick talking about Butcher Bay in Pitch Black and 
 CoR, but since we've never seen it in a movie it gave Starbreeze a ton of artistic licence.
  
  Which they used well. Riddick is a brilliant looking game. All the weapons are well modelled, 
 the actor likenesses are spot on, the environments are perfect. I especially liked the first cell 
 block area, where all the inmates have made thier marks and it really does look like thier territory 
 rather than just a prison.
  
  The weaponry all sounds meaty and the voice acting is spot on. Vin Diesel's voice over for Riddick 
 is what makes the difference between this game being good and brilliant. Without Diesel, the game 
 would feel far more lifeless.
  
  The game is not particularly long by any standards, but the Directors commentary and other such 
 extras make a second go-round worth your time.
  
  All in all, Chronicles of Riddick: EFBB is what licenced games should be. A valuable part of the 
 stories world, rather than a throwaway to make a quick merchandising dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamandgg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I've never played anything like it! You actually feel the enviroment completely! I mean I'm in 
 there in the game, all movements feels so natural.
  In this game you actually have the body, and it's great.
  Anything else? There's pretty much 
 nothing to comment except saying that all aspects of the game are exceptional. Of course enviroments 
 are kinda "clean", but that provides great frames per seconds and is actually explained because 
 otherwise prisoners would build weapons from anything.
  Sound, voice acting, surround effects (I used 5.1 headphones) everything is master work.
  Oh, 
 and the ciggarettos amigos. That's the funny part.
  Fighting in Riot Armor and "talking walker tank" couldn't been better...
  .. I could write lots 
 about this game, if only there was any expansion for it! I want more!!! I hope they'll release 
 one.
  I had great fun completing this game from beginning till the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This is like an interactive riddick movie set before the first film, pitch black. Where Riddick 
 is taken to the Butcher Bay Prison Facility. This game has a fantastic atmosphere right off the 
 bat. It puts you into the riddick universe and you dont get out till the end of the game. Fantastic 
 graphics, fantastic gameplay, very fun. Riddick actually looks like vin deisel, its amazing. you 
 have to see it for yourself, screenshots dont do it justice. And it performs unbelievably well 
 for how good it looks on my computer. It has a great story and the characters are all believable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  I Don't know what to say, I'm speechless.
  
  Some times you just found that game and it's just overwhelming, the grafik is great, I had some 
 problems first, but after a patch it looked so good.
  
  I like that, what I say has an effect in the game I must found a way to be theirs friend without 
 beeing used or tough, otherwise thei don't want to help you.
  
  Beat your way through jails in local jail-fights, escape with help from others and shoot your way 
 out...
  
  All in all it's a great game and I think most people who enjoys the type of games where you to 
 sneak, solve puzzels and talk you out of any situation, if that not works just fight, then thise 
 game is for you...
  
  Have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madaka
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  First is it film of a game or game of a film? I dunno this. But can learn from somewhere: D. Game is 
 seeing rpg on first mission. Somebody giving to you objects.... On RPG games have objects. Later missions 
 you can understand kind of our game.'FPS'. Graphics are good, sounds are normal, gameplay is very 
 easy. Charecter models are good designed. Just like half life 2 characters. (But lower level) And be 
 last game is funny for fps gamers. There is much weapons, health stations (have 4 usage in one station) And 
 didnt seen end of it yet. But coming soon see. That is just like other games but graphics and story 
 different. Good playing everyone! You have to watch film of game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Many say, GOTY of 2004 is Doom3, others say HL2. I say, Riddick is.
  Such a shame there was no hype at all. 
  
  The game uses openGL engine, which means, it runs 
 much smoother on NVidia cards. Even on a midrange 6600GT you can turn up the graphics, and enjoy 
 the excellent graphics. Because this game has EXCELLENT graphics. It beats Doom 3, and in some 
 aspects, it beats Half Life 2 (too bad, Riddick has some lowres textures) .
  
  The story of Riddick is amazing. And, it's not even 'just the movie'. Because Riddick the videogame 
 tells us a whole new story, that was NOT in the movie.
  
  We have to make our way out of Butcher Bay, the most guarded, and secured prison. If you watch 
 'Prison Break' the TV show, some situations might be familiar. Basically, this isn't just a go 
 ahead and kill FPS. Most of the time, you don't even have a gun. For example, you have to use electro 
 shocker, or just bare hands. 
  
  That's being said, the game is a mixature of stealth and commando style gameplay. 
  
  The levels 
 are very good, there are bunch of, and each one is unique. 
  
  The sounds are excellent. Why? Vin Diesel. Yep. He gave his voice to Riddick in the game aswell, 
 and.. he talks alot which is good for us. There are bunch of jokes being said ,which is excellent.
 
  
  The only complaint I have is the lack of any kind of multiplayer. Unfortunately, the value suffers 
 because of this.
  
  Overally, this game is a must have. If it had a little more hype, easily, this game could have 
 beaten D3 and HL2. But since it didn't most people don't even know it exists! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Besides the fact that the game itself gives you a better understanding of all three movies (Pitch 
 Black, Chronnicles of Riddick, Chronnicles of Riddick Dark Fury) you get to kick a$$ in the same 
 fashion than in the movies. In different maps and scenarios with fantastic graphics and a lot of 
 freedom to explore. You will get to use different vehicles, interact with all characters. Everybody 
 has something to say and a way to die if you so wish to do so. One of the best treats from the 
 game is a detail explenation of how riddick came to have those eyes. Elements of stealth, shoot 
 your way through it is all up to your style. Fantastic fight mechanics are involved, you can push 
 a guard from a second floor and land on top of him (my personal favorite) , you can shoot them with 
 their own weapons, brake their necks, shaft them, hit them with bats, push them around JUST FANTASTIC!! 
 With over 10 hours of very detailed and diverse gameplay it is very hard to describe in detail. 
 You must play this game!!! I can only hope that there will be more, keep them coming!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoosTrax
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  If you go into Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay expecting a typical run and run FPS 
 shooter, then you'll be surprised that you'll only be using firearms in a few sections of the game. 
 Instead, Riddick mixes in many different types of gameplay in a very seamless way, including things 
 like stealth, roleplaying, and adventuring. Much of the actual combat involves either straight 
 up, in-your-face melee fights, or stealth instant kills. The melee fighting in this game is probably 
 the most well executed I've seen, and feels extremely solid and immersive.
  
  The PC version offers additional content not found in the XBox, including literally hours upon 
 hours of unlockable developer commentary (much of it very humorous) intermingled throughout the 
 game.
  
  While it doesn't offer a multiplayer mode, and as such suffers somewhat from a replayability perspective, 
 CoR is still worth playing through at least twice, if only to hear the developer's cut or to try 
 out different tactics, like using pure stealth, or all out guns blazing.
  
  The graphics are very well done, particularly the normal mapping, and compares favorably with bigger 
 name FPS games like Doom 3. They're so good in fact, that the few flaws there are stand out all 
 the more. These include minor things like the leather straps on Riddick's wrists, which look noticeably 
 pixelated and blurry when you see them in first person view.
  
  The voice acting is also top notch, and the sheer number of unique character voices is staggering. 
 Don't be surprised if you find yourself just sitting back for a minute or two to listen to a couple 
 of AI characters having a conversation between themselves.
  
  All in all, a surprisingly good game, and one that vies with Goldeneye 64 for being one of the 
 best games based on a movie license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructort1st
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  i beat the demo 6 times and then beat the game twice it is a very very good game that had about 
 the best melee combat ever had in a fps you can sneak and kill people with anything almost screwdrivers 
 metal scalpels you name it. I don't know what it is but there's something sooo satisfying about 
 sneaking up behind someone and slitting there neck with a screwdriver. you can destroy almost every 
 light and it has a a very good story with awesome as hell fights. and on top of all that its a 
 role-playing game with great puzzles sweet graphics and killer sounds wow so many pronouns for 
 this game my head might explode other than that if your a fps fan and haven't played it its one 
 of the biggest sins in my gaming bible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  These days first-person-shooters are a dime a dozen. It's what often strangleholds the PC market 
 and even various consoles are prone to FPS after boring FPS. So I'm happy to say The Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay is a breath of fresh air.
  
  The game strays from the norm by adding a few elements of stealth and puzzle that mesh into the 
 game well. While you're in prison too you'll have to interact with inmates, doing favors, ousting 
 people, and fighting to earn the respect and items necessary to advance.
  
  The game is one of the better looking games that I've played on my PC in a while, this was the 
 first true test of my new video card and it didn't disappoint. The characters are modeled well, 
 the voice acting is pretty decent, and the story bridges some gaps from Pitch Black and the Chronicles 
 of Riddick movie.
  
  I could recommend this for fans of the movie or FPS fans that finally want something that breaks 
 the mold a bit. Enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I do use the review I made for mafia be cough its also about Riddick and tells about what I mean. 
 Riddick And Mafia are the 2 beat cinematic games ever.
  
  Mafia is the game that come closest to perfect if you want to play the main character in a movie.
 
  It's real cinematic. Okay so real that the computer's can make it now a day. 
  I wont talk about the story line or the game as such that's dun enough. I just want to say that 
 I never seen any other game producer's make a game that comes near other that the guy's who made 
 Mafia "Some time's you simply forget that it's a game your playing" It only happened to me by playing 
 MAFIA. HO sorry!! that's not all trough there's a other game producer who also gut it, The maker 
 of "The chronicle of Riddick - escape from butcher bay" and one of them his name is Vin Diesel 
 hem self, he and the guy's from Sweden making the Riddick game, they do also know what there doing 
 no doubt.
  
  But else there's a long - long way down to the nest levels and here we do for example find Max 
 pain 1 and 2 plus quid some other titles. Don't take me rung here that's also really fantastic 
 games and they are smashing GRATE games too I think, but still it's' another level It's just games.
 
  Mafia and Riddick Is beyond normal level's it seams ore how can I say; hopefully it's the next 
 -- THE new level.
  
  Riddick only gut one major minus. There's not a nr. 2. And on the Pc. it's not easy to get to run 
 to begin whit. I did seen some guy's giving op on it. But there is no reason to do so. The right 
 patch solve the problem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why every body think that this game deserves average 9 SCORE.
  The game MENU is one of the all time BEST game MENU that I have ever seen.
  The story line is 
 ok & 3D is Very good but Im disappointed with the game play time.
  bcoz it is very short like Quake IV. The Riddick installation size 4.03 GB is for nothing.
  
 I finished the game in 16 hours (two days) without any cheat codes normal difficulty.
  I say they should have done better, even with the Keyboard configurations.
  There are no direct 
 Lean left / Lean right keys like in other FPS games. And also I
  cant say that Im satisfied with the background Music so my SCORE will be 8.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faizali86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  In this game you play as Riddick who's trying to escape from Butcher Bay. In the beginning you 
 play a tutorial which is a part of Riddick's dream. After that, the actual story starts and its 
 one crazy ride. 
  In the game you have two styles of gameplay ; straight up action and stealth. You cant choose between 
 anyone of them because some parts of the game require that you use stealth and some dont. The graphics 
 and gameplay are two things that really stand out. Besides Condemned, this is one of the few shooters 
 that has so much focus on melee combat and does it really well. Interacting with other prisoners 
 and completing side missions is fun. The game is not as easy as other shooters because you dont 
 always get to carry weapons around. But once you acquire guns it becomes a whole lot easier. Environments 
 are all indoor because your in jail, but theyre so good you can almost smell the stench from the 
 toilets in the cells! 
  The weak points about this game are that you can get lost at times and the guns you get are the 
 just the usual ones except you dont have many to choose from. 
  The best part about the game is graphics, Riddick's attitude, environments, prison life, breaking 
 out from a prison, melee combat and weapons used for melee combat, and a lot of bonus content. 
 
  This is probably some of the best shooters out there so get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay was a totally new experience for me because 
 it went into the world of Riddick and his merc-buddy Johns who tries to sell him at butcher bay. 
 Hoxie the master of the prison city takes Riddick in the triple max prison which is very high secured 
 and is very strict. You, undoubtedly play as Riddick, the last remaining Fruian who struggles to 
 survive as he is hunted by many because of his high bounty. Story aside the game starts as a dream 
 which is more like a tutorial but u get into the flow of it and as you play through, Riddick gets 
 more powerful and learns to unleash the furian inside of him. There is also sort of an action/adventure 
 feel to it too because of all different environments and levels that u can go through. Role playing 
 type of gameplay was also quite present at times for example that u have to talk to the people 
 in order to get the information needed to continue to the next level. The UV currency was also 
 an interesting part of the game where u can buy tools and weapons from some of the prisoners and 
 workers. The atmosphere of the varies throughout the levels and makes u feel like u are really 
 in a prison but its rather too comfortable for Riddick as he later gets his Eyeshine ability later 
 in the game which is a advantage over his enemies. The best part of the game is that u never feel 
 like u are just stuck in one kind of gameplay and if u get tired of shooting then u can fight in 
 melee combat in the prison ring or use the dark as protection an have a stealthy kind of gameplay. 
 Or is u just get tired of fighting and shooting, u can go around doing sub missions for other people 
 and earn some money which adds more of a role playing sense to the game. This game is on of the 
 best FPS I have played I think it might even be my best. The only negative point is that at the 
 end, I was left thinking thats it? After all the action it felt like it almost ended abruptly. 
 The only thing I hope for is a sequel as good as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukecicilia
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I've ever played!! The truly innovative style of game play puts this game 
 far ahead of all competition and leaves you dissapointed that all other games areen't like this. 
 Regardless of the genre of games you like, this is a must play.
  
  The technological aspects of this game are outstanding; esecially when weighed against other games 
 released at the same time. The graphics and sound are incredibly atmospheric (even more so than 
 Doom 3 or Quake 4) . 
  
  The gameplay is superb. This game plays unlike other games by not following a level to level structure. 
 It also constantly provides you with new tasks and objectives, which arent just variations of the 
 previous tasks and objectives. First and foremost, the shooting and combat action is incredible. 
 The AI is outstanding, the variety of opponent tactics is impressive, and the various types of 
 enemies/creatures you fight throughout the game keep it from getting old.
  
  If you have not played Riddick then you are missing out on a pure classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomlee129
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Right lets get things straight, chronicles of riddick is really for the fans. you will enjoy it 
 so much more if you have watched the films, which this game is designed for that audience. chronicles 
 of riddick is set before the first film showing how riddick gains his reputation and his eye shine 
 from escaping from the unescapeable prison. after a brief cutscene intro and a well concived training 
 scene, you are quickly thrown into life in butcher bay. the enviroments throughout the game are 
 stunning and well developed. with minute details in the concrete and various non-repeated graffiti, showing 
 that care was taken in producing the enviroments that the developer wanted unique enviroments, 
 not repeated enviromental structures. the sound is also great. with great sounding doors and gates 
 and the voice acting with vin diesel reprising his role as riddick and xzibit as the head guard. 
 the indervidual npc's which are a lot of are all unique and with intresting voices that help the 
 game to not feel samey. the gameplay however is the games real strong point. the npc's play a crucial 
 role. it is the npc's who offer you extra missions, some for bonus items and others for moving 
 the main story and the sub story. combat is in first person perspective, which alows for unique 
 hand to hand combat, the shooting however is typical fps style. throughout the game you aquire 
 knuckedusters, shivs, handguns, shotguns and for a short time a rifle-which is lost when they remove 
 your dna encryption alowance from the database. so there is a fair amount of firepower behind you 
 and you will find the shotgun being your workhorse. throughout the game you will runacross puzzles 
 which do take a long time to complete. these puzzles occur every quater of the game and involve 
 a lot of doing tasks for npc's and completing a challenge or challenges. i say puzzle as sometimes 
 it is not obvious on the next cause of action you must take. this is why i use the term "puzzle" 
 in the final half of the game you will ba able to pilot the combat vehicles you encounter earlyer 
 in the game in various vehicle sequences. these are fun destractions from the main game. though 
 mainly i have sung the games prases i muct also critizise aswell on a few points. firstly the game 
 does not fully keep you entertained all the way through. there are pockets where the game actually 
 gets boring and you will find that the only thing keeping you going is to get to the next fun spot. 
 unfortunatly there are a few to many times when this is apparant. and secondly the game is not 
 that stable even on a high spec machine (for what the game asks for minimum requirements) and you 
 will find at times that the voice syncing gets out of step or that you die then hear the gunshots 
 where the game is lagging. but the main problem is the boring sections.
  
  overall the game is great the first time you play through but there is little to keep you coming 
 back again for a second or first time. if you find it for less than 15 then it is worth a play 
 throught. then honestly resold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nilemonitor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  
  
  This game has been out a year and a half now on the PC and is a single player game only but it 
 still remains one of the best single player games out there at the moment. With a Hollywood type 
 script, unique FPS game play and great voice acting talent, Riddick is still a force to be reckoned 
 with. Even though this game has nothing to do with the movie it cinematically starts at the same 
 place with Riddick on the Ice Planet. You get to see what Riddick has been doing in his spare time 
 and then a flash back that goes all the way back to before Riddick had his eye shine which is also 
 before Pitch Black the first movie. Next thing you know, you find yourself as Riddick trying to 
 escape from Butcher Bay. 
  
  The graphics are on par, and in many ways better, than Doom III and the game play is without question 
 far better than Doom III. There is a ton of dialog, and similar to the Dues Ex games you can choose 
 how your character responds to each conversation. There are many bonus missions that unlock bonus 
 content outside the game. But the missions themselves are more satisfying than their rewards in 
 most cases. This game is very stealth oriented and is sort of a cross between an FPS and Splinter 
 Cell. You spend about half the game without a gun, just a shiv, club or electro shock gun if your 
 lucky, but dont worry, there are plenty of levels that require a fair amount of shooting action. 
 Once you gain your nocturnal vision, you gain the advantage in the darkness. Even if you have a 
 gun or three you dont want to Rambo your way through or you will die quick. Because the AI is 
 pretty decent in this game. 
  
  All of the melee combat is unique and very well done for an FPS. You can do drop kills, as well 
 as sneak from behind kills (Neck break, cut throat or gun bash) . One note about the guns, they 
 are all DNA encoded so if you touch one, BZZZZZZZZIT! OUCH. You get a shock! There are eventually 
 a couple of ways to get around this as you will discover. Sometimes you just have to face your 
 enemies unarmed and head on and there is a useful grab technique that allows you to wrestle the 
 enemys weapon and force him to use it on himself. Weather it be a shiv, shotgun or almost any 
 other weapon. This game has no vehicles but considering that you spend the duration of your time 
 in a triple max slam, you should expect some close quarter combat. You didnt expect wide open 
 plains and lush green fields now did you? Despite the lack of vehicles, you do get to drive a small 
 mech for a couple of levels which has to be one of the most satisfying elements of the game. An 
 additional mech level was added to the PC version.
  
  Much like the audio commentary from a DVD movie, the PC version features an unlock able commentary 
 mode by the developers. You basically play through the game and click on a floating icon and a 
 developer will start to comment on the developmental aspect of that particular part of the game.
 
  
  Everyone I know who has played through the game, agrees it is better than the movie. Even if you 
 didnt like the movie or didnt see it, this game is still worth the tiny price tag.
  
  Game Spot gives Chronicles of Riddick a 9.3. Only 3 other PC FPS games have scored higher on game 
 spot in the last 8 years.
  
  As far as any cons are concerned, I can think of only one worth mentioning: No multiplayer. But 
 I would rather see no multiplayer instead of seeing your standard generic death match but I felt 
 like they could have at least made a small mech multiplayer mode or something. That would have 
 been appreciated.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply an amazing FPS shooter. Like i heard this game was good and I thought, hmm 
 looks alright. But man, that was unexpected. I was addicted, I was stunned and amazed. The graphics 
 are superb, the gameplay is down right astonishing. The other thing that was amazing is that this 
 game is based on a movie. And every game I see that is based on a movie is... well crappy. But this 
 one beats all. If your an FPS fanatic, find this game but its downright phenomal! Like this game 
 has a different story line and all from the movie but the game is better than the movie is the 
 funny thing. People that love the movie and FPS should try this game, you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final-Fatality
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  An excellent movie to game conversion which has of Vin Diesel helping to produce it. The gameplay 
 is top notch and the stealth elements handled well. There are very little bugs in this game and 
 I have yet to experience any serious bugs throughout this game. However, the shooting elements 
 in this game is not handled as well as I hoped, and i personally think that the recoil of the weapons 
 are too much and that detracts from the experience.
  
  The graphics of this game is excellent and very immersive, with a dirty and gritty feeling about 
 the place. The character models are excellent, especially Vin Diesel's and it looks absolutely 
 lifelike and photorealistic. The graphics can look great with a mid-low end machine with a Geforce 
 6200 at max settings and absolutely no slowdown watsoever. 
  
  The sound of the game is handled well too, and the voiceovers are great and realistic. The guns 
 also provide a appropriately loud and manly blast when you fire it.
  
  Also, the PC edition features a great gameplay sequence where you storm around in a big metal droid 
 blasting anything that moves! The commentary is value for money too, however i think that the voices 
 are too soft and you really need to turn up the volume to catch every word. unfortunately, when 
 you do these, the gameplay sounds (shooting guns etc) become too loud and that becomes a problem.
 
  
  All-in all, I would recommend this game to everyone as this excellent game cannot be missed out 
 on. Here's to hoping the sequel comes out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockingbasser
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Proboably the most gripping FPS adventure game ever made, just edges it over HL2 and Far Cry and 
 Doom 3. The best game I have played in my life. Great story line, just keeps making you play on. 
 Never gets boring as each section is very different and requires different thinking e. g. stealth, 
 all guns blazing etc. Brilliant dialogue and excellent graphics and sound. And, if you have developers 
 cut you get the developers commentary which is the icing on the cake.
  
  I cannot stress how FUN and ADDICTIVE this game is. It really is a classic. It doesn't matter if 
 you haven't seen the films or anything - I haven't and it certainly didn't stop me enjoying this 
 absolute materpiece.
  
  Well done StarBreeze you have made something undescribably briliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Basically youre Riddick & your locked in a prison and its up to you to get him out. You can perform 
 many quests along the way to earn cash, which you can use to buy weapons or other items.
  
  This is truly a unique game combining action/first person shooter/adventure perfectly. If I had 
 to name similar games I would have to say its a combination of Splinter cell & Oblivion. Splinter 
 cell because of the stealth aspect & Oblivion because of the graphics (yes, they are that good!) 
 and the style of 1st person play.
  
  Heres my P&C list:
  
  Pros:
  
  * Unique game play. No other game has come close to this in terms of telling a story &making it 
 fun 
  
  * Multiple methods of achieving goals. Fight, stealth or diplomacy, its your choice.
  
  * Combat 
 if FUN to play & highly realistic. Punch a guy in the head with a right hook & a bruise will appear 
 on his respective cheek. Stab him with a knife and wellyou get the drift.
  
  * Different opponents have different weaknesses. For example you might come across Big Jim who 
 has a weakness to uppercuts & Old Joe who have a weakness to left hooks. Discovering these weaknesses 
 & exploiting them is a lot of fun & critical in some tougher fights.
  
  * Game rewards discovery. Curious as to whats behind that create? Have a look because its most 
 likely something good. (e. g. money, ammo etc)
  
  * Graphics are stunning! (up there with Oblivion & half life 2) I have never seen such good modeling! 
 Vin Diesel & the environment look extremely lifelike.
  
  Cons: 
  
  * Inventory screen is badly set up & is evident this game was ported from a consol. Good luck trying 
 to pull your shiv (knife) out when someone suddenly attacks you!
  
   Too many indoor environments. I know they help keep frame rates down, but hallway after hallway 
 got old in Doom 3 & its the same here.
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  I was scratching to find those 1 cons. This game is quite possibly the most complete action/FPS/stealth 
 games ever made! If you like any of the above genre you will love COR!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: filhodumaputa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  What do you need in a game? Depends. You can be that RPG guy whos stays at home 24/7 playing Ocarina 
 of Time, or FF7 (which are great games, although i havent played FF7) , you can also be that guy 
 who had all the nintendo systems, and plays child-targeted games like Mario Kart and SSBM (which 
 are great games also) , or you can be that guy who likes FPS's, loves blowing peoples head off, 
 and seeing blood. There are many other gamers, i know this, and you know this. This game is for 
 all of them.
  The Graphics are amazing, the physics are extremley good, the fighting system is probably the greatest 
 i have ever seen in a game, the controls are simple, and there are many other reasons. Listen, 
 if you want a game that will blow your mind, get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Everything about the game in my opinion was really well done. Most movie based games are totally 
 dumb, but this game is a grand slam. 
  
  If you like FPS, pay $19.99 and it's money well spent.
  
  The only knock on the game if I must 
 be honest is that it's a relatively short game for the most part. It took me about 6 - 8 hours 
 to complete, but it's intense and I really did not lose much interest once I beat it, wanted to 
 go back and play it again on a harder level. 
  
  The really need to think about releases Chronicles of Riddick 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best fps game i've ever played in terms of gameplay variety. 
  There's melee fights, shooting action, stealth parts, vehicle parts and even a little bit of rpg 
 style sections... it's the all package!!! My favorite part was in the pit with the dwellers... man 
 that part was creepy.
  
  I really liked the story. That's what kept me playing until the end. You begin in a triple super 
 max prison and fight your way out... but each time you get caught trying to escape in the story, 
 you're put into a toughest, hardest part of the triple super max prison to escape. 
  
  Graphics are awesome!!.... The special effects are superb (bullets hitting the walls, explosions.. etc) . 
 The lightning effects and textures are very well done. Not a surprise since its the same engine 
 used for Doom 3
  
  Cinematics are the best i've seen in a game... keep the action pumping and help understand the story.
 
  
  Sound is perfect with outstanding voice acting
  
  Now for the negative:
  
  The game was really too short... I received the game on a tuesday and finished it the next day... it 
 took me about 8hrs maybe 10 max on normal... and i'm the type of gamer who really try to push the 
 game to its fullest (I try to go in every room and inspect them all so i'm not missing anything, 
 i take pauses in the game to watch animations on the background or just to enjoy the graphics... etc.) 
 
  
  The other thing is that once you beat the game, there's not much to do after... no multiplayer, 
 not many path you can choose to finish the game and not many bonuses (some cigarette packs that 
 unlock drawings and movie sets.. no hype there)
  
  So its an awesome game that you'll probably going to play once.... but man you'll enjoy that time.
 
  
  Played on:
  
  Intel P4 HT 3,4 ghz
  2 gb RAM DDR2
  ATI Radeon X850XT PE
  Sound blaster Audigy 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick was a pretty good sequel to Pitch Black, but the game is unbelievable. 
 The graphics are phenomominal and the sound is terrific. The graphics are easily the best I have 
 ever seen on a PC game. Plus you have people like Vin Diesel and Ron Perlman providing voices. 
 Along with some pretty good intense music. The story is pretty well-written considering it is a 
 prequel to Pitch Black. It is pretty difficult and at the same time, pretty easy. If anyone is 
 trying to find a great action game, I highly, highly reccomend that they check out this game. In 
 short this game is a MUST-HAVE. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djxyas
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Graphics, scene plot, audio surrounding everything is so well balanced, I wonder why this game 
 is not among the top ranking games. The level designing, shadow effect, texture details everything 
 is at its best.
  Bravo ... Bravo ... Game Creators, you have definitely made the masterpiece.
  After long time, 
 I have finally got something to play that is worth of time, money and enjoyment.
  Unlike other games of this Genre, the action is not only limited to kill and run, it also adds 
 story line in which sometimes you have to fight with your just bare hands or depending on the situation 
 weapons will be available for you to take necessary action. Stealth is the best thing which I have 
 found in this game amazing, well how the trademark of Riddick "Vin Diesel" he can see in the dark. 
 Blow out the lights and enjoy the fun which you can have making your enemies blinded in pitch black 
 darkness while you can see whatever you want.
  It is one of those games which cannot be told or explained but has to be played to get the complete 
 taste of what it is made of. If you think you can be RIDDICK, well now is the time to prove it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  when ever us gamers see a movie to game idea, we already bash it, since we all know how bad they 
 mostly turn out, same thing happens when a game is ported to a movie. But Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape from Butcher Bay changes that opinion making it look like a myth. This game is one of the 
 greatest Movie to Game ports ever made. You... of course, control the most deadliest bad ass character 
 in the universe.... Riddick. Trying to escape a triple max prison alone and survive the dangers 
 that awaits you, lucky for you, Riddick is one tough S. O. B. As you know, Riddick has his killer 
 moves, stealth kills, powerfull fists, the speed and agility of a killer, and the cool nightvision. 
 The story in the games begins before the movie, so you wont have spoilers. This game has plenty 
 of gameplay, its not your ordianry run, and gun FPS, you have side missions that you can accept 
 to get rewards wich unlock movie clips and concept art. You will mostly run around, stealth or 
 gunning down baddies, or just trying to get around and finding clues on escaping Butcher Bay. The 
 only problem is, that once you beat the game you might not come back to play it a few more times. 
 This game lacks Multiplayer also. The graphics are great, the game i sup to par with the graphics 
 seen in Doom 3 engine so you cant hate it, you will see some of the same enviroments from time 
 to time, but the detail really looks great, Special effects are amazing also. The sound in the 
 game is perfect, you actually have the voice of vin Diesel himself and others like the rapper Xzibit, 
 the music is intense, it fits the action and stealth moments. This game isnt so difficult, but 
 once you beat it you can unlock a even harder difficulty.
  
  dont let the usual horribly made movie to game ports get to you, this game is worth it, it should 
 be in your collection.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  + Same Doom 3 engine, wich does great for this game
  + The textures, characters, special effects 
 are perfect, you can even destroy walls and floors with those mechs
  +/- you may notice the same areas like the same steel walls and floors etc....
  
  Sound: 
 
  
  + Great voice acting, including Vin Diesel and Xzibit. 
  + The music really adds to the theme, fits well with stealth and intense action, just like if your 
 watching a movie. 
  
  Game Play: 
  
  + Stealth, run and gunning, finding secrets and side mission adds more gameplay
  + hand to hand 
 combat is realistic and well done. 
  +Cool missions wich you control small mechs with very destructive power.
  - sadly it does not 
 have any multiplayer.
  
  Replay Value: 
  
  -once you beat it acouple of times, you might not pick it up again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: necro007
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Graphically wise: Its awesome. Every single effect in this game is wild. The chars in the game 
 are fabulousits just so unreal how the characters move and especially their facial expressions. 
 And as for the main guynone other then Vin Diesel, he is just WOW. I have never seen a better 
 main char then him in this game.
  
  Audio: the sound effects really compliment this games graphics very well, from the other characters 
 talking to each other to the foot steps your character makes; this game has done another great 
 job with this part of this game. The sounds of when you fire diff guns are just wicked.
  
  Game play: As if you could not already tell, I really enjoyed this game. It was one of the BEST 
 FPS I have ever played!!! This game is just so much fun. You really get satisfaction from killing 
 others in this game. One part I love about this game is how well this game does the feeling of 
 being frightened and makes you feel like you are Vin Diesel and you are going through all this. 
 Also this is why I think this game should be on every gamers mantel, this game has such a great 
 plot and it has some twists here and there in the story and it just really makes this game complete.
 
  
  Over all I enjoyed this game from beginning to end. I really hope more developers would create 
 games like this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  The Riddick game has many cool things in it that make me like its gameplay so much. First of all, 
 the guns and lots of them! i love action FPS games and Riddick has that in it. Second, fist and 
 melee wepon brawling. These parts in the game are so fun. Smashing a guy in the face with a knuckle 
 duster and watch him bleed and get brused. It is so awsome! Third of all, the stealth gameplay, 
 you can sneak around behind guards and snap their knecks! the great diversity of gameplay in the 
 game is huge! you can play it anyway you want. The Graphics are amazing, they still manage to keep 
 up with games today! the sound and voice acting is incredible. and the cool content that you can 
 unlock is good. 
  
  The good things:
  Amazing Graphics
  Huge range of gameplay
  Excelent Sound
  Realistic (even though futuristic, like the game isnt affraid to swear or show 
 what it would be like in that situation)
  Great enemy and friendly AI (like guards will hit you if you walk to near to them and swear stuff. 
 One point in the game you are walking down a corridor and a inmate runs down the room screaming 
 "stop the guard!!! He is INSANE!" and the psycho guard runs in smacks the guy and shoots him. 
 
  It truly captures the moments really well.
  Good story
  
  The bad things:
  May need a pretty good computer to run on max graphics.
  NOTHING ELSE!!!
  
  GET IT NOW!!!!!!! 
 OR ELSE!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick escape from butcher bay. For one thing I havent seen the chronicles of riddick 
 movie and it doesnt hinder your playing of the game at all if you havent. The game has a lot 
 of profanities and violence but it uses them well. I had a lot of fun playing the fairly short 
 game and I couldnt put it down easily. I had to force myself to stop knowing that I may finish 
 the game too early. I found myself interested in the story as it went on.. you continue to get 
 recaptured about 3-4 times throughout the game. At times I was like this kicks arse like when you 
 get to control the giant robot blowing away guys. The game mixes stealth sections with action sections 
 by having the weapons dna encoded meaning you cant pick up a fallen enemies gun without getting 
 shocked until after your dna is on file in the prisons computer. Some enemies like the mechaniezed 
 suits of armor are impossible to down so you are forced to run from them. Overall the game has 
 a very cinematic feel and is a ton of fun to play and is problary better than the movie from what 
 ive heard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanjack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  It took me damn near 2 months to track down a copy of this game for my PC before I ACTUALLY put 
 my hands on it. It was well worth the wait - this game lives up to all the hype that the pro reviewer 
 spoke about it. My only major complaint about this game is that it shipped from the vendor with 
 a known issue that causes it to crash intermittently during game play and, in some instances, not 
 load at all. 
  After attempting to install it for the 5th time, I read up on the glitches and the causes for them 
 and I ended up having to 1) disable my firewall and virus software before and during game play, 
 (2) update the drivers for my graphics and sound card and (3) update the firmware for my DVD drive. 
 Not exactly what I was expecting from a game that's almost a year and a half old on a PC that's 
 only 6 months old... but it was worth the hassle.
  
  Pros: Phenomenal graphics and FMV, ultra realistic shading and life like environments, great story 
 line (and excellent incorporation of open ended gameplay) , hand to hand fighting system is just 
 as fun to use as running-and-gunning, voice acting by Vin Diesel and Cole Hauser could not have 
 been better, great control over "eye shine" use, limited use of handguns during the game is actually 
 a PLUS because it makes you think about how you proceed and what you can do to outsmart the PC 
 AI
  
  Cons: The voice levels are sometimes lower than the background music and sound FX during FMV sequences 
 making dialogue occasionally hard to follow, some seams appear during FMV sequences on characters 
 skin and clothing, software install / game play glitch is a MAJOR obstacle that should have been 
 worked out during post-production and can be a headache during gameplay when it crashes
  
  Overall: Next to FEAR and HL2, this is one of the best FPS on the PC right now and should not be 
 passed up. The way that the story and overall look and feel of the game immediately draw you is 
 an experience that everyone should have. A definite "go out and play this now" title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best fps i have ever played, it combines elements of stealth and fps gameplay 
 with perfection, while adding in details to make the game a masterpiece, the voice acting is good 
 the story is good, the only reservations i have with the game was the fact a few graphical glitches 
 in the fmv sequences and it could of been a little longer, but these cons a just not even worth 
 the mention when you get into the game you will struggle to stop playin, the puzzles are brilliant 
 and really innovative some of the best ive ever seen in a fps, so as they say dont delay buy chrinicles 
 of riddick today lmao :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcyGamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  The first that strikes you dumb is the graphics what at first was not expected to be so good. The 
 game started to impress as the menu cube opened. I have never seen such a version of menu and i 
 liked it. 
  There is not/any boring situation in the game, all the time there is spying and bloody fighting, 
 which are so effective that deserve attention. Very unique and fine are the quickening and strenghtening 
 heart beats when Riddick is putting his foot in it.
  For removing enemies there are also many variants. I like those where Riddick stalks silently behind 
 the enemy and breaks his neck or where you run towards the warder who has noticed you and is already 
 shooting at you, you grab him by hand, twist the barrel into his face and shoot his brains.
  As exciting is also a murder by beating the warder to death with fists, which is always most bloody. 
 In no other game blood has looked like real blood so that remains on faces or floor. In other games 
 blood disappears quite quickly and looks quite foolish.
  The game has been illustrated with very impressive videos which makes more impression of the whole 
 game.
  The Riddicks infamous glasses are also not missing. In some places they are irreplaceable.
  Sound 
 effects and music don't vary in the course of the game, but they break always out at most sharp 
 places, which makes it a bit horrible.
  As it's known, the game has been derived from the film "Black Pitch". It is strange that the film 
 is boring and stretchy for me but the game is one of the most favourites and one of the best of 
 the time, as for its graphics, effects, sound as the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story of CoR: EFBB starts with a cinematic of Riddick (the main character) fighting a beast 
 in a cave on a planet covered in snow where Riddick is in hiding. (this is also the same place 
 where the movie Chronicles of Riddick begins) . After the beast is slain a voice begins to speak 
 with Riddick, the voice tells him that he cannot escape his destiny, he then says "I can escape 
 anything" and then the voice says "Like Butcher Bay?". Riddick then repeats "Butcher Bay" to himself 
 and so our story begins. The story is pretty much a flashback of what happened and how the movie 
 lead to the events of Pitch Black. You start out in a dream level which is a tutorial that teaches 
 you how to play, after this is over you are told to wake up by your captor Johns. Johns is bringing 
 you to the triple max security prison Butcher Bay, that apparently no one has ever been able to 
 escape from, until now...
  
  Gameplay:
  This game blends very unique elements into one solid game, everything this game tries to do it 
 achieves. The game is a blend of FPS, Stealth, Action and Role-Playing. At the beginning of the 
 game you start out in a cell with a small prison yard, you must begin the game by fighting other 
 cellmates using your fists, shivs, screwdrivers, et cetera. The cool thing about this is it all 
 takes place in first person view. The punching is also very realistic, instead of just clicking 
 the mouse button to rapidly punch someone you actually can push certain buttons to punch in different 
 directions and do stronger or weaker punches. You can do this with any melee weapon you come across. 
 There are also guns, obviously, and thats probably the part you care about the most. Well you won't 
 be disappointed you won't be super thrilled, because the game isn't all about the guns. However 
 the guns you can get is a Pistol, Shotgun, Rifle, Grenade, Minigun and a Stungun. Although it may 
 not seem like alot of weapons the weapons are incredibly fun to use, especially the stungun which 
 is a large portion of the game. The most common gun you will have is the shotgun. The minigun is 
 also a very exciting experience, although you walk very slow while carrying it it does substantial 
 damage and holds a whopping 4000 shots. The cool thing is that you can just drop it on the ground 
 and pick it up again and your back at 4000 shots! You also get to use a Riot Guard suit which is 
 a mech like armor suit with 2 big rotating machine guns, one on each arm. This is incredibly fun 
 to use and is actually unique to the PC version of the game. Sadly this part of the game is fairly 
 short. However you eventually towards the complete end of the game get to use a Heavy Guard which 
 is a real mech that has a minigun on the left arm and a on-contact grenade launcher on the right 
 arm. This is probably the more fun of the two since you walk around mowing down everyone, however 
 there are other robotic enemies who do pose a threat to you. Another large portion of this game 
 is stealth, you will have to do alot of sneaking and silently killing guards and occasionally hiding 
 their bodies. So don't go thinking this is all just a runa nd gun game. There is also alot of missions 
 where you have to run from location to location finding items and retriving things and giving them 
 to other characters, which involves alot of talking to NPC's and running around. But overall this 
 is a very fun and engaging game, sadly there is no multiplayer.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are amazing, as long as your computer is decent enough to run the game 
 obviously, a low framerate can cause problems, and you wouldn't be able to get the most out of 
 the game. I would personally recommend that you have a better system then the requirements on the 
 box, since those requirements are for minimal performance, and unless you want the game to look 
 like a slideshow you will want to make sure you have a pretty good computer. Anyways the game uses 
 normal mapping technology to create vivid and intense environments, and although most of the game 
 takes place indoors in crowded hallways the game is very nice to look at. There are the odd issues 
 here and there but not really worth mentioning since they are hardly noticeable.
  
  Sound:
  The music in the game does a good job of making a movie type feel to the game, but not 
 in a bad way, it really makes you feel like your there experiencing this for yourself. The music 
 gets very exciting when your fighting guards or when you have been spotted, but otherwise remains 
 very calm or silent when your roaming by yourself. But when there is music going on it's very exciting 
 and sounds greats. The weapons also all sound terrific and the voice acting is amazingly well. 
 Even if your not a big fan of Vin Diesel he does an excellent job of maintaining his character 
 and does and excellent voice over, along with the other characters who all have excellent voice 
 acting. The guns all sound realistic and sound how they should sound, everything is up to snuff.
 
  
  Value:
  This may be the only part where the game falls short, because the game is only a single player 
 experience once you've completed it theres nothing really left to do, since it has no multiplayer. 
 However, the game has a load of bonus content for you to unlock, and also after you complete the 
 game you unlock the commentary mode where you can listen to what the developers have to say about 
 all the parts of the game while you play through it. It's like the exact same thing as a commentary 
 on a movie, or if the developer was sitting right next to you telling you everything you need to 
 know. However the single player portion of the game is worth it along and since the games starting 
 price was very low your getting a very good deal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: htrk2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I must say that this game really impressed me when I saw it here in GameSpot it`s graphics are 
 better than doom 3 the shadows make them more wonderful and the video sequences are amazing too.
 
  I must admit that this game is the best I`ve ever played I really enjoyed the hand to hand combat, 
 how moves the camera and all. I don`t think this game could dissapoint anybody and now that I finished 
 it I want a sequel or an expansion to play and see what happens on the movies.
  The Gameplay is Really Good it keeps you playing the hand to hand combat.
  The Graphics as I 
 said are Wonderful.
  Sound Is also pretty good Value Is good And tilt is also good.
  So I think that here You got enough reasons to buy it so...
  WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR GO BUY 
 IT!!!!
  Oh I aalmost forgot, the only thing I didn`t like is that I play some games in hard and others 
 in Normal but here`s the problem. If you put it on Normal it`s easy as a Walk in the park, but, if 
 you put it on hard it`s almost impossible so i think they could have equilibrate the difficulty 
 a little more, I played it on normal so I`ll put easy on the difficulty
  Conclusion:
  Excellent choice for a gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyerok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  
  the plot follows Riddick as he is imprisoned in Butcher Bay, a notorious Triple Max penitentiary. Bounty 
 Hunter Johns escorts Riddick to the Single Max level where Riddick escapes during a riot. Following 
 underground tunnels and battling mutant "Dwellers", Riddick happens upon a hermit called Pope Joe 
 who performs surgery on Riddick, giving him his trademark "eyeshine" ability.
  
  The gameplay itself makes the game very special and unique. Not only can you blast your way around 
 with guns but perform stealth moves, fight hand to hand or using clubs and stuff and explore to 
 find stuff. The blend of all the gameplay features is just impressive. You can go about using stealth, 
 pop those lights and kill your enemys unseen. or blast your way through or fight hand to hand. 
 I liked the way you can unarm and kill the guards. I mean that is really cool :P You can pull these 
 off with proper timing. Its cool to see Riddick grappling an armed guard and suddenly forcing him 
 to blow his own brains out. The missions that you get throughout the game will offer you an incredible 
 variety. For instanceparticipating in wrestling matches to get access to an area or doing favor 
 for NPCs for things like information, cigarette packs (unlockables) , weapons and stuff. There is 
 never a boring moment in this game, something that a lot of games lack. There is some RPG in Riddick 
 as youll have a lot of choices and these choices can affect the game itself. Furthermore, you 
 can proceed throughout the game in many different ways. Escape from Butcher Bay features close 
 combat and long-range gameplay. Not only can Riddick dispatch enemys close-up with a wide range 
 of mle weapons, he can even perform several special moves, breaking a guard's neck or grabbing 
 hold of his weapon and using it against him. At his disposal as well are several different firearms 
 such as pistols, rifles and shotguns. Stealth is also approached in a unique way. To let the player 
 know that Riddick is concealed, the screen will tint blue. You can execute different punches or 
 strikes by moving forward, back, left, or right while attacking and you can pull off various combos 
 by stringing together these different moves. You'll gain a special vision mode during the course 
 of the game. It's very useful for killing enemys in the dark and helps a lot in the stealth department. 
 What you can do is pop the lights and turn your vision as light sources in the environment will 
 be blinding to you when using the eye shine.
  The music has been done well but gets repetitive as the same music gets played again and again. 
 I was disappointed to see that the movies main theme wasnt added to this game. It would have at 
 least made a good main menu music :P. The voice acting is really good especially Vin diesels Voice 
 acting of Riddick. Oh by the way, I consider Riddick as one of the coolest sci-fi characters of 
 the history. The special effects are one of the best things about the game as they really help 
 bring the experience to a whole new level.
  The best thing is that the game never gets repetitive and it has a lot of moments packed some of 
 which are really memorable. The game perfectly blends multiple genres and you have to respect it 
 for that atleast. The AI of the game is pretty good indeed. The Chronicles of Riddick doesn't follow 
 the typical level-to-level structure of other action games. Thats good news for gamers wanting 
 variety in gameplay
  The Graphics are very pretty. The gritty environment and unique premises adds something very tasty 
 to the games flavor. There are a few glitches and bugs in the game but they dont really affect 
 the whole experience much.
  
  Overall a very impressive game which shouldnt be missed by any action games fan and its more 
 than worthy of being called AAA.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  I was surprisingly disappointed with The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. I am a 
 big fan of the movie and was hoping that the game would deliver the same action. However, the game 
 fell short. There was not nearly enough action to keep my attention. It seemed like I spent all 
 my time trying to remember how to maneuver through the map and how many cigarettes I was collecting. 
 It would take so long to complete a mission and even longer to maneuver all the way back through 
 the way I had just come to start the next mission. The side missions took way too long and all 
 I got for completing them was money that I rarely needed. Another disappointing factor was that 
 you hardly ever got to use any weapons until the last three levels. Sneaking around and being stealth 
 does not compare to noisily blowing someone away. I did enjoy the characters and the storyline. 
 Vin Diesel and Xibit were perfect for their characters and the story played out like a regular 
 Riddick film. The game was disappointing because it wasnt as exciting as the movie was, but it 
 still delivered mild entertainment especially the last few levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridhuman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay (the longest title for a game ever) was quite 
 a surprise. When I first heard of it, and heard the previews, i shunned the fact that a 'good' 
 movie game would be made. Finally when this puppy arrived, I found out I couldn't play it on my 
 rig and ditched it completely. Now a few days ago I got a GeForce 7800, and bought this game according 
 to all the awesome reviews. Whoa boy! Could you say "game of the year"? COR: EFBB is a fantastic 
 adventure start to finish, combining elements of first-person shooting and fighting, stealth, and 
 role-playing all into one excellently crafted story. Graphics are (to me) better than what Doom 
 3 shines with (or should I say blacks-out with) and the voice acting and sound effects are movie-quality. 
 This title has to be looked at as a mind-blowing game first, and a movie adaptation second, since 
 the movies sucked bad (another reason to suspect this game could of sucked just as bad) ...
  
  Anyway, enough talk, 3 words: GO. BUY. NOW!
  
  ($15 at some e-tailers, how can you possibly 
 go wrong?!?!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Several months ago, The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay broke out on the Xbox. It 
 was a sleeper hit combining several types of combat, absolutely gorgeous graphics, and a playing 
 environment that would make even the most staunch optimistic break down. With an improved graphics 
 engine, added bonus features, and an entirely new gameplay area, this version of the game was well 
 worth the wait.
  
  Butcher Bay puts you in the shoes of Richard Riddick, renowned criminal and one of the most dangerous 
 men in the galaxy. From the very first minute of the game, the action picks up and youre immediately 
 thrown into the fray. With the very first foe youre introduced to one of the main things that 
 separates Butcher Bay from the rest of the first-person-shooter worldthe sleek implementation 
 of hand-to-hand combat. More often than not, that type of fighting, at least in a game, was little 
 more than vertical fist pumping. The nearest competitor would have to be Namcos Breakdown, an 
 underrated shooter released last year.
  
  Basic punches and blocking aside, Butcher Bay lets you perform multiple types of attacks while 
 unarmed. Depending on which arrow you press when near a foe, youll do any number of things from 
 basic punches, twisting limbs, or even force a guards rifle to their head and pull the trigger 
 for a nice wallpapering of brain matter. Not only that, but sneaking up behind a foe while unarmed 
 will allow you to snap their necks for a quick and clean kill. Additionally, youll have the option 
 of using several different types of melee weapons such as shivs, screwdrivers, and clubs; these 
 will come into play in your more restricted moments of gameplay such as prison halls and during 
 stealth scenarios.
  
  You wont be restricted to just minor blades and fancy fist work though, Riddick does have a small 
 arsenal and while not very large, it does a suitable job. One of the main quirks about the weapons 
 is the play on modern technology currently in development. Standard assault rifles carried by prison 
 guards are DNA activated which means if you arent a guard in the DNA database, youll get a nasty 
 shock when you try to pick up a weapon. Fortunately for us youll eventually get to use these rifles, 
 along with a shotgun, surprisingly powerful pistol, tranquilizer gun, grenades, and a mini-gun. 
 The weapons do feature a melee attack, ala Halo, with the click of the right mouse button too. 
 If there are any complaints, its the action of the grenades, which dont look realistic. The variety 
 of guns does pale in comparison to other modern shooters but unlike them, Riddick isnt all about 
 run and gun destruction of everything in sight.
  
  Through the seven hour campaign, youll cross a few different types of play. The beauty about Butcher 
 Bay is that it isnt all straight action. There will be a few times where youll have to utilize 
 Splinter Cell-like stealth tactics to sneak up and eliminate enemies in the shadows. Its here 
 that youll mainly use silent tactics like neck snapping and hand-to-hand combat. Luckily those 
 sequences are broken up between action-oriented scenes where ammunition will be in full supply 
 and all hell breaks loose. Youll even get opportunities to operate battle armor and heavy mechs 
 that devastate anything in their path with vulcan chain-guns and heavy mortars. Theres even a 
 small added sequence that wasnt included in the original Xbox release. 
  
  Of course, the main story of Butcher Bay is that of a prison break, and what criminal escapes on 
 the first try? There are a couple different scenarios where youll be confined to the prison walls 
 and its here that the variety of Riddick really shines. Within the regulated confines of the Butcher 
 Bay facility youll experience a more RPG-like game with multiple main quest options that will 
 satisfy the same requirement. For example, in one part of the game you can gain access to the next 
 area by fighting your way through a series of arranged thug matches or simply getting caught carrying 
 certain items. Its this open-endedness that adds a small amount of replay to the game. There are 
 missions aside from the main storyline as well. With these you can earn weapons or even cash which 
 can be used to purchase access to medical terminals, weapons, uniforms, and packs of cigarettesthe 
 main way to unlock extra content in the game.
  
  Stopping you from completing your objectives will be the games AI. Barring a few exceptions, the 
 enemies youll face are relatively smart. In the midst of all the gunfights, enemies will do action 
 rolls for cover; search an area if they hear anything suspicious; and use flashlights to sniff 
 you out when the lights go out. There are a few enemies of the mutated or even non-human orgin, 
 and theyll display a rather straightforward Run full speed into the barrel of your shotgun, 
 type of tactic. Its messy, but not very effective overall.
  
  In addition to the killer gameplay (pun intended) , Riddick displays a revamped and improved graphics 
 engine for the PC version. Keeping in mind the system requirements, which are a little above average, 
 you wouldnt expect a game to look this good. Vin Diesels transition to digital form was excellent 
 on the Xbox and looks even more stunning on the PC. Lip-syncing is done relatively accurately, 
 and small effects like muzzle-flashes and death animations are done effectively. In the stealth 
 areas youll notice the excellent use of shadows and youll be able to see small details on the 
 walls and floors like the outline of your characters nose and ears. 
  
  No frame rate issues were encountered although there were a few instances of the game crashing, 
 even with all the latest driver downloads. During a few cut scenes you could easily notice animation 
 lines that separated sections of the characters bodies. A slight flickering issue also appeared 
 momentarily in some cut scenes too. Its nothing thats really going to take away from the overall 
 beauty of the graphical work though.
  
  To wrap out an overall solid package is the sound. Both Vin Diesel and Cole Hauser reprise their 
 Pitch Black roles as Richard Riddick and William Johns. Rapper Xzibit even lends his voice to prison 
 second-in-command Abbott. The voice acting is done on a very professional level and doesnt sound 
 scripted or forced.
  
  One of the quirky parts of the game are the lines the enemies will taunt you with throughout the 
 game. Early on, they come off with an arrogant tone which practically invites you to kill them. 
 That changes around the end, youll see why if you play the game.
  
  In the absence of multiplayer, Riddick does have a limited amount of replay value. One of the ways 
 the game has solved this is by including a directors commentary mode. This is the same commentary 
 youd find on any DVD movie. Once you beat the game once, this mode is unlocked and throws floating 
 audio kiosks which can be activated on the levels. When activated, the developers will describe 
 various aspects of the game like the use of lighted boxes, and how one workers wife is the voice 
 for the entire prisons computer system. There are some interesting stories to be heard here and 
 it can be amusing hearing the head designer describe particle effects as you blast riot guards 
 away with a quick-firing assault rifle.
  
  Overall, Butcher Bay doesnt exactly leaps and bounds over its Xbox predecessordefinitely not 
 enough to warrant a separate purchase from Xbox users whove already experienced the game. For 
 those of you who have missed out though, Riddick is a must have gaming adventure that brings several 
 different gameplay elements into one solid game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Of all the games that I bought last year, this one has to be one of the best. I cannot say enough 
 about how much fun I had playing this game. From the voice acting to the choices a player has to 
 make this game got it right. A truly great pre-movie (Pitch Black - Riddic) that brought everything 
 it needed to the table. It is addictive fun. I have played through it twice now just to enjoy it. 
 I really cannot say enough about how fun this game was. I know many people liked it less, but thats 
 ok, at least they liked it. Hats off to the game developer, this is how make a good game. Job well 
 done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabreFaction
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The Riddick films were great............ a battle against the odds with evil triumphing over evil........... 
 a great story about a bloke who just loves to have fun......... 
  
  In this game, Riddick's idea of fun is to break out of a maximum security prison planet........... 
 
  
  Drawing on winning elements of both films, this game is a great leap forward in entertainment......... 
 the pace of the game is great......... the action sequences happen at the right time........ the 
 cut scenes really do enhance the gameplay, rather than being a distraction..........
  
  I just can't recommend this highly enough........
  
  I was getting rather jaded with the whole 
 FPS genre.......... I'm bored of killing people with ever more realistic graphics............... 
 
  
  Now here is a game with a story that suits the material........... psychopathic killer defeats 
 entire planet........... but still has time for witty one liners at appropriate points in the game................
 
  
  Go buy it.................... NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game based off of a movie that doesn't just plain suck from here to the end of time. 
 The Chronicles of Riddick is one of the best first person shooters ever made, it has every type 
 of game play imaginable from stealth to run and gun shooting. The graphics are unbelievable textures 
 and lighting that is right on par with Doom 3. COR is a bit of a system hog, a x800 xt or 6800 
 ultra should do just fine. The story line is good and interesting and fun, the game is a bit too 
 short though giving you only about 10 hours of play time to complete the game. There is no muliplayer 
 so that is really the only thing keeping this game from getting a higher score and is really the 
 only negative thing to say about this game. Great A. I., game play, graphics and story so go out 
 and pick this one up and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizler191
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  If you liked the movie or if you you at least like van deisal, it will be fun. This game lets you 
 hit people, and stab them. It introduces many other ways to hurt people also, like dropping from 
 the ceiling. (one of my favorites) . The game actually has a descent story line since it's following 
 the movie a little but once you beat it, it's pretty much over. I think it's about a 10 hour game 
 or so. If you have an xbox, I would reccomend just beating the **** out of it and then taking it 
 back never to play it again. But it's a really fun 10 hours so I'll rate it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay is a true and blue revolutionary game for the 
 Xbox. The graphics and self-shading alone deserve a 10.0 because it will make you swear you are 
 watching a video! In the game they through you into a futureistic, triple-max security prison with 
 a twist of sci-fi robotic technology. The name of the game is to escape the hell of a prison with 
 your skin intact, but hey whats hell without a little fire? You can arm yourself with a number 
 of guns and melee weapons from the pistol to a gatling-gun and some knuckledusters to a club made 
 out of items found around the prison. Overall this is a game you would want to look into for rewarding 
 gameplay, nice storyline, and amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good : A great game that make you blend to it to become Riddick himself & share with him his 
 powers & capabilities , it contain alot of Language & Scenes that make it a Mature Game for Mature 
 & Hardcore Gamers . You play as Riddick himself & get into fights using stealth ability were you 
 can break the AI ( soldier ) neck or push him directly into a fan or even make him shoot himself 
 in his neck or stomach or even his jaws only if you time your firing click ( mouse , the button 
 that fires ) with the enemies time when he shoots you , other than that this game contains a great 
 story line with a great sound effects & the dialogue in the game isn't boring it make you alive 
 & feel around you what is happening , & ohh my GOD not to forget the instrumental music during 
 the game which changes from calm & quite to dangerous & rushing which make you really as I say 
 live this game . It is an outstanding game that should be kept in the history as one of the best 
 Sci-Fi 1st Person Shooter ever . 
  
  The Bad : When you kill the enemies & it is time to grab them & move them to the dark their entire 
 body jumps as you grab him from the hand or leg , other bad thing in is , I don't know if you noticed 
 it but sometimes falling enemies especially their heads get caught with an edg or something like 
 that which make their neck & its shadow a little bit longer . In other wards it contain a shadow 
 problem that needs to be solved , but it is too late now it also doesn't effect the game that much 
 , & some say that they expected a multiplayer game ( LAN , online ) well I didn't expect it to 
 be lan or online I mean common we all are going to be Riddick & kill each other LOL :!: 
  
  At the end I want to say that this game worth playing & to those who love Sci-Fi games & the 2 
 movies of Riddick I think that they should buy it & play it , it is never too late to play a game 
 like this one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irxproductions
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I've seen both of the Vin Diesel movies this game is based on (Pitch Black & The Chronicles of 
 Riddick) and although they were both O. K., I didn't have the highest of hopes for a game based 
 on a movie that didn't do spectacularly well in the theaters (or on DVD, for that matter) . 
  
  In addition, this game has been out for more than a year now and it's bargain-bin pricing was 
 enough to make my expectations drop to all-new lows for this game (you can get the DVD version 
 of this game for $14.90 from Gogamer. com) .
  
  Boy, was I wrong.
  
  Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay (quite possibly one of the longest titles in video 
 game history) is a first-person-shooter that would be best described as the love-child of the graphics 
 of Doom 3 with the gameplay innovations of the Half-Life series. You're Riddick, excellently voice-acted 
 by Vin Diesel himself, and you've been caught by a bounty hunterand are being taken to Butcher 
 Bay, one of the worst planetary prisons in the universe.
  
  When you first jump in the game, you're immersed in a universe of spectacular graphics, great use 
 of EAX (tm) sound effects, and impressive voice-acting (in fact, the voice acting in this game is 
 some of the best I've heard in any game) . The game throws you into the mix with virtually no heads-up 
 display to speak of, and, lemme tell ya, you don't miss it. This makes the game just immerse you 
 even further in with the degenerates of the future.
  
  There's no multiplayer mode in this game; it's all single-player, all the time, and it's no worse 
 off because of that because this is one amazing single-player game with an excellent mix of stealth, 
 puzzle-solving, fist-fights, gun-fights, alien blasts, neck-breaking, and anything else you'd want 
 in a good first-person "shooter."
  
  In fact, my only complaint is this (and it's valid as it keeps this game from getting a 10.0 in 
 my book) -- it's too darn short. In fact, it's SO short that you might do what I did -- install 
 it on a Saturday and beat it on a Sunday. By my prediction, there's less than 10 hours of gameplay 
 in Chronicles of Riddick, even if you're playing it on the higher levels of difficulty.
  
  However, now that the game is priced so affordably, do yourself a favor, run out and buy this game. 
 It's really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolphfito
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  sorry but this will never be a better game in avery aspect agains hl2, doom3, fear and unreal 2004, 
 is good but not enought, and what is the matter with the camera?? too realistic?? i dont think 
 so, it makes me feel like if i were drunk, "always moving", it makes me puke a couple of times, 
 even in max settings it is good but no cool (6800 gt, amd 64 3000+, 1gb ram) , it has good things, 
 voices animations and the same story of scaping from a maximun jail . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spfn7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I never saw any of the movies and I still loved this game. You don't really need to see the movies 
 to see this game because of the well developed elements inside of the game. I never heard of this 
 title until two months ago and it was way over my expectations. The graphics are on par with Doom 
 3 and Half Life 2, but the characters and levels look closer to Doom 3. Characters do have a plastic 
 sheen that seems to cover them, but it is not that noticeable as in Doom 3. Gun fights are fun 
 and A. I. is aggressive and also smart. I even thought that the A. I. is better than Monolith's F. E. A. R. 
 That sounds like a bold statement, but it's not because it's true. I found something neat in the 
 game that I never saw in F. P. S. before the ability for bullets to ricochet off of walls and other 
 metal objects. The stealth element does seem to make the game a bit easy if you intend to use it. 
 I was disappointed that it had no multplayer, but some how the single player is so addictive that 
 it draws you in to play the same level again and again. The game is short and I finished it around 
 8 hours, but I'm now trying to get all the extra features that the game offers by collecting packs 
 of cigs. Ragdoll physics in the game seems strange since the characters bend in odd positions and 
 sometimes don't bend at all when hitting objects, but besides that this game is a must have. I'm 
 surprised this game wasn't as popular as HL2 or Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This was the first game in which i applauded when it started.
  this game is the best game based on a movie. No other FPS game laid such emphasis on stealth. This 
 was awesome.
  the vioce acting is superb & the graphics are just too good.
  this game surpasses all my expectations.
  High visual quality, Excellent music, Awesome Gameplay, etc 
 you name it it has it. Its a gamers dream come true. FPS was never as much fun as in this classic.
 
  The story was also amazing. There was not a dull moment.
  TCOF cannot be categorized in a single Genre. It has all the essentials of a brilliant game. After 
 playing this game i saw the movie around 5 times.
  And i should say that even after seeing the movie so many times i still feel that the game was 
 much better.
  In one word this game is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahd26
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Riddick will always be burdened by the fact that its a game based on its movie counterpart and 
 like many other games based on movies its surely bound to suffer.
  
  Good news is that straight from the off you know this game is special. It is one of the few games 
 that opts for HUDless first person perspective and this really add to the whole movie feel of the 
 game. The story is good enough to keep you playing. You are Riddick, a much sought after criminal 
 for reasons we do not know. He's sent to butcher bay, the inter-galactic Alkatraz, nobody has ever 
 escaped from it. The best thing about this game is undoubtedly the atmosphere. The prison seems 
 like a living breathing character all by itself with unwelcoming, murky, damp corridors. This is 
 the perfect place to house the most cynical physcos out there. Which brings us to the inmates. 
 They all have their own agendas, voices, names, behaviour. You truly feel like you're a minute 
 figure is an altogether massive complex. The beginning of the game sees you as trying to find a 
 way out of this place whilst helping the other inmates in return for information in how to do that. 
 But not all inmates are friendly and you qucikly find yourself making enemies. Its nothing ground-breaking 
 but nontheless it does have to be experienced. 
  
  The graphics are sublime. The developers have explored every nook and cranny of the Xbox and have 
 pushed it to its limits. Some of the modelling and textures look next generation they are that 
 good. The HUDless display gives the game a fresh of breath air. Unique touches have overcome the 
 problems of a HUDless display. Remaining bullets are shows on a little screen on the guns themselves 
 and perhaps the greatest feature of this game is stealth. Click the left thumbstick and you'll 
 crouch down, find a dark area to hide in and you vision widens and has a slight blue tint to it. 
 This exemplfies the fact that you are in the darkness, then its a simple case of sneaking behind 
 a guard and snapping their neck. This becomes a major part in this game: hand to hand combat. Being 
 an inmate you don't get access to guns all throughout the game as all guard weaponry is activated 
 by DNA, so each gun is specific to each guard, try to pick one up and you get a nasty shock. You 
 can feel a little helpless at times but unarmed combat is a real treat in this game. For a first 
 person shooter its surprisingly good, pull the right trigger to punch, left trigger to block. Press 
 up, down, left or right before you punch and you can perform a lunge punch, uppercut or left and 
 right jabs. Sounds simple but can produce effect combos like: left, right, uppercut. If you get 
 your timing right you can really lay into an opponent without taking any damage, who needs guns? 
 
  
  The sound is fantastic. Background construction noise can be heard from time to time which add 
 to the atmosphere. Guards will yell and taunt you during firefights. Inmates will call you names. 
 Punching people in the face and shooting guns all make very satisfying sounds. 
  
  Gameplay is where i feel the game is a little let down. The game picks up pace really well with 
 all the interaction that takes place between inmates but then as quickly as it happened it disappears 
 and you find yourself clinging to the shadows wherever you go. And generally its good old doom 
 formula find big door to get to the next bit, big door needs keycard, find keycard, backtrack a 
 lot, get keycard, go all the way back, open door go to next bit. But to be fair this mainly happens 
 towards the end of the game.
  
  Taking the game as a whole it really is fantastic. Get yourself surround sound and a widescreen 
 and this is an experience to stay with you for a long time. Its very atmospheric, the graphics 
 are without doubt the best this generation can offer, the sound is great, the gameplay is decent. 
 If you're looking for a good shooter other than Halo you've definately come to the right place.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobi22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  vblabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab 
 lbablabl blblablabl bla bla blab lab lab lab lab lba 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  As mentioned in some of my other reviews on games based off movies, they seem to be made more so 
 for profit than actual gaming fun. So usually the game comes out half baked or just plain rubbish.
 
  
  So i was MASSIVLY sceptical when i bought this game, but i was more so enticed by the graphics 
 this game was bousting.
  
  This is probably the most surprising game for me i have bought, i expected it to be rubbish or 
 mediocre but it turned out to be a solid game with some really good moments in it.
  
  The cool aspect of this game is the amazing use of the graphics engine. Coupld this with great 
 voice acting, a likeness of Vin Diesel graphically and his own voice etc then you actually feel 
 like your in a movie!
  
  The game is based off the movie but is a pre-equal to all the movies. Therefore you would think 
 this is an even bigger gamble, but by making a tottaly new storyline for Riddick, this game the 
 developers more freedom to add what they want to the game rather than stick to a linear pathway (e. g 
 replicating the movie) .
  
  This game isn't big on combat bear in mind, it specialises more in stealth than actual combat, 
 so dont expect MASSIVE gunfights (go play F. E. A. R if you want that) .
  
  The storyline/graphics/excellent soundtrack/stealth gameplay all make this game something a bit 
 differant amongst the first person games that have only one way of playing their game's - shooting 
 your way through things.
  
  A fun game overall with really good graphics and storyline, a surprising hit in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Having heard almost nothing about this game beforehand, I installed The Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape from Butcher Bay with the assumption that it would be garbage. I mean, its based on a film 
 licence, right? Fortunately, Butcher Bay bucks the trend with solid performance in every area.
 
  
  The fun begins with Riddick arriving at a prison planet, Butcher Bay. Of course, it isnt long 
 before you (as Riddick) begin to make waves in the prison population. A dramatic drop in population, 
 really.
  
  The graphics are extraordinary. Everything is crisp and attractive. Dynamic, realistic shadows 
 are the flavour of the month in games, and BB doesnt disappoint here, either. Normal mapping is 
 also used to good effect, giving surfaces a gritty, believable look. Animations are outstanding 
 and not at all ungainly.
  
  Sound is of the same quality. The voice acting in particular is wonderful. Apart from the man behind 
 Riddick himself, Vin Diesel, I immediately recognised Joaquim De Almeida (Ramon Salazar from 24) , 
 Xzibit and Tony Plana (Manny from Grim Fandango) . All the voice actors did a great job, and believable 
 acting adds to the atmosphere considerably.
  
  Butcher Bay combines elements of the FPS, adventure and action genres. The game is delivered as 
 an adventure, rather than a run-and-gun FPS. There is also an element of jumping and climbing, 
 often combined with the need for stealth. There is a Thief / Manhunt style stealth system, which 
 is loads of fun. On top of this is a simple but effective skill-based fist fighting mode.
  
  You can also buy weapons from dealers, with money found lying around or earned by completing 
 missions. The later part of the game can get a little tedious, and I got lost multiple times. The 
 in-game map is seldom helpful. Speaking of maps, loading times are not long, but frequent.
  
  If Butcher Bay had been advertised more, Im sure it would have received a lot more attention 
 than it has. It is technically and artistically sound, not to mention fun. Definitely underrated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hk-dude
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I just purchased and played through the game as of 12/05. For the price, now discounted, the game 
 is excellent. A good mix of action and stealth. It has good re-playability as you can play through 
 in stealth fashion or more run and gun. The choice is up to you as you play. There are little minor 
 mission that you can choose to try if you wish. I really enjoyed this game and actually played 
 it three times. Normally, I cannot do that unless I use "cheats" to get to a favorite part of just 
 blast away. If you haven't played this I strongly recommend. Vin Diesel is a better actor in the 
 game than in the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  Now we all know how good games from movies can be, please sense the sarcasm, but Chronicles of 
 Riddick breaks that mold without question. Releasing onto shelves on December 8th of 2004, Escape 
 From Butchers Bay is considered a sequel to the movies that fills in some of the background of 
 one of the galaxies most lethal badasses. Coming from a brand new development team known as Starbreeze 
 Studios, which came about because of the lead man himself, Vin Diesel, Chronicles of Riddick (CoR) 
 gives players a thrilling ride dealing with stealth, action, and sometimes even mech walking.
 
  
  If you watched either of the movies involving Riddick, you might already know a little about this 
 character. I say a little because Riddicks past is definitely in the grey and even his personality 
 itself doesnt really open up anything to anyone whose watched the films. Hes just an all around 
 shady character that has special eyes that let him see in the pitch darkness and in CoR, youll 
 definitely be needing this ability. You wont have it right away, but youll learn how Riddick 
 comes across them and this definitely helps you see the movies in another light. You begin as a 
 prisoner whose being transferred to Butchers Bay and ends up being locked up, but then the fun 
 starts. Definitely a little more unconventional than most first person shooters, CoR takes a different 
 way to progress the player through the storyline of the game. You dont just spend time killing 
 guards and breaking out of the prison at first, because youll be introduced to other prisoners 
 and youll soon have to work your way up the food chain to be respected from others. Along the 
 single player campaign, if you choose, youll be able to receive side missions which co-exist with 
 the main storyline. You dont have to complete these missions, but if you do, youll receive money 
 to buy different equipment from different traders that you come across through the campaign. 
 After the initial conversations with the locals of the prison, youll soon begin your tirade of 
 escaping through vents, corridors, and everything else. Either in shadow or in light. Youre never 
 pushed to act a certain way in this game.
  
  The graphics in the game are something to marvel at and I say this because of the experience of 
 the development team. They really hit the mark when creating everything for this game including 
 the different characters, the level design and the overall atmosphere for the game. When you receive 
 your new eyesight, the tone of the game seems to change. Youll find yourself shooting out lightbulbs 
 and moving a little more slowly throughout the levels and while moving slowly, youll begin to 
 see the detail and the time that Starbreeze Studios spent on creating the environment for your 
 character. Each and every character looks unique and different from each other and the different 
 areas of the prison really shine whether youre in the lower mines or whether your climbing through 
 dust-filled vents. When you have Riddick climb a box, climb into a vent, or cross a large gap by 
 hanging onto the ceiling, the view will switch to third person to give the character more of a 
 feeling that they are in fact Riddick. While climbing up or down each ladder, youll see yourself 
 and this really adds a lot to the actually gameplay. Little additions to the gameplay like this 
 really make this game a great title. 
  
  Sound within the games different levels or areas as done with emphasis on atmosphere. And voice 
 acting is superb, with Vin Diesel himself taking his lead role of Riddick. Youll even see Xzibit 
 in the opening credits who plays one of the main guards of the prison. Time was definitely taken 
 with all of the spoken dialogue to insure the player of a great experience while playing Chronicles 
 of Riddick. The game itself almost plays out like a movie from the opening credits as Riddick is 
 taken into Butchers Bay and the names and game title appear on the screen as hes lead to his 
 cell. 
  
  The game has a new and creative combat experience. If you really take your time and move stealthily 
 throughout the game, youll barely need any of the great weapons youre allowed throughout your 
 travels. And when you feel the need to prove yourself to the other members of the prison by challenging 
 other inmates, youll be using either your fists, a type of brass knuckles, or a knife. But the 
 combat can be very fun and interactive because youre fist strike depends on which way the mouse 
 moves when you click the attack button. This definitely adds more to the different brawls that 
 break out between you and the other inmates. It makes you pay more attention to your actions and 
 of course your healthy because the way you use your fists can become a technique that can help 
 you out later on throughout the games extended campaign.
  
  When youve completed the game the first time through, you unlock what is known as Commentary 
 Mode, where you can play the game another time through, except with the voices of the developers 
 streaming through when crossing different areas. This is a cool feature that adds a lot to the 
 second run through. It almost feels like the developers are sitting there right behind you discussing 
 different aspects of the game with you. It would really be nice if other developers started to 
 do this, because it truly does add a lot to the gameplay for replayability.
  
  The game doesnt possess any type of multiplayer, but that certainly doesnt take away any of the 
 great experience that you get from the game itself. Youll probably find yourself being happy that 
 the developers didnt slap a craptastistic multiplayer on it just to please a small portion of 
 fans. This game is all about the atmosphere that the movies created and also about being the dark, 
 shadowed, killer from the movies. It is also exciting for gamers knowing that not every game based 
 on a movie will suck. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that Vin Diesel took a lead role 
 on the actual creation of the game from the design to the actual script writing. There are just 
 a lot of little touches added to this game that really separate it from other first person shooters. 
 Any gamer has to look forward to what the next project of Starbreeze Studos is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueman77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  First person shooting, stealth, hand-to-hand combat and beautiful graphics build this game, and 
 it just turns out that it is the greatest videogame to be related to a movie.
  You may be thinking "oh boy, all I need is another crappy videogame based on a movie." But guess 
 what - you are wrong. This is the kind of game where you find a picture of it next to the definition 
 of revolutionary. What makes this game so great is the combined elements of gameplay. It's like 
 Splinter Cell (without the frustration) meets with good 'ol Streets of Rage. The sound is spectacular. 
 The sound of the gun blasts are monstrous, making you feel like you are doing some damage. It's 
 also fun to hear the cRaCk of breaking someones neck, or hear someone yell the f-word when they 
 see you. And the graphics --- oh man, the best technology that's out so far. Detailed textures, 
 realistic shadows that are better than Doom 3's. There are few graphical bugs; it's difficult to 
 notice unless you are actually looking for them. Riddick even looks like Riddick, which is unusual 
 in movie games. And oh yes, the fist fighting. It brings a tear to my eye. It's so great to beat 
 the living crap out of people with your fists or stab them with shivs. It leaves marks like bruises 
 when you hit them, and slashes when you stab/slash.
  So yes, this is one of the greatest games of all time. Are you ready to kick @ss? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Now this is what a shooter should be like. I can only hope this is going to influence future games.
 
  
  Gameplay: Although it sags in a few places, the variety and quality of gameplay is a rewarding 
 and interesting experience not to be had in any other game. Some minor glitches are present, but 
 nothing that really detracts form the game. (9)
  
  Graphics: Every character is different and the quality is second-to-none except for HL2's character 
 models. (10)
  
  Sound: Perfect. (10)
  
  Value: Super short but also cheap. I got it brand new for $15. (7)
  
  Tilt: The CoR: EfBB is 
 one of the few good FPS out there. (9)
  
  The Good: Excellent mix of stealth, action and role-playing. Intense firefights.
  
  The Bad: 
 Way too short. Only a few weapons. Action sags in a couple places.
  
  Bottom Line: If they had more time to develop this game it could have been just about the best 
 shooter ever. I wish they would do another Riddick game and make it long and give you a ton of 
 weapons. They could chase you across the galaxy. You could shoot your way across many different 
 planetary environments. Haw many shooters give you that kind of variety? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malkav11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I can't say I originally had high hopes for Chronicles of Riddick. I mean, Vin Diesel is steadily 
 endearing himself to me with decent roles in movies and a surprising amount of geekiness (the man, 
 from what I hear, plays D&D) . And Pitch Black, while not absolutely spectacular, was still a decent 
 enough movie, and Riddick by far the most interesting character in it. But... still, movies and 
 videogames just don't seem to get along very well.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised when I played it. In fact, more than pleasantly surprised. The PC controls 
 are amazingly natural for a console port, the graphics stunning (better, imho, than Doom 3.) . Unlike 
 most genre-mashes, all the elements play well and are enjoyable... and more important, form a natural 
 whole. It's satisfying to sneak around and perform brutal executions on unsuspecting guards, to 
 beat the pulp out of your fellow inmates in hand to hand combat, to wander the safer areas of the 
 prisons and talk to the friendlier inmates.. and listen to the amusing conversations both inmates 
 and guards have at various points. The shooting sequences are relatively few (after all, most prisons 
 don't arm their inmates) , but the weapons are enjoyable to play with and produce considerable carnage. 
 All of this is wrapped around a very satisfying plot, arguably better written than either Riddick 
 related movie.
  
  Replayability is surprisingly high for such a story-driven game. All of the levels are exciting 
 and memorable, and many of the unlockables you can acquire are genuinely interesting, such as footage 
 of early versions of the game. The PC version has a few extras over the console version that are 
 much appreciated. There are a couple of brief extra levels which are fun, seamlessly integrated, 
 and not enough to justify picking up this version, especially... what *does* is the Commentary Mode. 
 An idea I wish more games used, the Commentary Mode lets you, after beating the game once, go through 
 again, this time inserting large floating Starbreeze logos which you can use to produce various 
 developer commentaries, sometimes quite in depth. As a would be game developer, I found this wonderfully 
 insightful in a way most "making of" videos in other games don't offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltopo0194
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  You should check this game out for sure, I love HL2 but this game has it's own bag of tricks up 
 his sleves, it's the only game I've ever finished- for real. I actually cared about the games' 
 storyline -and is ingenous the way everything connects in the game. I have to say the graphics 
 are top notch, defenetly a true benchmark for all games to follow. For those of you that have a 
 decent video card this game will blow you away, forget the Xbox 360- this is the real thing.
  
  For some reason the game recomends Nvidia cards but I have found that the game plays way better 
 with ATI cards, trust me, go full blow ATI your system you wont regret it. They have the best open 
 gl support and this game relys a whole lot on that lenguage code.
  
  In a nutshell COR EFBB is the gaming experience you can have. FPS have never been more fun, a must 
 for anybody that has even the slightest apreciation for video games. Go out there and get it! BE 
 RIDDICK OR BE A F*&ER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltramarineX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing The Chronicles of Riddick last summer in the movie theatres. I thought it was 
 a pretty good movie... not great, but decent for what it is. Around the same time I heard that a 
 game was being developed for the X-Box that would be tied into the movie. At the time I thought 
 that it was a useless marketing ploy and cash grab. Good games based on movies are nearly non-existent, 
 so how good could Escape From Butcher Bay be? Apparently it was very good, as many video game reviewers 
 gave consistently high marks over and over again. When word got out that a PC version of the game 
 was coming out, I had to see how good the game was for myself. Well, I gave it shot... and came 
 out pleasantly surprised. With fantastic graphics, great voice acting, and fast-paced action, The 
 Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay can easily be one of the best sleeper hits for the 
 PC. 
  
  The basic story has you playing the role of the intergalactic criminal known as Riddick. You arrive 
 at a triple maximum security prison known as Butcher Bay, and now you have to find a way to escape. 
 The first thing I noticed about this game is the high quality of its graphics, especially considering 
 that this game was ported from a console system. I would even go as far as to say it almost looks 
 as good as Doom 3. The lighting and shadow effects are a sight to behold, and will help guide you 
 to where you can properly hide and use stealth. The character models in this game are incredibly 
 well done, as they use high quality textures for a realistic appearance, and it looks like the 
 developers also used motion capturing to re-create realistic movements. However, my only problem 
 with the models is the lip-synching when they are talking, because the mouth movements don't seem 
 to match up with what is being said. 
  
  The sound in this game is pretty well done, although not as impressive as the graphics. The game 
 could have benefited from a wider variety of music, but what is there serves the game adequately. 
 The main highlight of Escape From Butcher Bay's sound is the voice acting. Vin Diesel, who plays 
 Riddick in the movie, does a superb job as Riddick in this game, and he is also supported by a 
 team of great voice actors. I have said in the past that voice acting in a game does not have to 
 be crappy, as it so often is, and this game shows that good voice acting can easily enhance a person's 
 experience. 
  
  Now let's talk about the most important part of any video game, the gameplay. After playing through 
 Escape From Butcher Bay I can safely say that it won't beat Half-Life 2 in terms of originality, 
 but it is definitely a step above Doom 3's standard run-and-gun gameplay. This is mainly because 
 of the delightful inclusion of stealth tactics. While you could conceivably just run up to a guy 
 and start wailing on him with your fists or shooting him with your guns, I often found it more 
 satisfying sneaking up behind a guy and snapping his neck. Also, because the game is a First Person 
 Shooter, it does not take long for a player to get used to the control scheme, which is a huge 
 plus. The gameplay also benefits from a story with a strong narrative, as well as a host of interesting 
 characters, which allows the player to more easily relate to what is going on in the game world. 
 
  
  My only real beef with this game is its lack of replayibility. Since it has no online multiplay 
 there is no real reason for me to come back and play again, other than trying to find cigarette 
 packs to unlock game features (which to be honest I would have found tedious) . The lack of multiplay 
 is a shame since the game's mixture of both fast-paced action and stealth would have made for some 
 interesting matches. Still, The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay is a very good game 
 that any fan of shooters or action games in general will enjoy. It is an understatement to say 
 that it is a diamond in the rough, so don't miss out on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick is the sequel to Black Pitch, i have seen Black Pitch and its a amazing 
 film, this is even better and definitely worth buying.
  
  Highs of the game:::::::::
  The gameplay of this game is truly amazing. Its very unique, and its built in to one solid amazing 
 game. You get to do action and role play, which is very rare in games, and some people don't like 
 2 game genres in a game, but the fact that this game has 2 game genres, is what makes it fun.
 
  Also this game has First Person Shooter like Half Life 2, Stealth like Splinter Cell, Role Playing 
 like Anarchy Online.
  
  Lows of the game::::::
  Theres no multiplayer, so after you finish this game a couple of times, you get bored of it, you 
 need something to make it live on, and thats multiplayer, if this game has multiplayer it would 
 be simply stunning, and maybe game of the year.
  
  Overall::::
  Get this game if you like action games or fps games or role playing and stealth games, or if you 
 have watched the film. Or you might wanna try something new out, definitely get this ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rotondi
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick for pc is ranked superb and excellent across the board from numerous 
 sites and users. 
  
  Riddick offers a few things that most FPs games dont offer to make it seem like it stands out but 
 in reality the game is one big bore. The features of stealth, top of the line graphics, and a unusual 
 story try to make Riddick stand out, and most people seam to believe in it. The fact of the matter 
 that, terrible level design, borring and lame feeling weapons, been there done that feel, no multiplayer, 
 extremely short single player make Riddick a big failure. 
  
  When you first look at riddick you cant look past that it has no multiplayer, basicly absolutely 
 no replay value. If for some how you managed to finish the game, you would feel no need to ever 
 play the game again. No matter how cheap this game is in stores today, its not cheap enough. Riddick 
 does show off some impressive graphics at times but which recent fps game today doesnt? 
  
  The terrible level design could make anyone fall asleep while playing this game. Since the DEVs 
 have incorporated stealth into the game, most every area is dark, and if not you'll just shoot 
 a light bulb out to darken the room so you can use your night vision. Going through the same room 
 after another, doing pointless tasks to lead to you one after another is just unbearable. This 
 game tries to be so innovative that they made the most borringest game in the universe.
  
  The only weapon i found to be of any fun in the game was the pistol, but then you could never have 
 enough ammo for it to have any fun with it. All the other weapons just feel lame, and like they 
 have no power. And when you just start punching someone it becomes the stupidest thing on the planet, 
 just clicking the mouse as fast as you can, to see if you can knock the enemy out.... wow. Some 
 how people think this is *new* and *creative*, i mean hey it might be new and creative, but its 
 no fun at all. Maybe with some better weapons i could have actually had a better time playing through 
 the game.
  
  The story was terrible from start to end, which all in all was about 5 plus hours. I could beat 
 this game while waiting for my chicken nuggets to come from McDonalds. You talk to some people, 
 you beat some people up, you run around using some stealth, game over.
  
  Let me say this again, this game has NO REPLAY VALUE. When looking at games in todays generation, 
 i want a little bang for my buck. you cant give a game a 9.3 score that is a lets play through 
 once and then done. Riddick has a short story with no multiplayer...... no multiplayer.... even F. E. A. R. 
 had a multiplayer.... even splinter cell managed to have a multiplayer i mean there is just no effort 
 into this game at all. how is gamespot and other site giving this game a good rating.
  
  Unfortunately i did have to give Riddick some points for trying to be original, and having awesome 
 graphics. After that riddick lacks an ever category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalore_15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay is one of my favourite games to date. There's 
 so much to recommend about it that it's hard to know where to start... It's the great game mechanics, 
 the beautiful graphics, the brilliant dialogue and voice acting, and just the over-all attention 
 to detail in this game that make it one of the best gaming experiences I've ever had.
  
  There's obviously been a lot of work put into creating Riddick's world for this game. Everywhere 
 you look, the attention to detail takes you by surprise. Whether it's the realistic looking NPCs, 
 whose faces are truly brought to life by astonishing bump-mapping, or the great lighting effects, 
 and the way your own body casts almost photo-realistic shadows across the walls. You really feel 
 like your part of this world, which helps to make the game all the more immersive.
  
  The combat in this game is also something that the develepors should be exceedingly proud of. Whether 
 it's going toe to toe with another convict in a ring-fight, or sneaking up on a guard and shooting 
 his face off with his own gun. The action is completely visceral, and never lets up. The storyline 
 is great too (although I won't spoil it for you) , and the design of the environments is truly astounding. 
 Often you will see a place thinking that it is just there as background scenery, but you will often 
 go there as part of your mission to escape Butcher Bay. The prison feels like a real place, and 
 has a really oppressive yet exciting feel to it.
  
  Another thing I have to add is how good the animation and character modelling is. These characters 
 really do seem real, in the way they move, look and talk. Each character in the game looks and 
 sounds different, and has a different personality, all adding to the believability factor.
  
  Overall, this really is a great game, and fans of the action genre really would be commiting 
 a crime by passing this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eromort
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  In this game, you play as Richard B. Riddick a convicted criminal who`s the most wanted man in 
 the universe. He escaped many prisons but now he is brought to Butcher Bay, a triple-max slam. 
 As Riddick says:
  Going to a triple-max slam butcher bay, toughest in the system.
  So they say: Impossible to escape, but they never met me....
  So your main goal in the game is 
 to escape this slam.
  huh. That`s not going to be easy beleive me.....
  As soon as you start to play the game you will notice that it is REALLY beutiful! In my opininion 
 it`s even nicer than Doom 3. 
  The controls are very easy too learn no one should have problems with them. But the most impresive 
 thing of this game is certainly its gameplay.
  The game is a wonderful combination of action, stealth and Rpg elements.
  In the game you can 
 use pure action or almost pure stealth but in my opinion the best thing is to combine the two. 
 Every situation in the game has more than one solution, so The Chronicles of Riddick has a great 
 replay value! I played it more than 5 times!!!
  Another very intresting part of the game is close combat.
  In a quite long part of the game you 
 will have no gun.
  In this part you will have to use your fists, a knife or a club.
  The armory is quite limited though, you can lay hands on a shotgun, an assult rifle, a handgan, 
 and later a tranq gun.
  That`s much but I found it enough combined with stealth and close combat.
  I think that`s all 
 I can say.....
  it`s a very good game indeed..........
  I hope you found my review usefull...... see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  This was the first thing that hit me right in the face with this game.
  Why in the nine moons, is it so short...?? The game is great, simply put! And in all aspects.
 
  I enjoyed this game from start to end (which were too close together unfortunately) You know, 
 this reminds me of Call of Duty which I am sure that most of you know already. That was a superb 
 game, very rewarding & exciting gameplay... but why so short...??? The game is less than 10 hours 
 of gameplay man, why why why? I hope that COD2 is better in the gaming time factor at least...
 
  
  When I started playing Riddick I was a bit sceptic, to tell you the truth. Vin Diesel, in a game, 
 hummmm maybe in movies, but in a game... how well could that be? And I am a fan of this actor, 
 I like his bully looks and his "tender" (hehehe) voice. In the game, you get to hear his true voice 
 which is lovely. You know V. D. he has this cold and "I don't give a f^ (k about you" feeling to 
 his every word. LOVELY!
  Keep in mind that this game is not a no-brainer with beautiful graphics, no no. You have to think 
 and you have to sneak a lot, not only pow pow bham bham. You get "upgraded" throught the game. 
 Most of the time you are fighting toe-to-toe, so if you like fighting with some tactics, there 
 is plenty of it for you here.
  There is something that does disturb me about this game and it is it's stability. Every now and 
 then the game crashes with a GPF message. The only thing I can do is simply launch it again. Not 
 something too dramatic, but indeed annoying. Lucky me, it happens seldom.
  
  Sound is very nice and adds a lot of atmosphere. The music also rises and changes when you are 
 spotted and /or entering combat mode. I loved the sound efefcts they did for the hand to hand fights 
 and kills Riddick knows. He is basically a weapon of 2 legs. If you use him right you can sneak 
 up to those guards and snap there necks very easy..!
  
  Graphics are great and the effects of the "nightvision" remind you how it looked in the movie and 
 also in "Pitch Black" if someoone remembers this movie (the one before "The chronicles of...") .
 
  
  Intuativity - there are not many items to use actually. The game is not complicated, quite logical 
 and straight forward, so you do not find yourself stuck or scratching your head wondering what 
 to do next. It's not this way here... There are items you find that give you bonuses later on and 
 also unlock special gigs but that is all. If you have to find a key-card you *will* find it. If 
 you have to talk to someone to get a mission you will find him real soon.
  
  Gameplay - is not hard IMHO. I consider myself a seasoned gamer especially in FPS type of games. 
 So this one was pretty easy for me.
  
  Language - you gotta bear in mind that is not the usuall type of game where you profanity about 
 3 times all the way through, you hear harsh language in just about every corner. You cuss just 
 about everyone you meet and others cuss you especially the guards... hihihi, this makes me crack 
 up now as I remember it, while I am writing this review :-) . 
  
  If you have not played this game yet then you must. This is a classic, sci-fi FPS with more tendenacy 
 of being the crude & raw type of FPS rather than the usual sleek and modern looking type of sci-fi 
 FPS's like Star Trek Elite force, Deus Ex and others of this genre.
  
  Wishing you happy gaming & bashing (  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohaibsulehria
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  it's really a GAME. there is no such game of its category, in the market who has inspired me enough, 
 i got addict of this game and made it end in a week, perhaps it's too long...! this is one of those 
 exceedingly rare types of games that delivers exceptionally high quality through and through and 
 single-handedly ups the ante for all similar games. It features a new and exciting gameplay sequence 
 that has been seamlessly integrated into the middle of the story. The game boldly defies the conventions 
 of the first-person action genre's form by putting you in a variety of situations that are uniquely 
 dangerous, rather than just letting you use stronger and stronger firearms against tougher and 
 tougher foes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexgate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Riddick Escape from Butcher Bay is probably one of the best FPS games around. Even if at first 
 skepticism engulfed the title - because Vin Diesel and the Chronicles of Riddick movie (s) are not 
 exactly addictive, EFBB rapidly got rid of any doubts concerning the quality of the game. The graphic 
 is amazing too, but not 100 percent flawless. Some characters, especially the inert ones, are nothing 
 more than dolls, not only because they shine like plastic, but because they lie in odd positions 
 too. As soon as the player is acquainted with these facts and accepts them (there's really no other 
 option) , the game kicks on and the best way to spend time, as everybody soon finds out, is to play 
 it. You can talk with most of the people inside the game, except when they want to stomp you. The 
 dialogues are a nice touch and a bit more than that, since you get vital info that aids you in 
 your "quest". But the best part is that major events happen exactly when they should: not too early 
 and not too late. Because of this perfect timing, players don't get bored. And how can you not 
 like the bucketful of features ? Manually crafted weapons such as shivs or clubs, improvised weapons 
 such as screwdrivers, knives, firearms, flares, grenades, eye shine - which is the ability to see 
 in the dark, the possibility to suit up in mechs and use their awesome firepower and much more. 
 So, are there any bad parts ? The voices are maybe not the strong point. Maybe. But there's nothing 
 so bad that you can't get past of. The only negative thing you might say is that EFBB is quite 
 short. But then again, it's better to have something real nice that lasts a bit, than to have something 
 awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aditya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I think the developers have invested their time in all aspects of the game quite well. Its a superb 
 mix of story-telling, game-play, sound and graphics. 
  
  The game lets you explore a futuristic jail. It takes you to different levels based on how many 
 times Riddick got caught while escaping. Anyway, each level is a different world having its own 
 challenges. The best part is that there are multiple paths to escape. This surprisingly helps you 
 assess what you (player) are good at. But most of the time I found it to be tiring to come back 
 and try another path. 
  
  The story lets you know a bit more about this obscure character - Riddick. I found the movie to 
 be quite pathetic since it didn't give any background to this guy. After playing this game you 
 will look forward to the upcoming movies and like to know more about him.
  
  The game leaves you with satisfaction of successfully escaping (oh! its not that easy) and wanting 
 more - just where the hell is he escaping to ... probably it will be a better adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: es_ist_leichzei
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I was relatively surprised by how good this game was. Riddick is taken to Butcher Bay. A low down, 
 dirty, hard core prison run by a seemingly wealthy brat. Your objective is to escape and as such 
 this game plays out like an escapist. You have to move in and out of areas. Stealth is a very important 
 aspect. Though there will be times to load up with weapons and guns. The game is short, but the 
 difficulty should provide a challenging experience. As you enter the game, there is an in-game 
 walk into the prison. Really cool. The graphics are very solid, especially in the first half. Though 
 later on the load screens really became annoying. But the shading and details really fit the game 
 environment feel. I didnt like the gun physics and accuracy. I had trouble-killing guys, where 
 many other fps games make it easy. But the first person fist fighting scenarios are smooth and 
 fun to wail on people up close. This game is rated M, and there were lots of F bombs dropped. Make 
 the prison theme fit I suppose. The best thing I liked about this game is playing in the dark. 
 Feeling immersed as the bad guy/ hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Arbiter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Damn, this game is awesome. From the beginning to the end, this is one hell of a ride. Not only 
 is this one of the greatest games ever made, but it's no doubt in my mind the best single player 
 experience money can buy, to date. 
  
  Let's start off with the graphics, one word: DAMN! As you may have heard, Riddick is one of the 
 first games to use normal mapping, and let me tell you, they put it to good use. Not only does 
 it look great, but it runs well with all settings on high on a decent computer fairly well (for 
 the most part) . You are mostly battling your way through room after room and stuff like that, but 
 the graphics are still unbelievable and some of the best, if not the best I've seen so far. The 
 character models are amazingly detailed and have nice textures to them. Vin diesels model is just 
 really well done, it looks pretty much exactly like him. However, sometimes you can notice the 
 low polygon counts on some things, but those are rare. The textures overall on the environments 
 are incredible and make em seem really detailed, and all the textures give the graphics lots of 
 depth so most things looked bumped up, not flat, unlike in other games. The lighting is just outstanding 
 as well, and put it together with one of the most advanced shadowing every seen and you've got 
 a technical masterpiece. But, yes, there's always that but, the game even though has incredible 
 physics, has some clipping issues, and there are some weird graphical glitches and stuff. The game 
 also has plenty of jaggies, but it's defiantly been made more bearable then the Xbox version which 
 if you remember had some serious issues on aliasing. Overall, this game even though lacks some 
 visual polish; it's incredible to look at.
  
  The Audio in this game is also phenomenal, the Music is some of the best Ive ever heard, and the 
 sound effects really immerse you in the world. The VO is excellent, but sometimes the lip-synching 
 is a little off. In combat, guards yell at you, the music jumps in and just creates an amazing 
 atmosphere with the help of the graphics of course. But overall, the Audio is just un-freaking 
 believable. 
  
  Ah yes, now to the gameplay. This is what I will now judge all single player FPSs and other action 
 games by. It has really set a new standard, and if I wasnt such a Battlefield fan boy this would 
 be my favorite game of all time. Not even HL2 can match this epic game. Sure its a little short, 
 and may have a couple bugs, but its defiantly a lot more interesting and more enjoyable to play 
 than HL2. Ok, so obviously Vin Diesel is a major part of this game, he helped on the voice overs, 
 and I think did some motion capture and helped direct or something. Anyway, you play as Riddick, 
 you are put in Butcher Bay (the prison) and once you get there all hell breaks loose. The hand 
 to hand combat is actually amazingly well done and you can also do cool things like snap peoples 
 necks from behind them or position there own gun to there head and shoot it. This game has some 
 really funny and extremely violent animations. Its pretty coolThe shooting is done very well 
 too, and you get a really good sense of hitting the enemies, and the physics really add to it. 
 But its not just shooting, you can also be stealthy moves by crouching, and come behind enemies 
 and do things like stab em in the back with a shiv or snap there necks like mentioned before. You 
 also get this eye shine move fairly early on in the game and what that does is enable you to see 
 in the dark, but, if the room has a decent amount of light all youll see is white, its very sensitive 
 to light. There is also an RPG element where you can buy stuff from other inmates or do some side 
 missions, gain money, and stuff like that. Anyway, the game has very nice and often times humorous 
 (because of Vin Diesel) cinematics and it moves the game along nicely. The objectives are also 
 pretty varied and never get boring or frustrating or anything like that. You also have a journal 
 thing where it keeps info about missions, inventory, ECT. This is also very helpful at times. This 
 game is also filled with really cool moments, and pretty much the whole game is memorable actually. 
 The game has an amazing level of immersion, partly because of the A. I. and how every part of the 
 game is stringed together so well combined with all its sound and graphics. Now for the PC version, 
 you get an extra level where you control a Riot Guard and this is actually put together very 
 nicely and un-noticeable if you havent already played the Xbox version. And the level itself is 
 very fun and feels quite different from the rest of the action. There is also another robot mission 
 near the end which is done very well just like the rest of the game and feels just like you actually 
 are controlling a robot. I do have to mention however, the game suffers from quick, but fairly 
 often loading, but its not that big of a problem. Anyway, the health system is pretty cool too, 
 you basically have these white blocks, you start off with like 3 or 4 I think and you get more. 
 But anyway, you can heal one block if its damaged but you cant get it back if its completely 
 gone. You also have a Normand Health Unit thing where you can get back 4 blocks of life. You 
 can also collect Pack of Smokes which unlocks concept art, and other gallery type stuff. The 
 overall game is about 10 hours long, but exclusively for the PC version there is a Commentary mode 
 which is pretty cool. The game is packed with lots of extra content but it wont keep you busy 
 for long, the real replay value is, well, replaying the game because its so damn amazing, Ill 
 guarantee you, you wont beat this game once. Overall, the gameplay is incredibly immersive, innovative, 
 and just plain FUN!
  
  Overall, the game even though short, is packed with loads of extra content, amazing graphics and 
 sound, and some of the best gameplay youll ever find this generation. Its one of those few, rare, 
 innovative adventures that come slowly and quietly but leave with a Bang. The Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape from Butcher Bay is easily one of the Best games ever made, and the most Satisfying Single 
 Player Experience of All Time, Period.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Escape from Butcher's Bay is an example of how a bad movie can be made better by actually converting 
 the whole mess into a video game. The makers of Riddick should be proud of their accomplishment.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is real life. You will need a plethora of system specifications to run this 
 monster. You will also need a strong stomach. Everything, from the knuckles to the abs, to the 
 ground textures and smoke effects, is so professionaly and extremely well done. An A+ in its own 
 right.
  
  Sound is the other head of the hydra. A hollywood-style score will blow you away. A Terminator-inspired 
 theme is later evident in the game. Character voice acting has never been better.
  
  Gameplay brings nothing new, but sticks to the action game formula like bee on honey and adds original 
 elements to it, from the excellent in-your-face melee action to the amazing stunts and weapon confrontations.
 
  
  A masterpiece of modern gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageTrickster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  Great film, made into a better game. Orginated from the xbox, but this is no port infact if you 
 played them both you would of thought the xbox version was. Graphically still better than most 
 games including IMO Doom 3 and Quake 4, F. E. A. R. and HL2: LC being the only games I put my hands 
 up and say are significantly better. Sound is quality, Vin Diesel makes ths game click. Gameplay 
 is what makes this game superb for me, it's all about stealth keeping in the shadows and attacking 
 enemys by stabbing them in the back, although if you do get caught out Riddick has one wicked move 
 of forcing an enemy to use his own weapon on his self - quality. Interaction with other characters 
 is excellent, which keeps the awesome storyline running smooth.
  
  Dropbacks are no MP, and the game is quick to beat, if you don't explore.
  
  Value wise, maybe 
 when first come out average, now its a tenner - Bargain!
  
  All in all near perfection, awaiting the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  First of all for the all the Riddick fans this game needs no introduction. For all the non Riddick 
 fans listen up. Forget HL2, Doom 3 or FEAR, this might not be the highly anticipated game of 2004 
 but its better than the anticipated games by a reasonable gap. Imagine combining splinter cell 
 with first person shooting and hand combat, u get something that has never been done before. 
 
  
  Im a big fan of shooters but this game made a huge leap forward while comptition is moving backwards 
 in terms of gameplay. Gameplay is the key to this game and it stands out among the metoos. 
  
  Graphics was excellent and the atmosphere depicted what it was like to be in a maximum prison 
 and trying to escape. 
  
  The sound is top notch and the production value is very strong but it was a very short game. I 
 could write 6 pages about this game but it would not do it any justice if u dont play the game. 
 I beg u in the name of PC gaming, get this game NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plug_n_Pray
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Why dont we see games like that in the market? This one has a special feeling towards players. 
 You feel that your playing HITMAN + MAX PAYNE + DOOM 3. And then there's this "Riding-a-Robot" 
 thing! Its just soo cool! Well i dont wana spoil the fun for all those who didnt play it yet. But 
 here's an advice for you all, before you buy this game you should check your hardware first. Its 
 a graphics-eating giant. i had to borrow my friend's ATI X800 VGA card to play. i have a ATI radeon 
 9200 128mb but belive me its not very good with this game.
  Hell yea this game rocks! i give it a full 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FameSpot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a movie-based video game that doesn't suck. Surprisingly, this is a competent and challenging 
 FPS with some well-done stealth elements that dont seem shlocky or poorly implemented (are you 
 listening Soldier of Fortune?) . If you are lucky enough to get the Director's Edition, you will 
 be treated to some detailed commentary sprinkled throughout the game.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and the levels are never the same, nor do they seem to ever recycle textures 
 or objects, which is great for a video game. Sadly, the light effects make even flesh seem a little 
 plastic at times as even the grittiest object has some shine to it. The atmospheric shadows and 
 real-time lighting are excellent.
  
  There are some points in the game where you basically perform fetch quests for NPCs, but there 
 are some tricks you can perform in order to ignore or speed through these. Otherwise it is intriguing 
 to not have a weapon for most of the game as you patiently lurk in the shadows to snap a guard's 
 neck.
  
  First-person fist fights and melee combat makes the game very unique (there's even a counter-system) 
 along with finally being able to see your feet and shadow (are you listening Half-Life ?) .
  
  The dialogue is surprisingly well done as is the animation, the enemies are dangerous, but 
 not too bright. They will usually camp while hurling curses at you.
  
  Finally, no two NPCs are alike, they actually have different body types, different heights and 
 clothing -- not one is recycled beyond the helmeted prison guards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-S_FM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  There's been no shortage of good first person shooters since, well, since doom came out 13 years 
 ago. But there have only been a handful of truly great first person shooters. By weaving an expert 
 blend of frenetic action, tense stealth, excellent use of light and shadows, superb voice acting 
 and cutting edge next generation graphics, Riddick proudly stands on a very high rung on the ladder 
 of great first person shooters.
  
  This episode of the Riddick saga is set before either of the films, during Riddick's trip to Butcher 
 Bay, a high security prison, for being a very naughty boy! On Butcher Bay, he gets to be an even 
 naughtier boy as he kills lots of people, steals some battle-droids and also gets his fancy night 
 vision eyes ability. Don't worry if you hated the Riddick films, I did too, but besides the central 
 character (who is actually enjoyable in the game) , Escape from Butcher Bay has nothing to do with 
 the films.
  
  Although everything about Riddick is immediately familiar to anyone who's ever played a FPS, the 
 game is actually pretty unique all round. With the exception of just a few scenes, the game is 
 all stealth, Riddick has to creep around in the shadows, making shadows with his weapons where 
 needed (if weapons are available, you spend a lot of the game with just a knife for company) , so 
 you can sneak up and snap the neck of your enemy, or stick a shiv through his spine.
  
  The setting is pretty unique too, I don't think I've ever actually played a game set entirely in 
 a prison before, with over 15 years of gaming under my belt. The level design is great for the 
 most part, it looks like a convincing prison, and although it is very firmly a 'corridor' game, 
 it doesn't feel linear at all, even though it is. There are a few moments where you aren't sure 
 where you are, or where to go next, but generally it all comes together very well and flows very 
 smoothly.
  
  Besides the stealth, combat is pretty much your usual FPS stuff, you use a gun to shoot at enemies 
 that are shooting back, but the pacing is great and the fact that you never really take serious 
 damage unless you do something stupid (on normal difficulty at least) means that the game is always 
 sort of challenging without ever being frustrating, which makes it very fun all round.
  
  Riddick manages to implement excellent melee combat, one button for punch, used with a directional 
 button determines which arm you swing from, with another button to block. You'll only be using 
 your fists a few times during the game, but it's still very well implemented and lots of fun.
 
  
  There are also a few times where you can get into a battle-droid (they are pretty much like ED-209 
 from Robocop, but manned) , and you get to smash around shooting everything that moves. It breaks 
 up the stealth perfectly, you're never doing the same thing for too long, much like Half Life 2, 
 so the game never stagnates.
  
  The AI is average, the humans duck and roll to avoid fire, but besides that they just shoot at 
 you until you die, pop out the lights and they just walk around in the darkness until you kill 
 them. Not bad, but nothing special. The alien AI is old school, they run at you and hit you until 
 you die, but combined with their speed, it makes for a very frantic time when you're fighting them, 
 which is the point, so it works well.
  
  If you've ever seen a Riddick film (I hope for your sake you haven't) , you'll know that Riddick 
 has a fancy see-in-the-dark thing going on, and it's in the game too. It's a snazzy feature, but 
 nothing special, in fact it's just your bog standard night vision, works great in darkness, but 
 you're blind in the light - if you've ever played Splinter Cell, you can expect the same type of 
 thing here. You can turn it on and off at will.
  
  The voice acting all throughout is truly impeccable, every single character in the game, there 
 are quite a few as there's a sort of RPG style mission system thing going on during the cool-down 
 periods after break-out attempts (it takes about 4 attempts to actually get out - after each one 
 you move to a more high-security part of the prison, giving way to the tiered difficulty you generally 
 get in games as you progress, but unlike most other games, it doesn't feel contrived in Riddick) . 
 Vin Diesel does the Riddick voice, and does it extremely well - better than in the films to be 
 honest. All the other voice actors are great.
  
  Visually the game is on par with Doom 3, maybe a little better even, the textures are amazing, 
 the models are amazing, the lighting and shadows are amazing, the light reflections are amazing. 
 Simply put, Riddick looks amazing.
  
  There's also a whole host of extras, ranging from game artwork to, amazingly, a dvd-style audio 
 commentary as you play the game through a second time - you can listen do the developers talk about 
 the game production when you get to certain points, it's a pretty amazing feature which turns an 
 otherwise highly recommended second play of the game an essential second play of the game.
  
  If I had to find a complaint with the game, and I stress that this is if I HAD to find a complaint 
 with the game, it's that it's too short, I think it took me about 7 or 8 hours to finish it, which 
 is just too short, but then you're almost guaranteed to play it through a second time, which gives 
 it a respectable lifespan.
  
  First person shooter fans are always spoilt for choice, but this is one game no first person shooter 
 fan should miss, no, one game no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick is worth playing through at LEAST once. It's fairly unpredictable most of 
 the way through, and there is rarely a good point to stop playing the game. I thought that the 
 first half of the game was a little slow, but it picks up extremely fast after you "drop a bomb":) .
 
  
  Gameplay - Best hand-to-hand combat in any shooter I have ever played. The way your enemy reacts 
 when you hit them is pretty realistic. The shooting parts are also pretty good. Not a whole lot 
 of guns to choose from, but you aren't spending most of the game shooting. I thought the AI could 
 be a bit better, because you can hide behind a crate and practically kill an entire army. Only 
 a couple of guards in the beginning of the game seemed to carry grenades, but ehhhh, its not a 
 big deal. I found the game a little too easy, because I only died at points when I was punished 
 for punching someone during a certain portion of the game (which results in automatic death pretty 
 much) . The last half of the game is one of the sole reasons why anyone that is an FPS fan should 
 play this. 
  
  Graphics - Extremely good graphics, with a few "buts". The textures are kinda fuzzy up close, even 
 at a high resolution. Models look really good, but some shadows look kind of strange. If you look 
 closely at screenshots that you take while playing, you may notice some lines under the neck of 
 the models. The cutscenes are very well done though, you feel like you are watching a flawless 
 in game movie. When you have a conversation with someone during the playable parts however, they 
 do not look at your character sometimes, which looks kind of stupid. There were some rare clipping 
 issues during some of the cutscenes too.
  
  Sound - Very cinematic music. When the action picks up, you can almost feel the orchestra picking 
 up the pace of the piece in the background. The acting is pretty much as good as it gets in a game 
 like this. Vin Diesel does a really great job playing Riddick. The guns are very loud and the hand-to-hand 
 combat sounds incredible. Sound is one of the many high points in the game.
  
  Value - I wish there was a multi-player, the game is really short, and its not the type of game 
 you will play 10 times. I guess it's worth buying if you love the Riddick story.
  
  Tilt - This game deserves to be played one time through. It will keep you guessing "how much better 
 can this get?" till the very last fight. A high end system should be used to enjoy this game for 
 graphical reasons, but I tried playing it on "low" as well, and it didn't really ruin the atmosphere 
 too much. This game really surprised me, so give it a try.
  
  AMD 64 3500+
  1gig SDRAM
  Nvidia 7800 GT OC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conor_220
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played!
  
  The game has great graphics that run well on a medium spec machine and they look great. The gameplay 
 is absolutely superb, with ways of stealth or just shoot them up. In levels you can trick guards 
 by getting a spare uniform and walking around in the world. The action in it and the gunfights 
 are very good and the AI is smart. There is great melee combat in it to where you fight other prisoners 
 in a ring to the death and earn money. They great counter attacks in the game. For example, I ran 
 up to a guard and started to punch him even though he had a gun, so he tried do smack me with it 
 but I grabbed it and turned it into his face and put a bullet in his head. It makes you feel like 
 Riddick, you can see your feet when you look down and when you move it just feels like your moving 
 with him. This game is just great, go buy it and enjoy it because I don't want to write this review 
 Im going to go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Just because this game doesn't have a multiplayer option doesn't mean you shouldn't give it a try. 
 This game delivers incredible graphics and an intense storyline that follows the movies. This game 
 is based on the movie, but is an attachment to the movie. It fills in gaps in Riddicks life. It 
 has unique modes. You can sneak up behind a guard and kill him a lot of awesome ways. If a guard 
 is about to shoot at you, you can perform a reversal and make the guard shoot himself in the head. 
 The sound was great. The voice over using Vin Diesel who is the actual actor in the movie "Pitch 
 Black" and "Chronicles of Riddick" is great. It makes you actually feel like you are Riddick. Since 
 Vin Diesel helped making this game it really added to the Chronicles of Riddick. I had to watch 
 the movies again after playing the game. I have never played a game that makes you feel so much 
 a part of it. There are very few bugs that I could find with the game. It crashed on me probably 
 two times during quick saves. Other then that everything was incredible. If you liked either of 
 the movies or are a Vin Diesel fan you will LOVE this game. It is a FPS, but it gives you a lot 
 of 3rd person views of Riddick as he climbs walls or ladders. You can shimmy across wires overhead 
 with guards below you. The fighting in the game is also the most realistic I have seen in a game. 
 Don't look this one over because it doesn't have multiplayer. There is no way this game will disappoint 
 any FPS fan. All of the voiceovers were spectacular. I cant wait for the next installment of it. 
 The PC version has one extra level that is really fun. You actually get into a mech type suit and 
 use the machine gun to destroy anything in site. The weapons were very realistic and they way they 
 were used were great. You really performed a lot of the moves Riddick uses in the movies. Each 
 character in the game has their different personalities which make for a good storyline. I hope 
 everyone give the game a chance even though it doesnt have multiplayer it makes up for in action 
 and graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 3:17 am PT
Review:  I'm reviewing Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay Developer's Cut as a stand alone game, 
 cause I've never played the original Xbox version.
  
  Games like Half-Life 2, Far Cry and Doom 3 has shown us some stunning graphics on the PC, and the 
 fact that a movie game like Riddick can compete with them is very surprising. The non-playable 
 characters in the game all look great, and together with some awesome effects such as the shattering 
 explosions and lights blending your eyes, this game simply looks incredible. 
  
  The sounds in Riddick are nearly perfect in every single way. The voice overs are done very well, 
 and then especially good from Vin Diesel himself. The sound effects are all very good, and the 
 music is just so cool with an awesome main score. 
  
  Riddick is a blend between FPS, RPG and stealth and every single aspect of the game works very 
 well. The action and stealth elements are top notch. You'll be able to sneak around backstabing 
 people, and of course just blast your way through the whole game. The weapons are all awesome and 
 feals very tough a solid. The fact that this is a game based on a movie is just so surprising, 
 cause it's just brilliant. The whole game works perfect, but it's incredibly short, and you'll 
 probably finish it in around 10 to 15 hours, and there isn't much replay value. It's definately 
 a game worth picking up, but don't expect a huge game.
  
  +
  Awesome graphics and sounds. The music is just brilliant. The presentation is very solid with some 
 great voice over by the actors. The RPG and stealth elements works very well.
  
  -
  The game is too short, all too short. There could have been some more action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The learning curve for the game shouldn't be to hard. If you've played action/rpg/stealth games, 
 before, it will take less than an hour. 
  The added bonus of unlockable content is a plus, too. I just wish they could add multiplayer. Maybe 
 that unlocks later in the game?
  I very much felt like I was playing DOOM 3, without the demons. I mean very much. Maybe its the 
 planets environment. This game has a dark mood to it, as well. 
  I havent played to far, but, so far its great. I finally got hold of a decent weapon; but, Riddick 
 doesnt have to much trouble with a shiv. If your stealthy enough, that is. Just make sure you have 
 quick hands. The gaurds can be a real pain in the rear. The audio of the game is excellent (right 
 on) . I really felt like I was on a distant planet in a hardened prison. Yeah, youll be looking 
 over your shoulder a few times.
  
  10 for everything but gameplay. Well, it really depends, once you get the hang of the controls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrids
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of the Chronicles of Riddick movie starring Vin Diesel, I predicted that it 
 would be a mediocre science fiction sequel. I was right about that. When I first heard about the 
 Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay video game for the Xbox and PC I predicted it would 
 be a typical sub-par video game based on a movie franchise (i. e. Enter the Matrix) . This can't 
 be further from the truth.
  
  Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay (which will be referred to as CoR from here on out) 
 was developed by the virtually unknown developer Starbreeze over in Sweden. The production values 
 for this game are generally good, motion capture and professional voice acting is a highlight. 
 Vin Diesel voices his own character that looks remarkably like his real-life counterpart. Other 
 voice cameos include Xzibit and Cole Hauser, who plays the character Johns, Riddick's nemesis in 
 the series.
  
  The game has a very cinematic feel to it right from the beginning, while still maintaining the 
 core components of a video game. That isn't to say that CoR is conventional by any standards. You'll 
 notice right away that there is no HUD, save for the small white squares in the top left corner 
 that represent your health, and go away when they aren't needed. If you want to know how much ammo 
 is left in your gun, you'll have to check the meter on it. Game objectives and item information 
 is stored in your game "journal" which can be accessed with a hotkey. 
  
  In addition to the absence of an HUD, you'll find other elements of this game that set it apart 
 from other games. This game focuses primarily on stealth which is somewhat unusual for an FPS. 
 Instead of running and gunning your way through the prison, which doesn't sound like a very effective 
 escape method, you'll have to use your wits and your mitts to break your way out. Although there 
 are some basic projectile weapons like the assault rifle and the shotgun, you'll find that you 
 don't use them nearly as much as you use the hand to hand combat or the tranquilizer gun. You may 
 also choose to completely avoid conflict by hiding in the dark. Instead of a meter telling you 
 if you are hidden or not, you can crouch into stealth mode, and if you are hidden the screen will 
 change to a blue tint. This subtle but effective feature helps the game maintain the immersive 
 atmosphere that it strives to create. Later in the game you'll receive the "shine eyes" ability 
 that Riddick's character is known for. This allows you to see in any dark area with the push of 
 a button. 
  
  Even though stealth is a big part of the game, it has its action moments as well. There are definitely 
 a lot of firefights, but the highlight of the action scenes are when you take control of the walking 
 battle suits and miniature tanks and completely raise hell in the prison. It's this variety in 
 the styles of gameplay the game offers that make it so much fun to play.
  
  Despite being classified as an action game, CoR includes some RPG elements as well. There are periods 
 in the game when there is very little action and you are spending most of your time communicating 
 with the other inmates as well as participating in side-quests. During these levels your primary 
 goals are to collect items and perform tasks that will ultimately bring you one step closer to 
 escaping from the prison. This is a welcome break from the action as it not only slows the pace 
 of the game, but it requires you to use you brain for some of the puzzles. 
  
  The graphics are very reminiscent of Doom 3 with high resolution textures and top-notch bump mapping. 
 In general the graphics look fantastic, there are some small gripes that many people seem to have 
 with the way the game looks. There are some visible seam lines on the characters that did bug me 
 during some of the cut scenes, and from time to time the lighting gets a little funky on the character 
 models. These are very minor problems though, and in general the graphics are very good and they 
 do a great job of conveying the atmosphere of the prison.
  
  CoR sounds really good, thanks in part to the efforts of the voice actors who deliver a Hollywood 
 level performance which exceeds what is expected for a video game. Each character has their own 
 distinct personality that is conveyed through their voice and actions, and this really helps to 
 bring the universe to life. Apart from the voices, the ambiance of the prison contributes to the 
 gritty atmosphere, and is overall very good. 
  
  Although the single player portion of CoR is fantastic, the complete absence of multiplayer modes 
 hurts the games value significantly. Although there is some replay value because of a commentary 
 feature and some collectables, it is expected of nearly any modern game to have some form of multiplayer. 
 My only other gripe with the game would be that it is somewhat on the short side. I beat this game 
 in a single day, but to be fair I did play close to ten hours (it was a rainy day) . Most people 
 will be able to finish this game in ten or eleven hours. 
  
  If I had to describe this game in a word, it would be "progressive". I find it somewhat ironic 
 that a game based on a somewhat successful science fiction series is being considered better than 
 the movies themselves. If I had to offer my own theory, I would say that the credit for this success 
 is due to the developers and the publisher for taking a somewhat untraditional angle at this game. 
 They could have easily pumped out another cookie-cutter movie game with non-stop generic action. 
 The hard work that was put into this game is apparent, and it definitely paid off. This game may 
 appeal to fans of the Riddick series because of the plot, but even those who are not fans of the 
 series like me should give this game a go. It is somewhat of an anomaly in the video game world 
 for a game in this situation to be so good. CoR successfully blends action, stealth, firepower, 
 hand to hand combat and RPG elements into one first-person shooter that is truly superb.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool-AN
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay - Developer's Cut is, aside from being the longest 
 title ever, a FPS with both Action and Stealth elements. It has many unlock ables and is overall 
 just a great FPS.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is, for a lack of a better word, great. The game has no "hud" like other games where 
 you see your health, armor etc. all the time but a more realistic interface. Your health bar shows 
 up when you are either hurt or press (default) E. Another thing that is pretty unique to this game 
 is melee combat. Basically you either use your fists or a club, shiv etc. and hammer away, you 
 can move around to change the way you hit and block by pressing the (default) second mouse button. 
 
  The melee combat also ties into the stealth elements, you can sneak up behind a guy and break his 
 neck and then drag him into the dark where the other guards wont find him. Speaking of the dark, 
 it is probably your best friend in the game. When you duck in the dark the guards can't see you 
 and you can sneak up behind them, be warned though the guards have flash lights and if the notice 
 any thing they will turn them on and come after you.
  
  This doesn't mean that the game is lacking in gun fights though, most of the game you wont have 
 a gun. The levels you do have one though is basically like any other FPS out there you go around 
 and shoot people. you will never have a shortage of ammo since all guards drop their guns when 
 they die and you can take their ammo. There are also some levels were you are playing in a mech 
 type vehicle. This is a very fun experiences since you absolutely devastate the enemy soldiers.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great, they are very detailed and just generally look great. It can take a some 
 what good system to run but overall I didn't see a lot of slow downs.
  
  Sound:
  Oh baby. The Chronicles of Riddick just has tons of stuff here, talented voice actors, good music 
 and generally just great sound overall. What really impressed me was the voices, most of the characters 
 in the game has their own voice and it fits perfectly for them, especially riddick had some good 
 lines in the game.
  
  Value:
  Like I said in the start of this review, riddick has tons of unlock ables, most of them are artworks 
 however there are some that stand out, most noticeably the developers commentary. When this is 
 activated there are some "signs" in the game where you can hear the developers talk about the level 
 you are currently in or the characters that you are facing.
  
  Other then that the game has many secondary missions that you can complete, there are actually 
 quite a few of them in every level and they can range from every thing to kill a guy or get some 
 drugs.
  
  Overall:
  Overall Riddick is a very good game that I would recommend to every one who enjoys FPS and stealth 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 17, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick; Escape From Butcher Bay  Developers Cut is falsely presented as a 
 First-Person-Shooter, FPS, game. Granted, the gamer does have to duke-it-out with a few convicts 
 to progress, but overall The Chronicles of Riddick needs to be classified as a roll playing game, 
 RPG. It smacks so much of System Shock 2, or the Deus Ex Series, especially Deus Ex: The Invisible 
 Wars. Only toward the end of the game does the FPS meet the authors expectations of the genre 
 First Person Shooter.
  
  Pick a side, good or evil, black or white, prison group blue or red. Throughout the game one is 
 constantly striving to progress by manipulating other prisoners. Kill the prisoner in cell 108 
 and I will give you the key to level 3. The author found Riddick moving from one cell-block to 
 another to barter, beg, or steal objects or codes to move on in the game. Overall, the plot is 
 good. The game closely follows the movie, which the author can only have positive comments. Vin 
 Diesels voice over really makes the game. His choice of verbiage complements the movie perfectly. 
 He is definitely a cocky dude with an attitude. I will be playing the games again soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 17, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay- Developer's Cut is an excellent FPS/Action 
 game. It's not exactly a FPS in that you aren't armed with a gun the entire time and a good portion 
 of the game involves melee combat, but is in the same style as a FPS game. I enjoyed the mixing 
 of the role playing elements, the action elements and the sneaking elements of the game. The sneaking 
 elements were well thought out in that the screen actually changed color when you were hidden from 
 enemies. I liked that you could interact with most of the other characters, and that conversations 
 with some led to additional side quests. The graphics are top notch and much better than the standard 
 console port. The voice acting was also done quite well. I have to admit that Vin Diesel fits into 
 the Riddick character just right, giving him a good mix of toughness and rebelliousness. Overall, 
 Escape from Butcher Bay is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 16, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  My review summary says it all.
  
  If you are interested in the Riddick movies/mythology, then by all means play this game as it is 
 definitely a decent game to play and is interesting for its story alone.
  
  However, the game is simply a mediocre FPS game. It has the usual collection of weapons which you 
 can obtain and special items to find. It does allow for some additional moves, like jumping down 
 on enemies and such. Nevertheless, there are probably better games out there along these lines 
 (i. e. Doom 3, etc) .
  
  The gameplay is decent and graphics/audio are decent; about as good as it gets on the Xbox. The 
 shading/shadow effects are nice, though I am finding more and more that my expectations are falling 
 short on the Xbox as I have played some stunning games on the PC (we'll have to wait for Xbox 360!)
 
  
  Replay value is minimal. After completing the game; I spent about 30 minutes replaying, but quickly 
 got bored.
  
  By now, you should find this in the discount bin; as I said, if you're interested, then play it. 
 If you are only curious; then it would be safe to pass it up.
  
  Lata 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dissipate
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  In 2000 Pitch Black, a sci-fi horror film came out. The movie starred Vin Diesel as a dangerous 
 murder, known as Riddick, who is being transported between prisons. In 2004 a sequel was released 
 by the title of Chronicles of Riddick. Most games adapted from films are usually sub par but this 
 should not deter you because The Chronicles of Riddick is a surprising good game, one of the best 
 in 2004, which many people overlooked. Besides the name the game has nothing to do with the actual 
 film, so you dont have to be a fan of the film to love the game. Riddick has been captured by 
 Officer Johns and Johns is escorting Riddick to the best prison in the galaxy, Butcher Bay. Riddick, 
 being the badass that he is, does not care too much for being locked up and will do anything to 
 escape. 
  
  The Chronicles of Riddick initially came out for the Xbox and then was released for the pc. The 
 pc version offers enhanced graphics as well as a commentary mode. As for the story it is mostly 
 the same though the developers did change a sequence during the middle of the game. 
  
  The first thing that you will notice is that The Chronicles of Riddick is a graphical powerhouse. 
 It is by far one of the best looking games out today, though this isnt to say that it doesnt 
 have problems. There are times in certain cut scenes that you will see dotted lines on a characters 
 face which appears to be a seam where polygons meet. There are also times where bullets may fly 
 through a wall or where a body part may be seen through a wall. This, however, only happens once 
 in awhile so it doesnt become bothersome. Chronicles of Riddick does offer some of the best graphics 
 though users need a high end system to fully utilize all that Riddick has to offer. Even with a 
 good system you may see the frame rate drop, and you will experience some slow downs during the 
 more intense fire fights.
  
  With such an amazing engine running Riddick the developers tried to make the prison, along with 
 all the environments in the game very detailed. With such an attention to detail the game immerses 
 you. The only thing that takes you out of the game is the load times. When you reach certain parts 
 of the game the screen switches to a rectangle. The rectangle then starts to become smaller until 
 it is completely gone. I would have liked the developers to incorporate the loading into the actually 
 game so as not to break your immersion. I also have to comment on the save system. The only time 
 you are allowed to save your data is at checkpoints where the game does it for you. The checkpoints 
 are never that far apart though I still like to be able to save my data whenever I want to instead 
 of having someone decide for me.
  
  Graphics are not the only thing that make and game and The Chronicles of Riddick does not just 
 offer a stunning picture the story is also no slouch. It may seem like an average story but there 
 is more too the story than just trying to break out of a prison. There are some twists that make 
 the experience unique. While in the prison you will meet many great characters that are all distinctive 
 in appearance, voice, and attitude that adds depth and personality to the game which sets it apart 
 from many other first person shooters.
  
  Another great aspect of The Chronicles of Riddick that rivals the graphics for one of the best 
 parts of the game is the sound. Not only does Vin Diesel, who of course does the voice for Riddick, 
 lend his voice to the game another actor from Pitch Black does as well. Cole Hauser plays Officer 
 Johns in Pitch Black and lends his voice for the game. Xzibit, thats right the famous Pimp my 
 Ride star himself, also lends his vocal talent. All these actors do a fantastic job as well as 
 all the actors of the supporting cast. The dialogue is harsh, gritty, and contains many curse words 
 but what do you expect to hear in a hard boiled prison such as Butcher Bay. Many games feature 
 over the top dialogue and over the top characters however I didnt find this to be true in Riddick. 
 I actually thought the dialogue in the game was better than that of the movie. The guards, the 
 prisoners, everyone sounded very authentic. Not only was the dialogue good but even the fire fights 
 were extremely well done. Everything about the sound was just amazing.
  
  Although story, and sound are important parts of any video game the gameplay is what makes or breaks 
 a game. You play The Chronicles of Riddick from the first person perspective of Riddick however 
 this does not mean Riddick is a standard firs person shooter. I find it rather hard to call The 
 Chronicles of Riddick a first person shooter. Riddick is a mix of different genres that creates 
 a refreshing, unique, gameplay experience. Riddick is a combination of stealth, adventure, and 
 first person shooter. One of the most unique parts of Riddick that you will never see in most first 
 person shooters is hand to hand combat. Riddick uses a simplistic yet ingenious set of controls 
 for hand to hand combat. By pressing the left button on the mouse with any of the movement buttons 
 you can perform different attacks. By pressing different combinations of the movement keys along 
 with the left mouse Riddick will perform various combos that will leave your opponent on the ground. 
 Besides just using your hands, you can pick up a variety of melee weapons to dispatch your enemies. 
 Other than the hand to hand combat the stealth aspect is also seamlessly done. When you crouch 
 you go into sneak mode. When in this mode you can take out guards silently by going up behind them 
 and breaking their neck or using a melee weapon to kill them. During the middle portion of the 
 game you will get your trademark eyes. You can now see in the dark which gives you one hell of 
 an advantage. By pressing Q you can toggle between the two views. This also adds to the gameplay 
 because you can shot out the lights and play games with the guards. While in sneak mode the screen 
 will become a tinted blue when you are in the dark which means that you are hidden. This is unless 
 a guard spots you with his flashlight. While in Butcher Bay you will not have a gun or even a weapon 
 of any sort. The developers added in a feature that when faced against a guard with a weapon you 
 can press the left mouse button at a specific time you can perform an action that forcefully takes 
 the gun away and use it against the guard.
  
  Riddick is not just about the action either. There are moments that integrate good adventure aspects. 
 You will be able to talk with other inmates who will offer you missions for money. You can accept 
 these missions or you can progress through the game. It is just another facet of the game that 
 immerses you into the world of Butcher Bay and as a result makes the prison feel alive. Riddick 
 also does something else that most first person shooters dont allow you to do and that is performing 
 miscellaneous actions. This is not to say it is revolutionary or that it is a great feature, though 
 it is a welcome addition.
  
  All of those things make the gameplay in The Chronicles of Riddick very refreshing and it never 
 seems dull. The game offers many different situations and makes you use different styles of gameplay 
 to pass certain regions. By doing this you never know what you may get to use and the game keeps 
 you guessing. 
  
  The game takes a little more than 10 hours to complete which is definitely a blemish on the game. 
 With such a short experience the action never gets repetitive and leaves you wanting more. The 
 Chronicles of Riddick offers no multiplayer but after beating the game you unlock a commentary 
 mode and a higher difficulty setting. The commentary is a fun feature and warrants at least another 
 go at the game.
  
  The Chronicles of Riddick is certainly an amazing game with an extremely high production value 
 that shows. All the elements are exceptionally well done and the game offers quite an experience. 
 Overall Riddick offers an intense, satisfying, single player game that is impressive from start 
 to finish. The game ends with you wanting more which is both from the length of the game and the 
 quality of it. With the release of big titles such as Half Life 2 and Doom 3 I can understand why 
 The Chronicles of Riddick was overshadowed. Do yourself a favor and dont pass up this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  Let's get right down to it. Chronicles is no Half Life 2. It will never have the commercial success 
 HL2 has. Unfortunately, the game also encounters unfair scrutiny because many gamers assume that 
 most games based on movies (especially Sci-Fi ones) haven't been up to par. However, if you want 
 to feel some sort of hope that games based on less popular licenses can get anywhere, play this 
 game. With the exception of some excellent Star Wars games, Chronicles is a game where you really 
 don't need to know too much about the Pitch Black / Riddick background to enjoy it. Although the 
 game receives unfair comparisons to much more popular FPS such as Doom 3 or HL2, I assure you that 
 Chronicles can keep up with the pack. 
  
  The team behind Chronicles seems to understand some of the caveats of FPS gameplay. In most FPS, 
 you cannot see yourself. This isn't much of a problem until you start doing things like jump on 
 boxes or climb ladders which (in most FPS games) always seem to not get it right. In most experiences, 
 you feel like a block within an environment. An example of this is an experience where your character's 
 feet must be on top the box for you to climb a set of boxes or ledges. Not so here. In Chronicles, 
 they utilize a 3rd person view and the common ability most people use - their hands. Chronicles 
 may not be in the realm of other FPS but I don't know if I can classify or compare it with other 
 games. It has its own feel and integrates a second viewing perspective in a meaningful way. Of 
 course, much like the rest of the reviews, Chronicles has the great graphics, impeccable AI, and 
 sound that rivals most top notch games but its main keeper is the story. The story and characters 
 are very well conceived. In addition, the levels and the game's approach to fighing other enemies 
 is fresh and gives a satisfying feel for knocking out someone cold. Aside from the simple HUD, 
 the management of the character is simple along with how the environment is manipulated. 
  
  Even with all these great things to say about the game it does have some minor faults. Part 
 of it is its graphics. There maybe some clipping issues because of the viewing perspecting changes 
 that happen in the game but nothing game breaking. 
  
  Chronicles is a great game that you should take a look at even with all the new games out. There 
 is definitely something new and unique that helps it stand out as a potential classic.
  
  letmeplaybook. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machockey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick, man, what a superbly crafted game! This game is so good it's like crack-cocane 
 for a gamer, seriously. What truly stands out about this game is its mood and atmosphere. At all 
 times when playing you get a foreboding sense of uneasiness, something, anything horrible could 
 happen just around the corner. This deppression-sense is captured so brilliantly with the help 
 from a few key factors. 
  
  First and foremost is sound. Vin Diesel does such an exellent job of delivering the dialogue of 
 Riddick. I cannot even begin to tell you how amazing Riddick is captured and brought to life by 
 Vin. Plus, the other supporting cast, which by the way is large, is almost as well portrayed as 
 Riddick. Simply amazing, the aura and atmospheric sound used to heighten tension in key situations 
 is also fantastic. You need to hear this game. 
  
  Graphically this game is almost unequalled, honestly, I kid you not! Textures are phenominal, the 
 lighting is crazy good, and the level design is deft. The only reason I knock it in graphics is 
 because of seams popping up in charecter models that can be a little distracting. 
  
  As stated previously, the level design is deft, really deft, which in my opinion truly helps the 
 gameplay and keeps you, the gamer, focused on the story and the direction of where you are in relationship 
 to where you want to be. This game isn't really a gunz-a-blazin' shooter, but more of an action/adventure 
 with a first person perspective and I think it works perfectly with the mood and atmosphere. 
 
  
  It's too bad this game is so short lived because it's so damn good. Disappointingly, there isn't 
 a multiplayer to be found. But the actual campaign does offer a designer directors-cut campaign 
 after completion for the first time. Bonuses are also unlockable in form of cigarette packs, so 
 make sure you're lookin' for 'em.
  
  Well, if you consider yourself a fan of good games, really good games, then get this game. Highly 
 recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I never imagined that a game could be so surprisingly entertaining and enthralling, while based 
 upon a Hollywood movie which failed in world renting. Therefore, Chronicles of Riddick is an outstanding 
 game which impresses by all its portions, especially with its graphics engine. Not only the engine 
 allows to demonstrate realistic textures, but it also supports superb character detalization.
 
  The gameplay is suprisingly packed with various feautures like stealth and a great combat system, 
 the hand combat here is one of the best implented system ever in a game. Talking about gameplay, 
 the game also allows you to get inside a giant robot and control it, and let me assure you, it 
 feels great and deliveres a certain point to the game.
  However, the game feels quite short for its kind, and that's the only noticeable con of the game. 
 
  Other than that, Chronicles of Riddick is a perfect game, with rich content and enthralling plot, 
 which surely deserves to be played by any self-respecting gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game does exactly what it is supposed to do, and no more; and that is a *good* thing. The 
 character of Riddick already has two movies, and hence the idea of developing the character in 
 a video game is not going to happen. However, the idea of making the game a prequel is a good one, 
 and fills in some of the back-story. You will get to see where the famous eyes come from, you will 
 get to have your very own set of smokes. The advertisements on the smokes are hilarious. And thus, 
 while this game does not exactly move the Riddick character along, it does provide some depth. 
 This is what the game set out to do, and it does it well.
  
  I enjoyed playing the game. The only nit that I have is that the character of Riddick in the movies 
 is a human killing machine. But he is definitely "human." In this prequel Riddick is much more 
 of a non-human killing machine. Killing a few security guards does not faze this version of Riddick. 
 But I began to think that that was the point - he was a monster, but was changed into a "human" 
 during his various screen exploits. And that is what I liked - the game made me think a little 
 more about the Riddick character than I would have otherwise.
  
  So, in general this game is getting a high rating for me. It stays admirably within the bounds 
 of what it is trying to do. This focus allows the game to be interesting and playable. We get a 
 glimpse of an interesting character before the main events in his "life" take place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  I love to find unexpected treasures when it comes to computer games. Far Cry is my absolute favorite, 
 but The Chronicles of Riddick Escape from Butcher Bay is also one such game. Sometimes all the 
 hype leading up to a game like DOOM 3 or Half-Life 2 result in unrealistic expectations and thus 
 ultimately disappointment. I knew nothing of Escape from Butcher Bay expect that it was a crappy 
 movie (so I have heard anyway) . And of course almost every game since ET that was made from a movie 
 was simply garbage.
  There's no expectation like a low expectation. And Surprise! Escape from Butcher Bay is great! 
 It looks fantastic (almost on par with D3, and hey, if you shoot glass, it shatters!) , the gameplay 
 is a great mix of some stealth and lots of action. Sound quality (EAX) was very good, and this 
 game only cost $30.
  My only two gripes: One, it seems like this game could use a patch. There was occasional graphics 
 corruption (ATI 800 XT, latest drivers) and the game crashed on me twice. Two, it was pretty short, 
 only taking me about 10 hours to finish.
  Simply put, if you enjoy a good FPS, then pick up Escape from Butcher Bay. It starts a little slowly, 
 but continues to pick up momentum until the very end. Outstanding voice acting, nearly unstoppable 
 "Riot Guard Suits" and Mechs, great visuals and a storyline that (while not exactly deep) does 
 add to the game, without getting in the way.
  Let's hope Vin keeps up the good work.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay puts you in to the character of Riddick, a convict 
 with nothing to loose and everything to gain. You start off be escorted by an old friend Johns (if 
 you watch Pitch Black you would know what im talking about) . Just as soon as Riddick get cosy, 
 he decides to escape. Soon after you see that its gonna be a little then one would think. You got 
 Russ, The Abbot, Hoxey, and every other convict and prison guard out for your blood, however you 
 do make a few friends along the way, some expected and some not so expected. Once the action picks 
 up it never dies, you use every means of equipment to make your way out, including, rifles, shotguns, 
 pistoles, knives, and even your own two hands. The hand to hand combat works so well in this game, 
 it almost seems like you feel every jaw cracking, lip busting, black eye punch thrown at you because 
 the way the your few flies around everytime you get it with fists. The addons for this version 
 are great, the entire level where your in the machine gun walker is pure genius and fun as hell. 
 The PC version also gets all the improvements in graphics that the Xbox couldnt handle. Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay is a great game and if your a fan of the FPS this game is right 
 up your ally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick was originally a movie with Vin Diesel. Knowing this, and knowing that 
 the movie sucked, led me to believe the game would suck as well. I was very wrong. The Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay, is now one of my favorite PC games. It excellently combines, 
 FPS, action, and stealth elements to create a shooter-action-stealth hybrid that flows well and 
 is a lot of fun. The gritty environment of Butcher Bay is very well done, with crazy, drug-addicted, 
 and badass prisoners, mean-as-hell guards, and zombie-like humanoids that crawl around the sewers. 
 The intense violence, foul language, and claustrophobic areas really add to the experience. The 
 graphics are great, my only complaint being the weird-looking shadows. The music is really good 
 and the voice acting is off the hook. Vin Diesel is really good as Riddick, the role fits him perfectly. 
 Some parts of this game are really quite funny, too. My personal favorite inmates are Yaman and 
 Girish. An Asian and African American man who share a cell. They act like an old married couple 
 -- always arguing with each other and calling each other stupid. They're very funny. My two big 
 complaints with Butcher Bay are the fact that the game is pretty easy, and it's too short. I felt 
 like the game could've lasted at least two more hours without getting dull. Despite this, The Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay is an amazing game. If you are able to get either the movie 
 or the game, you should definitely go with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick is a game coming out of nowhere and inspired by a lame action movie. But 
 don't let that fool you, you must buy Riddick. 
  
  What makes COR: EFBB so unique is the way it combines fighting, stealth, role-play elements and shooting 
 all together so perfectly. This game mixes 'em all together in a perfect bland of joy and serenity.
 
  
  The game is set before both movies, which is great since you'll get to know more instead of just 
 playing the movies' scenes. You, Richard B. Riddick, will be brought to Butcher Bay, a triple-max 
 prison which you'll have to escape. The story is honest and unfolds well, with in-game cutscenes, 
 dialogue with choices ( like KOTOR ) and related quests.
  
  Where the role-play elements come in, is the way you'll be able to get lots (20) of secondary quests 
 in the pacific areas of the game. Most of 'em are FedEx and kill-this-guy type quests, but still, 
 they're fun to do, had some well-needed appeal to the game and offer you extra content to unlock, 
 which'll come to you via cigarette packs lying in secrets places throughout the game and given 
 like rewards. Role-play are there in second way, you get money and can buy some random things with 
 it like shivs, cig packs and extra-life during well needed phases of the game. The dialogue, even 
 if not developed much, are there too.
  
  In most areas of the game, you won't be relying on a gun, which means you'll have to stealth your 
 way and crack up the necks of guards. Making use of the extensive shadows produced by the wonderful 
 SbzEngine, you'll have to sneak behind guards or affront them, using deadly combos to gain the 
 edge, even unarmed. But when you get a gun, you will be able to go guns-a-blazing, even if not 
 really recommended.
  
  Since this game comes directly from a movie licence, Starbreeze used to show the likenesses of 
 Vin Diesel a very efficient way. In all platforms moves you'll do ( like climbing a high box) you'll 
 see a third person view of Diesel that looks very good. Of course, he landed his voice to his character, 
 which adds to the depth of the game.
  
  When I was talking of combos, there are a lots of them. You'll break necks, thrust your shiv through 
 the heart, slice in the face, use your big club to smash the leg of your opponents and such. Those 
 were some of the stealth moves and direct-confront (melee vs guns ) moves. In some parts of the 
 game, you'll do one-on-one matchups with guys all over the prison with fists. Here enters the fighting 
 aspect which is awesome, you'll do uppercuts and all this stuff 'till you smack him.
  
  On the technological side, the engine used is very powerful, rendering wonderful indoor environments 
 with all the good stuff you know, shaders, bump-mapping, lighting, shadows, and it really is good. 
 The framerates are pretty accurate, rarely dropping on my decent machine ( 2.1 Athlon 2600+, 1Gb, 
 9600XT) .
  
  The soundtrack is great, could really be used for any action flick, it really is great pieces, 
 that make you wanna run instead of sneaking. The voice acting is pretty is pretty solid featuring 
 Vin Diesel, Xzibit and Cole Hauser.
  
  If there is only a downfall to this game, it comes to the length of the campaign which will satisfy 
 but isn't as long as other FPS like Doom3. If I had to say something else , I'd be: BUY IT WHILE 
 YOU CAN. Starbreeze must make another, please encourage them by buying their magnificent product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirkmalta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  There isnt much to say about this game, except Amazing!!
  
  Chronicles of Riddick Escape from Butcher Bay is by far the most profound collaboration between 
 Hollywood and the Games Industry till this day.
  Development studio, Starbreeze, have proven themselves to be one of the most talented people around.
 
  
  The game looks great.
  
  The game sounds great.
  
  The game plays great.
  
  Chronicles of Riddick features a great deal of action re-playability. Action sequences can be played 
 stealth style, where you can break all lighting in a particular area, allowing you to use your 
 night vision capabilities for quite kills. Or you may play Rambo style, where you can go in a punch 
 to punch combat with an enemy or trigger happy for a shoot out sequences.
  
  Apart from some slight polish problems on the graphical end, this game stands head to head with 
 any FPS out there.
  
  You dont have to be a FPS fan. One look at this game will let you know its a must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Far-Cry and Half-Life2 already set the ground for tomorrows graphics and gameplay, their now joined 
 by yet another brilliant masterpiece when it comes to graphics, gameplay, and typical fps action, 
 the fist fighting is ok, nothing to brag about.
  
  The story is what it is..... escaping a prison.... a test for the darkone.
  
  Although I still 
 believe Far-Cry to be the present king of fps games.... this game challenges halflife2 for the 2nd 
 spot..... however "even with hl2 hideous loads" I would say hl2 remains in 2nd.
  
  Get this game..... the graphics will blow you away.... the immersion is great, and xzibit is in it.... lol.
 
  
  ps... the starbreeze engine is one of the buggiest engines I've seen in awhile.... more so than vampire: bloodlines.... which 
 still wasn't as buggy with me than most claimed.
  
  Game runs great with x800xt pe/p43.2/1.24ddr400 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatpepsi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2005 3:09 am PT
Review:  With all the hype around games like HL2 and Doom 3, some times great games are over looked. This 
 would have been the case with COR too, but due to its sheer greatness it has not only been nominated 
 for many game of the year awards but also have won some.
  
  COR is a FPS title with First person stealth. it is more like first person splinter cell. Dont let 
 its stealth part fool you, it has great action as well.
  
  You play the role of legendary prisoner Riddick, the aim of the game is simple... escape butcher 
 bay (prison) ... doing it is the fun part.
  
  Game play : The game play of COR is a very unique one. it comprises of stealth in first person 
 perspective .it has depth to it, what i mean is it is plain fun to sneak in the dark and break 
 enemies necks, or shoot them with their own guns in their hands. yes it is fun. it also has lots 
 of gunning in it. u will be able to access machinegun ,shotgun and a pistol. there are melee weapons 
 as well. it also has a good hand to hand combat in it, which again is in first person perspectives 
 .there is hanging ,climbing ,jumping etc.
  COR also has sub missions which can be taken up by conversating with different people in the prison. 
 U can also man robots in this game, isnt it cool? Over all the game play is one of its kind and 
 a lot of fun. but i should warn u a very short one.
  There is really no multiplayer option in this game. that is the only lacking thing of the game, 
 well u cant have it all.
  
  Graphics : the visuals are really jaw dropping... you can even say that the graphics are better 
 than doom 3 and HL2. the world is very very real with awesome shadows and lighting effects. the 
 characters are very nice and realistically modeled .Riddick looks exactly like Vin Diesel, which 
 is phenomenal. The graphics are a huge technological development.
  
  Sound : the music of the game is very gripping and rightly suits the mood of the game. The voice 
 dubbing is also phenomenal. With the true voice talent of vin diesel.
  over all the sound of the game is very good.
  
  Overall this is one of the greatest games of 
 2004. you would really miss out a great game if u dont play it , hence i suggest u get it NOW !!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, for everyone who thinks that FPS games are only about blasting the crap out of everything that 
 moves needs to play CoR: Escape from Butcher Bay. Follow Riddick the anti-hero from Pitch Black 
 and Chronicles of Riddick in this prequel that helps to explain the story leading up to the two 
 movies. There are so many pluses to this game its hard to know where to start, but here goes my 
 attempt.
  
  First, the GRAPHICS ARE AWESOME!!!!!!!! If you have a higher end PC this game will knock your socks 
 off. Its like playing a movie. The shadows and lighting are top notch and provide with you with 
 a sense of realism not found in most games. The character animations are not something I mention 
 often in games, but Riddick moves just like real life. Every movement is so realistic and further 
 immerses in you in the intense gameplay. Perhaps the best move is when guards are firing at you 
 and you can run up to them, grab their gun and shoot them through the bottom of their jaw with 
 it. Its really amazing.
  
  Second, the sound effects provide an amazing depth to the game that games rarely provide. Each 
 sound is well placed and acts to enhance your sensory organs to the point where you feel like stuff 
 is sneaking up on you. The sound of Riddick snapping a guards neck is very realistic and provides 
 you a sense of gory death that makes you want to do it again and again. Ok, maybe I am getting 
 a little out of hand here, but seriously.
  
  Third, the story in this game is better than Pitch Black and Chronicles of Riddick. Yes I said 
 it, but the ending in this game is simply sensational. Without revealing anything, you will feel 
 completely and utterly satisfied with the ending of this game. The story builds and builds, providing 
 you with tons of opportunites for side quests that other prisonmates will ask you to accomplish 
 in order for you to advance the story. All of the side characters are interesting and add to the 
 intrigue of Riddick's character as he interacts with them. Seriously, its perhaps one of the best 
 endings ever seen in a PC game.
  
  As for gameplay this too features innovation rarely seen in FPS. You spend most of the game trying 
 to figure out a way out of the various levels of the prison, but without a gun and very few weapons. 
 You basically buy, cheat and bully shivs, clubs, and brass knuckles until you are able to figure 
 out how to get past the DNA security on the guns. This means you need to be stealthy and Riddick 
 can do this with the best of them. His shined eyes enable him to see in the dark. It makes for 
 tons of fun when you knock all the lights out, watch some guard walk right up to you and then get 
 the shiv in the kidney. It also makes the levels when you do have a gun to play with a lot more 
 fun after you have been sneaking around the guards.
  
  Really the only problem I can come up with is that the game is to short. It is easily played in 
 roughly 12 hours or so. However, the game has some very challenging levels and offers some extra 
 film content and stills to unlock as you go through the game collecting packs of cigarettes.
  
  So all of this means that this game is freaking awesome. A must play if you will. There is 
 so much atmosphere and realism in this game. Riddick is the classic anti-hero who at times is selfish 
 and arrogant and others is witty and caring. The games dark story and feel really immerse you in 
 this insane prison world where nobody escapes and death is common place. PLAY THIS GAME NOW IF 
 YOU HAVENT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing and was pleasantly surprised by both the depth and the addictiveness of 
 this new addition to the increasingly crowded field of FPS games for PC. It's hard to stand head 
 and shoulders above the rest when there's sooo much hype over the mega-titles like Half-Life 2 
 or Doom III. I was especially surprised at the quality of game play on my somewhat modest gaming 
 system (2.6 GHz P-IV, ATI Radeon 9800 Pro 128 Mb, 256 MB RAM) . And yet, I was even more surprised 
 by the fact that this is a piece of movie merchandising. Normally, I'd avoid these spin-offs but 
 the early positive reviews piqued my interest. 
  
  The object of the game is, of course, to escape Butcher Bay, the triple-max-slam featured in the 
 film, but the game is a pre-quel to the films, chronicling Riddick's arrival in prison. One never 
 learns the exact nature of the crime that sent Riddick away which would have made for an improved 
 introductory cut-scene IMO. After an early "dream sequence" that serves as a tutorial level, one 
 is thrust into the filthy, ultraviolent, testosterone-quenched world of slam-life. The fight sequences 
 are bloody and the foul language of the cons and the guards would make a sailor blush so it definitely 
 earns its M-rating for content but the gore can be turned off in the setup screens. 
  
  Most guards and prisoners can be engaged and there are several side-missions beyond the overall 
 goal of escape. During the game you'll meet a motley bunch of personalities, including Abbott, 
 the Slam Preacher (responsible for Riddick's most-useful eye surgery) . Most combat in the game 
 is not of the "break down the door with guns blazing" category. In this game, subtlety and sneakiness 
 go a long way. The strategy reminds me a lot of the Hitman series. Your best bet before charging 
 into battle is to survey all the surroundings and make the best use of cover, silence, and darkness. 
 Speaking of darkness, the use of shadows is very good in this game. I played it at 1024x768 resolution 
 and had no problems whatsoever with frame rate, stitching, or significant aliasing. Riddick's night-vision 
 comes off a bit blurry by design but I don't see it as harming the game overall.
  
  Most experienced FPS players will probably want to start the game on the hardest difficulty level. 
 At the top level, I found it much harder than Doom III. There are a few levels in the mine levels 
 that are especially challenging. Weapons range from homemade shivs on up to mini-guns but as I 
 mentioned earlier the key is to tread lightly. Successful game play requires careful balance of 
 force, stealth, quick-thinking, and especially awareness of surroundings. Make plentiful use of 
 shadows, climbing atop objects, and air-ducts for bypassing heavy defenses.
  
  There are one or two plot and game flaws that are very noticeable in the game play. These include 
 a cut-scene that is apparently unviewable even if the sound can be heard and the game can continue, 
 a handful few dopey guards that just don't seem to see you, and a section in the mines where the 
 interaction between the prisoners and guards just didn't make sense to me.
  
  Overall, I found the game to be a good value at the price of $29 USD new (not hard to say when 
 HL-2 debuted at nearly $70 USD and Doom III at nearly $50) . Like Riddick, it will likely be eclipsed 
 in the shadows of the mega-hits like HL-2 but should not be overlooked for those that like games 
 that don't require a $500 video card or who don't have parents to buy them new games every month. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruolin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  I don't play FPS games at all, but this time, I find the Chronicles of Riddick is an extremely 
 funny game! I love Vin Diesel's The Chronicles of Riddick, and I find the same charm and cool from 
 his game character in this game. The graphic is superb, soundtrack is exciting, even though I find 
 some times the music is mostly repetitive. The story line is just breathtaking. The fighting and 
 shooting part is easy to handle. However, sometimes, I am wondering about the purpose of collecting 
 all those packs of smokes as far as serving the storyline or any other function of them is concerned. 
 AI is smart! It's still challenging and fun to play the easy mode for me as a casual gamer. All 
 and all, the Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcherbay is THE fps game that delivers me hours 
 of fun and draws me into the wide world of FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2005 4:08 am PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick is a fun action game, that has superb graphics, voice acting and good sound. 
 The plot would be home to any modern action film, and it has a unique style that makes it highly 
 entertaining and fairly unique.
  
  The graphics are on par with Doom 3. Shadows and lighting are excellent and the textures are superb. 
 In order to enjoy all of this eye candy, system specs must be high or the details will have to 
 be turned down, and as a result, a lot of the cinematic feel could potentially be lost for the 
 gamer. In any event, other than a few minor flaws, facial and movement animations are top notch 
 and the overall graphics should be considered top of the line for the date of release.
  
  Sound is good and the highlight of the sound is the voice acting. Top notch. Weapon sounds are 
 respectable as is the environmental sounds in the game. I play my games with the music score off, 
 so I have no comment on whether or not it was good.
  
  Gameplay is fun, although I feel it could have been enhanced and a little deeper. For instance, 
 near the beginning and approximately half way through the game, you have to perform some task master 
 chores. These chores consist of finding fighting people, finding various items and helping out 
 fellow inmates. These chores are fairly laborious and seem empty because executing them doesnt 
 affect character development. By carrying out these chores you unlock some special content such 
 as game art and concepts, which are interesting to look at, but do absolutely nothing to enhance 
 gameplay. I feel that by performing these tasks, Riddick should be allowed to develop better stealth 
 kills, or greater weapon accuracy as a reward for enduring these hardships. But that is not the 
 case. In fact, you can really ignore many of the quests if you wish, but some must be performed 
 to advance the plot. I found them boring and a waste of time. Especially when you consider the 
 fact that you have to cross multiple load times trying to complete them. The developer missed the 
 opportunity to use these quests to enhance gameplay. As the game is, these tasks only afford this 
 short game a longer play time at the expense of quality action. Not to say that the game lacks 
 quality action, it certainly delivers some great sequences, but it is short, and these trivial 
 tasks get annoying when you have to cross multiple load times.
  
  But overall this is a very good game, that has an interesting story, sensational graphics, great 
 voice acting, and good environmental sound. Its biggest shortcoming is its short length and lack 
 of character development that could of occurred by performing the above-mentioned trivial tasks.
 
  
  I feel comfortable recommending this game to action and FPS players as well as other gamers because 
 it offers a fun mix of stealth and firefight action wrapped up in a Hollywood-esque action movie 
 drama.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  After I returned my copy of Brothers in Arms road to hill 30 I picked up this game because I saw 
 the reviews on gamespot here and wanted to try it out.
  Well im not going to return this game anytime soon.... much replayabilty in this game.
  everything 
 from the graphics and AI is awesome.
  This game is scarier to me than DOOM3.
  This FPS raises the bar on games.. just like half life 2 did.
  The voice acting and sound in this 
 game are really great and had me looking over my should for one of the things that are in the sewer 
 system (sorry if ive let on to anything)
  The way you can do hand to hand combat and knife people and be stealthy in the dark are great. 
 You do not get firearms right away in this game its alot about sneaking around and trying to escape. I 
 havent seen the movie yet but am going to pick it up on DVD and watch both this and pitch black 
 both one right after the other. Vin Diesels voice makes you think to yourself (do not mess with 
 this dude)
  You can see in the dark later on in the game... its called eyeshining and its cool to be in dark 
 corner and grab an unsuspecting prison guard and snap his neck!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Before getting to my review of Riddick, allow me to vent. The G4TechTV "Special" that's unlocked 
 in the game's extra content makes me want to wretch. Why didn't they call it "Sell! Sell! Sell!"? 
 The pathetic comments of G4's "editor" were especially galling. He didn't offer one critical comment. 
 Allow me to summarize his "unbiased" evaluation: "Buy! Buy! Buy!" What a spineless marketing whore.
 
  
  Okay, onto the game, sort of... The Chronicles of Riddick is the third VU Games product I've bought 
 that didn't come with a manual. What is it with those cheap, dirty Frenchmen? I know a manual was 
 developed for Riddick, because somebody is acknowledged for one in the credits. So where the hell 
 is it? Actually, Riddick is the fourth VUG product with no printed support, because you can't consider 
 the literature that shipped with Half-Life 2 a real manual... ready or not, play!
  
  Whew! Anyway, Riddick really is a terrific first-person puncher/sneaker/shooter, despite the best 
 efforts of marketing swine to ruin the experience. I've got 127 games in my collection, and Riddick 
 is the only one that lets me punch my enemies in the head. I pretended they weren't inmates at 
 Butcher Bay prison, but instead publishing industry sales and marketing scum. It was quite cathartic. 
 I also liked the game's gritty dialogue, which pulled no punches. Nice touch.
  
  The graphics engine, harsh lighting/shadowing and art direction, however, reminded me too much 
 of Doom 3. Sometimes it felt like I was playing a very professional Doom 3 mod, instead of an original 
 property. But that's just my crazy, paranoid impression. Overall, The Chronicles of Riddick for 
 PC is well worth your time, even if you have to spend some it running in fear from marketing worms. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethsaber
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  You know Escape from Butcher Bay, right? It's that really good Xbox game that didn't sell as well 
 as it should have because everybody spent their money pre-ordering Halo 2. Anyway, its out on PC 
 and provided you've got the necessary hardware - I think you should go buy it. Yes, even if you've 
 played the Xbox version already. Yes, even if you hate Vin Diesel. Yes, even if your fried told 
 you the movie sucked. You see, Escape frp, Butcher Bay is one of the best action games ever made. 
 It's intensely atmospheric, expertly paced, beautifully presented and -best of all - it makes you 
 feel like a total goddamn badass the whole time you're playing it. Riddicks the kind of protagonist 
 that you emulate while controlling: he's a callous and impossibly self confident monster, and that's 
 what you become while"being" him in the game. After afew hours spent in Riddicks company, you'll 
 be shiving screw like a true sociopath - and enjoying every single minute of it. The PC version 
 comes with two features the Xbox original didn't have: and extra level and a developers commentary 
 mode. The extra level slots seamlessly into the middle of the game and is good - if forgettable 
 - fun. The developers commentary mode is a great idea for anyone with even the slightest interest 
 in game development. The only problem is that the Starbreeze guys are maybe a little to eager to 
 point out the games shortcomings. But hey, I guess someone had to, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  If something turned out as an surprise last year it's surely The Chronicles of Riddick Escape from 
 Butcher Bay.
  The game is one of the few good movie adaptions and is also well done from the technical standpoint.
 
  The weapons you come accross are nothing special but are somehow ok.
  You will find the usual assault rifle, shotgun, grenades and other more or less useful stuff.
 
  So the game could've been a hit if there weren't this annoying stealth part.
  It's not as bad as it was in the first No one Lives forever game from Monolith but it's close.
 
  The problem here is that you often come in to an area with 2 or 3 guards and you first have to 
 find out where to go or what to do.
  This usually ends up in being shot.
  Also the AI behaivor is strange at some point. Sometimes you sit in front of a guard and he just 
 keeps walking against you without notice.
  The again you walk from shadow to shadow an suddenly some guard is firing at you.
  While the 
 silent options of taking out guards is fun it's just not working out right in the game.
  
  So in the end this game would've been much more fun if the stealth part and the AI would've been 
 better and less annoying.
  
  Still a solid shooter but definitely not close to the overrated gamespot score.
  Or in other 
 words a solid 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeRuInEr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick, like what GameSpot says, is not an anticipated title. But don't think 
 that doesn't mean it's a great game, because, well, it IS. I won't write an entire review, but 
 I will give you the highs and lows of this game:
  
  -------------------
  
  HIGHS: Graphics superior to even that of Doom 3; great price for an awesome game; Vin Diesel's 
 voice acting is awesome; excellent story; many bonus features.
  
  LOWS: Quite techically demanding; kind of short; no multiplayer.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Can't stress 
 it enough -- The BEST (and maybe only) lame movie turned into a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The first-person shooter genre is not my favorite. The tasks are usually too repetitive and the 
 pacing simply too intense. I've enjoyed slower-paced games such as Splinter Cell and Hitman precisely 
 because they offer action with some more engaging tactical options. At the same time, those games 
 can often be repetitive since you'll have to play through levels several times to get everything 
 right.
  
  I say this because The Chronlicles of Riddick has managed in some brilliant ways to hit the target 
 right between the two extremes and produced, in my opinion, perhaps the ideal FPS.
  
  I never felt rushed into attacking, so I could hang back and figure out the best way of proceeding. 
 Stealth is usually an option, and it is implemented perfectly. Unlike some games where stealth 
 is the rule, it is not overly demanding. You don't need to worry about making too much noise, or 
 slowing down to grab someone from behind unnoticed. At first I thought this might diminish the 
 tension, once I realized that I needn't be too careful about sneaking. But I was wrong. In fact, 
 I found the stealth gameplay tense and satisfying throughout.
  
  Enemy AI is nothing short of astounding. They hide out behind crates, crouch, peek out, roll. Many 
 of these have been done before, but these guards seem to know when it works to their advantage. 
 And since your weapons aren't perfectly accurate as they are in some games, you sometimes really 
 need to work for that kill. Hand-to-hand combat is also amazing. It takes some getting used to 
 in doing it effectively, waiting for the right moment to strike, using combos (most of which, though 
 common to console gamers, are relative rarities in PC gaming) . But it is a great change of pace 
 for a shooter.
  
  Let's get a few technical things out of the way. The graphics are amazing, as are the sound design 
 and voice acting. As the Gamespot review noted, there are some relatively minor glitches. I noticed 
 at one point that even though I was on the other side of the wall from some guards, light bloom 
 from their flashlights somehow managed to come through the wall. Other than that, I noticed very 
 few problems, and none that took me out of the game experience.
  
  The game is average length, really. The easiest level is not difficult at all, although the higher 
 difficulty levels will challenge even the more experienced gamers.
  
  My only complaint is the same complaint I have about most FPS games - replayability. You'll go 
 through this game once now, and maybe once again in a few months, but that's about it. I don't 
 generally do internet multiplayer games, so the lack of multiplayer didn't bother me, but it may 
 bother those who like to go head to head with others on the net. I do think that some multiplayer 
 hand-to-hand combat might have piqued my interest enough to go online.
  
  That said, I heartily recommend this game to any FPS fan -- if you're a hardcore FPS player and want 
 a slower pace, or a stealth fanatic looking for more action. Riddick is the closest thing to a 
 perfect FPS that I've come across.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick : Escape from Butcher Bay surprised me at the end of last year. I heard 
 alot of hype about this game when it came out on the XBoxand was anticipating a release on PC. 
 I bought the game and played it, and I must admit, it is an awesome game.
  
  From the start of it, you feel immersed in the world of Riddick and in the Butcher Bay maximum 
 security prison. The sounds, the environment, the characters, everything makes you feel like you're 
 stuck in this claustrophobic and demented place and the only thing on your mind is getting out 
 of there. What really impressed me in this game is the voice acting by Vin Diesel. His voice adds 
 to the menacing style of Riddick and makes the character even more cool.
  
  The graphics are perfect. This game wasn't hyped for it's graphic engine but it stands out as being 
 an outstanding accomplishment.
  
  Riddick is a great game, no question about it. I recommend it to everybody, even though you're 
 not a big fan of the movies (as I am) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistercm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  I recently bought this game from game spot. I am an owner of the xbox version, but this version 
 is superior by far. The graphics are simply amazing. The story is very interesting. The voice acting 
 is superb. The extra content is a very nice bonus added to an already awesome game. Im not usually 
 a big fan of movies made into video games, (except Goldeneye 64) , but this one has restored some 
 of my lost faith. Im also not a big Vin Diesel (sp?) fan, but he really did an excellent job on 
 this. Adding his voice to the game helps the overall experience of feeling like you are Riddick. 
 Hopefully we will see more of Riddick in the future. If it is as good as this game, then I will 
 be in line to pick this one up. So if you are looking for a fps for the pc look no further. This 
 game has the blend of stealth, action, hand to hand combat, and shoot em up, all in one amazing 
 package. You dont have to be a fan of Vin or Riddick to enjoy this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  When Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher's Bay was released, it was not launched with a 
 lot of fanfare or advertising which is an absolute travesty. This game is one of the finest stealth 
 FPS games ever released. And I have played Thief. 
  
  The game is a prequel to the events of all the Riddick movies (I may be wrong) . It starts with 
 Riddick being encarcerated at the baddest of all the interstellar prisons, Butcher Bay. The game 
 starts off with a nice tutorial that is very informative without being boring. You then get to 
 the meat of the game where you will try to escape from Butcher Bay. The game takes you on a lush 
 and gorgeous tour through 10 areas of the prison each with several areas to explore and work your 
 way through. The game is fairly linear and short, but is an absolute blast. Puzzles range from 
 the simple like locating a person to deliver a package all the way to up to finding out how to 
 destroy a gigantic mutant monster without getting killed. The game was never tedious or boring 
 and was a huge surprise in regards to how I expected the game to turn out.
  
  Graphically, the game is a testamony to the power of the current generation of video cards. The 
 game uses every ounce of graphic power it can muster and then some. Dynamic lighting, great use 
 of shadowing, point and pixel shading, it is all used here. The models are fantasic and the Riddick 
 model looks very true to character. Facial expresions, emotions are all carried out with great 
 spendor. I did have some glitching with certain shadows and occasionally some of the model's hands 
 would ward out into a far tangent of the room I was in if I looked at them in a particular manner. 
 But I never saw any clipping.
  
  Sound is also fantastic in this game. Many named actors provided their voice talent to the game 
 and it made the game all the more detailed and alive. Nary a phoned in performace here. Ambient 
 sounds give the game a semi creepy feel and really made you feel like you were in a pit of dispair.
 
  
  The value of the game is another strong point. Once you finish the game, you unlock the commentary 
 mode which when certain sequences come up, you get a small commentary on how and why this or that 
 was in the game or changed or even things that were removed. This is a feature that should be incorporated 
 more often, because it give the fan an insight into the development of the game. Also, little cigarette 
 packs are littered over the levels unlocking bonus content like movie trailers, stills or design 
 sketches of the game world. 
  
  The only downfall I can place on this game is that it is short and the occasional graphical glitches 
 mentioned above. There is a fair amount of foul language, violence and content that is very strong. 
 It helps with the atmosphere of the game, but parents of younger teens that have seen the movies 
 may be in for a rude awakening. The game deserves it's M rating. Not a ding on the game but more 
 of a warning to parents.
  
  All in all, I cannot recommend this game highly enough. Vary rarely does a tie in game hit this 
 big a home run. A lot of the success of this game hinges in my opinion on Vin Diesel. The guy is 
 a game geek (a self described D&D freak as a kid) and knows what gamers want to have in their games. 
 The game seemed to be crafted with his oversight and it definitely shows. Hats off to his involvement. 
 Hopefully, his Tigon studios will go on to produce more games with this kind of devotion. Get this 
 game now and let the developers and producers of games with tie ins know that this is how it is 
 suppose to be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrplaid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I don't much care for Vin Diesel, either. So, just like you probably, I was more than a little 
 surprised at the amount of praise The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay has been getting. 
 However, it deserves every last bit of it. 
  Most of Butcher Bay plays like an FPS sans weapons, which makes sense considering the game is set 
 in a prison. Since you don't have a gun for a lot of the game, Riddick must rely on his fists to 
 sort out other inmates and few guards. The mechanic of first-person fighting hasn't been thoroughly 
 explored (Breakdown for the Xbox had marginal success with it) , but Butcher Bay makes it work. 
 Using your fists, clubs, or knives always feels fluid and responsive. Fighting segments always 
 work within the context of the story and they're used sparingly, making them something you happily 
 anticipate as the game goes on. 
  The same can be said of the game's stealth segments. They're rare, but they work within the story 
 and you can fight your way out of any situation. Little touches like the blue tint that overtakes 
 the screen when you can't be seen in the shadows take the guesswork out of stealth and single out 
 Starbreeze as a very talented developer. Snapping necks and disarming guards works well, too, but 
 it seems a tad overly complicated when you first start playing (Mouse button 1 is a loud neck snap 
 and mouse button 2 plus jamming on the 'use' key is a quiet neck snap, wouldn't one type of neck 
 snap have been enough?) . It becomes second nature soon enough, though.
  Once Riddick finally gets a gun, Butcher Bay feels pretty much like a normal FPS. Enemies take 
 a realistic amount of damage before dying, but Riddick never really seems to mind being pumped 
 full of lead in spite of not wearing any armor. There are also a few shooter segments in the vein 
 of the original Doom or Serious Sam where you face non-human enemies that force you to keep moving 
 to survive. The shooter segments seem a tad too easy compared to the rest of the game, so experienced 
 FPS fans will probably want to bump up the difficulty.
  Whenever you're not fighting, there's talking to be done. Every inmate Riddick encounters is a 
 unique character, which is just an amazing feat. Even more amazing is the fact that all of the 
 voice-acting is superb, but more on that later. Inmates normally charge you with sidequests that 
 reward you with money or cigarette cartons that unlock stuff in the Extra Content menu, so you've 
 got a reason to talk to everyone. (It's a shame that the images of the cigarette boxes are of such 
 low quality. I'm sure there's some jokes I'm missing because of that.)
  Butcher Bay also looks great. All of the real-time lighting and texture effects easily put the 
 game on par visually with Half-Life 2 or Doom 3. There seems to be a very noticable issue with 
 some of the shadows on character models that make them look jaggy and ugly, though. That's a little 
 disappointing considering I've got a rather expensive graphics card.
  The sound is another marvelous accomplishment of Butcher Bay. The music is pretty standard action 
 movie fare, and the sound effects do their job very well, but the voice-acting is top notch. Vin 
 Diesel is, strangely enough, probably the best part of Butcher Bay. He sells every line and never 
 fails to come off as a badass. It helps, too, that all of the dialogue is incredibly well written 
 and feels natural. The rest of the star-intensive cast does a great job, as well. John DiMaggio, 
 the voice of Bender from Futurama, even voices a lot of the guards, which gets a big plus in my 
 book.
  I've about run out of nice things to say about The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. 
 If there's one valid complaint that can be weighed against it, it's that the game is a tad short. 
 I also wish the Commentary Mode were done a little differently, but it's hard to complain about 
 something so uncommonly cool. But Starbreeze is a fantastic developer, and, if it turns out that 
 they're developing the next Riddick game, I'll be first in line for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game took a lot of PC gamers and critics by surprise. Having played it -- on a rather good 
 gamer's system (Athlon 64 3400+, 6800GT, 1GB DDR, VIA K8T800) -- I'd have to agree with most of 
 what they had to say about it. This game is certainly a breath of fresh air in the PC first-person 
 action genre, from a few different standpoints. That said, it's well executed, but not quite good 
 enough to be called "superb."
  
  This game is based on the universe of the Vin Diesel Riddick film franchise (Pitch Black, Chronicles 
 of Riddick) . The quality of the source material is pretty much irrelevant; the game is a prequel 
 and it is entirely self-contained. Due to the game, I saw the two films, and I liked Pitch Black 
 OK and CoR not at all. For fans of the films, the game is more like Pitch Black in terms of atmosphere. 
 The plot has you, Charles B. Riddick (criminal / bad boy extraordinaire) delivered to Butcher Bay, 
 the most hardcore interstellar prison of this sci-fi universe, by a bounty hunter named Johns. 
 Your plan is simple: escape. This is a multi-stage process, as you might expect, and you can be 
 sure you'll get to examine all parts of this huge prison, as well many different characters, before 
 you're done.
  
  The gameplay is an interesting hybrid of various genres. I've never really seen a game like this 
 before (another such hybrid game is Deus Ex, but it's much more heavily based on role-playing that 
 is CoR) . It's played from a first-person pespective, and there are guns, so it looks like an FPS. 
 But, you'll be using a mix of stealth, hand-to-hand combat, shooting, and a little bit more. All 
 three bits of mechanics are pretty well done. Let's talk about them in more detail.
  
  The hand-to-hand combat is probably the best and most original. Basically, your movement controls 
 and mouse buttons will make you able to pull off a surprising variety of effective blows to your 
 opponent (both bare-handed and with weapons such as knives and shivs) , as well as other cool melee 
 moves. For instance, by clicking at just the right time, you'll be able to turn a guard's gun back 
 on his face, kill him with his own hands, and then take the gun. So when confronting an armed or 
 unarmed enemy, it's a perfectly viable tactic to get into his face and knock him around (the trick 
 is to avoid his gunfire while approaching) .
  
  Stealth is another important technique. Basically, press C to crouch and enter stealth mode. The 
 view zooms out like Hitchcock's Vertigo effect, and Riddick steps silently so no one can hear. 
 One can also hide in shadows that way; the screen turns blue when done successfully. This is an 
 innovative technique, because it conveys useful information without adding hokey HUD info onto 
 your screen. (However, I must say the amount of praise Greg Kasavin gave this innovation is a little 
 over the top. It's a good idea, but it doesn't REALLY make that much of a difference in the gameplay.) 
 If Riddick sneaks up to an enemy without his knowledge, he can snap his neck for a silent (or almost 
 silent) kill. This is pretty much it for stealth, though. Riddick can't sneak by most of the guards 
 because of their placement, so the neck-snap technique is almost always the end-goal of any stealth 
 maneuver. This is actually good, because it's obvious that Riddick isn't the type of guy to go 
 out of his way to avoiding kill people. Metal Gear Solid this ain't, my friends. That said, this 
 all makes the stealth component a lot more one-dimensional than a dedicated stealth game (Metal 
 Gear Solid, Tenchu, Splinter Cell, etc.) . It's fun, but there's not much to it.
  
  Finally, there's the shooting. This is standard stuff, and Riddick doesn't get to play with as 
 huge a weapons arsenal as a lot of FPSes offer nowadays. There's the shotgun, DNA-encoded assault 
 rifle (getting one you can use is a mandatory mission; the DNA encoded ones off guards are not 
 usable) , a couple of pistols, and a minigun Riddick doesn't really get to use too much. The minimalistic 
 (this is a good thing) HUD doesn't show any ammo information normally; nor is there a crosshair. 
 The ammo readout is directly on the weapon, and the "crosshair" is the weapon's laser sight (if 
 any) . The weapons themselves don't have a very nice feel, compared to some other shooters, like 
 the Max Payne series, or Half-Life 2. They seem kind of dinky, to tell the truth. There are also 
 some grenades, which are available and useful in only one part of the game; these don't constitute 
 that much of a gameplay element (unlike, say, the Halo grenades) .
  
  At some point in the game, Riddick acquires his trademark "eyeshine" capability. Basically, it's 
 like he has built-in night-vision goggles inside his skull (only something much more mythic and 
 less dorky) , which he can turn on/off at will. This means he can see in the dark (like in the movies) , 
 but lit areas will be blinding. This allows one to have lots of fun with enemies. Shoot out or 
 turn off a light in the room, and the guard can't see anything. Then sneak up on him or shoot him 
 from a surprise location since he can't see you (but be careful to avoid his flashlight) . This 
 adds a bit of depth to both the sneaking and the shooting elements of the gameplay.
  
  However, the firefights and melee fights are extremely fun. This is mostly due to the presentation 
 and AI of the enemies. As you'll hit guards, they'll visibly bruise and bleed, and the ragdoll 
 effects look great, really adding to the whole thing. The guards are quite smart (in the confined 
 environments of this prison) ; they don't rush at you, they show patience, and they change positions 
 and strafe in a way that seems pretty natural. (They'll also holler rather amusing things at you, 
 such as "MOTHERF*****!" and "Run, little piggy! WHEEE! WHEEEEEE!".) In fact, their AI seems quite 
 a bit better than, say, Half-Life 2's -- but, to be fair, the environments are much smaller and 
 more cramped, therefore the programming challenge was PROBABLY not as huge as it was for HL2 there. 
 Still, the firefights are always really fun, and represent the most fun parts in the game, for 
 me. There are also some other combat types, involving huge mechs, but I won't spoil it for you. 
 Suffice is to say, these parts are hugely entertaining, but very easy and very brief.
  
  There's quite a bit of exploration, as well (vent navigation and such -- you know, the usual) . 
 Riddick gets some cool moves, like shimmying while hanging, and pulling up to a higer ledge. (This 
 begs the question... Why don't first-person shooters add such obvious, elementary actions that 
 any real person would be able to do? Why do you have to jump onto everything? Why can't you pull 
 yourself up, or prop yourself up, or climb something? Thank you, Riddick, for getting this right.)
 
  
  When you're not fighting or sneaking, i. e., being "peaceful," the game shifts into a full-on adventure 
 game, where you carry out missions for person X in order to get item Y or get access to place Z. 
 Unfortunately, I must say that these parts of the game aren't as fun as the actual action. Talking 
 to the various is characters is really cool, as it gives the player a feel for Butcher Bay, but 
 the various quests one performs in the middle of the game (the Double-Max wing) are pretty boring 
 "find A and bring it to B for reward C" stuff. The game is very, very linear plotwise (not a bad 
 thing) , but it tries to give you some branching at one point, and this comes off as weirdly unfocused 
 and kind of awkward compared to the rest of the game. You'll probably wander around for quite a 
 few minutes in this part, wondering what it is that you're supposed to do next. This isn't always 
 a bad thing, but in this game it just "feels" out of place.
  
  To summarize the GAMEPLAY, it's really very well done, but I really wish they streamlined some 
 of the role-playing stuff, and added more adrenaline-pumping fire/fist fights, or made the stealth 
 a bit more multi-faceted. I probably would have given the GAMEPLAY a 9, if not for the awkward 
 side missions, and occasional level design snafus, where it becomes easy to get lost, thereby accidentally 
 irreversibly skipping certain side missions. GAMEPLAY gets an 8, though there was definitely potential 
 for a better score.
  
  The game truly shines in the technology department, however. The visuals are stunning here. This 
 game is certainly up there with Doom 3, Half-Life 2, FarCry, and Max Payne 2 as the best-looking 
 action games in the world at the moment. Despite the fact that all of the action takes place inside 
 a mild-to-darkly lit prison, your jaw will still be consistently dropped to the floor. Assuming 
 one has a good computer (warning: I hear this game is much less forgiving of poor system specs 
 than Half-Life 2 or even Doom 3!) , everything is almost tangibly realistic. The best parts are 
 probably the liberal use of bump mapping and dynamic lighting. Dynamic shadows and lights (that 
 can be shot out) are everywhere and shown off at every possible opportunity. This extends to everything 
 -- environment, characters, objects characters are holding, and even yourself. (In fact, this is 
 so prevalent, eventually you don't even notice it anymore.) And the huge amount of bump-mapping 
 gives objects and people's clothes and incredible amount of texture (in the real-world sense) -- 
 they're visibly bumpy (I realize this isn't a new technique, but I haven't seen a game use it so 
 well until now) . You will almost want to reach out and touch these things, they look so real. But 
 that's not all. Almost every person you will meet has his own model; almost no two guys' faces 
 look the same, except for the masked guards. Everyone's face is detailed to an extreme. And your 
 own character model -- which you see in real-time rendered cutscenes, as well as when you're climbing 
 ladders and such -- looks 100% like Vin Diesel (no exaggeration) . But the incredible graphics don't 
 stop there... Everything is presented just so well. Riddick's eye-shine uses a cool filter effect, 
 and even the menus are more fun than your usual menus because of their stylized 3D spinny nature 
 of craziness.
  
  Also, this is the first first-person game I've played where you can actually see yourself. Look 
 down, and you'll see your arms and feet. Crouch, and you'll see your knees. Run around, and you'll 
 clearly see your own shadow get longer and shorter as you pass by light sources. Contributing to 
 the GAMEPLAY, this also gives the player a stronger sense of identity and presence. You become 
 more than a just a flying camera with a gun, like in Half-Life 2 or Doom 3. You're a person that 
 occupies space, and when you turn you have to take time to move your extremities. It may not be 
 as silky-smooth as your average shooter, but it adds a lot to the atmosphere and realism. GRAPHICS 
 is easy: a perfect 10. About the only flaw I can think of is that the character's skin (again, 
 in the real-world sense) often looks unnaturally shiny and plastic. They almost look like really 
 life-like dolls, at times.
  
  The SOUND is not far behind the graphics in terms of quality. There's very little variety in music: 
 basically, there's the "they see you and are hostile" music, and there's a version of this that's 
 softer and more tense, which is the "they know you're around and are hostile, but can't see you" 
 music. Both little tunes are very well done, but I really, really wish there were more ones like 
 them, for the different areas of the game. And, the voice acting is done by professional Hollywood 
 actors, including Vin Diesel and Cole Hauser from the movies, as well as Hellboy's Ron Perlman 
 (in a bit part) . The voice acting is actually really, really good. Everyone curses unapologetically 
 (this would be an R-rated movie, no doubt) , but the things they say do wonders to paint the atmosphere 
 of Butcher Bay. This is an unhappy, brutal place to be, and the voice acting makes this palpable. 
 Vin Diesel himself does a good job, in particular. Something is really odd about the voice acting, 
 though... Sometimes, the things they say are somehow too quiet in the mix. This is very disconcerting 
 at times when there's a lot of music or action in the background. On the other hand, when you can 
 clearly hear the conversations (which is usually the case) , the acting if of the higest quality 
 seen in video games. Or films. And, as mentioned before, your enemies are amusing to listen to 
 as you fight them. For instance, they seem generally annoyed when you strafe to evade their fire, 
 so they'll tell you that quite directly. SOUND = 9.
  
  The game's biggest is flaw is, no doubt, its length. It's very short at 10 hours, but that's not 
 even all. For instance, Max Payne 2 was short, but somehow it was OK. Why? Because you can stretch 
 MP2 out for yourself by playing only a couple hours per day. It's basically just a bunch of shooting, 
 which is breathtaking but always the same. And the plot is always in the graphic novel form. This 
 does NOT work for Chronicles of RIddick. CoR is much less repetitive and much more seamless, so: 
 I highly advise you, the reader (you still with me?) , to play this game in 3 sessions or less. 
 The reason is this... There is a lot of variety to the gameplay and the story, but no type of gameplay 
 nor story segment lasts for very long at a time. Therefore, if you fragment your gameplay too much, 
 it'll just end up seeming like a bunch of cool vignettes, or something. On the other hand, if you 
 go through the whole thing all at once, it'll be more like an awesome, varied, long, interactive 
 film. That said, this film lasts 10 hours, and has probably exactly one extra replay in it, for 
 the very interesting "commentary" mode that is unlocked upon your first playthrough. This introduces 
 floating bubbles in the 3D world. Click on a bubble, and you'll hear lots of interesting background 
 info (DVD commentary style) . Cool stuff if you want to know about game development. There are also 
 cigarette packs that can be found around the game world, which unpacks cool extras available from 
 the main menu (for instance, concept shots and even copies of TV broadcasts about the game) . But, 
 with about 20 hours of enjoyable but extremely linear gameplay -- assuming you you don't fragment 
 the gameplay for yourself, thereby ruining the experience -- this one gets a VALUE of 7.
  
  Finally, the TILT. This is where the intangibles go. What can I say? The sense of an oppressive 
 prison atmosphere is palpable; the story is not too ambitious, but never amateurish or ridiculous; 
 and the pacing is great. The technology is outstanding, and the innovations are certainly there. 
 Chronicles of Riddick, to me, represents the future of first-person gaming. It could have been 
 more fun (more shooting, less silly missions) , and the hybrid doesn't *always* work. Plus, it's 
 over a little too soon... But there are just so many gorgeous ideas here, and they're done so well, 
 that one can't help but love this game. I can't give this a 9.3, because that's unfair to less 
 ambitious but much more fun games. However, TILT is 10, and I can't wait to see what Starbreeze 
 gives us next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpsaply
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought the video game Chronicles of Riddick. I have to give it two thumbs up. So far it sticks 
 with the story line and there is allot to experience out of the game as far as deciding how and 
 when to take out a guard. The game is not to hard but, far from easy. You can go stealth or face 
 to face. I have chosen mostly stealth. Face to face against armed guards is almost, no it is a 
 death sentence for you. I like to sneak behind them and break there neck or sometimes slit there 
 throat with a scalpel I found in the infirmary. Vin Diesel not only looks exactly like him, but 
 acts like him in the may he walks and moves. A cool thing they added to the game is an in game 
 commentary. Another words if you activate the commentary you hear the creators describe certain 
 areas of the game while playing. I have tried to activate it, but I think you have to finish the 
 game first before it will allow you into the commentary. I will wait to do that when I play it 
 the second time. So far after 2 hours of playing, its earned every dollar of my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  Wow another xbox port that looks really good on the PC, I wasn't expecting much from this game 
 when it came out, but I have to say I'm very impressed. Now this game is not just a graphical tour 
 de force ( oh no another french word help I see french people ) however it has a lot of well developed 
 charcters all with their own agendas, and you have to figure out how to get them to help you get 
 out of Butcher Bay. Now for those that heard this game has some rpg elements to it you will be 
 dissapointed, the only rpg in the game is taking your helth meter from 4 to 7 not really rpg to 
 me. Certainly not like Deus Ex or System Shock 2. However who cares about that, at its heart this 
 is an action game with an emphasis on action and ass kicking, wait can I say that. So for those 
 of you out there who like a bloody good action game Escape from Butcher Bay is the ticket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrack666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Tell me about consistancy. Playing Riddick is very enjoyable wether or not you are a fan of the 
 movie serie, and much more if you already know about Riddick. The gameplay is neat and slick and 
 incorporate many type of gameplays seemlessly, it ranges from role-play style to pure action AND 
 stealth shooter, and feels good on top of everything! I'm not done through yet, but enjoy it alot. 
 Make sure you go through this if you are any interrested in Riddick story, beacause this one incorporates 
 tons of links and information from the serie that are real interesting and completes nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  this game is the most pleasant supprise, going for thirty or less at your local best buy, and containing 
 some of the greatest gameplay and story elements i've seen ever. OK so this game was made for the 
 xbox first, and lots of people will say its a lousy port, but look at it this way, the xbox is 
 basically a budget gaming pc so don't hold its "console roots" agianst it. 
  
  WHAT'S SO GREAT: 
  the graphics i believe are far better than that of half life 2, and at par 
 with doom 3 and far cry.
  the sound is, wow, amazing,
  price, 30 the day it hit best buy selves for pc, wow.
  story, i'll get more in depth later
 
  gameplay to die for
  
  WHAT'S NOT SO GREAT: I came across a number of technical problems, and the game has no patch. 
 
  
  time to elaborate, first the looks. Riddick is possibly the greatest looking console game to date, 
 the only compotition being the new resident evil games. on the pc it holds up beautifuly agianst 
 doom3 and farcry, this game blows past half life 2, having higher poly enviroments that are also 
 smoothed out even further with normal mapping. the character models in this game can look life 
 like in the right instances, thanks to the motion capture animations. normal mapping is used every 
 were to smooth out almost every aspect of the game, the absolutely beautiful lighting of this game 
 is another plus of the graphical prowess the engine has. the lighting is at par with doom3, but 
 it more than sets the moods, it affects the gameplay on many levels, first off, you can shot out 
 the lights splinter cell style, and us the eye shine. the eye shine is wonderfully executed, in 
 the dark places of this game the AI will turn on there flashlights, and if they shine them in your 
 eyes you are practically blinded. also the sneak mode works well with the lighting since you can 
 see your own shadow, this gives your character a more tangeble feeling. ok this game contians shoot 
 outs that would give any of the big three a run for their money, and it also contians stealth sequences 
 that are far better than those of the first splinter cell, and a gta style mission based jail sequences 
 that really just bring this game together to feel awsome. throw in the random robot driveing sequences 
 and you have a huge variety of gameplay that really feels well executed. i must say the tutorial 
 for this game is one of the best i've ever played. the sound for the game is excelent, vinny does 
 a great job of vioce acting as does xzibit. i'm not a vin or xzibit fan but their preformance for 
 the game is hard core. this game has a very mature feel with cusing violence and gore (dismembering 
 deranged sewer people is fun) . the weapons feel great and sound great, all vioce acting is awsome, 
 the cutscenes feel really cinematic. the story telling hear is first notch, this game is before 
 either of the movies, so it starts out with riddick not haveing his eye shine. the jail gaurds 
 feel like something striat out of shawshank prison, and its awsome. there are so many little cool 
 things to like about this game, especially the nano med stations, i love how they belt out the 
 company logo every time you use one. the price of this game is thirty or less at your local bestbuy. 
 unless you are pore and hungry you must buy this game it is atleast as good as half-life2, and 
 almost half the price. the only draw back i really would mention about the game is how i was suffering 
 numerous different technical problems with it. first my eyshine only worked like 50% of the time, 
 the other 50% it was pitch black as if all the textures had come of the objects and all i could 
 see was particals in the air. another problem was with the game restarting my computer when i loaded 
 from the same load piont more than once, it goes without saying that made the game alot harder. 
 these major technical issues aside i still find myself loveing this game, and wondering why more 
 developers aren't this skilled. 
  
  oh yeah forgot they didn't include a ounce of multi player
  
  GAMEPLAY: an amazing acomplishment 
 i believe, especially considering the gameplay variety: RPG elements combined with first person 
 fighting, sneeking, hijacking, and free roaming (GTA style) gameplay aspects.
  10
  GRAPHICS: wow this also is unprecidented, this game is mind blowing ly great looking, and filled 
 with real looking people and, great lighting. 
  10
  SOUND: agian these guys out did themselves, the vioce acting, and sound work is near flawless i 
 believe.
  10
  VALUE: for thirty dollars the value doesn't get any better.
  10
  REVIEWERS TILT: low score here because of personal technological problems, i believe this may be 
 in part to the fact that my graphics drivers are out dated, but i couldn't up date them because 
 the new ones aren't compatible with service pack two. all the same the should have accounted for 
 such a thing.
  7
  
  i'd like to say that had i not had such severe technical problems i would have given this game 
 a 9.4, or 9.6. really it's that good. and the directors commentary option (once u beat the game) 
 is awsome, it really opens up the game to those who love it and once they beat it want more. this 
 option should be in more games, like half-life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scootman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It should lead and challenge developers to continue to try new things to 
 keep us entertained. The hand to hand fighting added to a PC game was creative and well done. I 
 appreciated the movements via a keyboard was done well enough that I did not have to buy a new 
 keyboard halfway through the game from rattlin and bangin the keys to get the job done. 
  The story was ok, but not great. Involving me just enough to keep me pushing forward. The use of 
 a tranq. gun was cool. All the weapons were a bit new and different. Great quicksave.
  I am playing this one through again with a guide to catch all the sub-plots, as they were a bit 
 confusing as to which one to do next. I found myslf too far to turn back and be able to finish 
 them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Based on the underwhelming film, The Chronicles of Riddick, the game would seem to be just as plain 
 and forgettable. But, strangely the game is actually good. Hearing all the hype and talk I thought 
 Riddick would give even Half-Life 2 a run for its money. Looks like I was wrong.
  
  Riddick has strongly innovative gameplay. It merges fighting, stealth and shooting into one. Most 
 of the ideas are done considerably well and some not. The fighting system is excellent. Different 
 movements and timed hits do a different punch or jab and timing it right can allow you to grab 
 your enemy for a one hit kill. The characters also bruise in the face and blood sprays like some 
 real boxing match. They get knocked back and dazed like in reality and is probably the best example 
 of hand to hand combat in a first person action game.
  
  The stealth is also well done but not quite like the fighting. It's got some important elements 
 like the use of darkness, the "stealth" mode, your ability to see in the dark (not available right 
 away) , and the ability to break the guards necks. Although these elements are often useless when 
 guards start using flashlights, getting rid of the use of your night vision. And like most stealth 
 games, guards often notice you when you sneak up behind them when they shouldn't, usually resulting 
 in your death. Although these instances are usually when you set up the darkness by doing things 
 like shooting out the lights which is fun. Sometimes when you try and hide by croutching Riddick 
 will shift positions because unlike most First Person games, you can see your entire body so you 
 can't just swivel around in circles, Riddick has to move his feet and reposition himself when you 
 look around. As realistic and useful as this is, it often reveals you, makes you fall from ledges 
 and becomes a pain.
  
  The weakest gameplay aspect is the shooting surprisingly. This part of the game makes the overall 
 experience much more difficult and often much more frustrating. The guns are lame looking and uninspired. 
 The accuracy isn't great and the game usually doesn't run perfectly so the fast moving enemies 
 often move to fast for you to hit. Also the crosshair is a laser sight that changes depending on 
 how far away your target is. It's neat for a second but you often wish for a regular, constant 
 crosshair that remains on screen and same size. The animations of the enemies running and hiding 
 and shooting aren't always the smoothest, making it even more difficult to hit the extremely fast 
 and quick guards.
  
  The best part of the game is easily the graphics. Everything has incredible detail. The textures 
 are picture perfect but most importantly, Riddick uses the revolutionary lighting Doom 3 introduced. 
 The areas look amazing and menacing. The shadows flickered by characters and even yourself are 
 mind blowing. Although some polygons will make odd shadows, this is forgiven because of the sheer 
 beauty of everything. Even though characters have a plasticy doll appearance to them where their 
 hair looks plastered to their perfect, shiny, plastic like face. But the characters look good with 
 some facial expressions, shadows over certain areas depending on the lighting and the amazing textures 
 make the people look damn good. Riddick looks just like Vin Diesel and sounds like him thanks to 
 the great voice work by Vin, Ron Perlman and Xzibit. 
  
  A good single player adventure but some parts are real tricky, sometimes not even because of a 
 puzzle but because your stuck with no gun and low health. Normally you could just go back to your 
 last save point and try to do better but Riddick's save system is so brutally awful it is the source 
 of most frustration in the game. Saves depend on which area you go in and "checkpoints" are saved 
 after the first time you enter each area. So if you enter a new area with low health, you'll have 
 to play through a part you finished one hour ago if you want to attempt to get more health by then 
 and there is still no guarentee. The saves ruin much of the fun in Riddick and disappointed me 
 because the poor save system really took away a lot of fun from the game.
  
  Escape from Butcher's Bay has some great graphics and gameplay but it's not the outstanding film 
 adaptation it's made out to be. It's great and playable but there are few but better movie adaptations. 
 It's got some memorable moments and is one of the better FPS games of the year but in the year 
 of First Person Shooters, Riddick only stands a chance because of it's budget price for a powerful 
 title. If you've beat Half-Life 2, Far Cry, Doom 3 and whatever else is out there or you just don't 
 want to play them, Riddick should entertain if you're ready for a very challenging and occasionally 
 frustrating trip. The game is probably best suited for adults because it's ultra violent and the 
 language rivals Manhunt for worst language. Although it is a powerful and gorgeous looking hybrid 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The news that a film franchise is being turned into a compter game doesn't normally bode at all 
 well - most such efforts are quite frankly crap. This one is far from it - it really is quite excellent. 
 Sure, it's too short (but what games of this type aren't nowadays?) but overall it combines action, 
 stealth, atmosphere and a logical (if pretty simplistic) plot into a superbly enjoyable package.
 
  
  Some of the best bits, for what is essentially a shooter, derive from the fact that the stealth 
 and hand-to-hand combat elements actually work. You really can lurk in shadows as guards walk past, 
 ambush with a knife or bare hands from behind, break necks and cut throats. Or if you choose a 
 more "frontal" approach, empoy a range of weapons from pistols to mini-guns and battle armour to 
 level the opposition.
  
  Sound is impressive and the graphics, while not HL2, are perfectly good enough. Combined with some 
 of the best voice acting I've come across in a game they combine to generate a sense of realism 
 and immersion that few games of this type achieve.
  
  Overall one of the most ground breaking first person shooters for a while, made all the better 
 that it hasn't been hyped to death nor does it rely on great graphics to make it enjoyable - its 
 actually the game that's good, not just the technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Chronicles of Riddick is one of those games that combines lots of elements, but isnt really outstanding 
 at any one of them. But the game has a great pace, a lot of action variety, and it always keeps 
 you moving. Plus, it has a decent story with some really cool characters, a great script, and a 
 great atmosphere, so its definitely worth playing for any stealth or FPS fan. This game is a lot 
 better than the sum of its parts. However, it is not as good as the mountains of praise being heaped 
 upon it by Gamespot. I still wouldnt recommend this game over my favorite games from 2004, like 
 Thief: Deadly Shadows, Half-Life 2, Doom 3, or Far Cry.
  
  Chronicles of Riddick has four basic gameplay elements: stealth, hand-to-hand, shooting, and dialog. 
 Most of the missions in the game are short and fairly easy to complete. Thus, the gameplay changes 
 up frequently so it never gets boring or repetitive. The most time that youll spend on a part 
 of a mission is about 15 or 20 minutes. So while the game is short, its solid from beginning to 
 end.
  
  The stealth is good, although its not as well fleshed out as in the Splinter Cell or Thief series. 
 You can hide behind crates or in darkness and creep up behind guards and snap their necks or slit 
 their throats. The AI is usually good, but it has faults. Often, guards wont hear you if you run 
 up to them at full speed. In one sequence, I was disguised as a guard and a couple of guards in 
 one room somehow recognized me. I ran into another room and those two guards followed me shooting. 
 The other guards in that room just stood there and patrolled around without noticing that their 
 two buddies were going mental and shooting at somebody. Once you get a firearm, stealth becomes 
 totally unnecessary, as the guards make for some pretty weak fodder.
  
  Hand-to-hand, like stealth, is good, but not outstanding. Fistfights have a savage feel to them, 
 since you get such a closeup view of your fists hitting the other guys face. The best part about 
 the fighting is watching your opponents face get bruised and bloody as you smack him down. The 
 hints and tips suggest that there is some depth to these sequences, but I found that one or two 
 simple techniques like Block and counter got me through every fight. Perhaps the best part about 
 hand-to-hand combat is grabbing a guards gun and forcing him to blow his own head off with it. 
 This is a move that is dangerous and hard to pull off.
  
  The first-person shooter elements are solid, but not spectacular. The behavior of your enemies 
 is very simple. They occasionally use cover or execute rolling maneuvers, but thats about it. 
 A room full of five enemies is easily conquered by finding one cover area and then using it to 
 pick off guards one-by-one. This is made easier by the fact that the guards wont use any advanced 
 tactics to flush you out, nor will they use any teamwork. Plus, your health partially regenerates 
 when you arent taking damage, (a mechanic that works somewhat like the shields in Halo) so you 
 can wear down your enemies and draw out a fight as long as you want. The weapons are also very 
 ordinary. They dont look or sound all that cool, nor do they have any interesting functionality, 
 except for maybe their laser sights. After playing with the weapons arsenal in other first person 
 shooters, you probably wont be impressed by whats here.
  
  By far, the best part of the game is the dialog. You can go around the hallways of the prison, 
 interacting with the prisoners and occasionally, the guards. They will give you missions and sometimes, 
 money or cigarettes. The script is gritty and to the point, and its perfect for the game. Riddick 
 has tons of great, mean, one-liners. He spouts them off like a cold, angry Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
 All of the voice performances in the game are top-notch, especially Vin Diesel. The game does a 
 great job creating a cast of memorable characters, each of which are unique. Nobody in this game 
 is likeable. Everyone is a conniving jerk, in their own way, except for Riddick, who is strangely 
 appealing, despite the fact that he is a violent criminal. The guards are sadistic lowlifes that 
 you will have no moral qualms about killing.
  
  The graphics on this game are great, but not as good as the PCs best. The eye candy in this game 
 can be fascinating and annoying at the same time. Characters mostly look realistic, but there are 
 some imperfections that stick out and make them look like wax robots. This game looks very similar 
 to Doom 3. The lighting system is weird. It makes for some great environments, but some bizarre-looking 
 characters. There are all sorts of areas where a guy will have one side of his face completely 
 dark, and the other side so brightly lit up that its bleached white. Riddick looks almost photo-realistic, 
 and so does everyones clothing, which is the best done clothing that I have ever seen. This may 
 not sound like much, but it is truly amazing to behold sometimes. I would still rank the graphics 
 below those of Half-Life 2 though. 
  
  Other than the occasional exploding barrel or flushable toilet, the environments are also disappointingly 
 dead and empty. You cant push stuff around or take stuff off the ground. Chronicles of Riddick 
 sports ragdoll physics, but thats about all the physics there is. Once you have played a full 
 Havok physics game like Half-Life 2, Max Payne 2, or Painkiller, then you expect more. Chronicles 
 of Riddick lacks that level of immersion. That doesnt make it bad, but it keeps it from being 
 outstanding.
  
  The fact that the game only retails for 30 bucks is a big plus. For that, you get an entertaining 
 but short campaign, and then a lot of extras. Gamespot has already praised this games commentary 
 mode, but it bears repeating. The commentary mode is almost worth the price by itself, because 
 it adds replayability to what is basically a 10-hour linear game. This feature allows you to play 
 through the game again, while listening to literally hours and hours of interesting developer commentary. 
 No detail is neglected, and the talk is surprisingly candid. The developers point out the techniques 
 that they use to draw you into the game, and they also point out areas that they dont feel turned 
 out very well. This is simply the coolest unlockable feature of any game I have ever played.
  
  As I said before, Chronicles of Riddick is worth a lot more than the sum of its parts. If you 
 like Vin Diesel, or you are looking for a unique action/adventure game, then this game is easy 
 to recommend. However, I would only recommend that you give it a spin after last years other great 
 PC action titles. Riddick may be superb compared to other movie-licensed games, but its not superb 
 compared to the PCs best titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  I've already finished this game for a second time and I still can't get bored. It features a great 
 gameplay, incredible graphics, and one of the shortest loading times I've ever been witness of 
 a game of this quality.
  
  The game serves as a prequel to the movies Pitch Black and TCoR, movies that I have never seen. 
 You play as Riddick, who has been taken to the triple max slam Butcher Bay. No one has ever escaped 
 from there. But as Riddick says: "I like a challenge".
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. EfBB features a combination of RPG (missions, sub quests, buy things 
 with money and interaction with people) , action (it is a first person shooter, right?) stealth 
 (grab your enemies from behind and stay behind cover) and one-on-one fighting, which is incredibly 
 well implemented for a first person shooter. You connect different combos using the movement keys 
 and the fire button. The game automatically locks on the nearest target at you.
  
  The graphics are also one of the game's strong points. The characters and the environments look 
 amazing, and the textures look very real, but, the lip sync is not very well executed, the environments 
 are kinda small and there is an "abusive" use of bump mapping in the game. Also every character 
 is different, you'll never see the same person twice (except for the guards) .
  The special effects, such as the ability to see in the dark and the 'blue' screen when you are 
 in a place you can't be seen are also eye candy.
  
  The voice acting is top-notch. Aside from Riddick being played by Vin Diesel and Abbot by Xzibit, 
 the other characters also play their part incredibly well.
  The sound effects are not too impressive, but they accomplish their part.
  
  Unfortunately 
 the game has no multiplayer whatsoever. Instead, it includes a commentary mode that must be unlocked, 
 and a subquest of finding cigarrette packs, which unlock game art, or art from the movie, of even 
 documentaries about the development of the game.
  
  Overall, The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay breaks the barrier of the movie-based 
 games being horribly bad. Even better, it stands up as one of the best games of 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GpOpS88
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2005 12:23 am PT
Review:  I am really enjoying this one. GS gave it a better score than hl2, well i dont know about that 
 but this game is definitely deserving of its score. The graphics are clean and sharp, the sound 
 is on point as well ( bad langauge is very present ) and the story has a movie like atmosphere (wonder 
 why) . Havent finished it yet but so far so good, with this, xmen, and spiderman the movie liscensing 
 of video games looks to be kicking some arse!
  
  You start off as a badass (diesel?) and quickly start taking out people and getting respect. The 
 amounts of cursing in this game totally rules ,really immmerses you in the game. The lighting effects 
 (especially off metals) area a nice touch to a graphically polished game. Havent finished it yet 
 but i bet its more of the same .Like most games when your done with this tour your done (no multiplayer) 
 hurts its value but in the end this is definelly one of the better ones out there a step below 
 hl2 but a few ahead of doom3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisc99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Indeed one of top FPS games in 2004.
  
  Before beginning writing the review, I must point out that this game has one of freakiest menus 
 I have ever seen in a game. Very very innovative and good.
  
  Innovating and good are very good adjectives to describe the game. As you know it's known that 
 games made by a movie are crappy. So this game is a very surprising and a relief, because it point's 
 out that a game can be very good, even if it's made by a movie. In this case that's even very good, 
 because Riddick is very made very good, and voice acting of Vin Diesel just amassing, you can really 
 feel the coolness and strength in you listening to Riddick. And the first game that has movie style 
 credits, which are beginning at the beginning of the game.
  
  In my opinion this game is very strange and i felt some like strange in beginning. This come from 
 great graphic and intense fighting scenes. At first sight of a fight you can see that a game was 
 made for a console, but i doesn't reduce the fun, or hurt the game play i any kind of the way. 
 This is the first FPS where you can see your body, like you can see it in real life. Graphic is 
 great, shadows are made very good. What to say more about this segment. The mood of the game is 
 more like Doom 3, so you can expect a lot of dark places. Design is pretty good, although places 
 you are in are rather small, so you can't expect wast spaces. There are a lot of cut scenes in 
 the game, and they are made just awesome, and they are surprisingly real and sometimes very bloody. 
 There is just one remark to scenes where you are talking to another characters, position of camera 
 is somewhere pretty of, so you can't properly see either yourself or the person you are talking 
 about.
  
  Sound in game is also made very professional and the result is great sound background, and one 
 of best voice acting I have ever heard so far. Gun sound good, maybe a little to strong, but good 
 all in all.
  
  Game play is very special in this game. You can play in more stealth way, or you can use brute 
 force. In game play the game is the most like Splinter Cell. Although you maybe think that you 
 need just brute force you are wrong, because you can't use weapons just like that, and you can 
 get killed rather fast. AI of the game is good, guards and soldiers are jumping and rolling like 
 crazy, so you will have difficult time to hit them. Haven't noticed that they use covers, but on 
 the other side, you don't have many places to duck behind. Fist fighting is one of trumps in this 
 game. It's very fun, and one of first games where you can make combo punches, and even control 
 with which hand and in which direction you want to punch, cut your opponent. Gun fighting is similar 
 to every other FPS. Any body who has any knowledge about Riddick know about his eyes. As you can 
 see in complete dark, your goal in some parts of the game will be to make as much dark as possible 
 and then kill guards in quiet way. As said you can crawl quiet behind someone and break his neck. 
 You will need to kill a lot of people in this way, because you don't have gun's and other do. Eye 
 vision is very strange and you must get used to it. When in that mode you can maneuver in complete 
 dark, but just s small source of light will blind you, which is good, because it forces you to 
 plan your attacks, and prevents you to use it all the time.
  
  Prison life is shown very real. Guards are every where, you have no rights, you are observed all 
 the time, so you get a pretty good felling of being trapped. Inmates are pretty friendly and you 
 can talk to everybody. Many of them have quest's for you, which you must complete to get money 
 to buy weapons (glass shards, scalpers, clubs ) and another prison weapons, and SMOKES. Every pack 
 of smokes you find, and obtain unlocks art, movie, video concepts, trailers and many other things, 
 which you can see in extra content menu later. Pretty good and interesting option from programmer's.
 
  
  Game has some bugs. my version has some problems while loading new levels. Sometimes it froze at 
 loading, so i had to restart the whole game. The other thing is that the game is pretty short, 
 etc 8 h of playing.
  
  Thanks, enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I had been playing Half-Life 2 when I started to hit that plateau of gaming where it started to 
 seem like the same old same old. Sure, Half-life 2 is great, no doubt, but once I started playing 
 Riddick, I couldn't stop. There is little to no repetition here. The game keeps you moving, fighting, 
 and sneaking. It was challenging in normal without being easy or too hard. In fact, I didn't use 
 a cheat until the Spaceport level and that's almost the end. I needed a better gun but hadn't picked 
 it up along the way. Anyway, don't hesitate, this one's a must. So I guess now that I've finished 
 this one, I can go back to Half-life 2 and finish that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astion
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I heard this was awsome so I picked it up, expecting a "good" movie-liscenced game. If you're holding 
 off because it's a movie adaption, stop holding and start buying - because it's not a movie adaption. 
 It's all original - and as such, the developers were able to unleash their creativity. I think 
 they should have changed the name so it wouldn't incite wariness in potential buyers. It would 
 probably be doing a bit better. It's $30, and it's one game I might have actually paid $50 for 
 (those are rare for me) .
  
  Starting off, you have nothing but your fists to protect you and to quietly incapacitate unwary 
 guards. The stealth is incorporated extremely well, and the hand-to-hand fighting is extraordinary, 
 though the controls could be a bit smoother in this area.
  
  CoR is very original. I haven't experienced anything like it in a game. I got a similar feeling 
 to when I played the original Half-Life (and the sequel, for that matter) . It's full of memborable 
 moments. One such moment is when I snuck up behind a guard who was standing on the edge of a concrete 
 drop, expecting to execute the nifty  combo. When 
 I went for the attack, Riddick instead simply nudged him off the cliff. I watched the guard flail 
 and scream as he plumeted to the concrete far below and bounced in a very satisfying way.
  
  The graphics are amazing. It looks like it robbed the Doom 3 engine (and I thought it did until 
 I couldn't find any credit given to Id Software anywhere) . But be warned - also just like Doom 
 3, this is a serious hardware killer. I'm playing on an Athlon XP 3400+ equivalent with 1Gig DDR400 
 and a Radeon 9800 Pro 128mb. To get a playable frame rate with shadows and a little AA, I had to 
 play at 800x600 with everything knocked down to half.
  
  Quite simply, this is an immersive experience worthy of playing. Everything shines, here folks. 
 Only a few bugs and control issues are what keep this reviewer from giving it a "10". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2004 2:42 am PT
Review:  I just got the game today. 
  
  The learning curve for the game shouldn't be to hard. If you've played action/rpg/stealth games, 
 before, it will take less than an hour. 
  The added bonus of unlockable content is a plus, too. I just wish they could add multiplayer. Maybe 
 that unlocks later in the game?
  I very much felt like I was playing DOOM 3, without the demons. I mean very much. Maybe its the 
 planets environment. This game has a dark mood to it, as well. 
  I havent played to far, but, so far its great. I finally got hold of a decent weapon; but, Riddick 
 doesnt have to much trouble with a shiv. If your stealthy enough, that is. Just make sure you have 
 quick hands. The gaurds can be a real pain in the rear. The audio of the game is excellent (right 
 on) . I really felt like I was on a distant planet in a hardened prison. Yeah, youll be looking 
 over your shoulder a few times.
  
  10 for everything but gameplay. Well, it really depends, once you get the hang of the controls.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2004 9:24 am PT
Review:  "You're not afraid of the dark, are you?". That was the birth of Richard B. Riddick, the best new 
 anti-hero you've ever seen. It's presentation was Diesel's The Chronicles of Riddick. This game 
 is the evolution of the dark-watcher Riddick.
  The so-called "hipped FPS games of the year" are put to shame compared to EFBB's relentless combination 
 of top-notch graphics and graphic engine, incredible physics realism, arcade-style amazingly entertaining 
 melee combat, flawless sound, and robust FPS action and exploring.
  From start to end, its presentation is impecable. From the menues, to the logically and inmersive 
 movie tie-ins stories, this is a gamer's dream. Dark and gritty atmosphere, powerful game introduction. 
 This gets all the aces.
  NPCs are something to be had as an example for future games to come. The various inmates and security 
 guards, all of them are different from the others, with various personalities, amazingly believable 
 and moody voice acting, and great varied body models.
  I'm gonna try and be as powerful and as direct as this game is. Instead of reading this review, 
 you should be getting this game and see it with your own eyes. And hour later, your eyes become 
 Riddick's eyes, as you'll start shooting down all the zone's lamps in order for you to be in advantage. 
 You dont need to be afraid of the dark anymore, the light that is Chronicles of Riddick: Escape 
 from Butcher's Bay is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diG1taL-
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2004 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was like "wtf?". I though it was going to suck as hard as 
 the movie did. But when I actually got to play the game... I was amazed. If it wasn't for those 
 other overhyped games, such as HL2 and Halo2, this game would've been loved by everyone. Unfortunately, 
 there wasn't enough advertisment for the PC version, atleast not what I heard of.
  The game feels as if it was originally made for the PC. There are no signs of the X-Box version. 
 The hand-to-hand combat system, combined with the stealth option - plus a first person view perspective 
 boosts this game on top of my fav. games list. Combined with superb graphics, excelent voice acting 
 and overall sound, Escape From Butcher Bay pushes the standarts of FPS games to the next level. 
 
  Putting it simply,  The replay value is one of the 
 sweetest goodies in this game, the developer's cut voice comments are a new touch in the gaming 
 industry, it actually feels that the makers of the game are sitting next to you and talking about 
 everything you see.
  Fans of the movies will find the story quite satisfying, you'll finally find out how Riddick got 
 his googles and lots of other stuff. The idea of a game as a prequel to a movie is great, it doesn't 
 mess with the movies stories and explains lots of questions raised in the movies.
  If you liked Half-Life2, prepare to put it on your shelves and leave it to dust there for a while, 
 'cause Chronicles Of Riddick is a game you will really get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2004 12:06 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Chronicles of Riddick: EFBB was making its way to the PC, my first thought 
 was that it was going to be a good game turned into yet another poor console port. I'm so glad 
 I was wrong. Everything about this game made me believe it had been made for the PC to begin with. 
 It just feels natural. Unlike Splinter Cell, CoR: EFBB has a balance of FPS style shoot 'em up 
 and needed stealth. Either way, you feel like a badass throughout the whole game. 
  
  My only complaint is that the game doesn't let you go above 800x600 in the normal aspect ratio. 
 This forced me to play at 8xS FSAA and 8x AF just to be able to get the image quality I desired. 
 I guess it's a good thing I own a 6800 GT. Also, the PS 2.0++ mode (DX9c) enables features like 
 soft shadows but it's so much of performance hit that it really doesn't make it worth while. 
 
  
  CoR: EFBB only costs $30 which makes it a must own for any PC gamer that likes to feel like a badass 
 throughout an entire game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballmitch
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2004 8:15 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING. you have to rent this game. everything about this game is great except for the replay 
 value. after you play the 8-10 hour game, chances are you will never touch the game again. Rent 
 it, beat it, have a great time.
  
  the graphics of this game are probobly the best the xbox has ever seen. its just on par with ninja 
 gaiden. The gameplay is also very good. it really makes you think how you should get through an 
 area. its a trully intense 8 hours. 
  
  I absolutly LOVED this game, but if you are looking for a game that your parents should get you 
 for christmas, get another game and just rent this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_rika
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2004 9:56 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when i heard the game comes out on PC too. Don't get me wrong... i'm not a Vin 
 Diesel fan or something but I kinda have a nose for troubl.... i mean GOOD games and i proved myself 
 right once more !
  Great graphics , great story/scenario , incredibly well realised motion captured realtime cutscenes 
 , great gameplay , perfect voice-acting , great musical score... what more could a gamer want ?!?
 
  It's the second best game i ever played ( first beeing Metal Gear Solid 2 ) . If you haven't tried 
 this game yet , you must be out of your mind m8 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_104
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2004 6:23 am PT
Review:  It's not too often that someone says that a game based on movie (or a series for that matter) is 
 better than the movie itself. This is definitely the case when it comes to The Chnonicles of Riddick 
 Escape from Butcher Bay. It seems as if the company spent more time on the dialogue and character 
 development for the game than they did for the movie. Visually, they match each other perfectyl. 
 But, there wasn't anything really new in the movie. At least in the game, there was a desire to 
 start a lot of trouble and escape from a triple-max-security prison.
  
  As far as the graphics go, they are even better on PC than they are on the XBOX. Just keep in mind 
 that it takes a pretty hefty computer to run this game on its higher settings. But that's pretty 
 much true of most games these days. The loading times are incredibly quick. I only ran into one 
 glitch, and that was with the intro movie. I haven't researched the problem, so it's really no 
 big deal.
  
  The sounds and music are spectular. The cast for the voice talent is awesome just look at in the 
 credits. It seems as if VU Games, Starbreeze, and Tigon really have something special going on 
 here. It's also nice to see that such a cast can work so cohesively as one unit. No one ever seemed 
 out of place.
  
  The controls translate just fine from the XBOX to the PC. As a matter of fact, I would say that 
 they might even be a little bit better. But, I'm comfortable with a controller just as much a keyboard 
 and mouse.
  
  The gameplay is also just as much fun. Riddick always seems to be moving so fluidly, even between 
 the use of gun, hand-to-hand combat, and the perspective movements of him climbing a ladder or 
 opening a hatch.
  
  Even if you are not a fan of the movies Pitch Black or The Chronicles of Riddick, this game should 
 at least be something that can serve as a launching pad for games to be full-on productions again. 
 It's definitely nice to see that there was no talent wasted in this project. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2004 2:11 am PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from butchers bay is an amazing action game with tense gun battles 
 and a great implemation of stealth tactics. Though not anticipated as much as other shooters, This 
 game is just as good as games like half life 2 and far cry. The gameplay in the chronicles is superb 
 at that. Interacting with all the different prisioners and guards is a good feature because it adds 
 to the depth of the game. Often the commentary is amuzing and well done. The story of the chronicles 
 is very good and is set before the movie pitch black witch also stared vin diesl. The graphics in 
 this game are outstanding. Highly detailed level design and characters gives the game a sense of 
 realism. Plus the voice acting and the sound is top notch. Though no multiplayer mode which reduced 
 the value of this game, it dosent effect the overall appeal of the game. Even though online action 
 would of been a great addition that would clearly seperate it from the xbox version. The only downside 
 of the game is that u need a high end pc to run it. Im running on a very high end pc so the game 
 runs pretty smoothly. So if your pc can handle the technology in the chronicles, theres no doubt 
 that u should add this to your wish list. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
