-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chroniclesofriddickassaultondarkathena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Butcher Bay is still amazing.
 Fantastic lighting and shadows.
 Great character models and voice acting .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New content is cliche and tedious.
 Troublesome artificial intelligence.
 Multiplayer feels tacked on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 181 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 7, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A remade classic and a passable sequel meet in this fun but inconsistent package. 

  It's difficult to come to grips with a release like The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark 
 Athena, because it's made up of several disparate components of varying quality. The shining star 
 here is the slick retooling of 2004's Escape from Butcher Bay, the illustrious Xbox action game 
 that helped shatter expectations of what a film-based game could offer. Butcher Bay holds up beautifully, 
 exquisitely building tension before settling into a satisfying, smoldering pace. The other single-player 
 component offered is Dark Athena, Butcher Bay's sequel. It is a serviceable follow-up, but it's 
 positively limp when compared to its superb predecessor, monotonously falling into a rut of predictability 
 that the original always avoided. The final piece of this inconsistent puzzle is an interesting 
 but uneven suite of multiplayer modes that is mild fun in spurts but too awkward to stand out. 
 One part unforgettable and two parts merely adequate, Assault on Dark Athena is a must-play for 
 those who missed the original and a tolerable diversion for everyone else.  

           When Riddick asks if you want to arm wrestle, say no.      

  Escape from Butcher Bay 
 has been freshened up a bit and looks surprisingly spiffy on a high-definition display. It certainly 
 shows its age in a number of ways: The stiff character models move awkwardly and exhibit scant 
 expression, and low-definition textures betray the graphic engine's last-generation roots. Yet 
 though Butcher Bay's visuals have noticeable wrinkles, the phenomenal lighting and shadowing smooth 
 the crow's feet surprisingly well. Few games this reliant on pure atmosphere can provoke so much 
 awe five years later -- yet the dark recesses provide as much uncertain solace now as they ever did. 
 Though you won't mistake the remade journey as a slick modern release, you also won't often be 
 distracted by its graphical deficiencies either, which speaks volumes for both the quality of Butcher 
 Bay and the extra layers of virtual varnish applied.  

  More impressively, the remade original still stands tall, partially because few games have tried 
 to duplicate its blueprint, but also because its numerous gameplay elements are balanced so well. 
 As gruff criminal Richard B. Riddick, your main goal is to break out of Butcher Bay, the intergalactic 
 equivalent of Alcatraz: a menacing, unforgiving, and nearly inescapable prison. Riddick understands 
 that such an escape requires a quiet command of multiple talents, and correspondingly, you'll use 
 a number of different gameplay devices to guide him out. You'll start with just your fists, but 
 eventually you'll be wielding sharp-edged melee weapons and clubs, not to mention an arsenal of 
 assault rifles, shotguns, and other ranged powerhouses. However, whenever possible, Riddick prefers 
 to keep to the shadows, sneaking up on his prey and delivering each foe to his maker, one gruesome 
 stealth kill at a time.  

  Remarkably, each of these elements is solid on its own, yet Butcher Bay merges them so harmoniously 
 that the game surpasses genre conventions, so much so that even now there are very few games that 
 compare. As you progress through the game, the prison takes on a life of its own. Your fellow captives 
 have stories to tell and missions to give, and fantastic voice acting brings each of them to life. 
 Even the obscene graffiti scrawled on the walls and scratched on signs speak to their desolation 
 and desperation. Whether you're conversing with inmates, sneaking in the shadows, plunging a shiv 
 through a blueskin's neck, or stunning a foe with the tranquilizer gun before introducing him to 
 your heel, there's always an unnerving sense of general agitation. That tension builds steadily 
 throughout the experience, thanks to brilliant pacing that keeps even the quiet moments from feeling 
 comfortable.  

           Captain Revas: Hunter, or hunted?      

  Assault on Dark Athena is the new story-driven content here, and it takes place after the events 
 of Butcher Bay. It retains some of its predecessor's strengths, and even improves on a few of them. 
 Visually, the sequel compares favorably to any current action game while still incorporating the 
 fantastic lighting and shadows for which the original was known. The new character models are authentically 
 expressive, and their bodies and faces animate fluidly. As Riddick, Vin Diesel's raspy bass provides 
 a sturdy sonic foundation, and that gravitas spreads through the entire voice cast. Each performance 
 is memorable, from ship captain Revas to a lecherous, grossly obscene prisoner, so though the plot 
 itself isn't all that intriguing, the superb acting goes a long way toward keeping you involved. 
 You may not hear better voice acting all year: It's that good.     

  Sadly, the new gameplay cannot compare to the tight mixture that held Butcher Bay together so wonderfully. 
 As you traverse your new confines seeking escape -- first on the titular ship, later on a planetside 
 prison colony -- you'll encounter a few strong personalities, but their stories aren't mixed in all 
 that well with the experience. These early conversations go on for too long and result in multiple 
 tedious fetch quests that require some annoying backtracking, all the while failing to instill 
 a sense of place or offer any kind of organic flow to the proceedings. It feels contrived, and 
 in fact, most of Dark Athena seems artificial, which makes for a jarring contrast to its dynamic 
 predecessor.  

           These blades are great for carving up drones, and can also dice an onion in no time flat. 

  The gameplay elements are fundamentally the same as Butcher Bay's. You will lurk in the pitch-black 
 corners, use your eyeshine ability to see in the blackest of crawlspaces, gun down hive-minded 
 drones, and slice up some enemies in a few different gruesome -- and often satisfying -- ways. Sadly, 
 none of these aspects feel balanced, and they aren't put together well on their own. A protracted 
 sneaking sequence in which you avoid a searchlight while climbing across a series of stacked boxes 
 is tedious and uninspired, and poor enemy placement and cheating artificial intelligence cause 
 some moments to induce tension headaches in lieu of actual tension. Every gameplay element feels 
 split into chunks rather than flowing smoothly together. You play a short stealth portion, then 
 a shooting portion, and then a quick melee portion; the pace feels stilted, especially when compared 
 to its companion game. To make matters worse, scattered environmental puzzles that involve excessive 
 amounts of platforming (not the game's strong suit) grind the tempo to a halt. The manner in which 
 the gameplay has been sliced up in this manner is not only choppy, but it also makes the action 
 predictable. And in Dark Athena, as with most games, predictability leads to monotony before long. 

  There are some new elements that seem meant to add variety, but they actually have the opposite 
 effect more often than not. For example, some mech sequences are briefly fun but highlight Dark 
 Athena's unbalanced gameplay, which favors guns over sneaking prowess. This emphasis is particularly 
 clear during the second half of the game, which takes place on a well-lit base and puts you up 
 against a series of unmanned spider drones, the most annoying enemies in the game. Well, perhaps 
 more annoying are the giant robotic foes that the game tediously tosses at you over and over again 
 in the final hours -- which you must take down the same way every time. After the fifth or sixth 
 such encounter, it feels like tedious filler and represents one of Dark Athena's biggest drawbacks: 
 lack of imagination. Rather than melding multiple genres into a cohesive, original experience, 
 this sequel is a humdrum shooter with some sneaking and melee elements. And one of the most important 
 elements of Butcher Bay -- the mission-based adventuring -- is all but missing, with the exception 
 of the boring early-game fetch quests.  

  Nevertheless, Dark Athena is not awful, but it inspires more indifference than excitement. Likewise, 
 the multiplayer component feels unnecessary, though it's competent enough. You can join other players 
 in one of six modes, in ranked or unranked matches. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the 
 Flag work exactly as you'd expect, though few people seem to be playing them. Instead, most players 
 seem to prefer Pitch Black mode, in which one player skulks in the dark as Riddick, while the others 
 equip their weapons and flashlights and smoke him out. It's fun to pick someone off as Riddick 
 and slink away, or to gun down the gruff prisoner as he crosses in front of your beam, though the 
 novelty wears off in time. Butcher Bay Riot pits three teams against each other in a succession 
 of rounds, letting you purchase weapons, armor, and ammo in between them, a la Counter-Strike. 
 It's sporadically amusing, but weird animations and occasional lag aren't apt to inspire large 
 online communities. In fact, the PC and PlayStation 3 versions don't seem to be inspiring many 
 players at all, and though the Xbox 360 contingent is a bit healthier, even on that platform it 
 is difficult to find matches in certain modes.  

           Riddick lives life on the ledge.      

  The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark 
 Athena is many things: an attractive rerelease of an amazing game, a mildly disappointing sequel, 
 and a forgettable online experience. If you haven't played Butcher Bay, it's a must-play. If you 
 have, be aware of the sequel's abundant shortcomings before making a purchase. Nevertheless, though 
 the new content lets in far too much sunlight, those that crave the darkness will still find plenty 
 of inky crevasses in which to lurk.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point.
  
  THE GOOD
  - Great gameplay.
  - Solid single player story and interesting characters.
  - Thrilling multiplayer.
  - You can 
 play the game stealth or with guns blazing... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THE BAD
  - Awful DRM which allows only 3 installs !!!
  - Graphics are a bit outdated.
  - A bit short and a been there done that kind of feeling...
  - Stealth needs a bit improvement
 
  - Ai despite not being awful has not been improved at all.
  
  CONCLUSION
  The games strong area is apparently the gameplay which gives a lot of life especially to the multiplayer. 
 Despite the game excellent value it suffers from flaws and has one of the worse DRM that i have 
 ever seen !!
  The game overall feels a bit rushed and inferior to its prequel Escape from Butcher bay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wasup_Chuck
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Riddick AoDA is a game that is sure to please even the most die hard fps fans. Like its predecessor, 
 it contains all the elements of a great fps with added elements of RPG and 3rd person plat-forming 
 and adventure. Graphically it is not the technical masterpiece Escape from Butcher Bay was back 
 in 2004, and there is plenty of nit-picking graphical gliches that you will notice including off 
 lip-synching and textures popping out of character models and sometimes poor shadows in environment. 
 Those aside Riddick AoDA is a great looking game by any standard.
  
  Gameplay; Is still some of the most enjoyable fps action you can get, although it is in essences 
 the same exact gameplay of 2004 with added animations and finishing melee moves. The stealth portion 
 of the game is still incredibly satisfying and is the preferred rout to take when you play this 
 game. The gunplay is also exceptionally well and the weapons are fun to shoot and feel powerful. 
 
  
  Sound: from the voice acting to the gunshots, it feels like your in the front row in a epic movie 
 with crisp and clear audio from start to finish. Vin Diesel does another fantastic performance 
 and without his voice the character would never seem believable. The NPCs in the game all have 
 a unique voice and really helps immerse you into the Riddick universe. By and large the sound in 
 this game is one of its high notes.
  
  Graphics; As mentioned earlier, the graphics are decent but its no MGS4 or Killzone 2. With the 
 5 years they had in development I really wish they had ironed out at least the graphical glitches 
 that were in the original game. Riddicks Eyeshine is particularly annoying, illuminated objects 
 in a pitch black room to the point of blinding the player. also the range of Riddicks eye shine 
 is rather short and still feels like your in the dark. All in all though the graphics are nice, 
 and I enjoy the art style of the game.
  
  Cons; I have had this game crash on my about 4 times in the short time I've spent with it. Dont 
 know if it's a driver issue or what but all my drivers are up to date. Prehaps a patch will come 
 soon to fix this problem, or maybe its just my setup. The crashes only seem to occur during the 
 second campaign of the game.
  
  Final Thoughts; With all this in mind, I would still recommend this game to anyone who wants to 
 play a seriously engrossing and surprisingly deep game in the fps category. Riddick AoDA is not 
 another Half-Life 2 where you play as a deaf-mute who stands idly by and lets people call the shots, 
 no, Riddick is a seriously cool anti-hero and this is a game where YOU call the shots, and get 
 rewarded accordingly.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: billaboy69
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the shooter iv wanted for a long time. Gritty and Dirty. I'll start off by describing the 
 mechanics of gameplay. The camera moves with Riddicks every turn and gesture which gives it a great 
 realistic feel. After u turn the camera, the camera moves after the turn to simulate the rest of 
 Riddicks body turning. The run speed is just about right. Not too fast or slow. GRAPHICS. Great, Motion 
 blur adds a nice effect to everything u do. Nice level design and details. Stealth KILLING: The stealth 
 kills is some of the most fun ull have in Assault on Athena. Each weapon offers a different way 
 to kill the enemy when snuck up behind him and those are different too. Hand COMBAT. Very well DONE!. Each 
 direction u push ,left, right, up down,+ the attack button is a different combat move. It turns into 
 a fun game of timing and combo hiting with an awesome finishing move at the end for weapons. GUNPLAY. Awesome!. Depth 
 of field and great gun mechanics, firepower, grit dirt and blood. Experience it for urslelf is the 
 only thing to say on this. VOICE ACTIN: Vin Diesel fits so well into this game for some reason. I 
 recall the first group of cells u come across in the game. Each person i talked to had his/her own 
 personlality and great voice acting with different things to talk to them each time. When they dont 
 have dialogue, u can still speak and they will do a random little voice scene that fits his/her 
 character. SUPERB voice acting and scrpting. I love this game. The only thing iv seen bad so far is,,,, IT 
 DOESNT RUN IN SLI MODE, and there are problems with the Ambient Occlusion setting., which sucks the 
 BIG ONE. And there seems to b glitches during the cutscenes, like mouths no nsync with dialogue u 
 hear, that only happened at first. THIS game gets a 9.1, but because of PC issues that everone will 
 hate, it gets a 8.0 here. Love the STEALTH, LOVE THE GUNS, A. I., GRAPHICS, VOICE ACTING, SCRIPTING, AWESOME. A 
 must buy for GAME lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a good ... very good game. It's easy to immerse yourself into it and not come out for hours. 
 If you like stealth and FPS/RPG combo, this game is for you. If you played the first Riddick (Escape 
 from Butcher Bay) , lower your expectations somewhat and you'll like this one too. Dark Athena is 
 maybe not as good as the first Riddick, but still is very enjoyable. A few more months of development 
 and finalizing this game for PC would make it possibly one of the best games of the year, but in 
 a rush to deliver it seems the game is more of a mix of above average components, while really 
 not shining in any specific area ... except the stealth component. In general, the game is stable 
 once the potential NVIDIA issues are resolved (otherwise you may get crashes implicating the vid 
 OpenGL component) . The game really doesn't like the 182.08, but runs nicely with 182.50 drivers. 
 It seems the game is asking for more resources than what looks of it would suggest -- possibly 
 indicating a need for a better optimization. The proprietary Starbreeze engine seems OK, but no 
 real revolution since the first Riddick in 2004. Graphics are good, but not exceptional by any 
 stretch of imagination. Yet, they are sufficient for an effective gameplay. There are some sound 
 issues on some systems, but I haven't notice them. 
  
  Negatives:
  - huge DRM issue, supposedly allowing only 3 installs -- this is just pathetic considering that 
 many people try to resolve game issues with the uninstall-reinstall strategy. For $50, this shouldn't 
 be there at all. 2 points taken away (and should be more)
  - some sound issues
  - only the newest NVIDIA drivers seem to resolve crashing and freezing issues
  - fake aim taking 
 (slight zooming) instead of ironsights on weapons
  - nothing really new since 2004 in terms of game mechanics (to me appeared somewhat stiff and the 
 movement is like walking semi-drunk especially in the beginning of the game)
  - story is still very good but somewhat less captivating than the first Riddick
  
  Overall, 
 the best feature of this game is the gameplay itself (9/10) which offers an immersive experience. 
 It's just too bad that the developer/publisher decided on the really bad DRM strategy that offers 
 a very short-term protection from piracy and long-term bad taste for a huge majority of non-pirating 
 PC users who deserve better than 3 installs limit. The game itself (without the DRM issue) and 
 depending on personal preferences deserves to be rated anywhere between 7.5 and 9/10. The bad DRM 
 decision for the PC version would suggest either waiting for some time till the DRM is removed 
 (which happens many times via a patch after the initial launch time is over) , skipping the game 
 altogether, or looking to maybe a different platform with a less restrictive DRM for this game. 
 Overall score: 6.7/10 (2 points taken for the unreasonable DRM) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
