-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Dig
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/thedig/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 639 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In almost every sense, The Dig represents a leap backwards from LucasArts' previous group of adventure 
 games. 

 God help me for saying anything negative about Steven Spielberg, but this latest adventure from 
 LucasArts that proudly bears his name is one of the most disappointing games I've ever played. 

 In almost every sense, The Dig represents a leap backwards from LucasArts' previous group of adventure 
 games. Looking beyond the tired low-res character animations, the limited use of colors, and the 
 conservatively drawn backgrounds, this adventure game follows the explorations of three overtly 
 stereotypical characters through unimaginative, predictable plot twists, completely devoid of the 
 humor that you'd expect from a LucasArts game and the humanity that you'd expect from a Spielberg 
 production.  

 There's no "magic" here. As you simply guide a stock hero around an uninhabited planet, the only 
 sparks of excitement are quickly counter-balanced by inordinately difficult puzzles. Not only are 
 these brain-twisters tough, but they're temperamentalsome follow logic, others just call 
 for trial and error, and yet others will leave you clueless, even if you've attempted to cheat 
 your way through.   

 Mr. Card's dialogue is no less deplorable than the game's slow-paced plot. The voice-acting is believable, 
 but again, stereotypical. All this aside, though, what securely affixes this title to the bottom 
 of the LucasArts list is how seriously it takes itself. In games like Full Throttle and Day of 
 The Tentacle, where comedy is king, inconsistencies and stereotypes can be overlooked as part of 
 the silliness. But the epic space adventure drama of The Dig doesn't have this freedom, and it 
 doesn't pass the litmus tests of believability or entertainment.  

 The Dig's saving grace is its grand music score in a Wagnerian vein. If only the rest of the game 
 echoed the quality that its sound scheme does, then it might be worth playing.   

 Better to leave this one buried.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the GS score of 'The Dig' burping 4.5 at me, I could not believe my eyes. I have 
 played through this game a few times and it always entertained me, pulling into the haunting story 
 set on a distant planet with an intriguing set of characters. But comparing a LucasArts game to 
 LucasArts games in general may be an interesting (and very NERDY thing) to do, but that should 
 not justify the low rating. The Dig does not have: 1. Great atmosphere of Monkey Island, 2. The 
 story of Loom 3. The Coolnes of Indy and Sam&Max Yet still, The Dig has: A Great atmosphere, A 
 great story and is very cool.
  
  I hope you get my meaning. It is one of the best classic (!) adventure game around and will satisfy 
 every adventure enthusiast, guaranteed. Period.
  
  The graphics are not ultra crisp but sport the typical love for detail, cut scenes with movielike 
 camera angles and a great, sublty brooding soundtrack that nicely ties in with the games overall 
 storyline and atmoshpere.
  
  I rest my case
  
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beto05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I think gamespot review its games based upon a kind of a favoritism uponpopular games 
 , money   fun , franchise ".
  
  4,5 for the Dig ? Well, looks like the person who made the review did not even finish the game 
 to tell the whole story and got bored cause he was not capable to solve the riddles. You guys make 
 some wonderful reviews, but you failed terribly on this one.
  
  Well, this game was released on 1995, I was like 7 years old and still today i see this game as 
 inteligent, innovative, revolutionary and fun. The music, the ambient, the story, everything is 
 linked. And you need to think. It has outstanding puzzles and a nice background story. 
  
  Unfortunately, the style of this game, such as many others like Full Throttle, Monkey Islands, 
 Grim Fandango, does not exists anymore, cause the genre are made for people who like to think.. 
 nowadays people want instant games , have fun and get bored with another "fast food games with 
 8 hours to finish"
  
  Well, that's the reallity. One day, who knows things will be different.
  
  The Dig is that 
 kind of game which will please any person in any decade in history, cause It's different . and 
 another thing, it was made with passion.
  
  So, really, sometimes you should play the game by yourself and make your own review. Never follow 
 the opinion of industry critics on games, they destroy your minds. Follow the opinion of friends 
 and gamers !
  
  Like Paul McCarteny said once : "I don't care about critics.. I spit on them" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  The Lucasarts adventure-games series is the gold standard for its genre, so it is quite a recommendation 
 to say that The Dig is the best of them. Taking a different direction to most of the others, instead 
 of a zany-humorous game what we have is a serious, moody sci-fi piece with sophisticated puzzles 
 - the best and most rational puzzle design in the series, in fact. Wagnerian music plays in the 
 background to facilitate an aura of desolation as you explore the remains of a technology testing-station 
 on a dead planet with no apparent means of returning home, while your two unruly colleagues begin 
 to lose both their cool and grip on the situation. Moving atmosphere, and it features the voice-talents 
 of Robert Patrick (aka T-1000 from Terminator 2) .
  
  If any advanture-gamer asked me for recommendations, I would say "Grim Fandango" and "The Dig". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExMachinaXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Great game great game great Great game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great 
 game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat 
 game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game 
 greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game 
 great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat 
 game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game 
 greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game 
 great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat 
 game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game 
 greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game 
 great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat game great game greatGreat 
 game great game greatGreat game great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EinsteinEP
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first got The Dig, I was expecting some sort of "X-Wing" meets "Doom". Seriously, I don't 
 know what I was thinking, but, after I got over the shock of playing another Space Quest game, 
 I got sucked into the story. The puzzles range from insultingly easy to frustratingly impossible, 
 but the storyline was so engaging, I was compelled to sit up, night after night, working to solve 
 each mystery, just to learn the next bit of the story. Character development is done well and the 
 music score is fantastic. There are few repeating sections of the game (unless you skip or miss 
 a puzzle and have to go searching for it again) . The story even ends beautifully (duh, it's Spielberg) , 
 but I found I couldn't bring myself to play it again. After completing it once, I tried to pick 
 it up two or three times again and found I knew the story, I knew the puzzles: the rabbit was out 
 of the hat, so to speak.
  
  I think The Dig will fall flat with modern gamers: it just can't compete with the top hitters today, 
 but it was a gem of a game, a sleeper hit so stealthy, not many people got it. Even today, anyone 
 who like any of the Myst series needs to get The Dig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  The game was a lot more serious than the other titles from LucasArts, but when you go through the 
 story - it probably was a good thing. The story was brilliant and the soundtrack was as good - 
 very fitting I must say. However, there are some wisecracks in the game to give you a good laugh. 
 Could do a couple of naughty things as well!
  
  Graphics seemed average at the time but that didn't matter as you start thinking about the puzzles 
 more than the graphics.
  
  Voice acting and sound track was very good, which made me want a movie of this game.
  
  Playability 
 - overall very smooth but I remember finding it hard to solve some of the puzzles. Definitely not 
 a kids game due to the difficulty but that was the beauty of it.
  
  Why hasn't LucasArts released a good adventure game for a while??? The last one I played was Monkey 
 island 4. Need more!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Not that it's that bad. There's certainly worse games out there than The Dig. The reason why this 
 game is so poorly received is because it's from Lucasarts, and it's probably one of the worst point 
 and click games they've ever conjured up. Lucasarts is without a shadow of a doubt the best point 
 and click game developer known to man and ever since Maniac Mansion, they simply couldn't do no 
 wrong. That is, until this arrived. This is the weakest addition to the Lucasarts' catalogue of 
 the finest point and click games. It's no DOTT or the fantastic Sam and Max Hit the Road. Instead 
 it's an old looking, boring and too serious for its own good. The puzzles have solutions that are 
 so vague it made me almost give up. The plot is so predictable. When first laying my eyes upon 
 the German scientist I could instantly tell he was going to go insane. The only real decent thing 
 about this game is the music. It's atmospheric and sets the mood just right. Which is necessary 
 seeing how the graphics, woeful script and wooden acting fail to do anything other than annoy. 
 Just rent this game or borrow it. It's definitely not worth buying and it's highly forgettable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defenseman13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  I recently read a great article about the crappy grammar, lack of creativity, immaturity, and bad 
 journalism inherent in video game reviewers, and the Gamespot review is the proof.
  
  The Dig is an AMAZING adventure game. Some of the puzzles are a little tough... but everything 
 from the music to the atmosphere is of Lucasart quality. Originally I played the demo years ago 
 on a Lucasart demo CD, and I actually got around to playing it years later. The graphic whining 
 done by the GS reviewer is sad, considering the size and content on the original CD and the computer's 
 limitations at the time. It's like he reviewed it 5 years after it came out. The story is so good 
 that the graphic issues are moot.
  
  FIND THIS GAME.
  
  Turn up the speakers and play it in the dark, and enjoy great storytelling. Get immersed in a game 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescroll777
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, even now a days, it's rare for me to find and games nearly as good as The Dig. Despite 
 what GameSpot thinks, I thought this game was remarkably fun and interesting. The backgrounds were 
 all hand drawn and the game has a plot that stays with itself all the way through. There were times 
 where it seemed almost impossible, but it was because of over-thinking that caused you to get lost. 
 The game is truly innovative and one of the best point and click games, right up there with Monkey 
 Island. And if you feel like you want more, they made a book about it, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Was someone having a bad day when they reviewed this game? 4.5???? You've gotta be kidding me!
 
  
  I remember buying this maybe a year after release and I loved it! The story was exciting, the music 
 was terrific, the graphics (at the time) was GOOD! THIS GAME beats many of the crappy halfbaked 
 adventure games that are released nowadays, which gamespot rates about 6 or 7.... I DONT GET IT. 
 The DIG had a movie-like feel and good puzzles, maybe it lacked in humour but it made up for it 
 in atmosphere. I loved it. (Thanx Stephen)
  
  Most unfair review I've seen on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: LucasArts produced some of the best adventure games ever made. It's a pretty impressive 
 portfolio: Day of the Tentacle, Loom, Full Throttle, Grim Fandango, and of course, the whole Monkey 
 Island series. While all of these were good, The Dig stands out as one of LucasArts's most high-profile 
 and memorable achievements. The whole storyline is done non other then steven Spilberg who passed 
 it on the Lucas arts. So there is a asteroid is on a collision course with the Earth and a Space 
 Shuttle is launched on a mission to divert it. The Dig is a third-person perspective adventure 
 game and the character you control is Boston Low who is the commander of the mission and all round 
 good guy -- if a little dull. With you is Maggie, a respected journalist, and Ludger Brink, an 
 insufferably arrogant scientist who promptly names your new home as Cocytus. The puzzles in teh 
 game have varying degrees of complexity and challenge. with 100 different areas to explore and 
 the usual amount of obstacles in your path. However, the storyline is truly excellent and professionally 
 developed. You get the sense that you really are on an alien world and, thanks to the excellent 
 writing.
  Moving your character around the screen is very easy. Point where you want him to go then left 
 click. Unfortunately, Boston is another character who tends to trudge and I could find no way to 
 speed him up. You can, however, skip through repeated dialogue by pressing the period key (.) and 
 the game does allow the option of on-screen text. Similarly, by pressing the Esc key you can by 
 pass video sequences you may have already seen.
  So the game is around 30 to 40 hours for the average gamer gamer to play though the first time.
 
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing for the time it come out. And lets be honoest The Dig was released 
 in 1995, written for MS-DOS, and it cannot compare with today's 3D graphics-enhanced graphics.
 
  
  Sound: The sound track is very good in this game, the music consists of heavily synthesized elements 
 of Wagner opera compositions, creating an eerie, ambient landscape. Also the voice acting is very 
 well done in the game.
  
  Value: This game has really good replay value and it keeps you coming back to play it over and 
 over again. You won't beleve how many times I have played this game over the years along with other 
 classic games like the Monkey Island Series.
  All in all this is a exellent game that should not be missed by any gamer or adventure gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  The Dig throws you in a modern day Jules Verne story. You play a space shuttle commander who, along 
 with 2 of your team, is transported to an alien planet after the investigation of a strange room 
 inside an asteroid headed for Earth.
  
  While searching for a way home you begin to uncover the story of an ancient alien race, who appears 
 to have faced extincting.
  
  It's a point and click adventure style game, with a well thought storyline. The puzzles are creative, 
 and have their challenging moments. Although there's the odd now what sensation, most point-and-click-adventure 
 veterans likely won't break too many sweats with this one.
  
  The sound design really brings you in to the game. Great ambient effects and an orchestral score 
 gives lots of depth. The main character is professionally voiced as well. Of course 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kermi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  When I was about 14 or 15 years old, I had already mastered such titles as Monkey Island, and the 
 plethora of Sierra 'Quest' titles (Space quest not the least of my favourites) . When my uncle bought 
 a new sound card for his PC, a powerhouse by 90's standards but insignificant next to my mobile 
 phone today, he was for reasons I still fail to fathom provided with two CDs, titles printed directly 
 onto the label size of otherwise blank slates of shiny plastic in dodgy looking cursive script. 
 Demo discs, stocking stuffers, of only slightly more value than the AOL internet trial discs that 
 wound up serving as coasters.
  One of those discs contained a three-level demo of Rebel Assault 2. The other was the Dig.
  
 
  This game wasn't exactly pretty, but back then I was blown away - the best looking game I'd played 
 to date was the aforementioned Rebel Assault II, which probably used sprites generated from photographs 
 or film rather than being an animated experience. The Dig didn't have a lot of competition.
  The game felt epic, even from the opening cutscenes. I knew I was in for a great time, I had a 
 sense for it. My only concern was that being thrown away like the RA2 demo, it would be frighteningly 
 short. Maybe I appreciated this game more because I expected the computer to pull the plug on the 
 story at any moment and tell me to go buy it. I'd never seen this game on shelves, so I couldn't 
 have if I tried.
  
  The story was basic, the characters were cardboard cutouts of your action/adventure movie roles.
 
  Then the adventure began.
  
  Let me tell you now, not one game I have played in the last ten years matches this game for story. 
 Not a Final Fantasy title, not Halo, nothing.
  The gameplay wasn't amazing, but it was a point and click adventure, not a heart pumping combat 
 simulator. The puzzles ranged from blindingly obvious to real brain ticklers, but a little bit 
 of logic and determination got you through. It helped, it really did, with settling me into the 
 role of the man I played. what was his name again, Boston? I became that man, struggling with broken 
 down alien technology in an effort to return my unfortunate crew safely to Earth.
  I can still hear his profound comments, his flirting with the shuttle pilot as he descended towards 
 the incoming asteroid hanging like the sword of damocles over all of humanity. I can still hear 
 Brink's screams as Boston performs an emergency field amputation. I can see the beautiful backgrounds 
 and the blocky yet still moving pose of grief Boston assumes over Maggie's fallen form. I must 
 have played that screen six times trying to find a way to prevent it. But I kept my promise Maggie, 
 I never used the life crystals.
  
  Maybe the game does take itself too seriously at times, but there was p [lenty of fun to be had 
 in this underappreciated work of art. I hear it started out on two floppy discs, and they had to 
 adapt it to CD because it just kept getting bigger and bigger. That's how playing this game feels.
 
  Pick it up somewhere, hope it runs under windows XP, and try it.
  Maybe people who've grown up on 3D graphics, and started their console collection after 1997 won't 
 appreciate it like I did, but I'd urge anyone to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sat_purush
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I don`t understand why it got so many bad reviews, sure it`s not monkey island but it`s still a 
 great game.
  
  The story is great and fascinating. Great dialogue between the characters combined with powerful 
 music.
  
  Nice, well designed graphics.
  
  All the components for a superb game.
  
  Its been 10years since I played it, but it still remember it as one of the great adventure games 
 from Lucasarts during the Golden era.
  
  I would go so far and say that this comes on the Top 20 list over the best adventure games ever.
 
  
  If you could run this old game on your computer, and you don`t mind the graphics (compared to todays 
 standard) I would gladly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The Dig is another one of Lucas Arts classic 1990's point and click adventure game, but this one 
 was overlooked and given awful review scores, most obvious one being gamespots ridiculous 4.5 rating.
 
  
  The Dig starts out with an asteroid called 'Atilla' nearing impact with Earth and three astronoughts 
 (well, ones a reporter called maggie, the other an archaeologist called brink and a military man 
 called low) to detonate a couple of nuclear devices to halt Atilla's descent.
  
  However they uncover something alien which transforms Atilla into a space ship which is Faster 
 than light to a different planet.
  
  And not to give much away i wont continue talking about the story in such a way, needles to say 
 it is a very good sci fi story.
  
  Graphically the game is fine, the 2D backgrounds are detailed like most of lucas arts point and 
 click adventure games, the characters look good when theyre closer to the screen but very VERY 
 pixelated and ugly far away from the screen, however it certainly looks better than the more recent 
 3D graphics in adventure games, such as grim fandango, escape fro monkey island and the more recent 
 Broken Sword games.
  
  The sound is very well done, a more classical mix than anything else which suits the atmosphere 
 in the game, and the setting brilliantly certainly adding to The Digs overall quality, its the 
 sort of music I find fitting in any game concerning space/aliens etc that isnt a action game but 
 a slower gaming experience such as The Dig.
  And sticking with the sound subject, the voice acting is superb throughout, from the increasingly 
 agitated Brink, the tough maggie and plain talking mr. low, who is voiced by Robert Patrick of Terminator 
 2 (have you seen this boy?)
  
  Gameplay wise, its generally good through out, but spoilt by some rather annoying and obscure puzzles 
 namely the lens puzzle were you have to manouver a robot to pick up a lens with a series of colours 
 inputted on a console with ZERO help or hints. Other times there a re a few mundane things, like 
 cycling through geometric shapes to ge tthe right combo but if you go one too far you have to cycle 
 through that shape over and over again to get back to the one you need.
  Othertimes the puzzles are absolutely fine on par in terms of enjoyment with Broken Sword 2. I 
 say 2 because the first broken sword is far superior with no annoying puzzles, but the sequel has 
 an excruciatingly irritating near final puzzle which i feel is on par with 'The Dig's light puzzle,
 
  But all the other puzzle are fine, the gameplay proceeds at a nice pace and in conjunction with 
 the great music, storyline and graphics the game is good.
  
  Value wise again good considering it got released as a classic title at a more budget price.
 
  And i feel its worth mentioning that the ending for the game is wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impulse1195
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  If your reading this... please.. PLEASE do not take the Gamespot review to heart in the slightest. 
 I live by gamespots reviews, however their score on The Dig is incredibly innacurate. I played 
 this game back when it was new, and it was one of those few games that really took me to another 
 world. This is a definate stand out in adventure gaming history.
  
  First and foremost, this is an adventure game through and through. So if you'd rather be shooting 
 something, this game is not for you. In the traditional adventure game framework, the story is 
 advanced by solving puzzles, and just making sense of chaos in general. In this game you are transported 
 to an alien world... so needless to say, there are intricate puzzles abound. Some of which can 
 be very difficult. This game has also stood out in my mind, as the hardest adventure game I ever 
 played. Perhaps thats why the gamespot reviewer gave it the review he did... sheer frusteration. 
 Frusteration though, is not anything new to the adventure gamer... just know, this game is probably 
 harder than other games of its type (except maybe Myst/Riven) . But hey... walkthroughs are easy 
 to get anyway, for when you get stuck.
  
  We all know that the true shining moment of an adventure game is the story. Sometimes the story 
 of a game is so good, you almost dont care how you get through it... and this is one of those games. 
 Thats not to say the gameplay is bad, just that the driving force behind it is definately the plot 
 advancement. Its very good, at some points you may feel as though your reading a novel... or watching 
 a Don Bluth flick during the cutscenes. This game has a lot of character.. and if you fancy yourself 
 an old school adventure gamer, you'd do well in playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametzu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  eg: Sterotiped chars and not so many escenaries you could want, but they did a superb job with 
 the story. Its one of the most beautifull stories I ever lived with extraterrestrial beings. It 
 is full of hope, and love between the LIFE forms, It throws you to the mistical desire of maths 
 and geometry as an universal language, meant to be understood by all the creatures of the Universe. 
 The score is supreme, and helps to immerse you into the game climax. I saw the last scene with 
 my heart bouncing like a maddman, hoping at the time to see that game turned out into a movie. 
 This is one of those games I will always remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quillin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is considered as a real classic one (1995) . It has great story (Steven Spielberg) supported 
 by beautiful graphics running on SCUMM v7 engine. It's the first Lucas-Arts game with it's own 
 soundtrack. Music used in this game really deserves it. Sean Clark and Industrial Light and Magic 
 also worked on this game. The game was probably undervalued because of it's difficulty and less 
 of humour. it's not one of the funny Lucas-Arts adventures , although there definitely is a humour. 
 What I like the most about this game is the atmosphere, which is one of the best i've ever noticed 
 in computer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startman_1999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  First off, although Gamespot is generally accurate and somewhat objective in their reviews, I truly 
 think there is conspiracy against the traditional adventure genre at work here. For real reviews 
 on adventure games, there are plenty other sites dedicated just to these. They are much more reliable 
 for this genre.
  
  Their score on this game is seriously off. BIG TIME. This game is a classic for anyone who loves 
 adventure games of the LucasArts golden years, YOU WILL LOVE THIS. Immersive atmosphere, thanks 
 to great sound quality and character acting. The visuals, although beautfully designed are a bit 
 pixelated by modern standards, but anyone who loves the old days won't even notice. What matters 
 is the substance and trust me it delivers! Fun moderately difficult puzzles and a resonating stroyline 
 really shine in this game.
  
  That's all. Gamespot, have a true adventure-gamer review this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm really surprised at the negative reviews this game got back in the days it was released. Honestly, 
 it seems like everyone was so hooked on the comical atmosphere in every lucasarts adventure game 
 to that point that they couldn't handle a serious game. I for one loved the serious tone. The voice 
 acting was superb, the music was epic, the storyline was involving. It's an excellent adventure 
 game.
  
  Its graphics are amazing considering this game was released in 1996. The only problem I found with 
 this game is that it didn't have the most interesting puzzles. The Dig was released soon after 
 Myst which enjoyed an enormous amount of success so I guess they tried to replicate the type of 
 puzzles found in Myst. Well I don't like it. I don't like Myst and I'd rather that my adventure 
 games try to keep those types of puzzles to a minimum.
  
  Aside from that, this game should be played by anyone who likes a good story and adventure games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilcyber
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Yep, this is probably the review, where Gamespot has been farthest off the mark. "The Dig" at the 
 beginning literally leaves you stranded and on the edge to discover more. While you try to make 
 sense out of signs and mysterious apparitions, you only understand enough to keep the story progressing 
 and able to sense a general direction, but the big picture is kept away almost until the very end. 
 That way to keep the player interested takes some virtuosity on the part of the game creators. 
 You don't get it delivered this well executed in many other games and in "The Dig" it accumulates 
 in one of the finest atmospheres an adventure has ever had. All this is not to mention the great 
 soundtrack that Michael Land gave to this game. Ten years later game developers can still take 
 a leaf out of his book when it comes to musical scores in games. If there are aspects that distract 
 from the overall positive experience "The Dig" is, then they are the slightly flat and stereotypical 
 German scientist and the cheesiness of one of the possible endings - yes, there is more than one.
 
  
  If you have never played this classic and can manage to get your hands on it, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aka_hal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I remember hearing about this game coming out originally and it made me really excited. So I convinced 
 my dad to buy it for me when it came out. I was only twelve or so when this came out and I absolutely 
 LOVED it. I know alot of people are saying the graphics weren't great for the time, but honestly 
 I disliked what some of the graphics were moving into for adventure games. I wasn't a fan of games 
 that I think came slightly later like the 3rd monkey island. This game went back to the roots of 
 adventure gaming and did it well. Graphically I thought it was beautiful. It didn't jump into fully 
 3d graphics too early like some other adventure games did (serously I know everyone said they're 
 pretty because it was 3D but they really weren't) .
  
  The puzzles and story were what made this game worth playing. It might be considered a bit out 
 there. The main plot is that a giant asteroid takes a crew from a space ship light years away and 
 strands them on some unknown world inhabited by "ghosts" of aliens. It takes some interesting twists 
 and is very serious but retains its sense of humor. "What would have happened if I hadn't packed 
 this shovel... no that's not worth thinking about (or the rough equivalent of that line) ." I managed 
 to figure out every puzzle in this game on my own eventually except for one... dead alien turtle 
 bones is a fairly difficult, but oddly straightforward puzzle (how many games have you played where 
 you have to put all the bones of a turtle back together in order to reanimate it correctly, while 
 adding an important twist?)
  
  The voice acting was extremely well done and this was done at a time BEFORE many games used this. 
 I also remember going "Ooooh, it differentiates between the right and left speak!" This was the 
 first game I had EVER seen that in.
  
  So yes, play this game. It is worth your time. I love it every bit as much as I love Indian Jones 
 and the Fate of Atlantis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkarg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Ten tears have passed since I played this game, but it is one of those that stay on your mind for 
 ever.
  It could be hard some times, but it is really fun game.
  The story is nice. You are always expecting what's going to happen next. Very interesting.
  Trying 
 to save the world from a giant meteor, you travel to a far away planet. After lots events, you 
 discover that aliens have called you to rescue them from their own technologies. In the middle, 
 one of your crew's member drives nuts and only you can return you all back to earth.
  It has really great images (considering the time it was released) , and one of the best ends (you 
 can pick of two) .
  (I'm very sorry about my English, I speak Spanish, he he) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDAWG25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I remember counting down the days till when this game was going to come out. I was still a little 
 kid and this collaboration between top-notch game developer for LucasArts Sean Clark and Stephen 
 Spielberg. It was an innovative idea and I was just starting to get into adventure games. I was 
 so excited to start playing the moment I opened up my Christmas presents that year and saw the 
 words: "In the Dead of Space, Something is Alive."
  
  This game is full of adventure (kind of a prerequisite for the genre) and wonder. Your character, 
 Boston Low, is a badass military type who gets stuck on a foreign planet with an annoying German 
 archaeologist and a famous reporter along for the ride. The mission starts out as an "Armageddon"-like 
 save the world from a giant asteroid thing. As it turns out the asteroid is actually an advanced 
 spacecraft from a planet light years away.
  
  Years later, this game is still worthwhile to play even though the graphics are way outdated. It 
 is a timeless classic. Your character is interesting to play as, it is full of fun and challenging 
 puzzles and offers a sense of wonder and amazement. I can't believe the bad review of this from 
 gamespot. Only a 4.5? This has to be at least around a 7. Maybe not ultimately as good as Full 
 Throttle, Grim Fandango, or the Monkey Island series, but still a very quality game from LucasArts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Since the reviewer from gamespot is more interested in cool graphic we can ignore his review since 
 this is an adventure game with logical puzzles as primary interest.
  
  So how are the puzzles? Well I can begin by saying that this is a good and exiting adventure game 
 but as mention in some other user reviews at one point the puzzle make almost no sense. But overall 
 the puzzels are good.
  
  The story is very very interesting and you actually begin to "feel" for the characters like you 
 have never done before in a game. The graphic is also perfect for the story.
  
  If you havent tried it, be sure to get your hands on this one. It's a great adventure game!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bertiebaggio
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is underrated - it had an immersive and twisting storyline, and had puzzles that challenged 
 but were not too hard. Some might call it farfetched and slow; I say that it is a well paced scifi 
 pizzle game.
  
  I played it through back when it came out, then again after about a year, and once more a couple 
 of years later. Each time I enjoyed the experience. The storyline was different enough to be interesting, 
 and the atmosphere added to the captivation.
  
  For a few quid nowadays you can't go wrong with this; grab a copy off ebay, and enjoy a vintage 
 puzzle game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoscot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I found The Dig to be a fun adventure game, resplendent of the era of adventure games. Man I miss 
 those days. Anyway, this game was immersive, as so many others have said and exciting. Learning 
 alien races and languages. I thought it was pretty cool. I got it for my roommate as a Christmas 
 gift the year it was released, and then played it myself. The hours I spent playing were fun and 
 enjoyable. I have always enjoyed LucasArts games. I wish they would do something besides the Star 
 Wars stuff now. There was such a creative reign of talent there for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joestierman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  I don't care how many pixels are on screen, the graphics were stunning when this game came out. 
 The animations are very smooth and the colors are vibrant. The voice acting is great, especially 
 for such an early game like this. This game gives a ton of nosatlgia, because of its memorable 
 puzzle and situations. The puzzles are so good and fit into the story flawlessly. Truly a great 
 puzzle/adventure games ever made. I would dare to say one of the best, but I haven't played that 
 many to say. Even a beginner can get into this game. The dig is a pertty long game, following the 
 story and trying to figure things out on this magnifiscantly crafted alien world. Pure curiousity 
 drives you to keep playing this game. You want to know more... and more is there. Excellent! Lucas 
 Arts has done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonkaz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  So it may not have had the most amazing graphics, but the storytelling in The Dig was some of the 
 most entertaining I've experienced in an adventure game to date. It also pulled off something extremely 
 difficult to do... have a satisfying ending. When I finished the game I wasn't disappointed like 
 I typically am at the close of a good adventure.
  
  This game has an original storyline and great production values, and Steven Spielberg's hand in 
 the project is obvious. Occasionally a puzzle solution is a bit of a stretch... but rarely does 
 an adventure game not have a few of these, right?
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone looking back to play an oldie-but-goodie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  Abans de res he de dir que faig aquesta revies molts anys desprs dhaver fet el joc, espero de 
 recordar-me-n de tot. Com dic, el vaig fer tot, el vaig acabar.
  Va ser un joc que se-n va parlar amb molta antelaci i va sortir en el moment ms bo en que es 
 trobava el gnere de les aventures, quan va sortir vam anar tots a comprarla, la veritat s que 
 va decepcionar a molts, per a mi no, i mexplico, era diferent, si, per era tot increible, des 
 de la caixa, duna qualitat extrema, la histtia tamb ho era, una histria un pel estranya per 
 pels amants del mn de la cincia-ficci, com sc jo, ens va sembler exquisita. El nou sistema 
 de control tamb es va fer extrany, per superable, i ms coses que feien daquest joc diferent 
 per per m no inferior.
  Els grfics em van deixar de pedra, sobretot els grfics paisatgstics, quina passada, i acompanyats 
 amb el so ambiental, ja era per espatarrar-se. El so i la msica eren tant bons que vaig buscar 
 durant anys la banda sonora apart, i al final la vaig aconseguir, potser va ser una de les primeres 
 obsessions en quant a bandes sonores.
  Jo crec que on va defraudar ms va ser en el tema, lespai, i el sistema nou de puzzles, el tema 
 noms era per amants, com jo, i els puzzles, al final han esdevingut el tipus de puzzles que shan 
 implantat en infinitat de jocs, em refereixo als puzzles de pensar davant duna mquina estranya 
 aliengena que no saps com funciona, igual que et passa en molts altres jocs, com la serie Myst 
 per exemple.
  Em va costar una mica acabar-mel, ja que es complica al final, i aquest sistema de puzzles et 
 desorienta una mica, per al final tho fas, i toblides del tpic sistema de usar esto en esto 
 i etc..
  La trama t moments impagables sobretot pels amants del genere, i tot barrejat, grfics, ambientaci 
 sonora i trama, fa que es vagi arribant a un estat de total satisfacci en quan avanses pel joc.
 
  Em va sapiguer greu que rebs tantes crtiques i tant males puntuacions, ja que jo trobava que 
 era una meravella. Em sembla que el temps ens ha donat la ra als que deiem que era bo, ha quedat 
 en la memria de molta gent i aix s bo. La gent que ha puntuat el joc, sempre ho han fet molt 
 positivament.
  En la meva prpia histria el joc ha quedat en un dels nivells ms alts, i aix s important desprs 
 dhaver jugat tant de temps. Les sensacions que vaig tenir amb aquesta aventura noms les he tornat 
 a tenir ara fa poc quan vaig topar-me amb el Syberia, per aix s una altra histria. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navahmed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I love adventure games genre or let's say loved adventure game genre. Now they are not being made 
 both in terms of quality and quantity ;-)
  
  This review of The Dig is based on not only when I played it for the first time almost 10 years 
 ago but also when I finished it again few months ago. Yes! It is an immersive game and I still 
 enjoy playing it once in a while like other classic adventure games. Reason? Because it is wonderful.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Point and Click is almost ideal for adventure games. Although recent innovations are also good. 
 Like in Dreamfall.
  
  Graphics:
  
  When the game was released, they were somewhat dated, 320x240.
  
  Sound:
  
  Perfect. Great 
 score, amazing voice acting, esp. by Robert Patrick.
  
  Value:
  
  Not perfect, but close to that.
  
  Tilt:
  
  Maximum, the game does so many good things. 
 Great story, voice acting. Nice puzzles etc. If you like the game, you might want to check the 
 novel, it is also very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Freeman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 19, 2004 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty old, just a little after Back to the Future movies filled our perception, and 
 before The undeniably great Episode II: Attack of the Clones.
  Vivid and greatly animated characters are a couple of the game's strong points. Hand-Drawn settings 
 and characters make this world make you feel right at home, day of the tentacle days, while making 
 you feel as if you're in an eerie world, discovering what it's all about.
  I would say the strongest appeal this game has is the mood it puts the player into. 
  I remember 
 it playing for the first time, and feeling that sensation of eerieness and like you quite dont 
 know in what place or world you're in. This is truly a cinematic experience. It is, in my opinion, 
 the most cinematic and moody hand-drawn game in the history of games.
  I am tempted to summarize the story and premise presentation, but I rather give you the pleasure 
 to find out for yourselves. I'll just tell you this: You're a group of special astronauts, travelling 
 to a special assignment to outer space, when suddenly, you discover everything is not as it seems 
 to be.
  Get this game, and know what I'm talking about. If you at least felt intrigued by this review, 
 just a little bit, then you have felt 1% of the game's mood and misterious story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kal_Rhael
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2004 5:04 pm PT
Review:  We don't see many adventure games nowaday's we can only look to these lost relics in the past, 
 and wonder, and play. 
  
  LucasArt's the dig, is true to the adventure genre, it sucks you in just like a book, pity so few 
 games do this anymore. 
  
  In the dig, you're a part of nasa's space team, gone off to space to knock a giant asteroid off 
 orbit just before it hits earth, apparently in the due process you stumble upon an ancient puzzle 
 on the asteroid. 
  
  Upon further inspection and a few nudges and twists, you find the giant asteroid to be a giant 
 space shuttle, made by an ancient alien race. It takes you to an alien planet, where-as you must 
 find out what to do to get back home, the further you study the alien techonoligy, the more you 
 became aware of why they have gone away from their world. 
  
  The puzzles can leave you stumped for hours, sometimes one puzzle would be more obvious then it 
 seem's leaving you to say "OMG can't believe i didn't get this right away!" but nevertheless they 
 leave you off with a feeling of acomplishment, and relief. 
  
  At some point in the game, you might even forget that this game is just a game, it sucks you in 
 just that much, the more you indulge yourself within the story, the more you would appreciate the 
 adventure genre. 
  
  I recommend that you play the game as much as you can for one session, for it sucks you in all 
 the more better, games like this are precious relics that should never be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashemaria
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 17, 2004 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Lucasarts was the premier adventure game publisher for over a decade; games like Monkey Island, 
 Maniac Mansion, Full Throttle, Grim Fandango, etc defined what adventure gaming was all about. 
 The famous SCUMM engine made it so genius' like Tim Shafer could create brilliant interactive stories 
 that would lead players though amazing worlds, puzzles, and hilarious moments. The Dig took all 
 of that and flushed it down the drain. What makes the old canon of Lucasarts adventure games so 
 great, the story, the Dig has the most vanilla unoriginal adventure story that is completely devoid 
 of any humor. The puzzles make no sense, at one point trying to solve a puzzle I consulted a online 
 solution and with the answer I still couldn't figure it out. Writing this hurts because I love 
 lucasgames so much, so all I can say is this if you want a good adventure go somewhere else. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
