-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls III: Bloodmoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/elderscrolls3bloodmoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,949 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 3, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bloodmoon provides more of everything that made Morrowind a great role-playing game and is the most 
 polished product yet in the series. 

  Expansion packs tend to get less interesting with each consecutive release after the original game. 
 While successive releases may be more polished, the game's engine gets a little more dated and 
 it's difficult to offer gameplay that isn't repetitive. Expansion packs for role-playing games, 
 in particular, face the difficult task of rekindling interest in the original while offering new 
 environments and adventures that collectively provide only a small fraction of the gameplay offered 
 in the original game. Bloodmoon, the second expansion pack for Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, largely 
 overcomes those problems by appropriately building upon the strengths of the original game while 
 also providing an ample amount of new territory to explore.  

          The new island provides a decent amount of new territory to explore.     

  While the 
 previous Morrowind expansion, Tribunal, was set exclusively in a segregated city that wasn't even 
 on the map of the original game, Bloodmoon adds a new island just to the northwest of Morrowind's 
 recognizable landmass. Morrowind's dark elf populace hasn't yet successfully colonized Bloodmoon's 
 island, which is dominated by fierce Nord tribes and barbarians. The beautiful arctic landscape 
 is covered in snow and ice, coniferous trees, and rock formations that appropriately resemble Celtic 
 ruins. The thunderstorms and dusty gales of Morrowind have been supplanted by delicate snowfalls 
 and fierce blizzards. While your character is happily impervious to the setting's frigid temperatures, 
 the change in climate and the distinct terrain make even random exploration interesting. And unlike 
 the Tribunal expansion, Bloodmoon doesn't restrict you from freely exploring the expansion's new 
 landmass. While Tribunal provided a story-driven series of largely sequential quests, Bloodmoon 
 offers more open-ended gameplay and a larger territory for free-form exploration, which were key 
 aspects of the original game's appeal.  

          Monsters frequently attack you in groups.     

  Bloodmoon's island is also apparently 
 the Elder Scrolls' equivalent to the Galapagos Islands, since it's populated entirely by unique 
 and interesting flora and fauna. There are more than a dozen interesting new animals and monsters, 
 including packs of wolves, spriggan tree creatures that need to be killed thrice to stay down, 
 and speedy undead draugr. There are no new flying creatures, and the sole water-dwelling animal 
 is largely passive, so explorers don't have to worry about being constantly interrupted by Morrowind's 
 flying cliff racers or pesky fish. If you don't elect to travel through the now tranquil air or 
 water, however, you'll have to deal with hordes of rapidly respawning arctic denizens, since the 
 island is practically overflowing with hostile inhabitants. The creatures are also much more powerful 
 than those in the original game, and battles are rarely duels with solitary enemies, as creatures 
 now frequently attack in groups. Despite these new threats, battles are still relatively brief, 
 bludgeoning affairs if you have a well-equipped adventurer from previous excursions, although you 
 can always increase the challenge using the difficulty slider that was added in a patch after Morrowind's 
 initial release.  

  If you chose to maximize the details of its impressive graphics, the original game's engine was 
 capable of forcing even the most formidable computer systems to run at occasionally choppy frame 
 rates. Since Bloodmoon features even more detailed and populated environments, the practical system 
 requirements have also been correspondingly increased. You should expect the game to play at least 
 a few frames per second slower when you're traveling outdoors, especially since it's easy to quickly 
 pick up a whole band of hostile pursuers if you're trying to rapidly travel between destinations. 
 While Bloodmoon's additional graphical richness helps to justify the occasionally choppier gameplay, 
 the resulting reduction in frame rates actually worsens one of the main problems that many players 
 had with the original game. The developer also apparently paid minimal attention to sound effects 
 and music, which are almost entirely recycled, although nonplayer characters do occasionally bark 
 commentary that accurately reflects the results of quests or other plot developments, which is 
 a welcome addition.     

  Bloodmoon does include one of the most frequently requested features of veteran fans of the Elder 
 Scrolls series -- it allows player characters to become werewolves. In the previous core game in 
 the Elder Scrolls series, Daggerfall, players could contract lycanthropy or vampirism and adventure 
 as one of those creatures of the night. Morrowind retained the ability to become a vampire and 
 allowed players to partake in a brief series of quests for one of several competing vampire clans. 
 While vampire characters weren't really feasible for ongoing adventures in the original game, since 
 they were ostracized by most guilds and groups that imparted quests, in Bloodmoon, werewolf characters 
 can seamlessly integrate themselves into society provided they are not observed while undergoing 
 a metamorphosis. If sighted changing between man or beast states, your character will be permanently 
 known as a werewolf and attacked on sight by all other characters, even if you promptly assassinate 
 all of the observers. It's an artificial mechanic that compromises the otherwise immersive setting, 
 although it's presumably imposed by the practical limitations of the game engine -- it's no different 
 from the treatment already given to careless thieves in the game.  

          You'll oversee the development of a new colony for a new guild.     

  In addition, 
 while vampirism was almost an "Easter egg" secret that many players remained unaware of, werewolves 
 are prominently featured in Bloodmoon, and the main story consists of completely different quests 
 and cutscenes for werewolf characters. Playing as a werewolf is also far more challenging than 
 playing as a regular adventurer, since your health will slowly drain unless you kill at least one 
 NPC nightly, and you're prohibited from using weapons, armor, magical items, or casting spells. 
 While an experienced and well-equipped adventurer will be able to quickly dispatch most of Bloodmoon's 
 threats on the default difficulty level, werewolf characters will have to rely heavily upon stealth, 
 coupled with quick strikes and prudent retreats, just to survive. Werewolves are gifted with enhanced 
 hit points, formidable melee skills, and the ability to sense other characters at great distances, 
 but they receive increased damage from the silver weapons wielded by the native inhabitants. Without 
 magical protection, it's also possible to be rendered helpless by monsters that drain strength 
 such as greater bonewalkers, which are frequently summoned by one of the most common new enemies. 
 The unique werewolf attributes and increased vulnerability, combined with the werewolf's significant 
 role in the setting's lore, make playing as a werewolf a more interesting and challenging alternative 
 to regular adventuring.  

          There's a large variety of new creatures and environments.     

  If you haven't already 
 installed Tribunal, several interface improvements that were included with that expansion are also 
 provided by Bloodmoon, such as organizing the game's journal by quest and allowing you to annotate 
 the automap. There aren't any new quests for Morrowind's guilds, but Bloodmoon introduces the East 
 Empire Company trader guild, which provides a number of complex quests involving the founding and 
 development of a mining colony. As with some of the guilds in the original game, you have to choose 
 between a few different factions within the guild that have contrasting ethics. Aside from the 
 guild quests and the main plot of Bloodmoon, there are numerous side quests provided by other characters. 
 Several quests also result in changes to the landscape or are prompted by scripted events, which 
 help to make the gaming world feel more dynamic. The new quests are at least as engaging as those 
 in the original game and emphasize the best role-playing aspects of the series.  

  Bloodmoon restores the original game's most appealing features by offering open-ended gameplay 
 and the opportunity to role-play varied characters in an expansive setting stocked with interesting 
 features. The main storyline is involving, and the arctic setting provides a fresh addition to 
 the lore of the series. While the only truly new feature offered by the expansion is the ability 
 to play as a werewolf, it's a significant and well-integrated gameplay addition. Bloodmoon provides 
 more of everything that made Morrowind a great role-playing game and is the most polished product 
 yet in the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Bloodmoon incorporates a new island. What Tribunal lacked in environment, Bloodmoon makes up for 
 in Solstheim off the coast of Vvnaderfell near Khuul (play the original Morrowind to know of these 
 places) . The entire game is based there. Like Morrowind, it is non-linear, but unlike Tribunal 
 it can be started at any time of the game. That means you finish Morrowind and Tribunal and then 
 you complete Bloodmoon at your leisure. New NPC, new forts, new places to explore make Bloodmoon 
 an expansion that you must have for yourselves.
  
  The gameplay doesn't change much with the First and Third person gameplay option. New creatures 
 are also added apart from the ones present originally from Morrowind and those added in Tribunal. 
 The entire island is littered with such weird creatures. Most of the creatures don't need killing 
 as in this expansion the baddies are mainly 2 legged humans or other such freaks as seen in the 
 game throughout.
  
  To sum it all, you should have this game not just to complete the Morrowind set but also because 
 it is a good game in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwenGAME
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Tribunal was dissappointing for me, Morrowind is a great game and it's first expansion wasn't the 
 greatest. Bloodmoon though, is a different story.
  
  Bloodmoon takes place on the island of Solthenstien, north of Morrowind. Instead of volcanos and 
 ash, Its snow and mountains! Solthenstien is aslo full of new creatures, snow bears and wolves 
 (which there pelts can be used to make sweet new armor) and my favourite, werewolves. About halfway 
 through the main quest the Skaal village is attacked by werewolves, and you have the choice of 
 becoming one, which opens up a whole different storyline.
  
  If you loved Morrowind, you'll love this. The only flaws i can think of is the terrible combat 
 and tons of text to read, If your willing to ignore these you'll find a great game here, a great 
 expansion for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diamhea
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Taking place on the frozen wasteland of an island known as Solstheim, Bloodmoon proves itself an 
 amiable expansion pack that yields many more hours of fruitful exploration, albeit only for more 
 advanced characters. 
  
  Advancing to Solstheim is easy enough, as a ship located in Khuul can get you there at any point 
 in your quest. The island itself is notably unhospitable, even for advanced adventurers. The hilly, 
 barren landscape is riddled with hundreds of humanoids and monsters within fairly close vicinity 
 of each other. You'll run into all sorts of baddies, from Wolves and Bears to the civilized Ricklings. 
 The latter are notable challenging foes, especially on pigback. A level 30 character can and will 
 struggle with more than one of these monsters at a time. This can be refreshing, as the rest of 
 Vvardenfell becomes monotonous and easy past a certain point, Solstheim offers escape from the 
 typical environments of the mainland and can spark anew the danger and excitement of exploring 
 with a lower level character. The island may appear small by the overhead map; but once you start 
 exploring the densely-packed environment you'll understand that theres much more than meets the 
 eye.
  
  The graphics are somewhat improved, with snowstorms impeding vision (akin to sandstorms in the 
 Ashlands) . While Fort Frostmoth is identical to any of the others on the mainland; the Barbarian 
 villages look convincing and beautiful. The Barrows are an interesting concept, and look great 
 on both the inside and outside. What does disappoint me is the fact that they are all almost identical 
 on the inside, killing part of the mystique of exploring them. This issue also rears its head in 
 the form of treasure chests. Plenty are dotted around throughout the Barrows and other caves but 
 they all contain the same preset batch of items. So much of Morrowind is based upon the fun of 
 exploring and finding treasures that this did indeed affect my experience whilst on Solstheim. 
 Thankfully the presence of many rare Artifact items kept me exploring 'til the very end.
  
  Enemies look great, especially Spriggans. Bears eyes and mouths even move realistically, proving 
 that the development team really did go into the subtle details, and thats what really matters 
 in Morrowind. Theres tons of quests to partake in, and hours of fun to be had, even for high level 
 characters. Bloodmoon is well worth your money; even if you' are a casual player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  An epic addition to the Morrowind line. Only this time, the story is more about Norse mythology 
 than Tolkien fantasy. The look of the mostly snow-covered exteriors is a great change from the 
 environments of Morrowind and Tribunal. And I loved the story-line, but then I AM a fan of viking 
 legends. So this one suit me fine.
  
  A couple of quest-lines run side by side, so you'll definitely have plenty to do on Solstheim. 
 Actually, I installed this expansion at the same time I installed Morrowind and Tribunal, so I 
 found myself making visits here periodically even during the Morrowind MQ. But be warned if you 
 do that... the foes you encounter here are much tougher than the standard opponents in either Morrowind 
 or Tribunal. Which actually makes sense, since it is assumed you have completed those games already, 
 and have a character who is fairly high-level.
  
  If you've played the other Morrowind games (which you MUST have, since this is an expansion) , you 
 know what to expect. Bloodmoon doesn't disappoint... in fact, my favorite quest in the entire series 
 is here on Solstheim... the "Skaal Test of Loyalty"! Play it and see if it doesn't cause a swelling 
 in your chest as well.
  
  And WEREWOLVES? What's not to like?
  ooowwwoooooooooooooo... get yer moon-howling on!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this quite a lot.
  
  I missed the deeper lore in the original Morrowind and the Tribunal expansion, but that was more 
 than made up by the new environments, creatures, quests, and Nordic lore.
  
  You get to learn more about the Nord culture ,and play as a werewolf if you want. Playing as a 
 werewolf became tedious because of day-night-people restrictions, and it finally became frustrating 
 to finish the game. It's only recommended for those who want a significant challenge.
  
  However, playing as human was not too hard, and still provided a fun challenge.
  
  You get 
 a few good artifacts, and you can have crafted 3 different kinds of armor and weapons.
  
  Bloodmoon was certainly entertaining, and well worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Bloodmoon is the 2nd expansion to come out for the big hit RPG The Elder Scroll's 3 morrowind. 
 While Tribunal gave you a entire city to deal with, Bloodmoon gives you an entire new landmass, 
 featuring a snowly landscape, dozen's of new monsters, many new item's and quest's to your hearts 
 desire.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You are once again and still the nameless hero born under a certain star, on a certain day and 
 destined for greatness, after numerous adventure's and many fufilled quests, your journey takes 
 you to the new continent, to which you can either book a ship, fly, or swim there. Once there you 
 will find an imperial outpost in which your story begins. Unlike tribunal, this place offer's new 
 factions to join, such as the east empire mining corp, which you can help reach greatness or not, 
 another new addition is that along the main story you will have a choice, which makes for a very 
 open ended game, you can either become one of the werewolf clan, serving a dark god, or you can 
 fight them, each making for a very individual experience, and which are both very fun to deal with. 
 As with the other expansion, there is many new places to discover, items to find, and people to 
 meet, all in a polished new envirement.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics have been improved, the creatures and monsters look more realistic, the armor looks 
 more polished, and the envirement is absolutely breathtaking, all in all, a very well done graphical 
 improvement to its predecessor.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Sound once again fits the tune, and alot of the dialog is now spoken, even if you can still 
 read it, this makes for more realism, and helps to imerse you into the great game.
  
  Value:
  
  There is alot to discover here, enough that even high level characters will have 
 their hands full dealing with this island. New monsters, new challenges and quests, a great and 
 well done story, as well as the overall improvements make this game an absolute must have. At the 
 price you can get it today, GRAB IT.
  
  this is the first ever and probably only expansion to ever receive a perfect 10. But i just cant 
 find nothing wrong with this game, the effort that went into this expansion is noticeable. In any 
 event, Buy it if you like great RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otharmasta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I think, and I think many others think also, that Bloodmoon is the best expansion pack made for 
 Morrowind. Tribunal was nice, but the only really great thing was the the two extremely powerful 
 swords that you get. And it was really hard to get to Mournhold. Well, as I said, Bloodmoon is 
 better.
  
  The quest is better, and more enjoyable. It was really cool when you could choose if you wanted 
 to become a werewolf, or stay as a normal being, and fight against the werewolves. Also, the new 
 weaponry, armors, and misc. quests were really cool.
  
  One other thing that I liked, was that in Solsthime there was (of course) different in climate 
 then in Morrowind. I enjoyed it when I was running in the spruce forests, and the same time it 
 was snowing. Perhaps why I like it, is because I live in Scandinavia, and it was really similar, 
 but anyway. A little change is nice always.
  
  Over all, I enjoyed this expansion really much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Bloodmoon is the second and final official expansion for TES III: Morrowind. 
 It adds a new island off the coast of Vvardenfell, the island where the main game takes place. 
 The island is chalked full of new quests, new items to acquire, a new player home, and even a new 
 faction for you to join and advance in. Regardless of if you've played through the main game or 
 not you'll begin the Bloodmoon story after arriving on the island which you'll do at your leisure.
 
  
  Like Tribunal Bloodmoon doesn't do anything to alter the core gameplay in any way. The main difference 
 is that enemies are often in groups now making battles much more of a challenge. Bloodmoon's battles 
 are much harder then anything you found in your travels during the main game and you'll likely 
 find yourself reloading many a time. The enemy AI is still the pitiful thing found across the board 
 in The Elder Scrolls III but the addition of multiple enemies really does add (or in some characters 
 cases create) a challenge. The new quests are generally good but they are mostly the same kind 
 of thing you found before but the developers have tried their best to keep it varied and interesting 
 which they do to reasonable success. The new faction and it's quests are particularly enjoyable 
 with an interesting premise and some characters that you just love to kill.
  
  Visually Bloodmoon is on the same level as Morrowind. The new island is north west of VVardenfell 
 and is covered in pine forest and snowy hills. New environmental effects like snow and blizzards 
 have been added. The effect is surprisingly believable and you get cold just looking at it. It 
 makes you want to don some of that bearskin armor you'll see floating around on the natives. The 
 island is dotted with burial tombs, caves, and other sites. Of main interest would be the new imperial 
 legion fort where your main quests will begin. In the sound department there are new weather sounds 
 for the chilly blizzards you'll push through but that's about it. Once again you'll find no new 
 additions to that much too short score. Of note thought that just every quest giver will have different 
 greetings as you progress through quests involving them. It's a nice touch in a game with no voice 
 acting.
  
  If you had any tech issues in Morrowind or Tribunal you'll probably still find them here. The imperial 
 legion fort exterior is especially demanding on your system and you'll be treated to a short slideshow 
 when you enter it's courtyard. It's without a doubt the most demanding area for your system outside 
 of Vivic.
  
  Overall Bloodmoon is a great expansion in just about every way. While it doesn't fix any of Morrowinds 
 problems it does offer enough new content of the same quality and variety that made Morrowind great. 
 If you were disappointed with Tribunal then rest assured, Bloodmoon is the expansion that you wanted. 
 If you haven't played either Morrowind or Tribunal yet then get all three as Bloodmoon adds more 
 premium content to one of the biggest games you'll ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  When Bethesda Softworks, and ZeniMax Media, launched The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, few games 
 could match the depth and the wonder that it held. This was a game that was fresh, had deep gameplay 
 and was quest heavy. That it looked good and played well was definitely a bonus. Then along came 
 Tribunal, an expansion to Morrowind that presented a new range of quests and a different setting.
 
  
  Now Bethesda has come up with a sequel, Bloodmoon, that is every bit as enthralling as the game 
 it is an expansion to. Yes, you must have Morrowind to play Bloodmoon, even though the game itself 
 takes place in a different part of the world, and has a rich feel that steps away from Morrowind 
 in many ways.
  
  The story of Bloodmoon takes place on the island of Solstheim. It is a wild forested land, where 
 danger lurks seemingly everywhere. The Empires new mining colony is in grave danger and you are 
 sent there to help it. There are numerous quests, most of which take on the guise of side quests. 
 While basically drawing form Nordic mythology, this game has enough new characters to keep the 
 gameplay fresh and exciting. There are a host of new mobs to fight, including boars, bears, wolves, 
 and spriggans, as well as the dreaded werewolf. Not only can you fight the werewolves, but you 
 can catch the curse and become one yourself. That is a wonderfully done sequence.
  
  In addition to the new monsters, there is also new armor and new weaponry available to help you. 
 The size of the world can be daunting. Solstheim is huge and you may even find need to head back 
 to Vvardenfell for needed items. Bloodmoons world, though massive, is full of surprises. The trek 
 throughout the islands, spurred on by the numerous quests, will add a lot of gameplay hours to 
 the original tale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Bloodmoon is the second expansion pack set in the Morrowind world, it adds 
 a large new island to the original world map, a cold northern territory named Solstheim. It is 
 populated largely by the Nord race rather than the Dunmer
  
  Lets get right down to it, this game lets you become a Werewolf, im not giving away any secrets 
 by saying that at all, if you know anything about this game you know that
  
  Being a Werewolf has it's pros and cons
  
  Pros: you become super strong, you can just go nuts 
 and kill kill kill, you look wicked awesome, there is a new guild open to only Werewolfs
  
  Cons: if someone sees you turn... your screwed... thats about it, but that is enough!
  
  By this 
 time the graphics are starting to show age, but the gameplay is amazing and the new island is just 
 great, it adds between 50-200 hours of new gameplay and is worth checking out if you haven't already 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  A great expansion pack for one of the greatest games ever created. This game adds a bunch of new 
 areas for you to discover and a bunch of new creatures for you to get mad at and destroy. It also 
 adds tons of new weaponry and tons of new armor. I am a fan of collecting armor and weapons so 
 I totally enjoyed the fact that they had more and more to come. This game totally added more gameplay 
 to the already 100+ hours of morrowind gameplay. But hey I didn't have a problem with that. You 
 didn't hear me complaining. I love the Elder Scrolls series and I love Bethesda for bringing them 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This morrowind exp. pack it a great deal and worth getting it adds a whole new island to marrowind 
 but not only that a new town that you make yourself on that island! not only that but adds new 
 weppons and armor to the new frozen wastland island of solitham! new monsters and NPC's quests 
 and houres more of fun then just morrwind itself i recoment playing marrowind for a little while 
 befor puting on this exp. so you can get a hang of the game and all its ups and downs befor trying 
 to explore the new land thanx -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Morrwind - Bloodmoon expansion pack was a great addon for the already expansive 
 world of Vvardenfell. The new content was fresh and interesting and it added a whole new island 
 of great size.
  The new content added Solstheim, a wintery island north west of Vvardenfell that can be teleported 
 to by a mage. This new isalnd opened up the possibility to become a werewolf which was quite interesting. 
 It also added some new creatures to battle against like Spriggans, Bears, and a few others. There 
 was also the option to become part of the Solsthiem resistence force. Once you join you can buld 
 a town from scratch. A unique idea that wasnt used to its full potential, but still enjoyable.
 
  The rest of the island consisted of a couple Nord villages, a glacier, some frozen lakes, and 
 random dungeons that were filled with new armor and weapons making the xpack just that much better.
 
  So for Morrwoind fans, this is something you dont want to pass up. Pop out and pick it up soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Bloodmoon is polished, but to short ! His NPC are tougher than you usual enemies, except fabricants 
 / gods and sometimes grow a resistance to your enchanted weapons till 100% reflect - spriggans 
 fell in this category , for example. Travel from point to point become easier and you get the chance 
 to play as werewolf through the entire game, since money and speechcraft are high enough to avoid 
 trade or bribe to complete a specific quest. Some quests are difficult because the indications 
 are vague - kill all spriggans in a specific area ; OK , how many I should terminate since they 
 spawn randomly ? - and the world is cold and desolate related to Morrowind. The best thing is that 
 Tribunal and Bloodmoon fix some bugs, making the engine more stable and less incline to crash or 
 freeze in the middle of fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edgemaster666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  (Just as a note, I'm *RATING* the Game of the Year Edition, not just the expansion Bloodmoon, but 
 i am *REVIEWING* Bloodmoon, because I couldn't find the PC link to the GOTY Edition for some reason.)
 
  
  The 2nd expansion, Bloodmoon, in this already huge series brings new aspects to the game, as well 
 as significant new land mass for seasoned characters to explore.
  
  Solstheim is half forest, half arctic wilderness. The snowy terrain is pleasing to the eye and 
 fraught with constant danger from a slew of new enemy types, some of which hunt in packs. This 
 island is meant for high levelled players, as the lower levels would not stand a chance. The island 
 is far larger and more open ended than that of Mournhold, and a far greater challenge. Although 
 travel is available to Solstheim as soon as you start a new game, it is strongly inadvisable, as 
 you simply won't stand a chance. To be realistic, you would need to be at leat level 35 to traverse 
 it in relative safety, without the constant need of health replenishing spells, scrolls and potions.
 
  
  It also offers the option of becoming a werewolf, something fans have begged for since finding 
 out about vampirism. Being a werewolf is in itself a challenge, as players have no access what 
 so ever to their inventory while in wolf form, and will lose health by the hour if you do not kill 
 at least one NPC a night. And if you are seen changing forms, you are marked for life, as gaurds 
 and citizens alike will not hesitate to attck you. However, if you remain unseen, you can lead 
 a perfectly normal life. Werewolves arte gifted with higher Agilti, Speed and Overall Strength, 
 and are fast and agile. Their claws do considerable damage, and they are relatively able to withstand 
 more damage. But people with silver weapons will deal double damage to a werewolf, and can be quite 
 tough to beat. This adds a whole new tactical element to the game, and it is very welcome.
  
  The expansion storyline involves the settling of a new imperial outpost, attempting to civilize 
 the island, and later on a mwhisper reaches the natives about the dreaded prophecy of the Bloodmoon, 
 when the werewolves will rise again and attempt to take over. You are given various petty tasks 
 until the real fun begins. The quests are quite diverse. One has you clearing out a looter's cave, 
 findingthe kidnapped Captain of the outpost, and the different objectives of each mission mix things 
 up nicely, making the game less tedious. The main mission also gives you the choice of becoming 
 a werewolf. You are bitten when you are protecting a town from a fearsome werewolf attack, and 
 are given the option to either cure yourself of the disease with a simple potion, or give in and 
 contract the disease of Sanies Lupinus. Depending on which path you take, the campaign differs, 
 having you take on opposite sides of the battle. If you saty to your normal form you must protect 
 a temple for example, but if you're a werewolf, you have to attack the temple. This diversity offers 
 replay value, and a unique storyline twist.
  
  The other elemnts from thee original game remain intact here, and stay solid. Combat is still a 
 bludgeoning affair, but players of the series won't really mind, and the life bar is probably the 
 most notable and useful thing in the game. New weapon and armour types are also scattered throughout 
 the island. The sound effects in the game are an old affair, having mainly been reused from the 
 older games. Clunks of weapons on armour, grunts of pain, and growls are all, for the main part, 
 uninteresting and repetetive. The orchestral score stays the same, which is a good thing, as it 
 is adaptive to the situation on screen, and the title track is great anyway.
  
  Graphics are slightly improved, and the snowy terrain is done extremely well, blizzards rage, and 
 provide a nice element, with occassional slow down, understandable, considerinfg the huge draw 
 distances and overall massive game. The engine stands the test of time, and still has thne occassional 
 extraordinary touch of artistic genius. New enemy models are done well, and are extremely challenging 
 to fight. the most memorable being the Draugr, wolf packs, and Spriggans.
  
  Bloodmoon is a very worthy expansion, and provides a slew of new quests and characters, and the 
 werewolf element is a fun change of pace. A large new island offers even more hours of exciting 
 exploration on this already huge game. For any RPG fan, new to the series, or a Morrowind veteran, 
 this game is a must have, and great build on an already epic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is another expansion pack game that gives you more areas to cover and new features to the 
 game.
  
  New maps, new areas, new quests, new monsters.
  additional quests and a brand new armour and weapons to be added to your collection.
  
  A brillient 
 game play that can keep your mind trapped in the game.
  You would never want to leave this game, you alway wanting more from it.
  
  Explore the frozen 
 worlds, full of forest, caves and snow-covered wastelands of the island of solstheim.
  
  Fight new creatures including bears wolves, ice minions and spriggans.
  
  Direct the construction 
 of a mining colony and face the threat of savage werewolves.
  
  Become a werewolf and indulge your thirst for the hunt.
  
  The exciting expansion to morrowind. 
 
  
  Winning more the 60 awards.
  
  A true gamer would buy this game, A true RPG player would be inside this game, find him, and you 
 will be pulled in the game world with him.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  This expansion adds the land of Solstheim to Morrowind. The island is filled with wolf, bears and 
 new weapons to get your hands on. Solstheim lookes and playes great and features some fine wiking 
 looking weapons. You can drink mead and buy bear and wolf armor. The land of Solstheim gives Morrowind 
 an all new look witch really makes the game even more varied than before. Solstheim is very challenging 
 and is not for the beginners. The first thing you will meet after sailing to Solstheim is a large 
 fort. This is where you can find your first quests. There are a lot of warriors and wolfs and both 
 white and brown bears. This ones are not to be playing with, they will attack you pretty fast and 
 they will not leave you alone unless you run a couple of miles. Bloodmoon really makes Morrowind 
 even more beautiful. 
  
  + 
  It's all covered with snow! You get to meet wikings. New weapons and enemies. A large island with 
 many new quests and places to go. 
  
  - 
  Solstheim is rock hard. There should have been added new music to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 31, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  Intro
  Whether you loved it or hated it, there's no denying that The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind represented 
 a landmark achievement in CRPG design. Its colossal landmass and supremely open-ended gameplay 
 offered players the chance to carve out their own distinct role while participating in a suitably 
 epic, world-altering quest which, thankfully for its fans, proved to be popular enough to spawn 
 an equally excellent expansion pack, Tribunal. Although the latter helped to satisfy the gaming 
 community's hunger for a more fully fleshed-out world, fans of the series continued to clamor for 
 greater Daggerfall-like opportunities, pointing out the increasingly generic terrain, as well as 
 the inability to transform into a werewolf. Enter the latest expansion, Bloodmoon, as it attempts 
 to rectify these concerns in its own stylish and unique way.
  
  
  Gameplay
  Those who chose to dive into Morrowind's first expansion, Tribunal, will almost immediately find 
 Bloodmoon to be a completely different experience. Where Tribunal essentially forced you to seek 
 out the added city of Mournhold by constantly threatening you with murderous assassins, Bloodmoon 
 is happy to just let you discover it at your own pace. No pressing, world-altering issues are breathing 
 down your neck this time around; in fact, you have to learn of these newer developments via rumors, 
 leaving you to go out of your way to seek out its additions, which this time around consists of 
 the arctic island of Solstheim. Located off the western coast of Vvardenfell, Solstheim is a surprisingly 
 expansive stretch of terrain that roughly measures a sixth of the game's primary landmass. Unlike 
 Tribunal, however, Solstheim isn't about a densely packed, almost claustrophobic population jammed 
 into cramped living quarters; rather, the sprawling, frozen wasteland features but a few scattered 
 groups of civilized people, and even they are often no warmer to you than the tempestuous arctic 
 weather. The face of the land itself is rather varied and diverse, and thankfully offers a drastically 
 different environment than the ash-blasted plains of Morrowind. Being able to explore this wide-open 
 landscape, complete with powdery hills, thick forests of sky-high coniferous trees, icy lakes and 
 mystical rock formations is a real treat, especially with the snowy winds at your back.
  
  Exploration is rarely a peaceful affair, however. While the island of Solstheim is home only to 
 a few local Nord tribes and is little more than an unhappy outpost for Imperials, countless creatures 
 wander the snowy drifts, looking for hapless wanderers to stumble into their midst. This includes 
 a more traditional wildlife than is known in the depths of Morrowind, such as feral wolves and 
 a few species of bears, which will angrily lumber in your direction if they so much as smell you 
 in the vicinity. A number of exotic races also make a hostile appearance: there are the undead 
 draugr who make for shockingly quick zombies, the hideous spriggan who must be killed three times 
 to be truly defeated, and the vaguely amusing boar-riding goblins. There are even quite a few ravenous 
 Nord barbarians who take none too kindly to your presence in their lands, and will gladly exterminate 
 you on sight. In fact, virtually everything you come across is more than a little enthusiastic 
 about chewing your face clean off, a danger that is compounded when you consider that most enemies 
 are considerably more powerful than anything you'll find wandering the hills of Vvardenfell. Suitably 
 strong characters should find this to be a refreshing challenge, although lower-level players would 
 probably be wise to keep to the mainland until they're capable of putting up a decent fight.
  
  Bloodmoon happily offers much more than a new lands to explore and things to kill, however, 
 and this largely comes in the form of quests. As mentioned earlier, the Imperials have established 
 an outpost on the safer edges of Solstheim, and it is on the shores of this very outpost, Fort 
 Frostmoth, that you first arrive. Of course, since the island represents little more than a monster-filled 
 tundra to them, the Imperials send only borderline-criminal soldiers to man the fort, which, in 
 combination with the profound sense of isolation, has led to a general sense of unhappiness and 
 despair among the troops. By helping the higher-ups investigate some of the goings-on in the fort 
 - and beyond, before long - you can launch into deeper look at some of the inhabitants of the island, 
 their culture, as well as some truly dark and bizarre happenings. For an alternative and potentially 
 profitable look at Solstheim, you can also choose to lend a helping hand to the East Empire Company, 
 who are also using Fort Frostmoth as a temporary outpost, albeit for entirely different reasons 
 than the Imperials. With raw ebony outcroppings to found in certain regions of the island, the 
 East Empire Company fervently wishes to establish a colony of their own in the area, and should 
 you choose to do so, you may assist in overseeing its construction by running various errands, 
 clearing out troublemakers, and occasionally choosing buildings to be erected. Watching the colony 
 gradually take shape through your actions is actually quite satisfying, and helps to create a sense 
 of belonging to the island; when combined with the generally excellent and involving set of objectives 
 to be found throughout Solstheim, the quest system for Bloodmoon nearly proves to be worth the 
 price of admission all in itself.
  
  Of course, a large new landmass, new quests, and new set of creatures certainly make for a fairly 
 good expansion, but what makes Bloodmoon truly worthy of your attention is alluded to in the game's 
 own title: werewolves. Being able to become a vampire is all well and good, but what fans of the 
 Elder Scrolls series have wanted to see is the ability to contract lycanthropy (as was the case 
 in Daggerfall) , and with Bloodmoon, Bethesda delivers. Pursue the quest system long enough, and 
 you'll eventually find yourself with the glorious opportunity to become a werewolf. While doing 
 so offers all the perks and drawbacks as you'd expect, being a werewolf is actually a strategic 
 affair, as the "rules" of lycanthropy force you to re-examine how you live not only in Solstheim, 
 but in the land of Vvardenfell as well. Sure, being a werewolf changes your appearance from a dashing 
 adventurer to that of a fur-covered beast on a nightly basis, and yes, it also boosts your attributes, 
 melee skills, and sensory abilities, but these talents come at a price.
  
  For starters, you're restricted to using your claws and little else, meaning that the use of weapons 
 and magic are effectively impossible so long as you're in your altered form. The lack of armor 
 makes you particularly susceptible to specific attacks, such as certain spells, and especially 
 silver weapons - which, incidentally, is the weapon of choice of Solstheim residents. Also, playing 
 as a werewolf will mean that your health will gradually decrease unless you ravage and destroy 
 one NPC each and every evening; thankfully, bandits and mad barbarians qualify, so you're not left 
 worrying if you'll ever run out of potential quest-givers. And to make things extra challenging, 
 should anybody witness you actually transforming to or from a werewolf, your name will be known 
 throughout the lands as a murderous beast, and everyone you see will attack you on sight, regardless 
 of your present form. Although the other factors involved in being a werewolf are extremely interesting 
 and a ton of fun, this last one is probably the best of the bunch, as it forces you to quickly 
 develop a keen awareness of time. You'll often find yourself glancing at the sky or even calculating 
 how long it should take you to travel from one destination to another, just so you're not left 
 in the middle of a town square when your transformation hits. It's a fantastic dynamic, and really 
 helps Bloodmoon to be an immersive and unique experience, and for fans of Morrowind, genuinely 
 makes this an expansion pack worth owning.
  
  Graphics
  After all the ash-flavored graphics of the original Morrowind, Bloodmoon's snow-covered hills, 
 frozen lakes and lush forests definitely provide a much-needed and very literal change of scenery. 
 Some textures remain somewhat muddy, but overall, the new look has been implemented surpassingly 
 well, immersing you fully in the artic environment of Solstheim while simultaneously making you 
 feel as though you truly are miles and miles into the wilderness. The new weather effects are also 
 very well done, with the snowstorms varying from blinding full-in-your-face blizzards to lazy snowfalls 
 in which the individual flakes pepper your vision. Nicely rounding out Bloodmoon's visual additions 
 are the new creatures, which look good, animate well, and seem to be every bit as much a part of 
 the land as the trees and snow. The only downside to all of this is that it tends to make for an 
 even harder framerate hit than any other part of Morrowind. On one hand, the increased graphical 
 appeal is worth this minor slowdown; on the other, those who already find themselves tolerating 
 slideshow-like speeds might find this a bit too much to bear.
  
  Sound
  With the exception of the occasional NPC who tends to make quest-related commentary, Bloodmoon 
 doesn't really offer a whole lot in the sound department. Given, the subtle ambient audio is appreciated, 
 and the occasional new monster effects seem appropriate, but there doesn't seem to be a whole lot 
 of new material here. What really seems lacking, however, is the distinct sound of hearing your 
 footfalls crunching in the hard-packed snow. Considering that you can often hear your steps elsewhere 
 in the game, this comes as a notable and strange omission. In the end, it's not as though it's 
 a problem, as the heart of the interest in Bloodmoon is in its gameplay additions rather than its 
 new audio bits, but it's still a tad disappointing nonetheless.
  
  Control
  For those who missed out on Morrowind's first expansion, the extremely enjoyable Tribunal, Bloodmoon 
 offers the same range of enhancements to the core game: map notation, a quest sorting option for 
 your journal, and a Seller Max button for when you're dealing with vendors. All of these are extremely 
 helpful, particularly the quest sorting option, which relieves you from having to keep pages and 
 pages of quest notes, although it occasionally fails to mention where given questee might live. 
 Of course, if you've already installed Tribunal, none of this is new.
  
  Overall
  Although I consider myself a diehard fan of Morrowind, my initial reaction to the announcement 
 of Bloodmoon was one of severe skepticism. After all, the idea of basing the expansion pack around 
 the ability to become a werewolf seemed a bit lacking to me, especially in light of the wealth 
 of newness that Tribunal had offered. Fortunately, Bloodmoon handles the werewolf aspect with such 
 style and engaging strategy that I couldn't help but be won over by its charms. Traveling the countryside 
 with an eye to the sky while taking care to avoid having to spend sunset in the presence of others 
 may sound somewhat tedious but actually presents a refreshing change of pace to those who may have 
 become jaded to life in Vvardenfell. Having to consider your travel arrangements as well as your 
 stripped-down, claws-out battle strategy is both interesting and highly entertaining, and offers 
 a completely new set of challenges for battle-scarred Morrowind veterans. The further addition 
 of the artic island of Solstheim, along with its new and intriguing quests, landscape, and monsters, 
 rounds out Bloodmoon extremely well; that it eschews Tribunal's railroading for a much more open-ended 
 exploration style leaves fans of the series virtually no reason to pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2003 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I, like many fans, was dissapointed to find the Tribunal expansion offered none of the free form 
 play of the original Morrowind. Tribunal was certainly fun, but it did feel dreadfully small when 
 all there really was to play out the quests that drove Tribunal. With Bloodmoon, it's evident Bethesda 
 listened to what people missed in the first expansion, while still keeping what Tribunal did well 
 - a compelling quest structure and lots of interesting things to do, and a suitable challenge for 
 an already high level character.
  
  While the island of Solstheim is nowhere near as big as Vvardenfell, it's more diversely populated, 
 and more interesting in general to explore... the random bandit caves and ancestral tombs in Morrowind 
 got a little old after a while, you'd seen one, you'd seen them all. (They also got dreadfully 
 easy to clear out once you got above low level.) Barrows and forests of Solstheim revitalise the 
 exploration experience - particularly for the gamer with too much time on his hands like myself 
 who's covered most of the landmass of Vvardenfell twice over.
  
  Bloodmoon offers no new features except for the Werewolf one - which to be honest I felt was a 
 novelty rather than a well designed game feature; having to kill an innocent every night and waking 
 up naked proves to be a bit of a pain. However, Bloodmoon is in my opinion a more solid expansion 
 than Tribunal - so if you bought and enjoyed that, then definitely get Bloodmoon. If you enjoyed 
 the original Morrowind and could get past its quirks, then again, get Bloodmoon. If some of the 
 recipe that made up Morrowind didn't agree with you though... well... Bloodmoon is basically the 
 same game. Just with more stuff.
  
  The only complaint I have is one that's been mentioned elsewhere - no more music. New sound bytes 
 yes, as with Tribunal. It's refreshing to not have to listen to the same Vvardenfell greetings. 
 I guess they didn't think Bloodmoon important enough a project to go contract Mr Soule's services... but 
 it's such a pity, since Morrowind's soundtrack if not so self defeatingly short and repetitive 
 would have been really great.... and it would have been really revitalizing to have some new music. 
 Myself like many gamers, I've just added a whole bunch of other mp3's into the music directories. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 14, 2003 10:09 am PT
Review:  Until the combat is made more interesting, I don't see the point of any expansion to this game. 
 Combat is mostly melee-based mouse clicking since the enemies will charge right up to you with 
 their melee weapons. Archery-type weapons aren't any fun and basically aren't integrated into the 
 game very well. Magic in combat had the potential to be really interesting, but what appears to 
 be a complex spell-making system is actually pretty under-whelming when used in combat. So you 
 are left with the game's visuals and its story-line, both of which are good. If you don't care 
 at all about the poor combat options and you don't mind the highly repetitive dialogue options, 
 you may possibly like this game. Me, I'm waiting for sequel and a review of that sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2003 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Excellent expansion. Very easy to pick up and head right into it. One should expect more frequest 
 combat situations on the new island, however they have yet to bore me. Lots of new beasties, not 
 to mention the well-known werewolf aspect. New armor and weapons as well. Lots of places to hide 
 lost artifacts...
  
  I have heard of one or two storey line bugs, so I would advise save before making any decisions 
 in the game. The only known flaw at this point.
  
  Simply a great expansion that old fans will love, and potential new fans should not pass up.
 
  
  Simply excellent. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
