-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/theelderscrollsivoblivion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, lavishly detailed world offers tremendous amount of action and adventure.
 Main mechanics like combat, stealth, and magic are fun and well designed.
 Impressive artificial intelligence and hundreds of believable characters.
 Outstanding symphonic score, as well as excellent voice acting and sound effects.
 Tremendous replay value, plus gorgeous graphics to make it easy on the eyes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frequent though fairly brief loading times.
 You might run into some technical issues with performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.3, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 28,996 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 20, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is simply one of the best role-playing games ever made. 

  This is a rare and remarkable achievement -- a huge, open-ended, complex, detailed role-playing game 
 that's fun to play and a pleasure to behold. Oblivion not only delivers everything that earned 
 the Elder Scrolls series the devoted loyalty of a huge following of fans, but also significantly 
 improves on the weaknesses of its 2002 predecessor, Morrowind. Morrowind earned recognition for 
 being one of the best role-playing games in years, but the immersive and long-lasting experience 
 it provided wasn't for everyone. Oblivion is hands-down better, so much so that even those who'd 
 normally have no interest in a role-playing game should find it hard to resist getting swept up 
 in this big, beautiful, meticulously crafted world.  

          Morrowind was a tough act to follow, but Oblivion isn't just better -- it's a lot better. 
     

  The Elder Scrolls series is known for its sheer size and depth. These are games that you could 
 lose yourself in, spending hours exploring a fantasy world, traveling for miles, or just looking 
 for minutiae, such as rare plants or hidden treasure. Oblivion lives up to this pedigree, putting 
 you into a massive, cohesive, highly immersive world. You get to create your own character -- the 
 possibilities for customization seem limitless -- and then explore the world as you will. There's 
 a compelling main quest for you to follow, which takes about 40 hours to finish the first time 
 through, but the majority of the game's content is peripheral to that main quest. You can root 
 out evil in hidden dungeons, join and climb the ranks in a number of different guilds, visit all 
 the different towns and try to solve everybody's problems, compete in a long series of gladiatorial 
 battles to the death, break into someone's home and rob them in their sleep, get caught and face 
 the consequences, contract a disease that leads to vampirism and then try to find a cure, buy a 
 house, steal a horse, invest in your favorite shop, and, if you can believe it, there's much more. 

  So the breadth of content is as remarkable as ever, but the most important thing is this: The many 
 types of gameplay in Oblivion are well-designed and deeply satisfying, even when taken on their 
 own. That's the main difference between this game and Morrowind. This may be a role-playing game, 
 but you could play it like a pure action game, or like a stealth game, or like an adventure game, 
 and it'd still be at least as good as, if not better than, games that are specialized in these 
 regards.  

  Oblivion does a great job of quickly introducing you to all these different aspects of play, successfully 
 engaging you rather than overwhelming you. You see the world through your character's eyes, but 
 a behind-the-back perspective is also available. Initially you just pick a name, race, and gender 
 for your character, and the game opens with you stuck in a dungeon cell, being taunted by a fellow 
 inmate. Somehow, though, you get swept up in a desperate escape attempt by the emperor and his 
 loyal retinue of protectors. The emperor, voiced unmistakably by Patrick Stewart ( Star Trek: The 
 Next Generation ,  X-Men ) , recognizes you from a portentous dream and entrusts you with the search 
 for his illegitimate heir. But first, you'll need to escape from the Imperial City's sewers. As 
 you make your way through this basic dungeon crawl, you happen upon ill-fated adventurers, their 
 stuff, and some ornery goblins, so you immediately get to play around with close combat, ranged 
 attacks, magic, sneaking, lock picking, equipment repairing, and more. How you survive is up to 
 you -- it's just as viable to kill your enemies with destructive magic, weapons, or bare hands as 
 it is to sneak or run right past them. And even though the sewer setting might sound unimaginative, 
 the quality of the game's visuals, the exceptionally good atmospheric sound effects, and the realistic 
 physics all serve to quickly draw you in.  

          Not only is there a huge amount of great content in the game, but you can also experience 
 it in all kinds of different ways depending on the type of character you create.     

  Toward the end of this sequence, the game does a clever job of recommending a character class to 
 you based on how you've been playing. For example, if you've gone toe to toe with every goblin 
 you've seen, hacking them up with an axe, you might make a good barbarian. But the game's numerous 
 premade character classes aren't nearly as interesting as the ability to create your own custom 
 class. The choices are numerous but clearly presented, and while you could go out of your way to 
 create a fairly useless character, your intuition will easily guide you through what's a complex 
 process. You choose an underlying specialization -- combat, magic, or stealth -- then you choose a 
 couple of primary attributes, seven major skills, and even a birth sign. Basically, you're choosing 
 your character's talents. Every character can use every skill; it's just a question of how well. 
 Ultimately, this character-creation process is much like Morrowind's, and it shares the same ingenious 
 design: You get stronger in this game by practicing and improving your primary skills, not by killing 
 stuff and earning generic experience points.     

  That's not to say you can play Oblivion like a pacifist, since the main quest and many others are 
 combat-intensive. But all the fighting in this game is probably one of the best parts. Visceral 
 toe-to-toe melee battles have you carefully negotiating the distance between you and your opponent 
 while switching between quick and powerful attacks, sometimes pausing to manually deflect your 
 enemy's blows with your weapon or shield. Specifically, melee combat feels faster and smoother 
 than it did in Morrowind, since in that game, it was possible to whiff blows against enemies while 
 still appearing to hit -- in Oblivion, close combat (as well as ranged combat) looks and feels much 
 more solid. Your foes are generally quite smart, too. Humanoid enemies will taunt you when they're 
 winning or turn tail and flee if they're near death. If you're faced with a number of foes, you 
 can try to draw closer ones into the line of fire of the ones in the back -- but be careful, because 
 ranged attackers will lead their shots, forcing you to dodge and weave during battle, rather than 
 simply keep moving.  

          The combat in Oblivion is surprisingly fun and exciting, whether you fight head-on or from 
 the shadows.     

  A stealthy approach can be a tantalizing alternative, since sneaking up behind an opponent, pick-pocketing 
 him, and then finishing him off with a single, deadly sneak attack can be at least as satisfying 
 as slugging it out. And there are a wide range of magic schools to choose from, as well. Blast 
 your foes with elemental spells, summon demonic aid or otherworldly weapons, charm your enemies 
 into laying down their arms, debilitate the toughest monsters into simpering wimps that even a 
 magic-user could beat up, make yourself invisible or really fast, and on and on. Whether you're 
 playing on the Xbox 360 or PC, you can select a number of spells, items, and/or weapons for easy 
 access in the heat of the moment.  

  Of course, there's much more to the game than combat against a wide variety of scary-looking bad 
 guys. Simply exploring one of the game's towns and interacting with its populace can be a remarkable 
 experience. Characters don't all stand around like they did in Morrowind; they're on a schedule, 
 so they'll go to work in the morning and go to bed at night, and you can catch them going from 
 place to place, talking to each other about recent rumors, and so on. They'll regard you differently 
 depending on your personality and appearance, and you can compel them to like you better using 
 everything from bribery to a fun little persuasion minigame in which you must guess at the other 
 character's disposition and act accordingly. Every line of dialogue in the game is delivered in 
 full speech, and the quality of the voice acting and the writing is generally excellent.  

  Almost every character in every town is unique, apart from the generic guards you'll find patrolling 
 around (though every city's guards are different, clad in their respective armor and uniforms) . 
 There isn't always a ton to say to each character, but the fact that there are so many different 
 lifelike characters in this game is staggering. It's exciting to stop and chat with each new person 
 you meet, especially since a lot of them might send you on a quest of some sort or tell you where 
 you can find one. Their faces are expressive, their eyes glint with life, and their lips move well 
 with their speech. They could have used more body language, though, since they stand almost perfectly 
 still when you're speaking to them. These aren't necessarily the most realistic-looking characters 
 in any game to date, but they're up there.  

  Also, the way the quest system is structured in Oblivion is a huge improvement to the way quests 
 were handled in Morrowind. In this game, anytime you're given a quest, you're prompted with a clear 
 summary of what the quest is about and what you're supposed to do or where you're supposed to go. 
 All your pending quests are clearly listed as part of the game's well-designed menu system, and 
 you can set any of them to be your active quest, which automatically marks your objective on your 
 map and gives you a compass waypoint to follow. This means there's next to no time wasted confusingly 
 wandering around, looking for the right person to talk to or the next place to go.  

  In fact, you can instantly travel to all major metropolitan areas right from the start, or any 
 other landmarks you've previously discovered. Through the "fast travel" feature on the world map, 
 Oblivion simulates the amount of time it would have taken you to hoof it from point A to point 
 B, so if you'd prefer to quickly teleport from one town to another instead of go by foot or on 
 horseback, you're free to do that. This might be jarring at first, both to Morrowind fans and new 
 players, but it turns out to be a great feature that helps keep the gameplay fast-paced... if that's 
 how you like it. Certainly, the game rewards you for exploring on your own, since you'll find all 
 kinds of uncharted places worth visiting. And in general, the way the quest system is structured 
 is ideal for making you feel like you always have clear goals, yet without it feeling dumbed down 
 or easy.  

          There's a lot to do in the game, but it's easy to keep track of your objectives thanks 
 to a great quest system and map interface.     

  On that note, the game's level of challenge feels just right by default, though you can adjust 
 a difficulty slider if you want to make it easier or harder. There's so much to do at any given 
 point that even if you do get stuck on something, you can always come back to it later and go do 
 something else that's fun and rewarding. The game's fine-tuned challenge is achieved in part because 
 the enemies you'll encounter out in the world will get stronger as you do, though in practice, 
 this doesn't come across nearly as contrived as it sounds. Growing more powerful in this game feels 
 suitably rewarding, as it should in any role-playing game. As you find new and better equipment 
 or spells, gain mastery over your skills, and increase your ability scores, you'll clearly get 
 the impression that you're becoming much stronger. One of the great, new features in Oblivion is 
 how all of the different skills in the game have different levels of mastery and corresponding 
 perks -- for example, when you reach journeyman level with blunt weapons, you gain a chance to disarm 
 your foes with a power attack. Or, a journeyman in marksmanship can zoom in to snipe at foes with 
 his or her bow. The strongest spells are limited to masters of their respective magic schools, 
 and so on. When you advance to a higher rank in a skill, you get an immediate and significant payoff 
 that wasn't there in Morrowind, where your character grew stronger much more subtly.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1814 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xXChuckXxSP
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is single-handedly the greatest RPG that I have ever had the pleasure of experiencing. 
 Now, the interaction with the NPCs does get a bit stale after a while, the process for closing the 
 Oblivion gates does seem to be a bit redundant, and all children seem to have mysteriously disappeared, 
 but overlooking all that, this is a beautiful game. The amount of customization and freedom for 
 the player in this game is simply mind-boggling. The graphics and scenery are gorgeous. Between 
 the main quest line, side quests, the expansion packs, etc., you will spend countless hours playing 
 this game. Every time I load this game, I find something new, whether it be a new cave to explore, 
 an NPC that is in need of assistance, or just a new piece of scenery in the region. There is always 
 someplace new to explore. Always a new story to hear. Always another crazy who's out to get you. 
 Always something new to see. Oblivion is a must-have for any PC gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogiebot5000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Of cource everyone loves an rpg but an rpg with with style and 250 HOURS! HECK YA! The world of 
 Cyrodill is for you to explore and with modfications left and right the story never ends. Story: 
 You start like any other scum in Tamriel, in prison. Your cell mate keeps blabbing on about your 
 race when he has the nerve to say "You hear that? The guards are coming! For you! Heheheheh." Next 
 thing you know you hear 4 knights in strange armor coming to your cell. When they get to your door 
 you notice a man in fancy robes wearing a beatiful amulet. They open the door and open some sort 
 of strange passage. The man in robes walks up to you and explains that hes the Emporer. He then 
 tells you that there heading into the sewers. (Of all places) And the rest youll have to play for 
 yourself. Gameplay: Like any other good rpg there will be thousands and thousands of items on bandits 
 and creatures of all sizes. You'll be spending months plundering the many ruins of Cyrodill to 
 make your way in the life of a hero and a citizen. Design: Theres nothing here becuase i could 
 go on and on and on and on and on about what ive seen.
  
  FINAL SCORE
  
  Story:10
  
  Gameplay:10
  
  Design:10
  
  Overall:30 (If that existed :D its 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moogle11293
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Really I would give this a 7.0
  but the 6.5 makes people want to read this.
  
  Experienced RPG fans and anyone who doesn't fall for blank eye candy,
  please research this game 
 some more before buying. 
  In my experience it really wasn't worth it. Dont believe the hype, not the rest, nor the amount 
 of reviews.
  
  Continue reading at your own resistance against tedium.
  
  But as for Elder scroll fans, buy this because i possibly couldn't care...
  
  Literally what 
 more can I say, there are a lot of people saying this is a good game but I hold no prejudice against 
 them.
  
  But for me this game failed and fell flat on its face within half an hour, it really is that boring, 
 open, and just outright shallow.
  
  After reading through this
  http://www. rpgcodex. net/content. php? id=129
  (worth the read)
  it reminded me of my oblivion 
 experience.
  in order of appearance.
  
  I was pretty much expecting some D&D kind of thing, so from what I have heard, so... the character 
 generation screen...
  and let me tell you the Races are the worst I've ever seen in a game, crap iv seen better ones 
 on free to play games.
  there's this .. weird.. dragon like thing ? .. hell with that it looks so stupid. 2 human like species, 
 one can cast magic better, one uh. Has, nothing special about it other than it looks boring.. oh 
 and the magic casting one looks like a dwarven human love child.
  There are orcs, who look deformed compared to usual ones. 
  Dark elves.. which i raged over so 
 much, No.. not drow.. dark elves.. kay whatever they look stupid anyways, aren't really like drow. 
 I finally made a character after about 30 minutes.
  and uh, theres elves, who look stupid.. and have extremely thin faces and ears, and i mean super 
 huge night elf like ears.. anyways.
  My plan was to stick to Ranged combat, using a bow, still have some reserve of sword and shield 
 combat, and a lot into healing.
  
  Faces take a long time to perfect if you dont want he/she looking like a mutated fish, skin pigments 
 are awful in the light and that's about it.. oh... and the races have nothing special between them, 
 there's, no bonuses, no racial benefits, nothing.
  That's ignorant to say, but really, the game doesn't say that there is, other than "They boast 
 the finest warriors" or "They are renowned for their archers" who gives a crap, on Neverwinter 
 nights i kicked a dragons cake hole back into its skull with a elven fighter, they fail to mention 
 figures such as that. Or detailed sheets ? On oblivion you barely even notice such things as strength, 
 i dont even, remember if there was...
  
  Blablabla, annoying voice acting, terrible facial expressions, boring conversations, not really 
 any choice on conversation.
  start off in a prison cell. And you just happen to be in one where there's a secret door... yeah.. emperor 
 comes walking through, you get to follow him, its like a mini tutorial that teaches you pretty 
 much nothing. Kill some rats, couple of goblins.
  
  Classes !
  they suck.. yeah... There basically is non, you can wear heavy armor have a sword and probably still 
 cast shields.. not a spell failure percentage but a energy penalty or some crap.
  
  Skills increase when you practice them, Egs if you bunny hopped alot like i did and pulled off 
 some totally sweet head shots with a bow you will quickly realize that the standard human on this 
 game can take 100 arrows to the face until it dies ... (City Guard)
  During the jumping you will most likely gain acrobatics skill, allowing you to jump further, decrease 
 fall damage etc.. but you don't just, level it up, like in diablo2 or any decent rpg, no.. you have 
 to find some guru or something and meditate on it... so if your i the ass end of no where your basically, 
 well yeah, you never bother going round to it.
  
  Anyways just look at the classes if there is a website for it, they suck.
  
  There is no gore.
 
  
  Combat ends up looking stupid...
  
  Ranged damage is pathetic if it is not a sneak attack.
  
  There is something called Stamina, 
 it runs out extremely fast, and when it runs out, you pass out (citation needed ? I'm not sure, 
 but i remember one battle was against a foe that drains stamina.. even then.. the stamina thing still 
 isn't a good idea) , so you have to eat apples and food (which weighs quite a lot) during combat 
 to keep it up, as well as cast useless healing spells, hard to find potions, money is scarce.) 
 saying this why ? Because you are encumbered so easily. Unlike Neverwinter Nights or fallout series, 
 soon as you breach your weight carrying limit you could still reasonably move to an extent... but 
 on oblivion.. you are immobilized, you cant move, not one bit, regardless of what you are doing, 
 or where you want to dump this stuff...... and the crap you want to sell barely sells for anything.
 
  
  Menus are awful, confusing, and barely do their job.
  Layout is awful. Really is, there isnt really a way to tab or keybind your spells or weapons, instead 
 you have to enter the.. not even console worthy menu. (imagine having 9 buttons for all your skills, or 
 anything, on a wow character, button mash time ?)
  
  I can not believe people like this. 
  There has to be a mod somewhere to change it all ?
  
 
  Its quite easy to describe this game.
  
  Nice graphics. (played on max)
  Boring maps, soon as you walk out of the prison, confronted by the huge landscape, that is all 
 you will see for the rest of the game, that and happy sunlight dream world lit towns.
  Lots of ragdoll...
  Music which will forever remind you of oblivion, and make you cringe whenever 
 you hear it.
  Bad voice acting, boring conversations, non humanoid looks.
  Minimum of enemies, basically like..4 kinds... and as you level up, they level up.
  
  Oblivion 
 gates are all the same, run in, get to the tower, steal stone, enchant weapon, find a new weapon 
 ?.. sell old weapon.. for 5g... appraise failure... was actually worth 500 or something... arrows cost 
 an insane amount of money.
  
  there's just so many annoying things about this game, that soon as you play, just make you wanna 
 drop the game instantly.
  
  OH yeah and there is plenty of nude mods, in case anyone feels.. like that...
  
  Spells.. suck.....
 
  weapons... suck...
  combat.. boring after first few fights...
  stamina passing out and stuff ? .. worst idea ever...
  magical energy ? forgot its name... you 
 guessed it .. sucks (magicka ?... right... now thats just... sad, I might make a game and call mine 
 vageta) 
  the entire game is one.. boring... long... visually pimped.. grind..
  
  
  although i dont know .... was this meant for a console ? right ?
  .. hell.. deus ex is a better 
 rpg than this.. and i dont even think either of these is an rpg ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has got to be one of the best RPG's of all time! This game almost never ends. Seriously, 
 there are at least 1000 quests! And if you do find yourself done, then mod or download mods. 
 
  
  Okay, now the review, this game never lets down. You'll find yourself in big cities, castles, dungeons, 
 caves, forests, other worlds, and of course, a huge open landscape. The graphics, can hold all 
 of this!
  The graphics are good, not amazing, but good. The gameplay is just awesome. Hacking zombies to 
 death, or piercing an arrow right through the heart of a demon. The gameplay does not disappoint.
 
  
  I'd like to mention one mod I have made. It's the super boots. You jump and run at enormously high 
 speeds, if you jump you can see the entire map. 
  
  Anyway this is probably the best RPG of all time. This game never lets down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarckArchon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  Ok a few people say that this game is a disappointment, repetitive, buggy, laggy and so on, the 
 first thing i don't agree, repetitive well indeed, buggy well "No game is Perfect !" and laggy 
get a better PC :P". It has its problems but hey it was made in 2006 and Bethesda wasn't able 
 too fix everything.
  
  Ok now my review ill go with the bad first, saving the best for the last ^^.
  Bad:
  -Voices 
 repeated way to many times
  - Close Combat is a bit poor 
  - Stealth well hard too be unseen
  - Spell and Arrow aiming is a problem
  - Repetitive areas
 
  - (worst of all) an issue with leveling
  
  Good:
  -Incredible Graphics for its time
  -A wide variety of Spells in which you can disintegrate you're foes
  -A wide variety of Weapons, 
 Armour, Jewelry and more
  -Thrilling story and quests very well made
  -Character Customization is just splendid 
  - (best of all) a game that will remain in history 
 as one of the best RPG's ever
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  So, im writing this review about 3 Years after the release of The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. Why? 
 Cause i think this Game still is one of the best ... hm... RPGs? Action-Adventures? I dont care...
 
  
                                   
  The Value truly is great, with all addons i needed 140 Hours to complete the Main-Quests and all 
 Side-quests i found so far. I dont even know if there are still more Quests ingame. The replay 
 value also is great. So, you can multiply the 140 hrs of Gaming with the Number of Characters youve 
 got. Later ingame you also get the ability to create your own Spells or magical Weapons. If you 
 like, you can also buy a House in your favorite Town and adorn it with stuff you find on your Journey.
 
  
  Also the Atmosphere is really fantastic, especially cause the Quests arent: "Get 50x Wolf-Fur" 
 I remember a Side-Quest with a Painter, who was trapped in one of his Paintings. You had to enter 
 the Painting too, and the whole World in it changed to a Comic-Look. Or you had to get into a Dream 
 of one Guy, to wake him up. Even 3 Years after Oblivion, and lots of RPGs or whatever. Ive never 
 seen that kind of variety especially in Side-Quests again. (Not even in Fallout 3 which is a great 
 Game too) .
  
  The Graphics in Vanilla-Oblivion are nothing special anymore... but if you add some Mods this one 
 still looks great (Parallax mapping, Depth of Field, High-Res Textures etc.) 
  
  The Music-Tracks ingame are standard-RPG Orchestra and Medieval Soundtrack. 
  The Game got a 
 great Voice-Acting (which truly is a brilliant achievement, cause this Game is sooo huge [look 
 at the Voice-Acting in Gothic 3 for example XD] )
  
                                   
  Cause of its Value, the great 
 Main- and Side-Quests and simply the Atmosphere... the only possible Score is: 10... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  lets get off with the story first! 
  
  you are a prisoner in the imperial prison in cyrodil for some reason. first off, you are rudely 
 insulted by a prisoner in another cage, then out of nowhere the emperor of tamriel pops up and 
 goes into your cell, goes through secret door which you follow em through, then he gets killed 
 by people in red cloaks! 
  
  then you have to find an old man at a temple, and save the emperors SON... then you find that his 
 son just happens to be in a city under attack by demons from hell, and he seems to be one of the 
 few people alive, you bring him back, put him somewhere safe, go to a city, explore a manhole, 
 close some gates to hell, and of course, steal demonic artifacts, then desecrate the tomb of a 
 god just to get his shirt! then desecrate the tomb of a dead king to get a pretty rock, then you 
 go to the "paradise" created by a pedophile, so you can imagine what it's like then you get out, 
 and find the capital being invaded by a very tall man with four arms and red skin. then the emperors 
 son is dead and everything is somehow "happy"
  
  nice storyline isnt it? T_T 
  
  
  the gameplay feels pretty fun at first, and the game world feels huge! unlike morrowind, you are 
 more guided through stuff instead of being 100% clueless on what to do. eventually, the combat 
 will feel extremely lackluster, so enjoy it while it lasts! really, all you ever get to do is hack 
 away at your enemy, no stabbing : ( this really ruins the gore...
  
  the expansion packs will add a good amount of extra gameplay, but as we all know, the fun wont 
 last forever... but when that happens... MODS!
  
  
  thank god there is thousands of player made modifications you can download for the game! this keeps 
 you going ^_^
  
  the graphics are somewhat decent, but nothing special. 
  
  the dialogue is terrible, since they only use one voice actor for every single person in the game. 
 they use only 1 voice for every race, and 4 of the races have the same exact voice.
  
  plus the voices and AI reactions are extremely unrealistic! when you kill a guy in the middle of 
 nowhere, guards from the other side of the map seem to somehow know you did it..... 
  
  overall, the game is awesome while the fun lasts! so enjoy it while it does 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekkoe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I could of course review this game myself, but I'd just be repeating what Vince D. Weller has said. 
 And it's all true.
  
  No one seems to analyse RPGs as works of art anymore. It's all just flashy graphics. No more deep 
 NPC, moving storyline, just a list of things supposedly "revolutionary", a huge hype and another 
 marketing succes, but gaming failure.
  
  Interestingly, the link I'm about to present you was banned from the Bethesda-forums, for... being 
 too honest? Bethesda community members were starting to agree. Can't have that now, can we?
  
  Bethesda's reasons were the RPGCodex being too independent, often resulting in sexual themes, 
 while in the mean time the TES-community started focussing on the nude/erotic part of Oblivion 
 modding. No bans there, aunty Beth?
  
  Enjoy, as I present to you the ONLY honest Oblivion review.
  
  http://www. rpgcodex. net/content. php? id=129
 
  
  All credits to Vince D. Weller from Iron Tower.
  
  Regards,
  
  Peter aka Ekkoe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldryan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a game I've waited for almost 2 years since I was playing it's 
 predecessor TES III : Morrowind, and I must say it deserved the wait. 
  I didn't had a high-end PC while I was playing it so most of the settings where kept to a medium, 
 but even so I played it for more than 250 hours. My first impresion of the game wasn't that great, 
 you being trown in a dungeon without a clue of who, what or where but at the moment when you come 
 out to the light and see for the first time the amazing landscape it really put a smile on my face 
 :D. The story is also a important part of a game and Oblivion, although not all the time, really 
 delivered creating the universe I was already familiar with in Morrowind. The game-play mechanics 
 are pretty good, although not perfect, the combat was sometimes really boring and you could find 
 yourself in a situation where you are killed by an inferior enemy. The dialog lacked feelings and 
 was preaty dull because I think there are about 10 voices in the whole game but the music was really 
 integrated with the whole feel of the game. In my view :
  The GOOD POINTS :
  - Huge world, populated with all kinds of animals.
  - Diversity of items, NPCs, monsters and 
 missions.
  - Gorgeous graphics, sound and story.
  - THE MODS.
  The BAD POINTS :
  - Loading times.
  - Somewhat big system requirements.
  - Some minor bugs.
  Thanks for reading 
 my review, it's my first one and hope you like it !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeborg14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:06 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me first say that I haven't been an Elder Scrolls fan for a long time. I began 
 with Morrowind after it had been out for a few years, and I couldn't really get into it honestly. 
 However, when I picked up Oblivion, I was blown away from the start. It was my very first game 
 for the new Xbox 360, and I beat it multiple times (over 300 hours total) before I purchased a 
 good laptop and got the Game of the Year Edition for the PC. I have beaten it a couple more times 
 since then, and it still hasn't gotten old. I decided to review it for the PC, since I feel it's 
 the more complete version with the Construction Kit, allowing others to mod it. And let me tell 
 you, some of the mods people make are amazing! But let me just review the game itself.
  
  Graphics - The graphics, which is the first thing that becomes apparent to you when you first turn 
 on the game, are to say the least amazing. As one of the earliest games for the 360, we were all 
 blown away by next generation graphics, but Oblivion still continues to amaze me. Not only is it 
 technically proficient, but it's also very artistically amazing. There will be many times when 
 you will cross a bridge or pass an opening in a forest and find yourself in awe of the panorama 
 that spreads before you. The best thing about it is the knowledge that when you witness these breath-taking 
 views, you can easily say to yourself, "I really want to go there." And guess what, you can. Oblivion 
 is an open world game, and it's a huge one at that. Sure, it may not technically be as expansive 
 as Morrowind, but in my opinion, Morrowind wasn't the kind of game I wanted to run out and explore. 
 Frankly, it was too daunting and treacherous. Oblivion is much less haunting; instead of trying 
 to make you look over shoulder half the time, it wows you with breath-taking views and gorgeous 
 effects. The sunlight's glare off of your enemy's armor and weaponry, the leaves and grass swaying 
 in the wind, and the eerie, greenish ambiance of the dungeons serve to distract you from the game 
 itself. Furthermore, to remind you all of the advantages of the PC version, with the PC version, 
 you can obviously tweak the graphics to suit your computer's abilities, which can exceed a console's 
 power, thus making the PC's graphics superior. And others can even mod the graphics for amazingly 
 detailed textures for those of you with power house computers. All in all, Oblivion hasn't yet 
 ceased to amaze me with its artistic design, great graphics, and ceaseless attention to detail.
 
  
  Gameplay - What would a game be without its mechanics? Sure, a game can look great, but many games 
 are only skin deep. With annoying camera issues, wacky controls, and poor intuition during gameplay 
 and action, the way a game is engineered can make or break a game. However, Oblivion definitely 
 makes no mistakes here. The controls feel just right on the Xbox 360, and they even feel more at 
 home to the hands with a keyboard and mouse. A mouse has precision for aiming and selecting than 
 does an Xbox controller. Thus, the sensitivity flows better, and more buttons are available to 
 you to customize your experience with the controls. But gameplay is more than just controls. Of 
 course, being a generally first person game, Oblivion doesn't really worry too much with camera. 
 However, you do have a third person option, which is probably one of the only reasons Gamespot 
 didn't give this game a perfect 10. Honestly, Bethesda has always had a tough time making third 
 person cameras. From Morrowind to Fallout 3, the third person perspective is pretty lame; avoid 
 it if you can. The player in third person never really looks human in his movements. However, every 
 other character, the NPCs, are extremely fluid in their motions. They are quite convincing in fact, 
 except for a few select animations, such as bending down to check dead bodies and eating or drinking. 
 Other than that, action animations and the like are amazing. The action itself is visceral, and 
 you can manually change the amount of blood if you want. It's always intense fighting enemies, 
 just because of the way the game is designed. The art of swinging your sword around, dodging your 
 opponent's attack, coming back in for another swing, or implementing some magic. Magic is an extremely 
 deep system that features many spells and effects. Especially when you're fighting a sorcerer with 
 your own magic and using something fast like lightning, the battles can become very intense. Add 
 in the possibility of archers and other melee enemies, and the battles have a lot of variety. There 
 are multitudes of enemies, from creatures to NPCs, and because of the many possible combinations 
 of these, you'll never get tired of regular fights.
  Not to focus just on combat, there is a whole other side to Oblivion: non-violent, urban areas 
 that comprise the cities. The NPCs follow regular patterns and schedules, and the result is a living 
 breathing world that unfolds right before your eyes. They carry on conversations with each other, 
 although after playing for at least 400 hours, I've heard the conversation possibilities so much 
 that I can recite them. And one time I heard someone say, "Hello" only to hear someone else respond, 
 "See you." However, most of the time this conversation works fine, even though it's always limited 
 to two people. And when you interact with the NPCs, the conversation works very well, giving plenty 
 of choices and persuasion options to keep you busy. However, while in conversation with another, 
 time is frozen. So in certain cases, such as when action is going on in the background (or in the 
 foreground even) , you will talk with someone, and you can see enemies and allies stuck in mid-animation 
 in the background. Kind of humorous.
  And of course, there are three main paths you can take as you progress in the game: combat, magicka, 
 and stealth. I don't need to explain each individual one, as they're pretty self explanatory and 
 I've already discussed combat and magicka. Stealth works pretty well, although of course it's not 
 completely realistic when your stealth skill is 100 and you can follow someone one foot behind 
 them and remain undetected. When coupled with archery, stealth can be extremely powerful, as you 
 get sneak attack bonuses, up to 8x! In other words, you'll end up taking off about half the average 
 enemy's health when your stealth is really high. But don't forget about the other paths, and the 
 best thing is, the huge number of combinations between these styles and their attributes are nearly 
 unlimited, and they all work flawlessly together.
  
  Sound - This is a really important part of any game, even though it is often overlooked or at least 
 dwarfed in comparison to other aspects of a video game. The composer's score really hits the mark, 
 and not just some of the time, all the time. When you're in battle, he has a good many tracks that 
 really bring out the action and increase the intensity of the experience. And of course, when the 
 battle is over, the music does an amazing job of emphasizing the beauty that is already so powerful 
 in this game. When you are simply walking among the trees, admiring the beauty of little particles 
 in the air and detail in the atmosphere, the music adds so much to the ambience of the game, it 
 is simply awe-inspiring. I simply cannot describe how beautiful the music score in this game is; 
 you really must experience it for yourself. As for the sound effects, there are so many in this 
 game, simply because it is open world RPG, and one of such high quality and reputation, it is often 
 overwhelming when you step back and look at the big picture. Everything matches together, from 
 the sounds of walking on the sidewalk transitioning to walking in the grass. The clashing and clanging 
 of sword against shield is extremely convincing. But not only is it the little details that Bethesda 
 clearly pays so much attention to, but it's also the big picture as I've stated before. The sheer 
 scope of this game and sounds and music that accompany are too amazing for words, and must be experienced 
 to be fully appreciated. 
  
  Story - Honestly, this is one of the most important parts of a video game to me. Being drawn into 
 a character and seeing how my decisions and actions can influence or further his life and the life 
 of others around him is extremely satisfying to me. I love it when a simple video game can manipulate 
 your emotions. So when I look at Oblivion and see a character customized intensely by you taking 
 part in an epic struggle for survival to save mankind from an evil demon, I see an instant classic 
 in my books. Even though the story may look clich, there is so much depth in this game (just like 
 everything else in the game) . There are many good characters that are heroes themselves, not including 
 you, but there aren't so many that you are overwhelmed and can't follow along with what's going 
 on (cough, cough, GTA IV) . You feel drawn into each character as events unfold. And don't worry 
 about the other characters stealing your glory; you'll get plenty of attention as the story progresses. 
 I'm definitely not going to ruin the storyline if you don't know it already, but events unfold 
 in a way that builds tension extremely well, and you'll be surprised many times. The game features 
 just enough big battles to keep you satisfied, and of course these battles are quite epic. Sometimes, 
 though, when the tension is in the process of building, you will like you are running errands for 
 certain people. It would have been better if some of the characters assigning these quests would 
 assist you with their company or at least send some troops with you, because NPC battles are so 
 much fun. It's really fun to watch NPCs battle in Oblivion, because the AI is pretty smart and 
 the deaths are amazingly satisfying. But there isn't so much of this that it gets too tedious, 
 as all of the quests are pretty interesting. Whereas in Morrowind, you would sometimes have quests 
 that were simple and straightforward, Oblivion always has something deeper under the surface. Most 
 of the quests have the appearance of something simple, but there's always some plot going on in 
 the background that makes completing these quests that much more interesting. Probably the only 
 other (minor) complaint I have besides running errands is the factions. The factions seem shorter; 
 however, all of the factions seem better thought out, as many times something you think is an errand 
 is actually very valuable to the faction's storyline. So factions are shorter but more in depth 
 and more personal, but I guess my complaint would be that there is an evident pattern that develops. 
 Let me go ahead and brake it to you: you eventually conquer every faction. Whether it's becoming 
 the leader or grandmaster or whatever, the factions' progressions become predictable after you 
 beat the first couple of factions. After I beat the Thieves Guild and the Mages Guild, I guessed 
 that I would be able to take over the Fighters Guild and the other guilds. And sure enough, I guessed 
 right. But really, that's not a huge complaint, because after all the work that you've done, it 
 is very satisfying to finally achieve these goals, even if you know where you're headed from the 
 start. Because you put so much effort and time into these guilds, it's nice to finally see yourself 
 on top after the end, and most of the time, these endings are crafted very well. So, other than 
 these very minor annoyances, the story really does complement, if not highlight, the game and its 
 more creative side. 
  
  Replay Value - If I haven't already communicated to you how huge this game is, and how much fun 
 it is to play and replay again and again, then I have failed as a reviewer. Like I said before, 
 I must have clocked in over 400 hours into this game on both the 360 and the PC, and thus this 
 is probably the best video game you could purchase for a mere $30 dollars (for the Game of the 
 Year Edition) . I cannot describe adequately how huge and how amazing this game is; it must be experienced 
 at least once or twice to fully appreciate how awesome this game is. You can play through again 
 and again, and each character you choose will be different than the next, and thus you will have 
 a different experience. For $30, this was probably one of the best choices for a video game I've 
 ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeePoz0r
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say? this game is EPIC. Also it has the possibility to add some mods to improve 
 the experience. I've seen many ppl arguing about obvlion vs gothic 3 and I'm sorry about Gothic 
 fans but there's no comparison. Oblivion is just EPIC, Gothic 3 is just an EPIC FAIL. That's the 
 way it is... Optimization, Storyline, gameplay I think everything is better at oblivion also it 
 has some funny side-quest which makes you laugh for awhile... I have to say this one and KOTOR are 
 by far epic avatars of how a PC rpg should be! Of course it's also a matter of tastes but I would 
 say most ppl out there would prefer oblivion over gothic many many times...
  
  I liked what bethesda made in Fallout 3, it was like taking all the good elements in oblivion and 
 improving them by giving some personality into your character. What I always critizised about oblivion 
 was the fact that the main character seems to be somehow dull and also some of the combat movements 
 but still it offers an excelent immersive Role playing game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion. In this game, Oblivion is essentially hell. A place of brimstone and fire where you wander 
 around chopping the heads off of demons. In real life, Oblivion is where you'll find yourself when 
 you finally stop playing this game. It's a place where humanity has died off and has left nothing 
 but scarce reminders of society and your former self. 
  
  Why?
  
  Because when you are done playing this game you will have spent YEARS of your life staring at a 
 phosphorous screen, developing an imaginary character, and saving imaginary worlds... while real 
 life has passed you by. 
  
  Remember your wife? No? Not a surprise. You were too busy walking around a HUMONGOUS world with 
 your new sexy female character. She's tall, she has a sword, she kills bears, and she's probably 
 half naked. It's up to you in this game. It's like putting all of your dreams together... and pretending 
 those dreams were real and successful... unlike your real life.
  
  You were too busy leading this new lady friend through a lush and beautiful land to notice your 
 wife up and left you. You were too busy going from city to city.... completing quest upon quest... doing 
 anything and everything you've ever thought of... to notice that she drained your bank account and 
 took the car. 
  
  And what about your kids? Pfffft.... what kids right? You didn't care. You were looking at all the 
 wonderful scenery and incredible atmospheric effects to care about those little brats. So they 
 grew up hating you... who cares? You had assassins to kill, you contracted vampirism and had to 
 cure it. Your horse was being attacked by a troll! You don't have time to put kids through college! 
 Screw them!
  
  And so what if you were kicked out of your house. Buying and selling all kinds of armor and weapons 
 and spells, and pretty much anything you can find and get your hands on is waaaaay more valuable 
 than some dingy house. Moving back in with mom was the best thing you ever did anyway... now you 
 have even MORE time to travel to other dimensions and kill monsters and imps and what not. Really... who 
 needs dignity? Not you. Not when there are probably 3 million hours of gameplay on this damn thing.... not 
 to mention the expansion packs. 
  
  Look, your real life was a failure. It's okay. I understand. So it makes perfect sense that you 
 started your life all over again... but in a more fun and controlled environment.... and with a sword.... and 
 magic..... and a bounty on your head for stealing a fork in Bruma. 
  
  It's okay... just keep playing until society ends itself... then there will be nobody around to poke 
 fun at you anymore.... even your mom.
  
  Loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcdrummer
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like Oblivion, so much so that I have loaded it and tried to get into it 3 times in 
 the last 2 years. 
  
  Reviewers tilt
  
  I have been playing pc games for years and had high expectations for this triple A title as it 
 was setting some graphic standards and supposedly some gaming standards from all the pre-release 
 press. I have played many great rpgs through the years including the original, Morrowind, which 
 had some greatness and serious flaws as well.
  
  
  The Highs
  
  As you first create your character and begin the game I had very high hopes. This may be one of 
 the most impressive openings I have seen to a game in a long time. Great voice-over, excellent 
 presentation and an enticing story to boot. This expectation did not fail as I began my first crawl 
 through the dungeon following the king. I was genuinely excited as I saw the story begin to unfold 
 and my part in it, the production values were high and the scripting was pulling me in. 
  
  As I saw the outside world I appreciated the artwork and time spent making it feel like a real 
 world. You needed a fairly high end machine to appreciate this and I had one so just looking around 
 was a delight. The first few quests were somewhat enjoyable and the story seemed to keep things 
 moving along as long as you followed it.
  
  
  The Lows
  
  As soon as I started following the king and went into my first dungeon and saw the console type 
 menus that I had to interact with on a pc, the game took a serious dive. No ragdoll of my current 
 armor, no easy to navigate spell interface, everything was accessible only in huge console type 
 menus that were very clunky and way to big for a pc experience. If you hotkey things it does help 
 but the way you had to equip your armor and the visual representation of the equipment was just 
 aweful. 
  
  The game took an immediate feel from a AAA title to a title that was from an independent company 
 struggling on a shoestring budget. Everything after that took me out of the suspension of disbelief 
 and put me into a "I can't believe they let consoles drive the pc experience" mode, which pretty 
 much killed the game for me.
  
  I love console games, I have several consoles and enjoy many types of games and understand why 
 you need to create menus like this for those types of experiences but for the pc, the premier system 
 to deeply immerse yourself into an rpg, this simply won't do.
  
  I tried to get past this huge oversight so the publisher could rush this title out of the doors 
 and have a simultaneous pc/console release and just get into the game. The game itself took a turn 
 for the worse after a couple of hours too as the story line didn't have the same quality that the 
 opening half hour did and it left you on your own to figure out difficult spell paths and how to 
 build yourself as a mage. I spent tons of money buying spells when it could have been more evident 
 somewhere that you could just create them if you stayed with the arcane path. Besides that the 
 game is built for someone who has tons of hours to waste, not a casual gamer or someone who wants 
 to enjoy a good romp without giving up their life for a while.
  
  If you fall into the category of wanting hundreds of hours to wonder around building up skill trees 
 in boring grind quests then this game is for you.
  
  If you like the fact that a developer shoved a console title down your throat and you bought it 
 for the pc then you have your wish here in Oblivion.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jnf17
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Starting in a Imperial Prison and Escaping Jail with the emperor to saving Tamriel. There are so 
 many options from being a thief to a knight to a mage. 5 Massive Guilds with over 15 Quests each. 
 Massive exploration is possible. Spend time going through the main quest or run around Tamriel 
 doing side quests, exploring Caves and rummaging through Ayleid Ruins. Heaps of freedom...
  Create your own character class, choose different skills and stats, where light or heavy armor, 
 use a bow or a sword. Its Massive! Beautiful Graphics! Grass, trees, rocks ,mountains and water 
 all beautiful and realistic with shadows and reflections. On top graphics you feel like your in 
 another world. Realistic character movement and A. I. movement where characters will go about there 
 business in realistic towns. Barter with traders of Pray at the nearest church there are so many 
 things to do.
  This game is a Masterpeice! You cant get a better game! I'm expecting much for Elder Scrolls 5 
 (if there is one) !
  Go and buy it don't even question it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kpartner_999
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. The Map is huge, the dungeons are actually realistic, 
 and some of the creatures are so meticusley made that they are actually sometimes scary, but only 
 if they jump out at you from behind a wall.
  The quests are long and fun, all the way from searching for an amulet in a frozen wasteland to 
 fighting off Deadra in a land filled with molten lava. Some of the quests are too long though, 
 and others are too hard. One of the hardest ones so far was that I had to steal a ring, while the 
 hallway was guarded by a guard that never left, and if you killed him another gaurd would come 
 running.
  One of the funner parts of the game is joining the theif's guild, where stolen goods can be sold. 
 The lockpicking mecanism is very fun but sometimes too hard. But the benefits of raiding a heavily 
 locked building are great, and if you can buy and learn the spells to unlock them withput pics 
 the rewards come even faster.
  The game may have some downsides but the upsides heavely outweigh the downsides, this game is flawless 
 other than the tiny downsides. Anyone considering buying this game should, the game has roughly 
 $.33 per hour of play (if you play for 150 hrs., which isn't as long as it sounds for this game.) , 
 when a regular game is around 6$ per hour (10 hrs of play) , not that short for a platformer or 
 an action game. This is truly one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tupac22318
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  elder scrolls 4 oblivion is brilliant amazing. ive played tons of role playing games and oblivion 
 is by far the best. with tons of quests and not just simple quests where you go do one thing or 
 its boring. every quest has an intresting story or plot or people. great faction choices like the 
 mysterious and deadly assassins guild known as the dark brotherhood or the sneaky and hidden theives 
 guild and much more. not only that but the main quest. the emperor has been assasinated and all 
 his sons two. right before his death he entrust you with the amulet of kings and finding the true 
 heir your the last chance to close the oblivion gates and save everyone. also great race choices 
 such as the argonian which is like a lizard person or the dark elves known as dunmer or the khajit 
 cat like people or just a plain imperial (human race that rules) if you havent got oblivion yet 
 do it as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jospark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  If Oblivion was a movie, it should get multiple Oscars.
  
  Luckily it's not a movie. Instead the game immerses the player into a world with vast possibilities, 
 while not overwhelming the player with too much all at once.
  
  Like a good RPG, players can choose from many classes, & races, and styles of gameplay. There are 
 many quests, and many things to do.
  But unlike some other vast, open-ended RPG's, it never becomes tedious, and the vastness never 
 becomes unfocused.
  
  Oblivion has refined the quest journal and quest marker system, so that it is very easy to pick 
 up where you left off, and find out what to do next for any active quest. It doesn't force the 
 player into a linear game, but merely gives options and organizes the information well. The tedious 
 task of taking copious notes is gone. The tedium of leafing through pages and pages of auto-generated 
 journal notes (as in Morrowind) is gone as well, since Oblivion's quest journal system organizes 
 information for each quest.
  
  The combat gameplay is well designed also. It's almost as good as Dark Messiah's combat system, 
 and much better than that of Gothic 3. However, Oblivion should have used more than 8 hotkeys -- 
 especially for spells.
  
  There are a great many other things that the Oblivion designers got right, and there is not enough 
 space to detail them all. However, the most important thing they did right was to make this game 
 highly expandable with new content, improved graphics, and features. Gamers should check out the 
 main mod site: tesnexus for feature expansions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Spirit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  ____________
  
  Good :
  Many quests, many NPCs, huge map, a lot of options, mods, patches, many hours spent on the game, nice 
 music, difficulty, dungeons, main quest, great story, graphics,...
  
  Bad :
  Many NPCs have the same voice, bugs
  
  ____________
  
  Graphic 5 / 5
  Graphics are good 
 and up-to-date. If you are not satisfied with the graphic, just download a few mods.
  
  Gameplay 5 / 5
  Gameplay is fun and it lasts. There are many quests, many things to do. You can 
 choose to be good or evil, classes,...
  Bugs make this game unreal. There are too many of them, but that problem is solved with the newest 
 patches, fixes and mods.
  Many hours are spent is this game like many RPGs. Map is huge and there is a fast travel option 
 so you dont waste time going between locations.
  Many options in the game like buying a horse, house,...
  
  ___________
  
  Fallout3 vs Oblivion
 
  Both games are produced Bethesda Softworks and they are very similar. Oblivion has more mods and 
 better mods. Fallout3 is newer so everything is new. If you want to play a game which is in medieval 
 time then choose Oblivion, but if you want to play in futuristic time then its Fallout3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oipluckie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  First time I looked at this game my question was, "Can I run it?" In the end I was like to hell 
 with it, because I've heard so many good comments about this game. To my surprise when I got home 
 and installed it, it ran decently on my E-machine 3.20 ghz intel celeron D processor 2Gb ram and 
 512 mb ati Radeon x1600 pro. Even though i had hitches here and there, it wasn't too bad. 
  
  Anyways the game was great my first time play through. The 2nd was even better because I looked 
 up mods which improved graphics, performance and gameplay. There were times when the weather was 
 good I would be running through the woods looking for new dungeons or locations and I could hear 
 the wind blowing through the trees. Sometimes it felt like I myself was immersed into the game.
 
  
  At times I would just rest for a bit and let my character stand near a lake or on a mountain, and 
 the view looks beautiful. But enough about the Visuals, the gameplay is awesome as well. So many 
 dungeons and quests to do, and the feeling of freedom makes it so perfect. The quests aren't bland 
 or boring, for example it doesn't have those boring quests where someone ask you to kill 20 something 
 of this and come back to receive your reward. You actually get to do some complex quests like assassination, 
 escorting, and many other things.
  
  There is alot more to say about this game that you'd have to find out yourself, because explaining 
 isn't enough for this beautiful game. (Should buy the GOTY edition I think that has the expansions 
 for the game as well for a good price. Got mine for $50 back than.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangelson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a single-player game that takes place in Tamriel's capital province, Cyrodiil. You 
 are given the task of finding the hidden heir to a throne that sits empty, the previous emperor 
 having been killed by an unknown assassin. With no true Emperor, the gates to Oblivion (the equivalent 
 of hell in the world of Tamriel) open, and demons begin to invade Cyrodiil and attack its people 
 and towns. It's up to you to find the lost heir to the throne and unravel the sinister plot that 
 threatens to destroy all of Tamriel. In keeping with the Elder Scrolls tradition, players have 
 the option to experience the main quest at their own pace, and there are plenty of opportunities 
 to explore the vast world and make your own way. Numerous factions can be joined, such as the thieves 
 or mages guilds, and each contains its own complete storyline and the chance to rise to the head 
 of the faction and reap further rewards. Oblivion features a groundbreaking new AI system, called 
 Radiant AI, which gives non-player characters (NPCs) the ability to make their own choices based 
 on the world around them. They decide where to eat or who to talk to and what they say. They sleep, 
 go to church, and even steal items, all based on their individual characteristics. Full facial 
 animations and lip-synching, combined with full speech for all dialog, allows NPCs to come to life 
 like never before. [Bethesda]
  
  It's funny how little things can make or break a game. Take The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the 
 latest in a proud line of immersive role-playing games from Maryland-based developer Bethesda Softworks.
 
  
  Oblivion is a masterpiece. But technological frustrations compromised the Xbox 360 version, keeping 
 it from shining as brightly as it could have. Luckily, the PC version is slightly more polished, 
 enough so to bump its score up to a 9.5.
  
  PUBLISHER: Bethesda Softworks / 2K Games
  DEVELOPER: Bethesda Softworks
  GENRE (S) : Role-Playing Game
  PLAYERS: 1
  ESRB RATING: M (Mature)
 
  RELEASE DATE: March 20, 2006
  
  9.5/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwray27
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of RPG's then this game is for you! If you are not a fan of RPG's, this game is 
 STILL FOR YOU! The gameplay is outstanding, and you can go just about anywhere you want in a huge 
 world. There are so many quest and so many places to explore, you will find yourself playing it 
 everyday! The game also contains the BEST music score I have ever heard in a video game in my entire 
 life. There is only a couple flaws. 1. You might come across a few bugs
  2. The script isn't so great, and there are only a few different voices
  3. There is a couple 
 flaws in the gameplay, for instance, I once saved a town from being destroyed, but then accendently 
 pressed space bar next to a peice of bread, which stole it, and I was arrested
  
  Overall, this is simply one the the best RPG's ever made, and the storyline stays fresh and compelling 
 throughout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  How much free time do you have? It's a legitimate question if you're considering Bethesda's epic 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, as it's likely to engulf whatever tidbits of unoccupied hours permeate 
 your life. It might even start chipping away your daily responsibilities. With over 200 hours of 
 gameplay, Oblivion's depth is nothing short of staggering. However, depth means nothing if it's 
 paired with crippling bugs or frustrating gameplay. Though Oblivion has a few issues, it thankfully 
 avoids any major blunders, making this the best single player role playing experience to come along 
 in years.
  
  To briefly sum up, Oblivion has no multiplayer. It's an entirely offline role playing game, meaning 
 you'll complete quests, level up and progress through a rich storyline. As you grow more powerful 
 you'll acquire better weapons, armor and spells to kill monsters and, if it's your preference, 
 innocents. Oblivion's four Guilds, Mages, Fighters, Thieves, and Dark Brotherhood all have their 
 own unique questlines and provide opportunity for added perks. Designed to be an open-ended experience, 
 Oblivion's biggest draw is its massive world. Set in Cyrodiil, a province of the larger land of 
 Tamriel, practically everything is accessible right from the start. You can head in any direction 
 you like, playing to beat the story, to complete side quests, or wander around fields, mountains 
 and streams exploring at your own pace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weedman1985
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the elder scrolls series, I couldn't help but feel that Ive been robbed in broad 
 daylight. The first impressions were good - game play was adequate, combat satisfying, graphics 
 were spectacular. Up till the point when I exited the prison and found myself in the linear and 
 boring outside world. The world map is quite huge so it takes some time to travel from one end 
 to the other, but take one good look the moment you stepped out of the underground tunnel and you 
 have practically seen it all. Not to mention that the world has absolutely no secret treasure locations 
 or secret quests and the fact that all monsters and item drops level up along side you, which kind 
 of beats the purpose of exploring the huge world map anyway. 
  
  Another problem is the fact that NPCs look so much alike and are voiced by the same two or three 
 voice actors. not to mention the dialogues are so badly written that they almost made me cry. 
 
  Most quests consist of clearing dungeon "x "or later in the game just navigate through the huge 
 amount of slightly differently looking oblivion gates. And why are there only a few different monsters 
 in the game? such a huge world wasted for nothing. Speaking of wasted for nothing - why did "captain 
 picard" gets thrown away at the beginning of the adventure? whats the whole point of hiring big 
 time actors if you don't utilize them to their full potential. 
  
  All these things lead ultimately to one thing: A game that's been made for the sake of scooping 
 up some cash rather than artistic expression. It feels like it was designed by people who couldn't 
 care less about games. Combat became repetitive and boring later in the game and all that's left 
 to go for it are the good graphics. 
  
  In conclusion, if you don't like games that got shiny graphics but play like crap then don't buy 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisal1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is everything I could ever wish for in a pc game. I believe that the pc version is the 
 best for this game. That is primarily due to the modding factors. Aside from the modding this game 
 has almost every aspect of a modern 1st person shooter and RPG game. I haven't seen a game this 
 promising since Duke 3d. 
  The good: Excellent role playing aspects. All npcs have an identity and a home. All npcs have real 
 voices, so its not scroll based. Many races to choose from: you could be a high elf or a cheetah 
 like khajeet. Very good leveling up system, the enemies grow with the character. Many paths to 
 specialize in such being a marksman, a blade master, or even become a master alchemist. The player 
 has a massive world map to explore which puts the world map of any Zelda game to shame. Simplified 
 modding!! This means that the game designers wanted the players to mod this game. Therefore, it 
 is easy to download or create armors, clothing, races, and even quests. 
  The bad: Game does becomes repetitive, the wild animals are lame, and it is easy to trick enemies. 
 Sometimes the game is too easy! The main story line is sort of farfetched.
  I give this game a ten because it is a huge leap in gaming. This game sets the standard for many 
 games to come. It has good graphics, good and long lasting game play. In my opinion this game has 
 good replay value which is hard to find in modern games these days. I say it is a must buy for 
 all pc gamers, as long as you have the high hardware requirements to play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LetMeGetSniper
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite game ever made. So you start the game making your character, you pick 
 from 10 different races that all are unique and have different features such as Argonian which 
 can breathe underwater, and Khajiit can see in the dark. You customize your class until it becomes 
 exactly what you want it to be such as an Archer, Swordsman, Assassin, Axe man, Magician, and more. 
 All of these features make the game feel much different each time you play it, because you can 
 take several approaches to each mission such as a being stealthy or just run in there GUNS BLAZIN'. 
 (P. S. There are no guns, just arrows) the game is just so massive it's hard to believe they can 
 fit it all on one disk. The open world in the game just makes it all the more immersive. With caves 
 every half mile, herds of deer in the forests, crabs on the shore, slaughter-fish in the waters, 
 and goblins in caves. Its hard to think of why you couldn't like this game, but I guess to some 
 people don't like it because it doesn't have some really ripped dude bashing alien faces in. This 
 game has random encounters like you will be walking and you'll occasionally see a minotaur beating 
 the living crap out of a guard, so you have the choice to help him kill the minotaur, help the 
 minotaur kill him, run away, wait for the minotaur to kill him so you don't get a bounty then kill 
 the minotaur with the little life he has left and then loot both of their bodies and ride off to 
 Leyawiin on the dead guards horse with all their loot. This game is full of those kinds of these 
 moments it just makes it evermore amazing. That is all I can say. So if you don't have this game, 
 go out and buy it right now. But you might want to kiss your social life goodbye for 3 months, 
 but it is totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jas0n94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  I prefer the FPS games such as Call of Duty. I had heard about RPG games and I wasn't enthusiastic 
 about. However, when I played Oblivon for the first time, I didn't like it very much. But the more 
 I played the more I liked it. I was amazed by the huge map, the variety of characters and weapons, the 
 complicated but entertaining gameplay and the awesome quests. That which disappointed me was the 
 story. It was very simple and boring. In my opinion, this game with a more interesting story would 
 be THE game. Fortunately the Knights of the Nine expansion improves the 
 
  
 
  I' sorry about my terrible English-I'm Greek... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepy_pig
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Now, let me first say that I was moderately impressed by the graphics. I actually felt like my 
 eyes wouldn't bleed out. It is far better than the quality of the visual effects in those Sci-Fi 
 original movies. But then again, that's not really saying much. That is just about where the praise 
 ends, however. 
  
  Now, this could have been a fun game and all, if they had tried to make the stupid world a bit 
 smaller. It takes almost 10 minutes to get from one city to the next! And this isn't even skippable 
 in some instances, as you cannot fast travel to a place that you have not yet visited. This makes 
 for intensely boring gameplay, as you have to stare at the same road textures for 10 minutes just 
 to get to the exciting part. I don't know about any of you guys, but I would rather spend that 
 time beating up some poor chump. I wouldn't even mind the traveling so much if there was actually 
 something to do while traveling. But there isn't, as enemies show up only once every 15 game miles. 
 It's like the game has an aversion to actually surprising you or to actually engage you at all. 
 If that wasn't bad enough at all, the game actually encourages you to stare at the same green environments 
 by having to "explore" to find new places. More like torturing yourself, if you ask me. It has 
 almost gotten bad to the point where I almost use the game to help myself fall asleep. 
  
  That isn't even the end of the list of problems. The default music, even if not plain terrible, 
 is repetitive to the point of making it terrible. Even if there had been variety in the music, 
 it was so bland and forgettable that I could not have remembered it unless I was paying 10 times 
 the attention I pay in math class. In fact, I would go as far as saying that my math class has 
 more immersion than this game. At least in math class, you feel like you are actually doing something. 
 And as for music, who needs it when you have the amazing voice of the teacher for entertainment? 
 (sarcasm very present) 
  
  The entertainment value of this disc is low. I mean like, looking at grass is funner than playing 
 this game. And that is basically what the game does, with its freaking 10 foot grass. I mean really, 
 if we can't even see where we are going, how are we even supposed to play the game? It's a wonder 
 I actually got to meet any of the creatures that I fight. Most of the time, I got so bored trying 
 to find dungeons that I hadn't defeated that I just started killing townspeople. Then I got my 
 ass handed to me by the apparently psychic guards who have magical cameras in everyone's houses, 
 as the moment that I hit someone a guard comes in and demands that I pay the fine. And then when 
 you refuse, they kill you over 40 stupid gold coins! I mean really, all I did was hit someone. 
 If I hit a person in real life, I am not going to get shot at by 10 police officers and chased 
 to oblivion and back. 
  
  If I actually had the will and energy to continue, this would be a multi-page essay dissecting 
 all the missteps in this game. Or maybe I'm just biased against western RPGs. And I know that people 
 will say that most of these could be fixed with mods, and I have tried that. In fact, I couldn't 
 stand playing the base game so much that I had to spend time finding mods to actually make the 
 game playable for me. It is possible to say that I spent more time looking for mods than actually 
 playing the game. But really, why bother buying a game that is incomplete? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is for people who love:
  Huge environments
  Millions of quests
  Finding unique items in hidden locations
  Exploring
  A decent story
  Awesome amounts of playing 
 time
  Sorting out thousands of items, buying, selling, managing your houses with chests of explorer rewards!
 
  
  The graphics were and still are great. The story is fun and the game huge! Some people equate Grand 
 Theft Auto as just as open ended and big. But for those who would rather battle some strange creature 
 from hell and ride a horse while doing it Oblivion is not only better, it's the closest thing you'll 
 get to a real fantasy world with hundreds of interesting characters each with his or her own story.
 
  
  Bethesda did a great job at creating one of the greatest user experiences ever.
  
  Graphics: Very good - great time of day
  
  Sound: very satisfying
  
  Story: Not too bad 
 a bit stereotyped for this genre
  
  Cons: nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  For a single player fantasy pc game title, this is the best. I would give this game a perfect 10, 
 it just lacks one thing. The one thing, the caves and dungeons look too much alike. This game would 
 be perfect if there was a bit more of an unique quality to the underground environments. Everything 
 looks great in this game, tons of quests, graphics are great, music is great and the game play 
 is very open ended, THANK GOD, as well as the combat. Great replay value, lots of different ways 
 to go with constructing a character and playing this game. The construction kit is tricky to use 
 if you have never made a mod before, but on the other hand, there is a lot of support and help 
 available if you enjoy making mods and added material. For the price of the game, comparing it 
 to what else has been made to this point, it's awesome. This game leaves you with wanting more 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiritbreaker22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about a year on and off. Not because I stopped liking it but 
 I just didn't have much time to play it consecutively. In any regard, the game is great. I have 
 to pick up a better graphics card for my PC to play it at almost max settings ( (radeon 1950 Pro) . 
 
  
  I haven't played the whole game through yet because I usually get sidetracked on the numerous side 
 quests that are tons of fun and really extent the playing experience. I would highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes RPGs the only other RPG I liked this much was FFVII but that was 
 many years ago.
  
  For those of you that have played in on a platform, I have seen it on the 360 and it looks good 
 but not as lively and realistic as the PC version. As a result I would highly recommend getting 
 it on the PC provided you have the hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehrman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a game you can play for hours and hours and still only breach the surface of features 
 in the game. So many quest-lines and different classes to keep you coming back for more.
  
  [Breakdown]
  Graphics: 10/10
  Bethesda really nailed this one. Every aspect of the graphics 
 looks great. The environment is amazing. The trees as you walked through a wooded area. A damp, 
 musky cave you traverse through to attain a precious relic. The character models are really nice, 
 too. It's great seeing the expression on a challenger's face in the Arena. 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  This is also executed perfectly. The music is fitting and will change depending 
 on your current location and whether you are fighting or not. The dialogue was great, because it 
 really helped give more depth to the game. It is much more appealing to many gamers if the game 
 speaks to you and interacts with you, rather than just give you text to read. But it also gives 
 you the option to skip the chatter if you read faster and want to speed ahead.
  
  Story: 10/10
  The story goes along great with the Elder Scrolls universe. The game gives a more 
 involving by having NPCs talk about other places that aren't accessible in Oblivion. Each quest-line 
 has a deep, compelling story (humorous ones, too) that are very interesting and can you a sense 
 of purpose while playing. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The game is so flexible that it allows you to really play each class like it's supposed to. If 
 you want to be a sneaky thief, then you can go around and pickpocket people and steal from houses 
 until your riches drown you. If you want to be a raging Orc warrior, have at it. You will be able 
 to go around bashing skulls in of bandits or other mean competitors in the Arena. IF your thing 
 is chucking powerful spells at your foes, then choose a magical class and summon a friend to come 
 help along with you. But another interesting feature of the game is you can custom create a class 
 and play a character that may fit into two, or even all of these aforementioned categories.
  
  Replay: 10/10
  Really 10/10 doesn't justify the replay value. It seems like every time I 
 play again, I always seem to find something new and fun to do. Oblivion never fails to bring me 
 back into the game so I can destroy faces as I please.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  This game is perfect in the eyes of this gamer. If you want to disagree with me, then so be it. 
 I just feel sorry for you for not appreciating this masterpiece. Many people have complained about 
 there not being multiplayer, but I think that multiplayer would have ruined the game ten-fold. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a great experience, even if you aren't into 
 the genre. Also, if you liked this game, go check out Fallout 3. It is also made by Bethesda and, 
 in essence, is the same game, just a different setting and you can use V. A. T. S. and guns!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0lv3r1n32
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  It has very good graphics, challenging but not to hard gameplay difficulty and an improved combat 
 system compared to other RPG's. Also HUD and UI are pretty well done. You can do quest however you 
 wish whenever you wish but you can stick only to the main quest if you want but it's kinda short. You 
 accomodate with the game controls pretty quick... they are pretty simple and easy to remember
  TES IV : Oblivion is in my opinion almost perfect and i think no game will surpass it in the next 
 10 years or so.
  It's just the best game... especially with the 2 expansions and some well chosen addons. Oblivion 
 open ended system let's you do things your way... the game never finishes and you almost never get 
 bored of it. You have so many things to do in it and so many places to explore, the skills and lvling 
 system are also pretty good.
  
  For those who haven't tryed Oblivion, I advice buying it or getting it! I really think you'll enjoy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_overdose54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  Where do I start? You can't IMAGINE where to start, and that's the beauty of the game. Oblivion's 
 story revolves around an escaped prisoner and their efforts to thwart a plot masterminded by a 
 fanatical cult-a scheme involving opening gates to a hellish realm called Oblivion and unleashing 
 its horrors on the mortal world. You are that prisoner, and you cell is meant to keep Emperor Uriel 
 Septim XVIII (voiced by Patrick Stewart) safe. The cult known as the Mythic Dawn are trying to 
 kill him, and he entrust you with his very life, until they kill him anyway which he accepts. Before 
 he is killed, he gives you the Amulet of Kings, the sacred heirloom of the Empire, The lone surviving 
 guard, Baurus, leads you out of the tunnel and into the massive world of Cyrodiil. Remember, whatever 
 you did in the sewers affects your gameplay. If you like sneaking around, you'd be a great theif 
 and murderer. If you use brute strength to defeat your enemies, you are a great warrior. If magic 
 is your weapon, than the mages path is for you. You can do the main storyline and find his son, 
 Martin Septim (voiced by Sean Bean) and save the Empire. If you don't then that's fine. It won't 
 affect the story at all. So go ahead. Be a gladiator, an assassin, a master thief. You can do it 
 all, and tha's makes this game the best of it's kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceadre
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  This is an all-time favorite of many. The series of "The Elder Scrolls" is good, but the best in 
 it is Oblivion. Ushering in a renewed era of endless gameplay and many improvements from Morrowind. 
 Depending on your Video card, this game can be even more amazing. Allowing you to create your character 
 with realistic detail, even right down to the smallest facial feature. Many different quests to 
 choose from, and if you run out, there are plenty of mods, plus "The Shivering Isles" and "Knights 
 of the Nine" expansions.
  
  There can't really be a comparison between Oblivion and Morrowind, because Oblivion is better in 
 every way. The graphics in Oblivion actually look like they're from the '05/'06 gaming generation, 
 whereas Morrowind was behind when it was released in '02. Armor detail is great, races that couldn't 
 wear certain parts of armor now can. You can actually block rather than putting hope in your character 
 to attempt to automatically, and you can actually hit things at point blank instead of not even 
 hitting something that's not even a foot in front of you. 
  
  ... But Oblivion has its own little problems, just like all the others. There are a few armor sets 
 that can leave players longing for more. The Daedric armor is somewhat disappointing. The armor 
 itself looks awesome, but there could have been bonus defense options added to it. The point is 
 that it has multiple protruding blades/spikes, not to mention that when unarmed, you still ONLY 
 punch even though the gauntlets have clawed fingertips. The rest of the problems are for you to 
 decide.
  
  I give "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" a 10/10, because it pays for itself. A game that's the 
 same as endless for $30, who could resist?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaddowclone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  How much free time do you have? It's a legitimate question if you're considering Bethesda's epic 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, as it's likely to engulf whatever tidbits of unoccupied hours permeate 
 your life. It might even start chipping away your daily responsibilities. With over 200 hours of 
 gameplay, Oblivion's depth is nothing short of staggering. However, depth means nothing if it's 
 paired with crippling bugs or frustrating gameplay. Though Oblivion has a few issues, it thankfully 
 avoids any major blunders, making this the best single-player role-playing experience to come along 
 in years.
  
  To briefly sum up, Oblivion has no multiplayer. It's an entirely offline role-playing game, meaning 
 you'll complete quests, level up and progress through a rich storyline. As you grow more powerful 
 you'll acquire better weapons, armor and spells to kill monsters and, if it's your preference, 
 innocents. Oblivion's four guilds, Mages, Fighters, Thieves, and Dark Brotherhood, all have their 
 own unique questlines and provide opportunity for added perks. Designed to be an open-ended experience, 
 Oblivion's biggest draw is its massive world. Set in Cyrodiil, a province of the larger land of 
 Tamriel, practically everything is accessible right from the start. You can head in any direction 
 you like, playing to beat the story, to complete side quests, or wander around fields, mountains 
 and streams exploring at your own pace.
  Though the main quest is usually a game's primary draw, that isn't the case here. The game starts 
 out with the world in danger and you're destined to save it. Pretty standard stuff. The largest 
 threats to Cyrodiil are the Oblivion Gates opening up across the land. Flanked by ominous stone 
 columns, these flaming portals are doorways to hellish dungeon settings where better armor and 
 weapons can be found. Which ones you enter is totally up to you, though some are required by quests. 
 While the story missions are great, there's a ton of excellent content you'll be missing if you 
 stick strictly to the main plot. The guilds, for instance, all have epic storylines of their own. 
 There's a gladiatorial Arena in the Imperial City where you can engage in mortal combat with one, 
 two or even three enemies at a time for cash rewards. It's a wonderfully open-ended game, yet also 
 surprisingly focused once you decide what you want to do.
  
  Anyone who played through the previous The Elder Scrolls game, Morrowind, will remember the almost 
 total lack of direction, a feature which turned many off. While in that game that main quest didn't 
 even begin until around 15 hours after starting, Oblivion kicks off with a major plot development 
 and thrusts you immediately into the main adventure. Once given your initial task to restore order 
 to Cyrodiil and shut down the demonic invasion from Oblivion, you'll never have trouble figuring 
 out what to do next.
  
  This is mostly due to the intuitive map and easy to use quest log. Whenever you accept a task to 
 perform or are assigned a duty, an entry is made in your journal. By clicking on the quest you 
 can see a brief description and set it to "active." Any active quest in your log is highlighted 
 on your map screen with an arrow. Red arrows mean you need to pass through a door, green ones mean 
 you're in the right place, and the arrow also pops up on the compass at the bottom of your screen 
 for extra convenience. Unless you're a total masochist, it's a much welcome improvement, making 
 quest objectives and locations much easier to find.
  
  On top of that, you're given the ability to fast travel around Cyrodiil. Every location in the 
 game pops up as an icon on your map. To be eligible for fast traveling, you need to first visit 
 the location on foot, although the major cities are accessible right from the start. After a location 
 has been made fast travel accessible, you can pop open your map, select it, and arrive there instantaneously. 
 Though time still passes when you travel, you don't have to actually spend it hoofing the journey 
 out. If you'd rather walk, that option is always available, but fast traveling effectively eliminates 
 the tedium of fetch quests so prevalent in the RPG genre. On top of that, it's great for when you 
 want to buy specific spells or armor only available in certain cities. With the improvements to 
 the map, journal and travel system, the world of Tamriel just got a lot more user friendly.
  If you are thinking off cheating there is just no point butr if you want to use mods i would reccomend 
 this  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitkossery
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  One of the best RPG games ever created. The entire magical world of Cyrodiil is bought to life 
 in breathtaking beauty. With 10 different races and several skills, in this world, you can be anyone 
 and do anything, from a champion in the arena to being a wandering adventurer to a thief in the 
 city. 
  
  Cyrodiil is a beautiful and expansive gameworld with various cities, dungeons and landscapes ideal 
 for any type of adventurer. You start your journey in a dungeon in the city, when fate lures the 
 emperor to your cell in order to escape assassins. He entrusts you with an epic quest which will 
 take you all over Cyrodiil and beyond as you try to save the kingdom from a terrible and unknown 
 foe. 
  
  However, there is no pressure on you to complete this task immediately. You can ease yourself into 
 the game and engage in the main quest at any time of your choosing. Also, finishing the main quest 
 does not end the game, and you can continue adventuring to your heart's content.
  
  Unlike most games where you gain levels by killing enemies or completing tasks, in oblivion you 
 gain levels by improving your major skills, which gives game play a whole new twist, and since 
 enemies and monsters gain levels with you, it compels you to gain your levels efficiently.
  
  The action in oblivion is as good as that of any action game. With several different fighting 
 techniques including close quarters fighting, locking, bows, defensive and offensive magic and 
 stealth, the combat in oblivion is generally entertaining throughout the game.
  
  It is a perfect mix of action and adventure, making for incredibly addictive game play that keeps 
 you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TelcoKen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  So glad I finally got a laptop that could do this wonderful game justice! The eye candy is amazing. 
 And the graphics are more realistic than you may think at first pass. I realized this after my 
 nine year old son had nightmares after watching me kill rats (I had just gotten the game, and was 
 still in the opening 'level'. I've since only played it when he was not watching.
  
  If you are considering this game, I say get it! I am not the best gamer (although I am a long time 
 gamer) , so when the monsters level up along with me, I can tend to get bogged down. So, for me 
 that can be frustrating, and I rated this game as "hard". But, others may do fine. This is a very 
 good game, and I recommend getting the strategy guide along with it. 
  
  One tip, I have the GOTY edition, and got the GOTY Strategy guide. I recently took it to Office 
 Depot and had them cut off the spine and whole punch it. It's now in a three ring binder, so I 
 can open it flat, and insert note pages. Not something I would do for many other games, but I made 
 this one my long term project. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatal-Chaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  The main point in mind is, is this game worth purchasing? The answer to that question, on so many 
 levels is simply "yes". This game offers elusive depth of gameplay, and also offers an intriguing 
 storyline, Landscapes and factions. What really puts this game in-front of the eight-ball is the 
 fact that there's always something to do, whether your exploring forbidden caves for new types 
 of loot, travelling through the country side watching the sunrise to sunset, or even assassinating 
 someone for the Dark Brotherhood faction, this game leaves an open ended world for you to explore. 
 When you start your game you can create your own character, and i mean you can really create him, 
 from eye colour to cheek-jaw ratio, you can actually make your character to be what you want him/her 
 to look like. You start the game off in a prison cell, where you get caught up in this plot to 
 assassinate the emperor and it proceeds from there on leaving you at the end of your chair. The 
 other great thing about this game is that even though the main story line has twists and depth, 
 the factions you can join go for just as long and are no let down either, they offer great missions, 
 exciting twists and unique loot on the way. This game is so big and has no many quest within it, 
 that you could just walk up to a Dark Elf and a Orc having conversation and they could end up talking 
 about some treasure, and all of a sudden a quest log pops up and you have another quest on your 
 hands. The fact that there's so much to do is great because if you get stuck on one thing you can 
 just finish off a different quest, and you will never run out of things to do because if you finish 
 all the quests in your quest log, just go talk to a few people and i guarantee you will find a 
 interesting quest to do. There is also a first-person option aswell as the RPG mode, may i recommend 
 doing the first-person mode just simply because it gives you a better feel and sight for the game. 
 The skill options are quite fantastic itself, no matter what your doing it's putting your skills 
 up whether it's running, swimming or fighting your working your way up another level. The way this 
 game works in leveling is you have your majour skills and your minor skills, your majour skills 
 make up what type of profession your character is and the minor skills are just the skills your 
 character doesn't really require to full-fill his/her profession. When your majour skills go up 
 a level it contributes to your main level, if you get your minor skills up it has no effect on 
 your main level, however it is still handy to have all levels boosted up, just because it's simply 
 useful. However every exception comes with it's price, if your looking for the minor downfalls 
 in Oblivion is probably the combat does tend to lack depth, point and click is pretty much what 
 to expect here, you can click the mouse for a normal attack or you can hold it for a power attack. 
 The bow and arrow actually has a pretty good combat system, where you click and hold for how much 
 power you want in the shot, and your arrow will slowly fall closer to the ground over longer distances, 
 so it requires some skill in getting use to where your arrow will land. This also depends on how 
 advanced your marksmen skill is, obviously the higher the skill the more power and damage you can 
 get into the shot therefore it will last longer through the air, this makes it easier to hit enemies 
 from a longer distance. The magic however does lack detail, most of the time it's a fireball or 
 an electric blast, there's thousands of spells to acquire, but the imagery just isn't that great, 
 good but nothing special. Also i found with the game and know that allot of other people found 
 this is aswell, is that the game is so big you tend to feel really lonely at times, there's heaps 
 of people in the cities but outside the cities there isn't a lot of NPC's, and where there are 
 quests where you have to kill someone, (which there are alot of those quests by the way) , it kind 
 of makes you annoyed because your making the number of NPC's even smaller now, and once there dead 
 they don't come back, unless you want to look up cheats on the internet of course to get them back. 
 But if you're a fan of RPG's i defiantly recommend buying Oblivion, trust me, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supershaft777
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I think there's no way to rectify what I think is so fundamentally wrong with this game without 
 hiring different personnel to make it.
  
  I played TES II that's a classic and was made by creators with a more innovative, stylized 
  
 
  They tried to mimic the older elder scrolls (no pun intended) but lost all the style and grit that 
 those games had.
  
  I did play morrowind a lot, even though I was disappointed by the direction the series took.
 
  
  Oblivion kept going in the same direction and took it to a new extreme of cheesy, sterile gameplay.
 
  
  
  It's all so insipid. It's remarkable how technically the game can create some beautiful landscapes, 
 but up close everything seems to looks so ugly and barren. All the character lack personality. 
 The quests are so poorly-written. They try to make it so user-friendly and squeaky clean that it 
 loses all purpose and integrity.
  
  The voice acting is so irritating I just turned all the voices off.
  
  The game is so unstable 
 because the designers didn't bother to optimize the graphics performance. You're telling me there's 
 users who are able to make the game more stable simply by fixing the programming?
  Are the programmers at bethesda really that incompetent that all they care about is technically 
 cutting-edge and pretentious graphics that can only run on a $5000 supercomputer? So they fail 
 to optimize the performance of the game in way that modders easily can?
  
  No matter how much I try to enjoy this game, all the quests and dungeons are so pointless and boring. 
 All the NPC's I run into seem like talking mindless talking manakins with armor on. 
  The itemization is broken and doesn't make sense. The leveling is broken. This game just really 
 has no focus, no intense gameplay, and none of the *progressive, character growth, roleplaying* 
 feel that games like Daggerfall had. 
  
  I really can't put my finger on what irritates me about this game. It's something intangible that 
 games like Daggerfall and WoW have: Style. Guile.
  Oblivion has none of it. Simply put, this game is LAME.
  Its a sprawling, incomplete package 
 that requires so much modding to at least tone down some of the game's unbearably cheesy factors, 
 but none of it can repair its insipid core.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathPhoenix37
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Oblivion :The elder scrolls IV has a reasonably good graphic and very good sound effects. The map 
 is gigantic and has many cool places to explore though most of them look similar there are a few 
 types of dungeons, caves, ruins, taverns, villages, camps and oblivion gates and a lot of quests. 
 The monsters change as you level up and each type of monster is interesting in its own way. In 
 the game you can specialize in bow, swords, blunt weapons, light armor, heavy armor, repairing 
 objects, trade, talking, sneaking, picking locks, running , jumping, blocking, unarmed fighting, 
 alchemy and magic, that is divided in 5 classes destruction, illusion, mysticism, conjunction and 
 restoration .The leveling system is different instead of getting experience trough kills you get 
 experience trough using and advancing a group of skills that you must choose from the start along 
 with your race, features and birthsign. Creating your character is very complex, you can choose 
 his eyes, nose, mouth, skin, age, race and hair. The game is very good and I highly recommend you 
 to try it if you like role playing games since the only flaws are the fighting system and the limit 
 to the mastery of skills and therefore a limit to the level and the fighting system witch is very 
 simple with few choices in any weapon but you can design your own spells and enchantment if you 
 enter the mages guild, a faction in the game along with the fighters guild, assassins guild and 
 thieves guild. As I said before you should buy this game if you like any RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billaboy69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is incredible. It's an escape for me to somewhere else. Some other distant land with vampires, goblins, elves, orks 
 and many other dangerous creatures. It's like escaping into a fantasy land with magical creatures 
 you read in a book when you where younger. Except here, its real and interactive. I love the time 
 setting with old castles and abandoned dungeons and great cities that house different races or 
 species of people. It makes me feel good that i can take a trip a few thousand years ago where, who 
 knows, maybe there were vampires and goblins and other creatures that lived. And magic. Ok. Enough 
 about the imaginative part of it. That's the most incedible part to me. Now. Graphics are simply beautiful. HDR 
 looks great shining across my sword with the sunlight. I would like the combat system to be improved 
 a little. It is fun, but i would like a more realistic striking system. V. A. T. S. in fallout 3 might 
 have been a good idea here. Combat is still fun though. Story is good. There are tons of side missions 
 which really is the main mission in oblvion cause the outweigh the time spent playing them with 
 the main mission. Really, i have no other complaints besides the combat system and maybe some more 
 unique landscapes, but thankfully we have modders for the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sereka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  I played this game three times and every time i played, i realised, that i will never master it. Well, maybe 
 after a few years, but that's not the point. There is so many places to discover, so many monster 
 to battle and quests to beat, that you won't get bored after a very long time. In Oblivion you can 
 experience a free world, were your main task can wait. Truly, i think it could be better (that is 
 why i gave it 9.5 ,not 10) , but the view is great, the motions of all those characters are good and 
 you can choose many quests to do. Maybe you think i am a crazy girl, who does not know anything about 
 games, but just trust me-this game is one of the best there is. For once-stop and look around this 
 game. It has many capabilities, wonderful sounds and other stuff you can see... if you want to.
  
  Play and you will soon realise that you are already in Oblivion ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAZMISTAR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  So, you may think Oblivion is "just another RPG" or "a waste of time" or "rubbish" or whatever. 
 What it actually is is the best game... in the world!
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion plunges you into an immersive, entertaining and interactive world 
 full of things to do. The story is very well thought out and interesting. You start as a prisoner, 
 taunted by other prisoners and wondering why you are there. You hear voices, and down the steps 
 descend three Imperial guard captains and none other than Emporer Uriel Septim himself. In your 
 cell is a secret passage, which guarentees your freedom... almost! (You knew that there'd be a 
 catch, didn't you?) You descend into a long forgotten substructure, used as a escape tunnel for 
 many Emporers past. The Emporer knows his time is short, and leads you to his death, knowing you 
 can save all of Tamriel from utter destruction. Then...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  And i'm gonna leave it for you to find out. Trust me, you won't 
 be dissapointed. I will go over the best features:
  
  Guilds:
  Join the Fighters, Mages or Thieves guilds. Also, join forces with the evil Dark Brotherhood, the 
 guild of Assassins!
  
  Total Customisation:
  Create an Imperial, a Wood Elf, an Argonian, a Khajiit or various other characters. Adjust every 
 detail from hair to eyes and shoes to rings!
  
  Character Classification:
  Choose a Combat, Magic or Stealth based character and customise their abilities based on your style 
 of gameplay!
  
  AND LOTS MORE!
  OVER 100 MAIN, GUILD, MISCHAELLANEOUS and FREEFORM QUESTS TO COMPLETE!!!!!!!
  
  OWN YOUR OWN 
 HOUSE AND STEED!
  
  TOTAL FREE-ROAMING WITH A BOUNDLESS WORLD TO EXPLORE!
  
  AND MUCH MUCH MORE!
  
  ps: This review is intended to persuade you to buy TES: IV Oblivion, 
 the greatest RPG, or infact any game, EVER! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  (in my personal opinion)
  Any characters that 
 resemble real people or persons are purely coincidental and entirely fictional. Please bear that 
 in mind before sueing Bethesda Softworks saying: "When did I give you permission to include my 
 cat in your game?". Retail price: 412.99 or $824.99. Anyone complaining about the price tag will 
 be severely and totally annihalated and wiped off the face of this Solar System. Effects may vary. 
 (c) (r) All rights reserved Bethesda Softworks 2006.
  
  
  
  
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kathey25
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Well, I do like this game. The extensive world has so much to offer players new and veteran to 
 Elder Scrolls alike. Different from most games of its type where the character gains experience 
 from fighting individual bad guys, this bases experience on skills and attributes that increase 
 over time, thereby increasing your overall skill. Somewhat in depth character communication makes 
 for an often humerous journey through the world of Oblivion, and you only need to listen to the 
 town-folk chatting to each other to gain that particular experience. People of the Sacred 2 world 
 would have experienced that as well. With so many different levels and places to explore, this 
 will be one for the family and one that will entertain and delight for many years to come. Yeah, 
 it's been out for a long time as it is, however being new to this game it's a wonder I had never 
 seen it before or taken any notice. And expansions just make the gaming world that much more fun, 
 doesn't it? Expanding your experience and giving you that edge and time to make the game your own. 
 One word:
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_scarecrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  oblivion is a game ive had for a while now and I have to say its a VERY good 
  game. the thing that first strikes you right off the bat is the staggering amount of options availible 
 at all times and the sheer size of the world you've been put in in fact this one of the biggest 
 rpgs out there, the size of the world combined with the fact that you can creat any type of hero 
 you can imagine makes this a game that can keep you occupied for many hours!!!!! 
  However this is also one of the draw backs of a game this big, my experince was that i tried to 
 create the ultimate bad ass dude right off the bat by making him a dark elf who's good at magic 
 and heavy armor and swords and who could kill just about anything that walked. what i ended up 
 with was a VERY ugly dark elf who had one fire spell (because i never took the time to get others!!) 
 a stolen horse that kept running away from me (because i couldnt get enough money to buy one!) 
 and no money. the thing about oblivion is that if you go around killing and stealing anything you 
 see you'll get very bored very quick because innevetibley to make things easier you will turn to 
 cheat codes (of which the game has a huge supply!!!) and simply cheat your way to a complete set 
 ebony armor and weapons! this defeats the purrpose of a huge game world because now you dont need 
 to explore because youve got everthing already! this being said to truley enjoy oblivion you need 
 to take your time, dont rush through the quest or or just travle from dungeun to dungeun looking 
 for armor ( I know it may look awsome but trust me its even awsomer if you earn it ! ) and dont 
 just rush though the main quest go do somthing else join a guild or somthing ! there is over 100 
 hours of gamplay here and most of it is not in the main quest which is any where from 10 to 15 
 hours long and even after you finish the game you can download mods which add many more hours of 
 game play  
  
  
  here is my verdict :
  
  graphfics- 8 out of 10 - this game came out in 2006 and it still kicks ass!!!!!!!!!
  
  gameplay- 
 8 out of 10 - the combat is solid and it feels like an action game
  
  story- 6 out of 10 not the best of stories but it strengh is all the options availible 
  
  
 
  final verdict 9.5 - this game is well worth the money!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  One of the greatest RPGs ever, does that explain enough. The sheer size of the over-world, the 
 hundreds of spells and the enjoyable main storyline. The gameplay delivers, and delivers highly 
 aswell. The game allows you to play in both third and first person views, however third person 
 should only be used to take screenshots or check how cool your character looks. The game is clearly 
 meant to be played in first person and it shows. You can pick many classes and improve skills of 
 certain items. For example if you choose a Battlemage, you can be great with mage spells and incase 
 the enemy comes close, you still have your sword to slash away. There are many options to choose 
 from. Many of these skills develop and prove to be meaningful later in the game. If you develop 
 lockpicking, it can be much easier to open chests or locked doors later on. If you leveled your 
 speech skill, you can talk your way out of things and get people to trust you easier. The enemy 
 AI isn't that great but that covers up for it with the fact that the enemies are insanely hard 
 making you save often because you will die a lot.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are awesome, their polished, refined and gorgeous. Galloping with your trusty steed 
 in the morning never gets old to watch as the atmosphere drips with high textures and crisp design. 
 However some PCs might have to town down the settings a bit. But still the graphics are great no 
 matter what setting.
  
  Sound:
  
  Now this is one part that made me stop and listen to the over-world music. The sound is great but 
 smooth crisp tones and really great sound that matches with the atmosphere of the game. It's soothing 
 and it will definitely grab your attention. The music shows how this game was handled with care 
 in every aspect. Accents are good and the slashing your sword sounds great every time.
  
  Value:
  
  Yes. Yes. Yes. It's definitely worth the money. It's an RPG experience that should 
 not be missed. The main storyline is great and isn't too long, so with many classes you can try 
 playing through many times. Also the game is filled with sidequests, granted their not the best 
 out there but they are still unique and enjoyable. Every aspect of this game is handled with care, 
 from the crisp graphics to the soothing sound and the great gameplay. Definitely worth the money.
 
  
  Lifespan:
  
  It depends. Roleplayers will find this game long, as they will explore every cave and dungeon out 
 there, and trust me, there are a lot of those. Some players will also try to max out their skills 
 and stats. Also with the many classes this game features and with the medium length single player 
 campaign, gamers will feel the urge to try out new classes, use new spells and max out their different 
 skills this time. If you were a lockpicker you might wanna try to be a speech person. So yes the 
 game will last you a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wARLORD246
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Don't worry, all of my reviews are quite detailed and makes it easy to know about the game's qualities 
 and flaws.
  
  The Good
  
  Great epic and detailed story. Each NPC has a unique story itself and within its own life.
  
 
  Huge lavishly detailed and highly playable world with hundreds of dungeons, caves, ruins and settlements 
 to explore, find some bad guys and uncover magical treasure (that you can sell to an NPC barterer) .
 
  
  Over a hundred fun and cleverly designed side quests.
  
  Main plots' quests forms a very good and epic storyline, and are the most lengthy and fun.
  
 
  Very satisfying and original combat that requires good timing and tactics. 
  
  Magic, Combat, Speed, Agility skills' mechanics are well designed and levellable in an organized 
 and unique way.
  
  Your character can utilize his leveled skills, magical equipment and weapons, magical potions and 
 poisons, weaponry, strength, acrobatics, speed and magic to offer a great level of character's 
 customization, as well as many ways to fight opponents.
  
  You get to choose if you're bad or good or good with shades of bad.
  
  Hundreds of NPC's with 
 great voice acting and emotional face movements ,which make them really believable and realistic.
 
  
  Beautiful highly realistic and stunning graphics. Lighting, models and textures are all very advanced.
 
  
  Great original and outstanding symphonic score. As well as good sound effects.
  
  Huge amount of freedom.
  
  
  
  The Bad
  
  The game's qualities are not noticable for 
 young gamers (14 yrs or younger. Because of low intelligence) and impatient gamers, since it requires 
 patience and thinking to discover its mechanics, gameplay and the very fact that there are hundreds 
 of playable places with enemies and treasure.
  
  Some technical problems.
  
  A gaming processor and videocard (atleast GeForce 7900) is well needed.
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gadi800
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  so many people commented highly on this game and
  so did gamespot, however it feels to me like all
  of them were so intoxicated by its stunning 
 environment
  and flash that they were quick to score it before actually checking it. 
  the game itself feels as if released while it's still 
  incomplete.
  
  
  
  like the combat 
 system. if you check gamespot's long history of reviews you can find so much about saying and lowering 
 scores about clunky and clumsy combat system,
  well I am sorry to be the one to tell you all but oblivion's combat system is the mother of all 
 clunky and clumsy combat system!!!
  it's boring and most of the time looks like two characters just stupidly running back and forth 
 like morons!
  of course it appears gamespot forgot to mention this small (HUGE!!!) detail in this review (which 
 they like to mention and lowering grades to in other games) .
  another issue is the way they swing their weapons...
  i have never seen such lifeless way of 
 attacking in a game! about one movement left and right and maybe another one in a power blow!
 
  
  spells... i have never seen such pathetic spell system in my life!
  projectiles have maybe 3 versions according to it's elemental origins... and that's it!
  lowest 
 of level ice attack will look EXACTLY the same as the stronger one... the only difference is the 
 effect maybe... but come on!!!!
  one named blizzard and it looks exactly the same as the lowest of levels... boring simply boring!!!
 
  
  
  outfits! 
  yes clothes... with no distinction between male and female clothes... and so little inventory of 
 clothes it just found another way to be BORING as hell!
  90% of the robes look exactly the same and so many other! little creativity would do this game 
 a lot better!
  that's why there are so many mods for it! and i presume mods were part of the game when gamespot 
 reviewed it...
  because those are important elements which they so conveniently forgot to mention in their "this 
 game is the best" review!
  
  
  
  and the last but not least complaint... repetitive as hell!
  yes! so much places like caves fortresses 
 and so...
  look absolutely the same!
  kinda convenient when you think you'll spend most of your time in those places!
  eventually you'll 
 find yourself in the same places over and over AND OVER again ....
  another one of the "small" details gamespot love to lower scores about and forgot to mention in 
 their review... "sigh"
  
  
  
  for conclusion...
  i am sorry it is all complaints but it feels like so many excellent reviews were given to this 
 game without mentioning those rather obvious and frustrating faults...
  especially when they like to lower scores for so many games for the exact same reasons!
  oblivion 
 kinda fixes it in their way of open mod game.
  however mods aren't part of the game and they should be mentioned!
  all in all it is a good game 
 and worth playing!
  it has a lot to explore and to see!
  
  good game with hours of game play...
  but still overrated
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontenten
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a relay cool game people :) i finished it like 6 - 7 time ( all missions not only the 
 main quest ) :) yea yea is cool :) there ' re much much missions but it's easy do defeat them all 
 when u know how to play :) and hmm ... idk what to say more :D TOOOOTAL NICE GAME :D i can't wait 
 the new elder scroll :) knight's at the nine is a nice expansion but it's too short :) shivering 
 isles is a nice expansion but the real oblivion is the best :) i don't know what to say more :) 
 play for fun :) i played it 2 much :) but .... it was a cool time :D he he :=) OBLIVION OBLIVION 
 OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION 
  OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION 
 OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a sword and sorcery action-adventure with RPG elements.
  
  And you can take this to the bank:
  
  2006's GOTY marks the last time that so much singleplayer 
 content is ever released in one box.
  
  With the console coding and piecemeal pricing schemes that publishers are insisting on so they 
 can gobble up even more money, gamers will never again see a single release with this much stuff 
 to do in it. 
  
  Ever.
  
  Baldur's Gate II holds the top spot on the list of the last generation of gamers' titles with truly 
 epic amounts of content, and it marks the end of an era.
  
  Oblivion is the first (and last) meeting of the gigantic action RPG with a world of consoles and 
 the modern game corporation's marketing department.
  With time it will become a touchstone for above-average and discriminating gamers of this generation. 
 
  
  In, say, 2016, there will be a few stalwart gamers in their mid-20s and early 30s whining on message 
 boards, longing for a modern game with the truly epic scope of Elder Scrolls IV.
  
  At release it was something of a technical triumph. It looked fabulous (and it still does -- the 
 foliage is still the best ever, in my opinion) .
  
  But, most importantly (and I won't do it justice in just a couple of vague sentences) , there is 
 simply an ungodly amount of things to do in Cyrodill's lush, rolling landscapes. 200+ hours of 
 gameplay await you if you complete the four main storylines and tackle everything else the game 
 has to offer.
  
  Worth noting (since in a land of marketing buzzwords actual attention to detail gets overlooked) 
 Oblivion did other things right. Little things. Looting NPC homes or shops requires that you not 
 be seen -- NPCs don't stand around like mannequins if you start rifling through their stuff. Rings 
 and necklaces actually have models and appear on your character when equipped. Similarly, swords 
 actually have scabbards.
  
  Please name another PC game, two years after Oblivion's release, where weapons aren't just lazily 
 floating on the character in an MMO-inspired design copout.
  
  Oblivion has fine attention to detail as well as a gigantic scope.
  
  It is immense, immensely 
 entertaining and magical.
  
  And if you are a gamer that hates it, that pretty much tells me all I need to know about you. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saryticon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion, is a harsh, christian-esque hell place. That is the direct opposite of how good this 
 game is. The game starts out with a what is going on feeling. You get a sense of purpose easrly 
 on. The introductory dungeon has just about a bit of everything. You make your class and character 
 on the way. When you first get out, it is a most spectacular veiw. Lake rumare is in front of you, 
 with vilverin across it. Afterwards, you can do just about anything. You can be an authurian knight, 
 questing for right. You can be an Adrian (51357 of xbox live fame) , killing and robbing just for 
 the fun of it. You can join guilds, be a freelancer, a sniper, or a mage with an axe waiting for 
 blood. THe only flaws are the number of voices are low, the early segments are hard, and once you 
 get to be a level 40 and beyond, the game is too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantasy-based role-playing adventure game and employs open-ended or sandbox gameplay. 
 The main quest may be delayed or completely ignored as the player explores the expansive game worlds, 
 following side quests, interacting with NPCs, and developing a character according to their taste. 
 The player is free to go anywhere inside the land of Cyrodiil at any time while playing the game, 
 and even after completing the main quest storyline the game never ends, allowing the player to 
 build their character in whatever way they want, with no restrictions on skills or equipment. The 
 Windows version of the game is open to almost unrestricted modification, and there are hundreds 
 of modifications available on the internet, varying from small weapon changes to complete game 
 overhauls. The game contains many enemies for the player to fight, including monsters and animals. 
 Many enemies, quests, and treasures are "leveled", or become increasingly difficult, as the player 
 gains levels. The player, however, has the option of adjusting the difficulty level.
  
  The fast-travel system found in Arena and Daggerfall, but left out of Morrowind, returned in Oblivion. 
 In Oblivion, if a player visits a location, it appears as an icon on their map. The icon may then 
 be clicked to visit that location, with an appropriate period of time elapsing in the interim. 
 However, the player cannot fast travel from certain locations or when enemies are nearby. Oblivion 
 also reintroduced Daggerfall's ridable horses which were not included in Morrowind, while removing 
 Morrowind's transportation options, such as Mages' Guild teleporters, silt striders and teleporting 
 spells. The game also removed all levitation spells and items, as the cities in Oblivion are separate 
 cells from the rest of the world and thus must be entered into, and exited from, the town gate 
 to avoid glitches. Select non-player characters may enter and exit areas at will, and will do so 
 quite often, following the Radiant AI's commands. [
  
  One major focus during Oblivion's development was rebalancing Morrowind's stealth, combat and magic 
 skill sets. The skills system is similar to Morrowind's, though the number of skills is decreased, 
 with the "medium armor", "unarmored", "spear", and "enchant" skills removed altogether, with the 
 "short" and "long blade" skills condensed into a single "blade" skill, the "axe" skill merged into 
 the "blunt" skill. The ability to "forget" spells was also removed. The game also introduced "mastery 
 levels," which give skill-specific bonuses when the player reaches a certain level in that skill. 
 The combat system was also revamped, with the addition of "power attacks", generally given by mastery 
 levels, and the removal of the separate styles of melee attacks present in Morrowind. Ranged attacks 
 were also changed, so that hits were based on the player's firing skill rather than the character's 
 numerical skill level. Spears, throwing weapons, and crossbows were removed as well. The choice 
 came from a desire to focus all development efforts in ranged weapons on bows specifically, to 
 "get the feel of those as close to perfect as possible" as the Havok physics engine allowed the 
 team to do. Morrowind's passive Block skill became an active feature in Oblivion, activated by 
 a button press. The dynamics of the blocking mechanism were also changed, causing enemies to recoil 
 after a successful block and leaving them open for a follow-up attack by the player. Most of these 
 changes to combat were received well: GameSpot commended the strengths of the game in each area, 
 finding the game's melee combat "faster and smoother" than Morrowind's, the game's stealth combat 
 "at least as satisfying" as its melee combat, and was generally impressed at the breadth and ease 
 of use of the game's spell-casting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biged619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  You might of noticed i put 100 hours of time spent playing it. Infact its more like 2 years worth 
 of playing its so good (and addictive)
  
  my brother recommended this game to me a few days after it came out. On a holiday flight i picked 
 it up at the lobby of the airport to play on the way there on my terrible old laptop it worked 
 (just) and i enjoyed 2 hours of slow play time (1 hour of that being the dungeon tutorial level 
 which is quite long and boring) and i instantly loved it as soon as i got home from the holiday 
 i installed it on my computer and played it on a quiker framerate for ages great fun the graphics 
 were REALLY good everyhting that needs to be in a medieval style rpg is there home ownership, horses, 
 massive hammers, orcs its all there and once the expansions were released it got better just buy 
 this game now or you will regret it for the rest of your life!!!
  
  but i hear you cry "but there must be something wrong with it right?? something that Bethesda made 
 a mistake on or did badly" Alas yes here is a short list of problems
  
  1. GLITCHES AHOY: Glitches bugs weird glitch-eggs (like people flying in the air after swimming 
 and stuff like that) and more stupid weird stuff
  
  2. That guys half my size and is slicing me to bits!!!: One of the biggest mistakes made on this 
 is that as you level up everyone else does so you could go into a goblin cave to find a rat herder 
 with a superhammer killing 10 orcs instead of going into a small level 1 area with a few goblins 
 with pitchforks and daggers like you should
  
  3. Wait do you have the same vocal courds as him??: Almost everyone sounds exacatly the same like 
 they dragged some tired guy off the street and got him to read about 10 hours of voiceover into 
 the mic
  
  4. So eating this carrot will give me night vision make me stronger and make me bad at magic??: silly 
 food aftereffects like apples draining your strength and the potion making is a bit silly aswell
 
  
  5.*newspaper* LOCAL MAN KILLS EVERYONE IN BRAVIL (one of the countrys cities) PAYS A BEGGAR 100 
 GOLD ITS ALL FINE NOW!!: like the title says i could go on a mad killing spree killing as many 
 innocent people as possible then give a beggar 200 gold and everyone would love me and say hello 
 hero i like you very much in the streets instead of a infinite wave of gaurds screaming STOP... STOP... YOU 
 SHOULD OF PAYED THE FINE!! when you walk into a town
  
  6.*stabs man in the celler of a house in the middle of nowhere* STOP YOU HAVE MURDERED SOMEONE 
 PAY THE COURT A FINE GO TO JAIL OR DIE!! how did you hear me??: Guards have super hearing and vision 
 and its almost impossible to be an assassin when a gaurd in another town hears the victim and comes 
 rushing to help with a swarm of other guards.
  
  And that brings me to the end. The bottom line
  
  PLAY THIS GAME NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series is known for being very open ended. As a fan of Morrowind, I was going 
 into Oblivion expecting an even better game. I'm not sure if I did.
  
  In some aspects, I got what I expected, A fluid combat interface, some unique quests, better graphics, 
 and some newer spells.
  
  But with those additions, there were plenty of negatives that came with them. In fact, a greater 
 number of them then the new pros.
  
  There are the boring voices, the idea of the world leveling up with you, a very boring story, forgetable 
 characters, and a standard fantasy world. 
  
  The world leveling up with you is one of the worst ideas I've ever seen implanted into a game. 
 In an RPG, there should be an area that you would get your ass handed to you. Then you should be 
 able to go there after a couple of days and smash those same enemies.
  
  The voice acting is sup-par at best. Although Morrowind didn't have very much, the little that 
 it did have was ok. Oblivion had 4-5 voice actors to fill every single NPC. Hell, I even saw a 
 regular person have the same voice as one of the main characters!
  
  The story was, alas very standard. It really killed me to see a game like this not have even a 
 decent, some what unique story. That plus having to close a good 8-9 Oblivion gates that are mostly 
 the same makes it hard for you to stay in it.
  
  Although, on the plus side, the world is very open, plenty of dungeons to find, lots of scenery 
 to see and lots of quests to do. There were enough factions to keep me busy. Want to be a stealthy 
 character that doesn't want to murder others? Join the Thieves Guild. Want a one on one match? 
 Join the Arena! Want to be a assassin? Join the Dark Brotherhood! Want to be a mage? Join the Mages 
 guild! Want to be a mercenary? Join the Fighters Guild!
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a great game that can keep you addicted for a long time, but is it all that 
 Gamespot says? I say no.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumblor
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  We, old die-hard Elder scrolls fans, some of us (including me) started right from The Elder Scrolls 
 : Arena, loved Morrowind. It's graphics were great (for the time) , it's gameplay was jolly great, 
 it's replay value was something worth playing it again and again every year or two...
  
  When The Elder Scrolls : Oblivion was announced, we anxiuosly waited for it, disscusing what we 
 would like to see there, and when it was released, we stormed the stores, taking away any copy 
 available. We happily crushed our dvd-roms with the sexy cd, entitled Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion. 
 The installation screens... They changed about every minute (the install took about 5 minutes) , 
 and we had enough time to examine every little piece of the image, anxiously waiting for the installation 
 to complete.
  
  When the installation was complete.... So many pants dry that day... We launched the game we have 
 waited for years, we launched the game we waited since the completion of morrowind, we launched 
 a game we would love, mod, and play for years to come...
  
  The Graphics! Oh sweet graphics! They set a new standart for the time... Mountain ranges, forrests, 
 no matter how far, they were all in your line of sight... Ah....
  
  The Atmoshpere! So deep! Well.... It looked like. Since, all you can ask a local townsman is about 
 his city and rumours! We remmember the lines of text morrowind's people spoke years before, such 
 deep lore, such interesting politics.... And here. 
  
  "Anvil"
  "Rumours"
  
  Yeah... 
  
  Compared to Morrowind, Oblivion is like a bog compared to an ocean.
  And that's 
 Oblivion's post mortem. A little, shallow bog. No More. Maybe less. The only quests I found intriguing 
 were dark brotherhood's quests (my least favorite faction because of Tribunals events) . 
  
  So, Oblivion is a good game, but when compared to Morrowind - It's nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda's The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion try to be as RPG-istic as a game can be. You, the player, 
 can do almost anything you want, but you'll have to handle the consequences of your acts. Being 
 a murderer gets all city guards after you and, when caught, you can spend some time in jail (or 
 try to escape in the very first opportunity) or pay a fine (so much for the Cyrodiil citizens' 
 lives) .
  
  Oblivion carries a impressive rich lore that can be learned through the various book scattered 
 all over the cities; it is presented also by the townsfolk, through quests and simple chats. It's 
 noteworthy how everything in the Elder Scrolls' universe is connected to the lore somehow. Each 
 race have their own background that justify theirs unique skills and feats. In-game religion plays 
 a crucial role in how to approach missions, as you can deal favors for the Daedra in exchange of 
 powerful magical items or be blessed with stats boosts by each one of the Nine gods.
  
  As a RPG, Oblivion displays a not usual scheme for skills and leveling up: killing monsters won't 
 give you XP, instead, you have to build your skills (you can do that by killing monsters too!) , 
 and doing so for your major skills, you will gain a level and can improve your stats. These works 
 in various ways, both traditional and not. For example, strength will alter you encumbrance, but 
 will not (at least directly) alter your damage with melee weapons.
  
  The open-ended nature of the game delivers a huge world of possibilities, that can be so mind-bogglingly 
 that it can prevent you to finish the main storyline (It sure did it to me) . Interesting enough, 
 the side-quests are not repetitive and can provide you valuable gear for future adventures. Some 
 people will give you good-aligned quests as your Fame ramps up, or dirty jobs as you become an 
 infamous villain.
  
  The gameplay is simple and efficient, using both mouse (for combat and interaction) and keyboard 
 (for quick access slots, shortcuts and casting spells) . The 1st person melee combat is exciting, 
 but sometime you'd wish to see your character in action. Not to worry because you can be 3rd Person 
 slasher, but this view mode loses some precision.
  
  Graphically the world of Cyrodiil is gorgeous and very detailed. The regions are well defined (as 
 the Northerns ones, in Bruma's surroundings, are icy and high, and the eastern are shore based 
 warm) . Each region have it's own vegetation, predominant race, architecture style and even social 
 stats as general wealth or demographics. The game runs pretty well and is gorgeous even in more 
 modest settings. But when in highest quality mode, the world really comes alive, the views are 
 breath-taking and the level of detail and care that the developers had is clearly visible. In a 
 game so immersive, the physics are pretty out of place. The player can jump heights greater than 
 his/her own. The objects in game tends to act normally, but corpses assumes a Rag Doll model that 
 is either funny and disturbing. Try to launch any dead enemy from a cliff and see what happens.
 
  
  In the end, Oblivion is a beautiful and carefully designed RPG that is bundled with a impressive 
 detailed and rich open world to you explore and interact as you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandread5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game. It has great gameplay elements and excellent graphics. The game is huge, 
 with hundreds of dungeons and caves to explore and around a thousand npc to talk to. The way you 
 can mod or download someone else mod allows you unlimited possibilities and fun. The amount of 
 content in the game is limitless. Oblivion raises the bar so much that it raises the expectation 
 and quality of games. Oblivion does have its flaws though. The way everyone levels with you prevents 
 you from owning an opponent or getting owned yourself. The glitches can sometime be annoying and 
 the many dungeons can be quite repetitive. But these small problems is nothing compared to the 
 greatness of this game. With a huge modding community, there are endless ways to play the game 
 and endless ways to love it. Oblivion is probably one of the best rps out there and it will probably 
 stay that way for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion / PC / RPG / 9.3
  
  
  You wake up in a prison and the emperor of Cyrodil stands before you. He sets you free because 
 he thinks that you're special, that he had a dream of you saving the world. However the emperor 
 is assassinated and you'll have to find out more. That's where you can decide to do anything. You 
 may not decide to get doing the The main quest at all. Because there's a huge world with a crapload 
 of people, quests, items and cities. It sure has a lot of quests (~200?) 
 
  
  The gameplay is very classic and simple. You have this huge amount of different skills to specialize 
 in. You'll also get to tune your race and appearance before starting the game. In the beginning 
 of the game you get to choose your favorite skills etc.
  
  This game is rather free. You can choose to be killing everyone in the game, be a thief, mage or 
 maybe just a regular John Doe. But you're guaranteed to have some great fun with this game (that's 
 at least 60 hours) . One bad thing with the game is that leveling up won't help you much as the 
 environment, equipment and enemies levels up with you.
  
  Sound and graphics are still great even by today's standard. Even though the graphics could look 
 better when you look at the mountains far away (textures are low) . 
  
  Shivering isles is an expansion which ads an island in another dimension. It's a very pleasant 
 expansion with an awesome new world to explore (altohugh not as big as Cyrodil) . Knights of the 
 nine is a pack of mods which is pretty useless after completing most of the major quest lines. 
 Both of these expansions are highly recommended.
  
  Anyone who is remotely interested in RPGs should get this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatsura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Loved every minute, apart from right at the end when you get to a sort of ho hum what now point 
 where you just don't want to go down yet another ruin - they do get a little repetitive after a 
 while. It would be nice if the various story lines had a little more narrative to them. Individual 
 story lines such as the Guilds and the min quest line are great once you get into them, but they 
 are all a little anti-climatic when completed.
  
  Maybe I'm just too linear? Do I have a solution, of course not, how do you create that ending that 
 I desire without loosing that immersive freedom to do what I want? 
  
  I also missed the stronghold building from Morrowind. What was a vast improvement over Morrowind 
 however was the much improved frequency of random encounters in the wilderness - constant fighting 
 irritating flying things drove me round the twist in that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRockAweaRXx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  This game itself is outstanding. It has a great story followed with side quests that both keep 
 you playing for hours on end. I'm not going to say much about the story but I am going to tell 
 you that you can download mods that make this game either completely different, add new concepts 
 in fighting (you can chop off limbs) , graphically make the game better, make cities more lively, 
 add new cities and continents and it goes on from there.
  
  What I'm saying is Elder Scrolls is infamous for their mods. This game is an easy game to mod for 
 a reason. Once you find mods that you like you'll have fun, period.
  
  Get this game and mod it, it costs around $30 but I got it for around $7 at amazon. com used.
 
  
  
  
  I'm going to tell you get some graphics mods, it looks like a completely different game because 
 of how real the new graphics mods make it look. If you're worried about the story have no fear, 
 the mods generally do not take away from the story mode but be careful of what you download since 
 the mods can sometimes interfere with each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beowulf0987
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  the game oblivion is off the hook it is the best game i have played it you just never get bord 
 playing or watching unless your watching my brother walking around talking to people i especialing 
 like how the dadric quests bring you to all these different places the down part about it is that 
 i didn't get the damn game of the year edition and i don't have enough money to by it yet i have 
 to spend my own money on other things so im stuffed doing things like side quests until i have 
 enough money the yest i am doing is scribbling so don't worry about anything your seeing every 
 one else is seeing the same things. 
  
  
  
  fkj fhsagj w e efrdsg rgergerg erfjwaf hfhefgef herge f e rerefgherhgehrg r gfer geghergbf eg erghe 
 hgerhfg egh ethgdgerkgergje rgejk grejkg eiugeugierigeagabgfbe rgfergerbgeirghergue ge ghehbg dsfsad 
 re gbegberbfekf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is beyond amazing. Enemies acttack and when wounded will flee from combat. If killed you 
 can loot their bodies. If its a animal or monster they will have different items and ingrediants 
 on them. So a minotaur might yeild a horn while a deer could be sporting some tasty healing venison. 
 Bandits and other humanoid enemies will have armor, weapons and gold you might find on them.
  
  Food is nourishing and there is plenty to hunt for on animals or herbs to explore for in the 
 wilderness. Some ingrediants can be rather ghastly like human body parts that can be eaten by the 
 player.
  
  Then there is the endless variety of enemies such as the demented necromancers who practice necromancy 
 and necrophelia. Bandits of different races litter the roads aswell as dark forboding dungeons 
 of the lands. Even they have plenty to be fearful of as enemy will fight enemy! An unlucky bandit 
 may find himself surrounded and acttacked the unfortunate victim of a horde of rotting diseased 
 infested zombies. You will encounter many enemies doing the same thing the player is doing such 
 as exploring dungeons and hunting for wildlife or talking to other npcs in the world.
  
  Graphics are top notch with amazing detail of environments where realistic looking wildlife intermingles 
 with ferocious fear inspiring monsters. These are some of the best looking fantasy monsters i have 
 ever seen with excellent animations. A devastating improvement over the sometimes stiff and paper 
 cardboard movement of the previous game Morrowind.
  
  Sound is top notch with creepy echoing winds in dungeons and the sound of peaceful splashing waves 
 upon the shores of the many lakes of Cyrodiil all magnified by the sights of a buetiful sunset 
 and other wonderful at times horrifying weather patterns.
  
  To get the best out of this game get a ATI video card. With my Radeon HD 3870 am able to play with 
 all settings maxed and anti aliasing set at 8x with no loss of framerates. Too bad i could not 
 do the same with my old Nvidia card.
  
  A huge world to explore which i still have plenty to discover after 2 1/2 years of playing. Its 
 the kind of game that will have you stop buying other games because you just wont have time for 
 any other game its so gigantic in size and fun.
  
  Thank you Bethesda for making my leisure time always exciting yet relaxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a very strange game. It suffers from a kind of droggy feel. When I entered the game, 
 I was so ready to put it down. I was constantly dying and playing like a crack-head, and then I 
 realized that it was because in Oblivion, you play by THEIR rules. After my friend basically forced 
 me to get past the painful beginning, the game started to, for some reason, grow on me. And then 
 the addiction began.
  
  Let's get this straight: Oblivion is GOOD. In fact, the previous paragraph, although true, is made 
 for comical effect. Oblivion is a very very good game. The story is intriguing, the freedom/battle 
 is exhilarating, and its novel in design. There is very little to bicker about this game, that 
 is, once you get to a certain point. 
  
  The game's greatest weakness is its feel of heaviness; soft gamers are to stay the heck away from 
 this monster. However, for those open for more hardcore experience, you're in for a treat. Your 
 character IS you. You will grow from every strike you take, and every potion you make.
  
  Rarely do I play games that are SO involved. For its finesse and hours upon hours of great entertainment, 
 Oblivion is that choice for the semi-hardcore RPG gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asleiva
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has all the things a good game should have
  fantasy, action, adventure, heck even some sexual themes.
  Very addictive and fun. However people 
 lose intrest when you realize that all the quests are the same go to this place find him/her kill/talk 
 to him/her travel to place, close gate etc. 
  
  
  there are only a few that are different and enjoyable, that really make me give this rating.
 
  
  
  I've noticed some things this game is a bit unrealistic... when you shoot someone with an arrow 
 in the vitals the just stand there or continue fighting, they don't scream in poain or fall over. 
 (just a thing people should notice)
  
  I really like how this game just have you grab the person when your hands are not doing anything, 
 it's just funny.
  
  after all these cons i will say one pro...
  THIS GAME IS OVERATEDLY FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquishyNoob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  You'll start thinking that this game is amazing - even on my old PC I thought it was great. But 
 it takes a few hours to run into the downsides - which are many.
  
  
  It seems mainly based on graphics - look at the screenshots for proof. But if your computer is 
 not up-to-date, forget the screenshots.
  
  
  Now, the game looks like a mix between a FPS and a RPG. Don't get me wrong, this is a really nice 
 touch. If it's properly carried out. But unfortunately it isn't.
  
  First off, Oblivion completely lacks localised damage. That means, a hit to the head is like a 
 hit to the toe. This both with arrows and with melee strikes. For this same reason, armor pieces 
 will not protect a specific part of the wearer's body. Instead, they will provide a (small) amount 
 of generic protection. No matter where you hit - If you hit someone's head, and he is wearing only 
 a pair of boots, he will oddly get some protection.
  Again, hitting enemy armor with weapons and spells won't damage the specific parts of it, but just 
 a randomly picked piece.
  
  To continue, combat is monotonous. For ALL melee weapons the animation is the same - one handed 
 or two handed groups. To the strictly gaming part, it works simply left click, go back, right click, 
 left click, repeat.
  No, you can't fight while riding - that could have been a cool addition.
  Plus for some reason 
 ranged weapons seem to be REALLY underpowered. You'll take something like 20 hits to take down 
 an unarmored humanoid.
  
  Fight will take a lot, and definitely feel not "lethal". More like a matter of repeated hit\run\cast 
 thing that soon becomes an annoyance.
  
  Also weapon materials are too linear: the more advanced material will be ALWAYS tougher, more damaging 
 AND heavier. Let alone that there are no long weapons.
  
  Now that I described the action flaws, i'll pass to the RPG ones.
  
  The real pain: level scaling.
 
  This quite destroys the RPG-ness. (Almost) All your enemies, all their equipment, all the loot 
 you find, will "evolve" adequately to your level. What's the point of leveling up if it will make 
 no difference at all? Just so that a cooler armor set appears in some random loot? Indeed, it's 
 unnecessary to level up. You can complete the main quest as well as the guild quests as a level 
 two ( not a level one though :-) ) . Actually it's easier, since enemies have an extra handicap 
 at the first four levels.
  
  Now comes quest linearity. Same input, same output. That for 99% of quests. Including the main 
 one.
  One more annoying issue is given by "Essential" characters. You can't, can't kill them. Just make 
 them unconscious. Couldn't the makers bother to make at least a "Mission failed" screen? Or to 
 break quests?
  
  Thirdly, there are quite a lot of pointless skills.
  Light or heavy armor skill, for instance. How is some armor going to protect you three times as 
 much only because you feel more "comfortable" in it?
  Or even pointless in terms of usefullness in game. Speechcraft and security for instance. You'll 
 play fine without caring of them.
  
  Also you can't make your own weapons, but that may be asking for a little too much.
  
  At this 
 point you'll wonder why I gave this a 7.5.
  It's because of mods. You'll find plenty of them, and you can even make your own fairly easily 
 with a program, TES-CS.
  Some of these mods actually fix the most annoying issues in Oblivion, like level scaling, while 
 others add a lot of content to the game. I'd suggest, if you're going to get the game, also get 
 TES-CS and try modding it - it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarltheafro
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Hello, I hope you're all sitting comfortably and ready for my review of Oblivion, I will keep it 
 short and try not to bore you in the way;)
  
  to start with, a little introduction, for those who have not shown interest in the game so far, 
 if you have; i suggest you skip ahead to the rest of the review.
  
  Oblivion is a single player action rpg, which is played in the first person but can also be played 
 in 3rd, it is not a follow up of your might-be-favorites other elder scrolls games.
  It is however loosely related to it, as it plays within the same realm.
  This game will set you 
 on the journey of a fully customisable character.
  
  You start off in a prison, having no idea why exactly you are there, the game seems to be revolving 
 around the emperor instead of you. the emperor steps in with a few bodygaurds called 'Blades' your 
 prison cell seems to be on the path of the royal escape route.
  Then the emperor notices you and starts speaking with you, it is then clear that this game DOES 
 partly revolve around you, as you are supposedly the one of his dreams who has to help out in saving 
 the realm.
  
  Well, not a short introduction but it'll do :P
  In this game you will be able to choose from some skills, definately not as much as in the Elder 
 Scrolls 3 series, but it is a more balanced choice. you will choose some major skills which will 
 level FASTER, these will also receive a starting bonus, and will determine when you reach a level.
 
  the rest will be misc skills, which you can still level but not as fast as major skills, also 
 these will have no affect on leveling, except for attribute bonuses which will come later.
  These skills may or may not be affected by the race of your character, the races you are able to 
 choose from are: Redgaurd (African humans) , Imperial (Caucasian humans) , Argonian (lizards) , Wood 
 Elf (Bosmer) , High elf (Altmer) , Dark elf, Bretons and last but not least Khajjit (cat like (wo) men) .
 
  
  not only will these races have an impact on your skills, but they also have special abilities which 
 may allow you to breathe underwater for instance, or attack much faster, or charm a creature into 
 liking you, those are just a few of special powers these races harbor.
  Then you will choose a birth sign, birth signs are 'extras' for your character, these might improve 
 your characters attributes, or magicka or give you special abilities.
  
  then you've pretty much got a character, you can define and personalise one with items such as 
 armor, weapons, alchemy kit and more.
  
  
  Well thats the character creation, now I will get on to the marking part (scoring the game) because 
 i think, if i get into more detail i might spoil the game for you, so here it comes, all summed 
 up:
  The Pros:
  -Long-lasting
  -good graphics
  -good 
  -good personalisation of character
  -good quests
 
  -fully triggered events and powerful artifacts such as the grey cowl of nocturnal
  The Cons:
  -Somewhat linear quests
  -frustrating bugs
  -improper grammar and unrealistic 
 situations
  -you might miss some features of the previous elder scrolls games.
  
  scoring:
  Sound
  Sound (fx) : 8.3
  Sound (voice) : 8.0
  Sound (music) : 8.6
  Avg: 8.3
 
  Graphics
  Animation : 7.3
  Textures : 9.0
  Concept/art : 8.0
  Avg: 8.1
  Gameplay
  Interface : 9.0
  Storyline/quests : 7.7
  Controlls : 6.8
  Bugs and stability: 6.0
  Avg: 
 7.4
  
  Average 7.9
  
  This is the end of my review, I hope ou've enjoyed it and please do have fun while you game :)
 
  -Infinity
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noontide
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  One thing i find that's really regrettable in Oblivion is the removal of levitation. When playing 
 Morrowind, I made a charm with constant levitation effect, and just float through the sky all day 
 long, over lakes, mountain tops, buildings... I really felt like a divine figure as I rightfully 
 became. I really miss that.
  
  Also, Morrowind seems to have much more depth in game play. From the get-go, you woke up from troubled 
 dreams in a ship in the raging sea. What an idea. While in Oblivion I'm enjailed for no apparent 
 reason. In Morrowind, the gradual revealation of your identity is one of the major attraction and 
 incentive to play on (at least for me) , and I develop my personality and strength as I go along. 
 Here in Oblivion I was set to do a mission from the beginning, the game play feels much more linear. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianaPwns39
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite games of all time is Morrowind. So when I heard about Oblivion back in the day, 
 yeah, I was excited. But in my honest opinion, I think that Oblivion was a huge step down from 
 that game. 
  Don't get me wrong, Oblivion is a great game, by all means, but the new game play mechanics annoy 
 me more than anything. 
  If one has played Morrowind before, there's plenty missing from that game that is clearly noticeable. 
 Some good, some bad. 
  The good - The combat has been greatly improved. You can block when you want now, and when you 
 hit something, you actually hit it. The staggering and power attacks work well for the world, and 
 help immerse you into it. The graphics are still some of the best around, even though the game 
 is getting old. Normally I don't really care about graphics, but for this type of game it really 
 helps it become more real. The characters are a welcome improvement as they all talk, react to 
 your actions.
  The bad - Random items were removed from Morrowind for seemingly no reason. You can't use spears 
 anymore, and with Oblivion's new engine, they could have been useful and realistic. Morrowind had 
 worlds like giant mushrooms and volcanoes, Oblivion is forest after forest. While the forests are 
 pretty, it doesn't feel nearly as original or intriguing as its predecessor. Morrowind also had 
 much more to do. There were dozens of fractions and countless quests. Here, you can count the number 
 of factions on one hand. What really annoys me though, is Oblivion's hand holding game play. As 
 you level up, the game levels with you. I preferred Morrowind's "you can only go here if you're 
 strong enough" ideals. Its just stupid to me, hitting level 15 and all of a sudden the seemingly 
 poor bandits all have on the rarest of armor and weapons. Also, what's with not being able to drop 
 quest items? Or not being able to kill important characters? Oh well.
  
  Although all my points make it out that Oblivion is a bad game, it isn't. And for the people that 
 haven't played Morrowind, these points or useless. 
  Oblivion is an exciting game. The quests that are in it are quite good, and the game is a beautiful 
 one, and its exciting to explore. There's plenty of character creation, so no two characters have 
 to be the same or do the same actions. The problems the game might have with new comers are still 
 there, but they're not major. I refer to how every elf has the same voice, and all imperials sound 
 the same, and so on. Stuff like that, but its not terrible. 
  
  All in all, Oblivion is fantastic. Characters have schedules, the weather and detail is fantastic, 
 and combat and exploration is amazing. But as someone who's been playing the series since Daggerfall, 
 it does feel like quit the step down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: External-Chaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  The main point in mind is, is this game worth purchasing? The the answer to that question, on so 
 many levels is simply "yes". This game offers elusive depth of gameplay, and also offers an intriguing 
 storyline, Landscapes and factions. What really puts this game in-front of the eight-ball is the 
 fact that there's always something to do, whether your exploring forbidden caves for new types 
 of loot, travelling through the country side watching the sunrise to sunset, or even assassinating 
 someone for the Dark Brotherhood faction, this games leaves an open ended world for you to explore. 
 When you start your game you can create your own character, and i mean you can really create him, 
 from eye colour to cheek-jaw ratio, you can actually make your character to be what you want him/her 
 to look like. You start the game off in a prison cell, where you get caught up in this plot to 
 assassinate the emperor and it proceeds from there on leaving you at the end of your chair. The 
 other great thing about this game is that even though the main story line has twists and depth, 
 the factions you can join go for just as long and are no let down either, they offer great missions, 
 exciting twists and unique loot on the way. This game is so big and has no many quest within it, 
 that you could just walk up to a Dark Elf and a Orc having conversation and they could end up talking 
 about some treasure, and all of a sudden a quest log pops up and you have another quest on your 
 hands. The fact that there's so much to do is great because if you get stuck on one thing you can 
 just finish off a different quest, and you will never run out of things to do because if you finish 
 all the quests in your quest log, just go talk to a few people and i guarantee you will find a 
 interesting quest to do. There is also a first-person option aswell as the RPG mode, may i recommend 
 doing the first-person mode just simply because it gives you a better feel and sight for the game. 
 The skill options are quite fantastic itself, no matter what your doing it's putting your skills 
 up whether it's running, swimming or fighting your working your way up another level. The way this 
 game works in leveling is you have your majour skills and your minor skills, your majour skills 
 make up what type of profession your character is and the minor skills are just the skills your 
 character doesn't really require to full-fill his/her profession. When your majour skills go up 
 a level it contributes to your main level, if you get your minor skills up it has no effect on 
 your main level, however it is still handy to have all levels boosted up, just because it's simply 
 useful. However every exception comes with it's price, if your looking for the minor downfalls 
 in Oblivion is probally the combat does tend to lack depth, point and click is pretty much what 
 to expect here, you can click the mouse for a normal attack or you can hold it for a power attack. 
 The bow and arrow actually has a pretty good combat system, where you click and hold for how much 
 power you want in the shot, and your arrow will slowly fall closer to the ground over longer distances, 
 so it requires some skill in getting use to where your arrow will land. This also depends on how 
 advanced your marksmen skill is, obviously the higher the skill the more power and damage you can 
 get into the shot therefore it will last longer through the air, this makes it easier to hit enemies 
 from a longer distance. The magic however does lack detail, most of the time it's a fireball or 
 an electric blast, there's thousands of spells to acquire, but the imagery just isn't that great, 
 good but nothing special. Also i found with the game and know that allot of other people found 
 this is aswell, is that the game is so big you tend to feel really lonely at times, there's heaps 
 of people in the cities but outside the cities there isn't alot of NPC's, and where there are quests 
 where you have to kill someone, (which there are alot of those quests by the way) , it kinda makes 
 you annoyed because your making the number of NPC's even smaller now, and once there dead they 
 don't come back, unless you wanna look up cheats on the internet of course to get them back. But 
 if your a fan of RPG's i defiantly recommend buying Oblivion, trust me, you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a god among all previous games. Not just that it is a god among rpg's
  ------------------------------------
  PROS
  Fun ass system
  Great story
  Good leveling 
 system
  The mods Oh yes the mods.
  The length
  Difficulty is just perfect.
  Races are cool.
  Great graphics.
  Atmospheric really. This is the kind of game that makes you 
 wanna walk in to the middle of A forest and just stare at there beauty or wait till 7 and watch 
 over the nibean bay.
  Plenty of items
  Costume spells
  Enchanting!1!1!!
  Difficulty slider.
  Interesting expansions
  -------------------------------
  Cons
  Wait.. 
 what cons?
  Uhh.. IT costs money..? uhh.. OH yeah
  No online game. I would've LOVED IT
  if it had online. No but maybe next time.
  -------------------------------
  Other thoughts.
 
  MORROWIND SUCKS
  -------------------------------
  Favorite mods
  OOO
  MMM
  fran mod
  Deadly reflex (4.03)
  Thieves tool
  open cities
  window entrances.
  -----------------------------
 
  Well thanks bethesda for a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: effena
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This is my first encounter with the Elder Scrolls series after my nerdy friends telling me how 
 awesome this series is. So I saved up some money, pumped my computer up with the latest hardware 
 and gave it a spin.
  
  The character creation class gives you the choice of 10 different races each with different abilities. 
 At first, I chose a high elf, and chose to be a sort of battle mage type class, mixing weapons 
 with magic abilities.
  
  
  You start the game in a dungeon for reasons unknown and you are approached by the king who is voiced 
 by Patrick Stewart saying that your some chosen one or something. I'd have to say that he is probably 
 the best voice actor in a video game. Unfortunately, it is just a brief cameo. After you faff about 
 in the dungeon corridors for a bit you are thrown into the game world. The game world is absolutely 
 beautiful, but once you've seen one part of the game, you've seen it all. The whole world is pretty 
 much just ye old English countryside and towns. There is also the Oblivion world which gives you 
 a bit of a change, but that also gets a little repetitive. The mosters in the world are also all 
 the same, though they change as you level. The basic enemies start off as wolves, then change to 
 tougher "timber" wolves, then to bears, to trolls, and so on. These enemies are tougher but they 
 change as you get tougher so the difficulty curve doesn't change that much. The only good thing 
 I have to say about it is that it gets rid of repetitive grind. 
  
  After about a couple of hours of gameplay, I restarted my game because my "battle mage" handled 
 like crap. Using a combination of weapons and spells did not work as easily as I though it would. 
 So I chose an orc for my class and just went as a warrior, specializing in heavy armor and swords, 
 which made the game alot easier to play. I found the gameplay to be really good, and everything 
 was a lot smoother. If you focus on one class in the game, instead of trying to mix and match, 
 the gameplay will really shine. 
  
  The story is pretty well written I guess, it's just not executed very well. You can jack around 
 and do your thing at any point in the game. So the sense of impending doom that the story relies 
 on is kind of diminished. I love the fact that I can go 50 hours without touching the story, but 
 50 hours is like half a year in the game. You would think the prince of Oblivion would've found 
 a way do take the world over in that amount of time.
  
  The best part of the game, in my opinion, would be the guilds. They have some pretty cool back 
 stories to them, and you are rewarded with some cool loot if you complete them properly. For example, 
 the Dark Brotherhood is an assassination guild, a little too bent on their profession, but I digress. 
 If you complete their hits without being spotted, you are rewarded with more money a phat loot. 
 At this point, the stealth gameplay becomes necessary. It was hard for my lumbering orc to tiptoe 
 around, but it added some difficulty to the game, which was nice since the open ended world was 
 lacking any difficulty.
  
  All and all, this game has action-RPG gameplay from heaven, but for a game that tries so hard to 
 be good, it lacks the immersion RPG are built on by almost totally eliminating any sense of progression 
 in the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wintersmith
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely brill. My Dad first played it and I just sat and watched him. One day I 
 wondered how different my style of play would be. So I turned on the computer, put the disk in 
 and away I went. I didn't come off that computer until past midnight!! The game play is totally 
 immersing, and the game sucks you in from the first cut-scene, straight away you want to explore 
 and destroy the invasion, and the people behind it. I've still got three active games each with 
 a different race, my Dad also has 2 games, just to explore the content added with the expansions.
 
  In the wilderness there's just so much to find, so many dungeons to clear up, a never-ending stream 
 of side quests and the game is just packed of stuff to do. If you have a social life before you 
 play this game, you won't when you've finished it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantante80
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game and felt like it was a huge world that could never feel completely 
 explored (I like to try and experience every detail of a game) and unlike other games that felt 
 this way initially, this one actually kept getting bigger and bigger. I felt like there was no 
 limit to what you can experience. The world was absolutely huge and yet rather than feeling repetitive 
 or empty, it felt like a believable simulation of a reality. Great fantasy novels and movies depend 
 on the backstory/history to have a world that is lived in. This game creates a similar feel. I 
 don't know if I can explain how satisfying it was to find an engaging gameplay engine in such a 
 developed environment. It was unbelievable. 
  The different approaches were all fun and had different feels, but it seemed like once I got armor 
 that was particularly conducive to stealth, stealth was the funnest/most effective way to play. 
 The different cities were great, the different enemy types and dungeon types helped alot, and the 
 quest types were alot of fun. This is a great game that is destined to be a classic. Unbelievable! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohogger
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I give this game a solid 10 for it's expansive gameplay, real-feel combat, and relatively 
 large and unique leveling system. The first thing I noticed when I started this game was it's huge 
 amount of content that was put into it. All the info you pick up during the story and side quests 
 pulls you into the game and by the time you save and exit, you realize it's 1 in the morning! And 
 the combat is smooth and unpredictable, each of you enemies are very different and use different 
 attack patterns so the game is more challenging. And the leveling system is Large and can be effected 
 by vampirism and disease, to make the game more interesting and fun. So basically, this is one 
 of the best games I've ever played. Im waiting for Bethseda to make an Elder Scrolls 5 as soon 
 as they finish with Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rma
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  THIS THE BEST BEST GAME I EVER PLAYED. ITS ABSOLUTELY AMAZING. THE GRAPHICS ARE BEAUTIFUL. THE 
 GAME PLAY IS NOT TOO HARD OR NOT TOO EASY. THERE IS ALWAYS A NEW CHALLENGE OR A NEW QUEST THAT 
 YOU NEVER FOUND. THE BEST PART IS THE AMOUNT OF FREEDOM AND CHOICES. YOU CAN BE A LARGE FREAKISH 
 GUY WITH A WAR HAMMER. YOU CAN BE A SNEAKY GUY WITH A BOW AND DAGGER. OR IF YOU WANT TO BE SIMPLE 
 GET A SWORD AND SLASH THROUGH EVERY THING YOU SEE. THERE ARE A LOT OF WEAPONS AND ITEMS. YOU CAN 
 ALSO TAKE DIFFERENT APPROACHES TO DIFFERENT SITUATIONS. YOU CAN TAKE THEM HEAD ON OR SNEAK. ANYWAY 
 YOU DO IT YOU WILL HAVE A BLAST. THIS GAME IS SO AMAZING ANYONE COULD HAVE FUN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER. 
 IN SHORT THIS IS THE BEST GAME I EVER PLAYED. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Chameleon
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I'm only reviewing the vanilla version of the game. 
  
  I've been waiting for this game for years, and when it came out I needed to wait even longer until 
 I could upgrade my computer so I could run this behemoth. And all the positive reviews from both 
 fans and professional editors fueled my hype for the game. 
  
  Oblivion is fun, don't get me wrong. I had a blast in the first 30 or so hours of the game. But 
 as soon as I finished all the quests for the first guild I joined, I found the game to become repetitive 
 and boring. 
  
  First of all, this game should not be considered an RPG. A first-person shooter designation would 
 be a more appropriate. It's all about reaction time, and keyboard-ninja skills. There's no character 
 development and very little roleplaying. And no, grinding for stat boosts is not roleplaying. There's 
 no meaningful relationship with NPCs; they are extremely flat and 2-dimensional. As an fps, the 
 game is fun, but serious RPG fans beware, this game will disappoint. 
  
  Another problem with this game is that even though the graphics are stunning, the graphics detract 
 from the overall creativity of the game. The dungeons are recycled, yes, 100+ dungeons in the game 
 are based on a couple of tile sets. 
  
  And then we enter another problem with the game, the story. It's simply boring. The main quest, 
 the guild quests, side quests: 90% of them are simply unimaginative. I'm not one to protest cliches, 
 but if you're going to use cliches, use them right. Don't build up some fearsome villain like Mannimarco 
 "The King of Worms" or Mankar Camoran and reveal them to be puny elven wizards in bland clothing. 
 And every story has a good ending, right? Well not Oblivion. You watch Martin sacrifice himself 
 to kill Dagon, and then bam!: you're made to be a champion of Cyrodiil (along with me already being 
 the grand champion of the Arena, Master of the Fighters Guild, Archmage, a knight in two lodges, 
 a blood brother, and a blade... the accumulation of titles gets ridiculous) and you're given a 
 crummy suit of armor. Nothing else happens. Everything is back to normal. I've been pissed off 
 at endings before, but a least those games had endings. This was the most anti-climatic experience 
 I've ever had with a game. I suppose I was supposed to feel sad for Martin, but I wasn't. I could 
 care less. The game didn't give me any reason to, I barely knew him. When my companions died in 
 Planescape Torment, I felt emotion. When my pilot was assassinated in Deus Ex, I felt anger. Because 
 those games had excellent character development. They made me care for them. This game, you can't 
 differentiate between Martin and 1000 other talking heads in this game. 
  
  The voice-acting for every line is a nice touch, but the quality of the text suffers since they 
 have to voice every line in the game. It gets quite irritating when every passerby (from guard 
 to street hoodlum) says "You have the hands of a smith. You must have spent some time repairing 
 your gear." Or better yet, when I'm wearing a robe I get this: "You look like someone who's comfortable 
 in heavy armor." At that point all the charm of voiced lines evaporates because of the utter stupidity 
 of comments like this. It also gets really cheesy when you here the same voices recycled over and 
 over again. (Although I did appreciate hearing voice actors from Redguard: Elder Scroll Adventures, 
 especially Cyrus and Dreekius ^_^)
  
  I can see this game providing the groundwork for an actual RPG. The combat mechanics are a lot 
 of fun, and it has a fairly simple interface. If Bethseda or someone else can take this engine 
 and apply it to an FPS/RPG like Deus-Ex then you may have a game that could be hailed as one of 
 the best RPGs ever made. But this game is not it.
  
  Not even close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimbojoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Back in the beginning of summer, I bought this game with high expectations. I had already played 
 its predecessor, Morrowind, and was eager to play this one. This game did not meet my expectations. 
 It surpassed them.
  
  To begin, Oblivion has one of the most compelling storylines I have ever seen. Without giving too 
 much away, it is basically about how you must save the land from being engulfed by Oblivion, which 
 is basically hell.
  
  The gameplay is excellent. You really feel like you are swinging a sword, or casting a spell in 
 this game. During combat, there is often motion blur which offers a very realistic and exciting 
 experience.
  
  One of the best things about this game is the character creation. You name your character, chose 
 how they look from hundreds of options, and then chose what class they are; paladin, knight, rogue, 
 and much more.
  
  Another thing that is great are the graphics. This game is stunning, even today. They lighting 
 is spectacular, especially when outside. That, combined with its great music makes for a terrific 
 setting.
  
  There is however, one flaw that people should really know about. The leveling system, is... well, 
 different than most others. It turns out that the more your characters levels up, the more powerful 
 all of your enemies become. I found this pretty much defeats the purpose of leveling up, which 
 is to gain an advantage over your enemies. Other people, however, may find this a good thing.
 
  
  In the end, the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, is a must have for RPG players. If you are curious about 
 this game, BUY IT. I assure you that you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackener
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Looking for a game with tons of quests, heaps of action, amazing graphics, awesome story, outstanding 
 gameplay, heaps of freedom and absoloutely awesome combat and magic? Then Oblivion is definately 
 the game for you.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is packed with great quests and has a long, awesome storyline. You 
 start out in a prison and the emperor gets assasinated, you must take the amulet of kings and find 
 the heir of Tiber Septim before the demons of Oblivion do. But before you find Martin, you must 
 close a an Oblivion gate, packed with fierce demons and monsters. The planes of Oblivion are dark 
 lands surrounded with hot lava. And to close the gate, you must go through a series of action-packed 
 events, until you find the sigil stone and close the gate. But enough about that, I'l talk about 
 the gameplay now.
  
  The combat system in Oblivion is one of the best i've ever seen in a game. As you progress through 
 different skills, you are able to perform more attacks on many different weapons. The magic system 
 is also amazing with spells that harrness fire, frost and shock spell at your enemies, or make 
 yourself invisible so your enemies can't see you. 
  
  Oblivion really is one of the best games i've ever played, and is definately a must-have game for 
 anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drokens90
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivion may be one of the greatest letdowns I have ever experienced in all of gaming. I mean, 
 after Morrowind I expected great things. 
  
  I guess you should never expect that much out of a game because this one truly sucks. Upon entering 
 the character creation screen I noticed a few things. Your characters face looks funny. I found 
 it very hard to make a somewhat normal looking character. Another thing I noticed was that some 
 of the skills from Morrowind had been taken out. They could have maybe added more skills and improved 
 themselves. But no, they took it out and meshed weapon classes together which makes your character 
 feel less customized. 
  
  Then I was really disappointed when I started to play the game. This is something that a lot of 
 people (If not almost everybody.) will disagree with me on. The annoying, glowing graphics. Everything 
 looks like glowing goo. It somewhat improves itself whenever you go outside but the annoying factor 
 that everything is glowing never really disappears. 
  
  Now, when I started fighting things this was one of the ups of the game. Yes! My weapon hits on 
 every swing. No more of my blades going strait through an enemy with no results. The combat I found 
 to be really great. I really liked the magic, I liked how people caught on fire and burnt to death. 
 It was FUN. But combat is just one aspect and one of the only good aspects of all of Oblivion. 
 
  
  The story I didn't think was bad. It wasn't good but it wasn't bad. I didn't much care for the 
 main story in Morrowind either to be honest so it would have been a nice improvement. But since 
 the main story wasn't excellent in morrowind they had a huge array of cool fractions you could 
 join and fight for. In Oblivion those fractions are there but I never really felt involved like 
 I did in Morrowind. I liked rising up to the head of house Hlaalu and finally building my own fortress. 
 It was fun, but the fractions in Oblivion seem to give out boring quests. 
  
  Now this is my main gripe with Oblivion. The world! There are two types of environments you will 
 find in Oblivion outside of the Oblivion portals. You'll find land with a bunch of trees and land 
 with a bunch of rocks. That's not half of the trouble. Each city isn't much different from another. 
 It seems that all of the cities are a replica of each other. The stupid click and travel system 
 doesn't really help this much either. 
  
  There is more to complain about this game but these are things everybody already knows like the 
 stupid leveling system. But I'll just leave this review at: Its easy, crappy and I will never play 
 it again. 
  
  The end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemono
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  At first the game is big and overwhelming just remember that it's a game for exploring. Yes there 
 is a main story and side quest but you can get eager to beat it? There's a lot of stuff to side 
 track you which is good that they give you quest marks in your map and what to do. The weapons 
 and armor can get to recycle them self's over and over. The magic is ok but they should have a 
 better way to organize it. You are able to decorate the houses you buy but the way it is done you 
 can get frustrated after a while. I do like how you have infant storage (for the people that has 
 to collect everything) , possible to max out all skills (if you make warrior and then wanted a mage 
 you don't need to remake your character) , Full voice acting (every NPC well talk with voice and 
 text) and the A. I. in the game (if for some reason you are not warping from city to city and just 
 walking around you might come across a thief that either attack you or ask you for your gold. Or 
 when a NPC gets hungry and can't find food they might still it hunt for it or even pick up that 
 poison apple you put on the table, floor, chair eat it and die.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phuam
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Revolutionary game. huge variety; !HUGE! map; huge game!
  this game gives all the liberty to do anything. best fps RPG! The map is something colossal. you 
 can be knight, archer, monk, mage, battle master, thief, and more.
  in this huge map the game has (i think) 9 diferent cities. if you are thief you can pick pocket 
 on people on streets or during night enter theyre home. you can be a gladiator too. its cool because 
 you can pass all the game in cities or come outside and travel like neveer before! every 20 metters 
 outside you found one different thing. you can be different races, imperial (human) , nord (human) , 
 kajhid? (feline) , ????? (reptile) ; you can also be a man or women. (now i must make words to be 
 able to post this comment.... bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla omg bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla sry guys bla bla bla bla) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one of the greatest RPGs ever made. The story might be a little 
 boring, but you don't have to stick to the storyline. The best thing in this game is the almost 
 infinite side missions that are very interesting and enjoyable. This game will make you enjoy its 
 rich content and extraordinary graphics with hundreds of hours of gameplay before it starts becoming 
 boring. This game also has some great pieces of music that will make you relax when you're exploring, 
 and be ready when in battle. The only thing missing from this game is the ability to play multiplayer. 
 I would give this game a ten if there was multiplayer, but I guess Bethesda Softworks never thought 
 about it. I really hope Fallout 3 will be even greater, and I really hope that Bethesda makes another 
 sequel for the Elder Scrolls franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordNightblaze
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Great with an expansive map and multitude of side quests the only problem is its all the same plus 
 just look at the npcs they are all the same like 5 faces and voices plus voices are broken on npcs 
 a begger will one minute be begging for coins in a whiny poor voice and next second talking about 
 current affairs sounding like the lord of the manor.
  
  the use of magic is broken and almost impossible to use properly with most things costing a monumetus 
 amount of mp to use. it needed more enviroments a desert or something
  they should have spent more time on npcs
  
  in truth yes a good game but compared to other 
 games in this genre it isn't defining or spectaculare and after a while it becomes abhorrant and 
 impossibe to sit own and enjoyplus the expansions did not change much although at least shivering 
 isles brought some new colours to the experience 
  woot first review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great RPG. You chose a race then you go out into the free world. You train your skills, 
 use magic, get armor and a sword, kill other races and animals, travel through towns, and the best 
 part of it is: You don't have to follow the Main Storyline! That's right, it's free time for you 
 in Oblivion. The open world is there for you and you can kill anyone you please, but some you can't 
 kill. The Graphics are great. 2K and Bethesda Softworks took a lot of time making this game for 
 the graphics. Everything in the game is realistic. Texture of the NPC's and yourself are great 
 looking. The Sounds when your traveling around and while in battle sound great. Hearing sounds 
 of Blades striking, or killing someone, is a great sound. Overall, I give this game a 10/10 for 
 Great Graphics, Great Gameplay, and Overall fun that will get you addicted for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spylol
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  One of my personal favorites. . .But before i can continue whith the review warning there is a 
 spoiler alert
  
  Graphics: Amazing but the true question is can you handle them?
  
  Combat: Like awesome lets get more in deph
  
  A: warrior: Left click left click left click 
 left click right click for 5 seconds then left click again. Its your simple button mashing
  
  B: assassin: My favorite. Two ways to assassinate. . .Yes two Bow or sword
  
  Sword: Press 
 Ctr wait for the meter to say not seen and go hold left click for 5 seconds and there your much 
 loved sword take down.
  
  Bow: Yeah a unique weapon not found on most killers but you find it in oblivion. Basicaly Ctr wait 
 for meter to say not seen aim (A headshot is usualy a one hit kill) and fire! (Please note that 
 bow assassinations do less than sword or dagger)
  
  C: Mage: I havent tried mage but i can tell you my friend has and he kicked some royal. . . (Looks 
 for word) . . .Butt. (Warning you need to buy/learn spells you dont naturaly get them accept for 
 the starting 8)
  
  Sound: Most music is reapeted which sucks. I think theres like 50-30 character voice acters in this 
 game so voices DO get reapeted : (
  
  Options: Yes i know a strange thing to add to the list but i shall add it. There are many options 
 allowing you to change many things and besides what would we do whithout options?
  
  Third person: Yeah another strange one but it shall be added. Well i personaly hate it jumping 
 animations suck horribly its like your guy freezes up
  
  First person: Way better than third graphics are odly better and fighting is way easier
  
  
 Story: Lets see a unique quest of amazing things from entering the gates of hell and having to 
 destroy a doomsday weapon to seeing tamerials former empires ---The aylieds in the the hight of 
 there times. I say its amazing
  
  Freedom: Another strange one. You can do WHATEVER YOU WANT! From buying a house to breaking into 
 a house. You can enter ancient ruins looking for ancient treasures only to find its being inhabited 
 by a large clan of vampires (Yes you can be a vampire) !
  
  Summary: Loads of stuff to keep you going for months from the freedom to the storyline and if you 
 ever get bored join a guild its a unique experiance some of these guilds (Theres the assassins 
 guild which is hidden, the thieves guild which is hidden the fighters guild and the mages guild)
 
  
  Scoring: These are all the scores of everything i wrote on
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Combat 10/10
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  Options 10/10
  
  Third person 4/10 (But realy who uses 
 it) ?
  
  First person 10/10
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Freedom 10/10
  
  Summary (or total score) 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_Milamber
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion. Recieved critical acclaim from oh-so many sources, had TES fans 
 drooling to snap up thier pre-ordered copies all over the world, and proved to be a very engaging 
 game experiance... for about half an hour. It's about this point I realised one very important thing. 
 Oblivion looks gorgeous, and the world is almost ridiculously well crafted... and it bears far more 
 resemblance to an Action-Role Play than a true RPG, a trend I find more and more as time goes on.
 
  
  I take you back ten years... the late 90's, the glory days of the RPG. For myself, the first games 
 that spring to mind are those created under the Interplay umbrella - Baldur's Gate, Planescape 
 Torment, Fallout. Even just go back as far as TES3 - Morrowind. When you came across a quest, there 
 were usually a half dozen or more options - take the diplomatic route, kill everyone in sight, 
 sneak your way through, get someone else to do the dirty work, etc (or use a turkey fork to kill 
 a giant jelly fish thing if you happen to be working for Sheogorath...) . You could ask questions, 
 find out details. You might have to speak to a dozen people before a good solution to the problem 
 presented. And you most certainly did not get a compass arrow pointing you in the direction of 
 the solution!
  
  To put it bluntly, Oblivion is an RPG designed for lazy people who couldn't be bothered thinking 
 thier way through a complex story arc. "Go here and kill some goblins." "Go there and get me a 
 magic sword from those skeletons." "Do you accept the quest? Yes/No." For a true, old school RPG'er, 
 to have Oblivion called one of the best RPG's ever made is a dreadful insult. The quests are almost 
 universally linear, no brains involved, and REPETITIVE.
  
  Moving onward - the combat system. Works fine, unless you take a close look. Bows are next to useless, 
 unless you want to spend a LOT of time running away. Last time I checked, an arrow or two is usually 
 enough to kill someone, not fifteen or twenty. Sneaking is also fairly useless. One small noise 
 and everyone within several kilometres seems to know exactly where you are, regardless of your 
 sneak skill. Magic is also very hard to find a use for, as any decent offensive spells come too 
 late, and require ridiculous amounts of Magicka to actually use. Again, you spend a lot of time 
 running away. And the idea of enemies leveling up con-currently with the PC is ridiculous. A bandit 
 in Daedric armour? Please...
  
  This is not to say the game experience is a complete write off - there are many, many mods avaliable 
 for Oblivion, many of which correct some of these inherent flaws. With a few of those installed, 
 made much simpler with the handy mod compatibility systems that Bethesda thoughtfully included, 
 Oblivion is a very enjoyable play, which is certainly worth a replay or two. As I said, the game 
 world looks fantastic, and the level up system is both original and innovative, improving on and 
 symplifying that used in Morrowind.
  
  To summarise, Oblivion is definitely worth a look for gamers of any calibre - but don't expect 
 a serious RPG experience. Now, if we could get the Morrowind story in the Oblivion engine...
  
  - JM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballm10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Oblivion was the first game that I played in the Elder Scrolls series and I had mixed feelings 
 about it after playing. I'll go through some of the pros and cons about the game.
  
  Pros
  
  There is plenty to do in Oblivion. There's a huge open world to explore and plenty 
 of people to converse with. There are multiple towns to check out and in each is a property available 
 for purchase. The main storyline is also optional so if you simply want to play with side quests 
 then you're free to do so.
  
  
  Cons
  
  One major fault in the Elder Scrolls is the leveling system. Instead of experience points for performing 
 tasks or defeating enemies, you level up based of various skills you work on improving. At the 
 start of the game you can pick various skills which are your "major skills." When you use these 
 skills they level up, and eventually level your character as a whole up as well. This isn't good 
 because leveling up a skill gives you almost no benefit, and it makes leveling up awkward and feel 
 poorly done.
  
  Another complaint about Oblivion that I have is about the level scaling system. Level scaling is 
 when the game automatically makes all enemies in the game stronger or weaker according to your 
 character. This gets incredibly unrealistic and annoying when after you just defeated the most 
 powerful wizard in the game, you still have trouble with normal bandits. Also, you would still 
 be weaker then every guard in the game, as they're scaled to be a bit stronger then your character. 
 So despite just saving the world, it appears as if almost any other character could have done this 
 just as well.
  
  
  Overall Oblivion has some noticeable problems, but can be enjoyed. However, if you're looking for 
 a good RPG experience, look elsewhere. Oblivion is more of an action game with RPG elements, rather 
 then the other way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbicon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games you just keep coming back to. In 30 years you could come back, play 
 this game and have new adventures. If all games spent this much time and put this much effort into 
 games they'd be ALOT better. The graphics in the game are Good especially whene you use an invisibilty 
 spell however I have had some little goofs here and there whene the graphics get TOO good but thats 
 probably just my computer. I have had times where i'd be in a dungen and be really tense just waiting 
 for somthning to attack me as if I was really there. The voice acting is Good also but you can 
 tell that bits are chosin at random. For example you could be walking down the street of and here 
 a begger in a scottish acsent ask you for a coin, thene you talk to him and he's totlay American! 
 This really, however isn't that big of a letdown nor dose it affect gamplay. Speaking of gamplay 
 that is where this game really shines there are SOOO many quests its next to impossible to complete 
 them all. Some of these happen at random others you have to talk to certain people and even others 
 involve you doing other quest first. The quests are now where near cookie-cutter and are fun a 
 uniqe even if your doing the same thing (E. X. murduring people for the dark brotherhood you always 
 murder people but each time there is a new twist.) And i'm just talking about the side quests! 
 even though there are tons of these all challenging with there own rewards the game has a good 
 storyline too. Leveiling up is hard and takes a while so it is very exciting whene you reach a 
 new level. There is so much to do like buying houses stealing murduring. You can become an outlaw 
 steal and murder people then go to a camp kill everyone there and claim it as you own. There are 
 also many dungens to explore in which you can find many hidden treasures. There is just so much 
 to this game I would sit here typing for hours trying to explain it all. This game has no ties 
 to morrowind that effect gamplay so even if you havn't played other elder scrolls games before 
 this one is a good one to start on. Weather you like RPG's or not TRY THIS GAME! I garuntee you 
 will like it if not love it after playing it.
  Sorry for any spelling mistakes :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylacwayzay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I'll just go over the points gamespot does. (my first review by the way :D)
  
  Gameplay - 9: The gameplay is, to say the least, superb. It has a perfect blend of item gathering/equipping 
 like and RPG but has intense first-person fights like an action game. With its incredible amount 
 of items, spells, creatures, and quests, it gives the player a great sense of variety and challenge, 
 not to include the adjustable difficulty which makes it approachable for beginners. The fighting 
 itself is pretty much just hacking and slashing, but its what takes behind the scenes that is the 
 best part: you can poison your weapons, set hotkeys, enchant armor and weapons, make potions and 
 more. The only minor problem is that the third-person view doesn't feel right (as it did in morrowind) , 
 but considering this game isn't meant for third-person it doesn't matter to much.
  
  Graphics - 9: If I were to describe the graphics in one word, it'd be Immersive. It's filled with 
 openended and detailed environments that literally explode into life. Eerie dungeons and deep dark 
 forts add to the lush and explorative feel. Character models are also well done. They have accurate 
 lip-synching and are modeled very well. Creatures and other objects are also brimming with a certain 
 realism. The only problems are that some of the textures seem muddy when up-close and that some 
 character animations are stiff. 
  
  Sound - 9: One of the most noticeably brilliant aspects of the game is its sound. The music, though 
 hardly paid attention to in fights and such, is wonderfully orchestrated and blends so perfectly 
 into the situations in which they are played. The sound effects, like the music, are barely noticed 
 in tense situations, but they remain incredibly accurate and satisfying. The voice-acting is brilliant 
 as well, and is one of the key things to notice in fights and such, and the fact that there is 
 so much speech in the game makes my spine tingle in delight. But, the main problem with voices 
 is that they usually sound the same. A person you just killed could have the same voice as the 
 person who told you to kill him.
  
  Value - 10: Flat out one of the longest games ever made. Not only does the game alone have a solid 
 150 hours and more packed into it, but the sheer feeling of freedom you get seems to just make 
 you want to run around and kill stuff. And one of the best things about the WHOLE game is the fact 
 its 100% moddable (is that a word :P) . Mods alone can make this game virtually endless. Mods can 
 even upgrade the visuals, sound, and gameplay, which makes this game nearly flawless. But, no mod 
 is perfect, but they make this game so much more amazing then it already is.
  
  Tilt - 10: I have heard complaints before about the story. It is true that the main story isn't 
 very. . . straight forward and is kinda illogical, but I highly doubt anyone has completely followed 
 the main storyline without straying off to do something else. It's not so much the logic behind 
 it all, but more about the sheer feelings that are sent out from the engulfing stories. Every quest 
 has its own story behind it, and each one subtly gets you attatched to the characters you are helping 
 (or killing :P) . In fact, It's almost a shame this game doesn't have more quests with the some 
 of the SAME people you've helped before.
  
  Side notes: I personally recommend the PC version for the sake of mods and such, but the 360 and 
 PS3 versions are still good too considering both will be accessible to mods soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ottinane
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  After Morrowind I really thought these guys would come up with something truly amazing. The visuals 
 were quite impressive BUT without essence as they weren't even close to portraying the atmospheric 
 and dark environment in scrolls 3. The graphics was supposed to be the game's strong point.. if 
 it had been addressed to a younger audience. It actually had this cartoonish quality as in WOW. 
 The quests were rather boring and the fact that after 3 hours of playing one could easily find 
 daedric armor and weaponry which could be considered cheating. But my personal favorite was the 
 green marker on the compass directing the player, something that could easily have been optional. 
 The music and sound effects were repetitive and average. A typical example of modern day RPGs, 
 to be lenient.. unimaginative. Too bad... I hope Bethesda treats Fallout better..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWord71
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  if they added muliplayer to this game this game would be way better then guild wars and World of 
 warcraft combined. 
  
  Also if this game had a better quests guide it would be way esayer to follow like guild wars like 
 for exapmle there are primary quests and secondary quests so if you want to beat this game you 
 do the primary quests if you want extra money and extra experince you can do the secondary quests.
 
  
  I love the freedom in this game how you can pretty much dop wehat ever you want.
  
  this is one of the the best role playing games (rpg) for the pc in a while so take advantage of 
 this and go out and buy Oblvoin it is awsome
  
  thx for reading my reveiw
  
  P. S. this isbetter then Guild Wars and World of Warcraft period no questions.
  
  P. S. again 
 if you do buy it buy the game of the year edition it saves you a ton of money. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crabby121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was one of the best RP games in the past 8 years (Morrowind is up w/ it) . The only 
 thing I thought was lacking was the main quest. Unlike Morrowind, the main quest was a little to 
 straight forward where in Morrowind, you had to do a bunch of jibs before you even now what you 
 were doing them for. Plus, the main quest was a little too short. The RPing in it was great and 
 the graphics were amazing. It is my personal favorite game. The voice acting was very good in this 
 game, though I missed the rasping dark elf voice. Has the same birth signs and classes but char 
 customization is much more in depth. You can choose just about every facial feature. Definitely 
 my favorite game no matter what.
  Ok, some thing I would like to see are improved schedules for the NPCs and a bit more realism. 
 By that I mean, have your character require sleep, water, hunger. Make it easier to kill monsters 
 but easier for them to kill you, and some better combat moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngels_Assasin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Now im going to be reviewing The Elder Scroll 4: Oblivion. The game starts out in a sort of tutorial 
 level in the dungeon of the castle. Here you learn about the story, how to play and create your 
 character. The character creation in this game is amazing. It can literally last an hour if you 
 try everything out. After you exit the dungeon its when the real fun begins. Youre thrown out into 
 the world of Cyirodil where you can do pretty much whatever you want. There are four guilds you 
 can get in fighter, thieves , dark brotherhood and mages. Each one of them has a different way 
 to get into , the dark brotherhood requires you to kill someone , while the thieves guild requires 
 you to be bad, the other two just require two talk to an officer of the guild. Another organization 
 you can join is the Arena, here you fight as a gladiator and work your way up to Arena champion. 
 Now to the part I don't like about the game is the main storyline, which is a repetitive one , 
 the oblivion gates are almost the same. But this really isn't an issue since the game offer so 
 many more things to do that you wont miss the main storyline. The free roam in this game is massive 
 , you can go anywhere , there's a lot of caves , forts to keep you occupied if you like that. Of 
 course theres also the kill everyone in town thing, every time you kill some one and get spotted 
 guards will come and you will have bounty, the guard will give you the options of pay the fine 
 , go to jail or resist arrest. If you have a bounty anywhere you go wheres theres guard he will 
 follow you and give you the 3 options. One thing I don't like about this system is that you can 
 be in a forest far away from any town , it could be midnight , you 1 hit kill a guard in sneak 
 mode and you still get a bounty. Another thing about the game is that now matter what level you 
 are you can still get your butt kicked since enemies level up with you. Monsters aren't the only 
 thing that change when you lvl up, some types of armor only appear when you reach a certain level. 
 Overall this is a great game that every RPG fan should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furryfrump
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  The graphics is truly beautiful, especially the water but the weather system isn't that good. However 
 a mod can fix this 
  
  Game play wise it great fun with four guilds each with their unique story line to join, hundreds 
 of side quests and a cracking plot, what more could a bored gamer with loads of time want. 
  
  their has also been great improvement in the combat system since morrowind. For instance casting 
 spells and still having your sword drawn and even better, power attacks, that are unlocked as your 
 skills progress. 
  
  Also the game has been simplified a lot, now axes and blunt have been joined together to form one 
 skill along with medium and heavy and short and long blades. 
  
  At last you can actually have a proper stealth character complete with light based sneaking and 
 sneak attacks similar to thief 3 
  
  However once your head of one guild and have completed the main quest it just get boring unlike 
 in morrowind, simply because their was more guilds that took longer to become head of . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  After spending countless hours into the game, I personally feel that this it is somewhat over-hyped, 
 no doubt it's definitely one of the great RPG games out there but for me, the fun factor just isn't 
 that critically high given the tons of positive reviews of how marvellous it is but of course that 
 is my personal opinion towards the game.
  
  Firstly, the game sets you up in an immersive and huge mythical land which serves part of the open-ended 
 gameplay. However the outside world although nice to look at, looks pretty much the same everywhere, 
 just different hill heights and ground contours but it can be a relaxation to explore around leisurely 
 sometimes and don't be surprise if you find yourself chasing a deer with an axe or shooting it 
 with your arrow bow to excuse yourself from the routine slavery job where people out there needs 
 you do this and that... kill people, fetch items... etc... I don't have to explain, you have done 
 it before because you possess the power and skill to do them but when you try to combat some friendly 
 key NPC characters, they are actually much tougher then they look and could possibly do those job 
 on their own. 
  
  A lot of times you will find yourself fighting in dark mazy caves and because these caves can be 
 so dark, you are unsure whether to equip your shield or the fire torch. You can either play in 
 a 1st or 3rd person perspective but you will quickly avoid using 3rd person view as much as possible 
 because the animation is just ain't cool to look at especially when you execute a jump, it looks 
 like your character got freeze up or something. 
  
  The game consist of main quests and many side quests and side quests are actually the ones that 
 have more fun. I Particularly enjoy the gladiator quest where you are pitted against other competitors 
 like yourself battling it out till death for the grand Hero title and of course attractive prizes. 
 Like other RPG games, there is a wide variety of weapons and equipment and nothing is more satisfying 
 then obtaining a hard-earned weapon because you see the weapon you hold in FP view unlike most 
 RPG games, the weapon you carry is just not prominent enough for admiration. Collecting weapons 
 and stuffs it's one of the motivational factor in this game.
  
  Overall, this game while repetitive and dull at times is fairly enjoyable and had it's moments. 
 If you have not played it yet but going to try out soon, I suggest that you check out some fan-site 
 mods. Some are quite neatly done especially the environment texture mods but may be more taxing 
 on your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  I recall a time where The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was considered the messiah of gaming, somewhat 
 of a savior for the Western Role Playing Game. It had great reviews and was heavily hyped as one 
 of the best games of it's time. It was considered superior to Morrowind and just an all around 
 excellent game. I found otherwise. Oblivion is a beautiful game with some fun to be had but apart 
 from that it suffers from dumb downed gameplay and a typical RPG story. Funnily enough I enjoyed 
 the expansion pack, The Shivering Isles, a heck of a lot more but that's a different review. 
 
  
  Despite the disappointment I felt in Oblivion, the game has many positives. For one there is a 
 lot of content to go through. So much that I didn't need to go to through the story so much, I 
 instead did the side quests like going through the various guilds like the thieves guilds, mages 
 guild, and the arena. These are the true highlights of the game and offer the most fun. The other 
 good thing about Oblivion is the graphics look outstanding, they still hold up today as the game 
 isn't too old. Sadly the world lacks any variety, it seems like they just copied the same land 
 and pasted it over and over again. It still looks great though. I just wish there was more variety, 
 this is what the expansion pack gave me. The game also has great sound with each character having 
 dialogue. My only complaint there is the fact everyone sounds the same but it's not a huge problem. 
 Most of the NPCs are useless anyway to be honest. 
  
  The problem with Oblivion is the core gameplay. I'll be upfront, this is not a role playing game. 
 It actually feels more like a first person action game. There is very little skill required in 
 combat, just some mouse clicks and maybe a spell or two. It's fun at first but after a while it 
 begins to feel tedious and it just isn't that fun. The level up system is different. It works well 
 and you level up based on how you use your class based skills. The game also has annoying features. 
 Over-encumberment hampers your ability to carry as many items as you please which is small but 
 it gets painfully annoying always having to resource manage. The gameplay is alright, it works 
 but its not that great. It's the main reason why Oblivion is shy of being great in my opinion. 
 
  
  Oblvion is a good game but just. It had a lot of potential but sadly it didn't live up to this. 
 I know people will hate on my review but it's what I honestly think. Perhaps this game isn't my 
 cup of tea. If you've never played an RPG in your life and always wanted to or had a small urge, 
 Oblivion is for you. For RPG fans you'll dislike this game. This game does not play like an RPG 
 and it's really an action game pretending to offer an RPG experience. When all is said and done, 
 it's just good but still a disappointment for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Hello to everyone reading this! If you are reading this then your most likely thinking of buying 
 Oblivion. Good Thinking. Well, Oblivion is a amazing RPG, and arguably one of the best games of 
 all time. There are thousands of side-quests and a epic main story line. And if that type of thing 
 isn't your forte then you will love the fact that this game encourages modding! On a different 
 note, Oblivion is visually appealing, and immersive thats for sure, but that doesn't matter at 
 all if its not fun. Luckily Bethesda put the Fun Factor way up there! Thats not to say there won't 
 be the occasional bug or hiccup on some PCs, But all in all this game is worth it's price, and 
 if you haven't gotten it yet I suggest you go out and buy it. And tell your friends to buy it, 
 and their friends, and so on. Well!? What are you waiting for?! Go and Buy Oblivion Right Now!
 
  
  This is Half-Doom signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitestick7
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  It has such a huge, lush, and beautiful word that it just sucks you in and you don't want to stop 
 playing it. You can spend countless hours just exploring, collecting, talking or doing just about 
 whatever you want; doing quests is just part of the experience. You can buy houses, and set up 
 displays of your amour and weapons, stash you literature in your bookshelf to read later, or you 
 could just sit at you desk and read the hundreds of actual in game books that this world contains, 
 from diaries, to cookbooks, to histories, to regular old fiction novels. 
  
  The world is filled with real looking trees, grass, and shrubs that will sway and part when you 
 walk through it. You can even sneak through the tall grassy plains and hunt deer with your bow 
 at the ready, or ride them down from horseback for quicker killing. The cities are so fascinating 
 that you want to visit each and every house and shop in every town you come to just to see what 
 you can find. Countless caves, ruins, and dungeons fill the landscape so that there are always 
 new places to explore and loot. The quests tie in with the world so well that you can befriend 
 certain NPCs and take them adventuring with you, especially in the Knights of the Nine expansion. 
 I've had friends put in 400 hours on this game on a single character, and they still were discovering 
 new areas and side story lines all over the in game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeAsTnItOuT
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt one of the best games I ever played. The first thing to be said though 
 is that the first time you pick it up, do NOT play it modded. If you want to download a few unofficial 
 patches, performance enhancers, or graphic sharpeners, go right ahead but even so you'll want to 
 just play it through. When you purchase the goty edition, it comes with all the official expansions 
 which fit right into the game. They fit right in and you can keep playing on. What you shouldn't 
 do though is look at guides or find out where places are. This game has a very high replay value 
 imo and you're going to be playing it for while, so don't think you'll miss anything important. 
 The funnest part of this game was playing it without any console cheats or any player mods. When 
 you run around cyrodiil and find all these places, loot all kinds of equipment, and go on countless 
 unique quests, you'll find it very hard to stop playing. Once you've beaten the game, had enough 
 of going through the guild lines or just think that you've "finished," think again.
  
  I always love games that encourage modding, but what I love more is playing the game for what it 
 is. Once you've had your fill though, then the fun really begins. There are such hardcore players 
 out there that create complete overhauls like OOO, MMM, and people that do all they can to combine 
 them at the folks over at FCOM. Then there are the mods that tweak small things that can really 
 make big differences. For those of you who think your computer might not be up to date, but want 
 to play the game, buy it. If your computer doesn't accept it, then get a new computer. Its worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  In the Elder Scrolls IV, its pretty hard to be bored considering the vast landscape and nearly 
 endless possibilities. Your character starts out in a prison, though the reason is unbeknownst 
 to the player. Your Emperor Uriel Septim is being escorted out of the city through the prisons 
 secret escape route. After fighting your way thru the whole escape route, the emperor is killed 
 and he leaves the Amulet of Kings which protects Tamriel from the hellish Oblivion legions.
  
  So the story line starts there. But with the sandbox gameplay, the possibilites never end. 
 When you exit the sewers, You can go multiple places from there. Youre left on the lakeshore on 
 the lake obviously that surrounds the Imperial city, which is basically the capital. So you could 
 across the lake and explore some ancient mystical ruins, go to the capital, continue along the 
 main quest, or just fast travel somewhere random and begin there. Fast travel is basically like 
 teleporting. There are markers on the map that you can fast travel to instantly.
  
  There are 4 main guilds in the game that you can do simple tasks to earn money, street cred (lawl) , or 
 weps. the Dark Bortherhood is probably the most fun. Who doesnt like running around assassinating 
 people for money eh?
  
  The fighters guild I have never gone with, because it doesnt appeal to me.
  but you basically 
 do tasks like killing beasts and exploring old forts.
  
  The Mages guild is really fun to try to even get into, because you go from town to town, getting 
 recommendations from every local guild Hall.
  
  Then the Arena which isnt really a guild leaves with the feeling of a gladiator. The money comes 
 cheap, and low level noobies can earn lots o cash by doing some matches!
  
  The best part about oblivion is that you feel like youre living a life in a another world. You 
 can be arrested, you can buy houses, gear, food, you can rent rooms in hotels, you can talk to 
 people, make friends. The list goes on and on. the next best part is the gear. Tons of weapons, 
 armor, clothes, jewelry, and apparel leave you feeling... an empty wallet!
  
  Overall, you have to won this game. Its not just for geeks, which is a stereotype for this game!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilean_demon
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I was in a big mistake the last time I played this game, you know because there is so much fans 
 of this game than made me reconsider my point of view.
  You know, there is two kind of RPG player: The first one is the kind of player who loves a great 
 story, with a great playability, and something who has never been done before. There you can find 
 people who played Final Fantasy VII in PC or Playstation. And the second kinds of gamers are the 
 one who never played Final Fantasy VII and play a lot of similar Medieval RPG like Neverwinter 
 Nights, Gothic, World of Warcraft, The Witcher and Oblivionthis kind of gamer thinks Oblivion 
 really rules, and there have a great point because Oblivion is the best game in this kind of Rpg, 
 you can have a lot of options, a typical medieval story: the chosen one who has to fight orcs, 
 demonds and finally protect the kingdom and the King (or his son in this chase) .
  Well I tried Oblivion again and is the same for me, just a Medieval Rpg who doent give you anything 
 different (even my little brother get bored of this game, you know because he played Final Fantasy 
 VII in my old playstation) .
  So here is my advice: IF YOU NEVER PLAYED FINAL FANTASY VII IN YOUR ENTIRE LIFE you will love this 
 game because is the greatest RPG in graphics, story and playability. But if you played Final Fantasy 
 VII JUST DONT EVEN TRY IT BECAUSE IT WILL LET YOU DOWN SO HARD!!!!! Because is not even like 1% 
 of that game.
  You know I dont want to offend the Oblivion Fans because there have so many reasons to think this 
 game rock. but for a guy like me is a kind of CURSE after played Final Fantasy VII, because now 
 all the other RPG looks so boring. The only one who made a exception is MASS EFFECT because let 
 me play in the future and let me escape from medieval times.
  But i Have to finish with something nice, this game got something special about the magic you can 
 use, the characters (you can be SHREK JAJAJAJAJA) and the story is pretty nice for a medieval Rpg 
 (if you think about the other one who sucks) , I also like the graphics really rocks in a Nvidia 
 Geforce 8600 GT 512 Mb (my video card) and that gives you some kind of fun when you played. Maybe 
 when I had more missions and quest it will be a great game and the story will be more interesting.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICE-T_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  Here we go. Story is just beautiful, it's an addictive game. Little number of ppl in game. Just play 
 the game dude!
  
  oh yeas gameplay rules...... graphics too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgaughan
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  II can only imagine how much time they put into Oblivion with more mileage in its created lands 
 than I travel in a year near my real life home. If I was going to a deserted island with only one 
 game it would be this one, not because it's so much fun but at least I know it would take me till 
 my old age to do everything that can be done in the game and its expansion packs. Doing so much 
 work I wish they would have fleshed out the characters you interact with a little better. I fell 
 like the game is one of those shooting ranges where the cardboard cutouts pop up at you to shoot. 
 That is to say that everyone in the game seems preplaced with a set dialogue waiting to go whenever 
 you come around to them. The character faces/models aren't much better than the cardboard cutouts. 
 No one looks quite right which shakes you out of the experience a bit. I was constantly altering 
 my brightness and saturation on my TV trying to get the bright glows out of the faces of those 
 I was talking to. My biggest issue in continuing the game was just that I felt very lonely in playing 
 it. There is an occasional event in the main story that has you fighting aside soldiers and I've 
 heard you can have an apprentice if you complete the add on expansion the Knights of the Nine, 
 but I found myself wishing there was someone with me throughout as I traversed vast grasslands, 
 towns, caves, and more often than not, large hell like environments. I think of a game like Final 
 Fantasy where one of the draws is having a party that you control through the game. Oblivion is 
 a similar experience and it would have been more revolutionary to have one or two people, controllable 
 or not, in your party fighting along side you in this game. Along those lines if they had added 
 online connectivity where you could complete quests with a friend, I think it would have gone a 
 long way towards a more enjoyable experience. This could easily have become an abbreviated MMO 
 on Xbox 360 leaving people hungry for more or opening the possibility for more expansions if they 
 had explored online opportunities. Another issue was resource management. I found myself often 
 making trips to and from a place to get all the items that had dropped and I was constantly dropping 
 and picking up items to optimize my resources. It became too much of a draw on my time after awhile 
 as the game was feeling too much like a job more than anything. Griefing aside the game was amazing 
 in it's scope (see desert island remark earlier) . I also enjoyed the combat in which you can raise 
 a shield, bow, or sword from a first person view to fight a creature face to face. One of my favorite 
 features of the game was a customizable difficulty bar that you could slide to easier or harder 
 depending on your situation. This is a feature PC games have long enjoyed but consoles have not 
 had the benefit of. If felt a bit like cheeting at times but also helped offset bad character leveling 
 if you did not set your character up right and started having difficulty later on. I could see 
 it being a great addition to some other games. I look forward to see what Bethesda is going to 
 do with this franchise in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrysangrymod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  This has got to be my absolute favorite RPG game ever. 
  
  Graphics: Exilent, but by todays sandards, Could be a touch better. 9.5 / 10
  
  Concept: This 
 brings very new AI to RPG games. When they citizens walk by each other, THEY TALK. You don't see 
 that in many RPG games. 9.8 / 10
  
  Sound: Great Sound Track with very relistic sounds. Swords banging, metal clanging. 9.4 / 10
 
  
  Playability: They controls can be a bit tricky at first, but you can change them to your liking 
 so its not a huge deal. 9.1 / 10
  
  Entertainment: Probably not the game you want to get if your looking for TONS and TONS of quests. 
 This game has many quests but not enough to entertain the average gamer. Although there is in fact 
 hundreds of dungeons all around Tamrial. Theres also tons and tons of things to collect. To armor 
 to weapons. With a lot of classes to experiment with. 9.8 / 10 
  
  Replay Value: High - You will be playing this years from now.
  
  
  Overall, I think this 
 is the best RPG game I have ever seen. I give it: 9.6 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright now for Oblivion on the PC it is way better then its console brothers.
  This version has such more to do. With the mods for this game it just never really ends. I personaly 
 can stop playing since it can get boring after about two or three hours of playing. That is because 
 there is so much going on that you can't take it all in at one time. Now to the models etc.
  
  The game it self just looks awesome, the water was my fav. in the game. The trees and the way 
 everything around you just seems to be alive its truly amazing. Now the people in the game are 
 great so much talking no matter where you are. I mean you could get into a conversation with some 
 one in this game its great. The models for everything is just WOW! I love how everything works 
 around you. Now the AI in this game is great as well. Once you kill a person in a town or a guard 
 its sorta like a silent alarm has gone off everyone knows you did, and all the guards go after 
 you. Once a guard comes to you, you can either go to jail, pay gold, or resist arrest. Wonder which 
 one you will pick lol. Stats go down etc if you stay in jail.
  
  Now if you don't have this game or the exp. I would reconmend you buy it, it really is just one 
 of thos games that you have to have. Thank you for reading. MC
  MC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiffanyownsyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Elder Scrolls games since Daggerfall (Ok so Daggerfall isn't the best game 
 in the world :P) it was just too big for it's own good, Morrowind improved greatly on Daggerfall 
 and it had amazing graphics for its time, and yet, it was missing the immersiveness that you craved 
 for. In comes Oblivion....
  
  INTRO:
  Oblivion's story in MY humble opinion is... Meh-ish it seems epic and grand when looked at in paper, 
 but when you actually experience it, it just seems far less "awesome" than what it could have been 
 = (.... You could call it a "From-rags-to-riches" story or just a save the world story, but whatever 
 you call it, you know that you could have expected a lot more knowing older RPG's have had better 
 stories (I'm looking at you FF8) . Basically you're a prisoner in a jail cell (You don't even know 
 what you did, i like to believe that you had an affair with the queen's son for some strange reason 
 :P) and so the King of the land goes into your cell because it turns out that your cell (COINCIDENTALLY) 
 has a secret passage leading out of the city and (COINCIDENTALLY) the king saw you in his dreams, 
 the king is voiced by Patrick Stewart, who for an elder person, has a really deep and brooding 
 voice. That's as far as I'll say since everything else is pretty much spoilers, highlights of the 
 games are: secret cults, demonic gods, demonic portals, and a hidden temple... (Yay)
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Oblivion has a pretty good combat system, not perfect, but very few flaws... For starters, 
 the meele combat pretty much boils down to 2 buttons, attack and block that's both a blessing and 
 a curse, since you can just pick up and play due to it's simplicity but melee addicts won't really 
 have anything challenging to perfect no matter how much they play, ranging is pretty much... Ranging... Magic 
 is a bit more complex since you can attack and curse with lots of different spells that helps the 
 combat system be less linear and repetitive. Oblivion is a WRPG meaning in my own words a role 
 playing game where u can go anywhere you want and take matters into your own hands.... Want to be 
 a good citizen and help the poor? Go ahead, want to become a serial killer and drag helpless deer 
 into a cliff? You do that. There are of course consequences for your actions, but nothing to serious 
 to really impact your game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Oh my gosh! When you take your very first breath outside of the sewers at the beginning of the 
 game, you stare at a dock, water and an island at the other side of the water and let me tell you, 
 if your computer can handle the beefy requirements... Then you'll simply be breath-taken by the 
 sheer amount of beauty, and the music doesn't hurt either, it can simply be a soft melody of new-age, 
 but instantly turn into a dangerous cello solo with violent notes and a sense of urgency. There 
 are times where you'll just simply want to climb a mountain... Look down, and appreciate the sheer 
 beauty of Cyrodill (The game's continent) 
  
  SOUND:
  Sound isn't bad either, the voice acting is superb, BUT they needed to hire more voice actors since 
 you'll pretty much hear the same voices after the first few hours. Swords sound like swords, shields 
 blocking sound like the sound of a shield blocking. Arrows hitting the neck of defenseless deers 
 sounds like flesh jerkingly being ripped apart :P All in all, the sounds do their job.
  
  MISCELLANEOUS: The difficulty factor is great, since the game has a bar that you can change, even 
 in-game to make the monsters as strong or as weak as you want to provide a challenge. The system 
 requirements are much, but incredibly worth it, more and more mods are being created that will 
 add even more hours into the game =)
  
  Overall Oblivion is a wonderful addition to the world of WRPG's and you should definitely play 
 it if you have a void in your perfect little heart that demands blood and violence =D
  
  Oblivion 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyDirk117
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered how logical it is that you can use strength based physical attacks to kill 
 enough creatures to earn enough points to gain a level and then take your skill points earned from 
 increasing that level and putting them towards increasing your magical abilities when you didn't 
 use magic even once to level up? Well the folks who created oblivion did. Now this is my first 
 elder scrolls game so its more than likely morrowind and the previous elder scrolls games were 
 the same way. If you want your magic to get better, use it! GENIUS!! Goodbye exp points, hello 
 skill specific experience. It is the ideal way to level up. There is some simple math behind leveling 
 and how much you can increase your base skills in one level. And it doesn't take long to figure 
 out. When you have the math mastered you will be able to build a character that becomes dominant 
 in the game. The monsters are set to level with you, but they level at a pre-determined rate. You 
 however can gain 3-15 base points per level. If you are leveling with 15 base points each level, 
 you will increase in power faster than your enemies. One thing that ruined the game for me. Chameleon 
 ability on items. When your chameleon is 100% you are invisible. No one can see you and it makes 
 all the tasks in the game effortless. An effortless game is a boring game. I love the invisibility 
 spell because it only last for an amount of time. But with Chameleon on your equipped items you 
 can be invisible all the time. Super Lame. I worked so hard to find enough Chameleon items to become 
 invisible and when i did, i played for a couple more hours, got bored and haven't played since. 
 Although i did just build another computer, one that can handle Oblivion at its highest level so 
 i may just start another character and forget about the Chameleon. All in all this is a game you 
 should not just play but a game you should own and devote a couple hundred hours of your life to. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnym26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 8/10 excellent graphics even by todays standards, a few glitches here and there but 
 nothing to moan about.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10 a role playing game mixed in with plenty of action and exploring, fighting involves 
 hitting peoples with weapons and spells, a lot of the fighting is good but sometimes can get tedious. 
 there is a lot to do in this game though with plenty of side quests and places to go. It can be 
 quite addictive.
  
  story - 8/10 story is decent enough and will keep you playing but there are so many side quests 
 and other things to do most of the time you wont even be following it.
  
  sound - 8/10 nothing wrong with the sound effects and voice acting by sean bean and patrick stewart 
 so not bad.
  
  longevity - 10/10 if you do every side quest you will br on the game forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is perfectly balanced. A major complaint I had about TES III: Morrowind 
 was that basically all magic was useless unless you worked at it for a very long time, and concentrated 
 on nothing else. Oblivion allows you to have a well balanced character, which is important in a 
 game with so many different things to do. You can also play as a narrow focused character. I would 
 not recommend that a character be made that is too narrow focused however, because there are simply 
 too many different quests that need a variety of skills. To get 100% completion, you will need 
 a well-balanced character. Oblivion allows you to do so many things in Tamriel, all of which are 
 engaging and challenging. The only reason I did not give this game a 10 is because of a few minor 
 glitches that occur that can make the game frustrating at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, 
 people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i 
 were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk 
 to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in 
 this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here 
 it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, 
 people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i 
 were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in this game and you can talk 
 to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here it. you can do stuff in 
 this game and you can talk to people and stuff. If i were to to type something, people would here 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhil_svr
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Oblivion, in short, is THE best role-playing game among the games present.
  The beautiful world of oblivion, interaction with people, buying, selling all these make you feel 
 as if you are leading another life.
  The best thing about oblivion is that it is open-ended. You can do whatever you want in this game 
 and can take your own time finishing the main quest. You can explore the beautiful world and hunt 
 goblins, fight trolls, ogres, and other nasty creatures, search for treas ures and a lot more to 
 please your appetite for adventure.
  In this game, you should choose your race i. e. imperial, breton, ogre, argonian, etc. But, each 
 race has its own pros and cons and you will be finally confused over which one to favor. After 
 this starts the game where you will be lying in a prison and emperor comes and so on, better not 
 reveal the story as it is really exciting and thrilling. In this game, you will find a cornucopia 
 of weapons, potions, scrolls, and other valuable and useful things. Here, you can create your own 
 potions depending on your skill in alchemy. Similarly, you have other skills which to explain will 
 make this review rather long. But, these are the things which makes this THE best i. e. you choose 
 what you want to become.
  
  The main quest or the main story is really fantastic and grips you from the very beginning. But, 
 you have the freedom to complete the quest whenever you want. In the meantime, you can finish other 
 quests which you will get by asking people, hearing rumors, or joining guilds. There are different 
 guilds in this game i. e. fighters guild, mages' guild, Dark brotherhood, thieves' guild etc. You 
 can choose whichever you want depending on whether you want fame or infamy. Each guild has a side 
 story of its own and you will eventually become the master of the guilds after you finished their 
 quests.
  So, the game goes on and on and there is no end to it.
  
  on the whole, the game as I said before, is the best and is a must-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  ***This is a complete review so feel free to skip between sections***
  
  The Elder Scrolls Oblivion is one of the most addicting, replayable games I've ever played, and 
 certainly one of the best games ever made. TES IV Oblivion can certainly challenge the throne of 
 the best RPG game ever made (which I believe belongs to Final Fantasy VII... but thats a different 
 review I wrote) . I found it only appropriate to write my review of Oblivion after setting the 100 
 hour mark and completing the main quest as well as the faction quests and Knights of the Nine expansion, 
 and I am about to start the Shivering Isles. Enough talk... let the review begin...
  
  ***Quick Plot - (you can skip if you want, theres no spoilers)
  
  Like all Elder Scrolls games 
 you start out as nothing more than a prisoner in jail that somehow stumbles into legend or infamy 
 depending on your quests you complete. Oblivion takes place in the Imperial capital province known 
 as Tamriel.
  
  It starts off with the emperor fleeing his thrown because assassins are trying to kill him and 
 have already succeeded with his heirs. It just so happens that his escape route is through your 
 jail cell. So you two talk and you find out that he's been dreaming about you... (no not like that...) 
 and he has seen visions of the great deeds you will do to save Tamriel from being destroyed by 
 Oblivion (which in this case is Elder Scrolls term for the deity region known as "Hell") . In order 
 for hell, or Oblivion, to invade earth the "Dragonfires" can not be lit. In order for the Dragonfires 
 to not be lit the ruler or emperor (which is why he's fleeing) must not be alive... so guess what 
 the emperor gets whacked! about 10 minutes into the game. So now no heirs to the thrown hell is 
 now invading earth. It seems like all hope is lost when, pretty much the emperors secret service, 
 the Blades, inform you there is a heir to the throne that has been kept secret for years. Now it 
 is up to you to find him, and "Close shut the jaws... of Oblivion."
  
  ***Graphics - 10+/10
  
  Oblivion is beautiful. Although now that i've been introduced to Assassins 
 Creed and Crysis its hard to say the graphics are ground breaking, its hard to say they're fantastic... but 
 really they are. With my 8800gt I have the game maxed out with HDR and 8xAA and Oblivion looks 
 very good. Character models are full of detail. You can see the chains in the chainmail armor of 
 city guards and see the lizard skin of Daedroths (I believe thats their name) . Environments are 
 breathtaking. You can see cities from far off and the tower in the center of Tamriel from almost 
 anywhere. By far the best looking water models I've ever seen. Water reflections are almost too 
 realistically looking.
  
  Overall Oblivion is definitely worth looking at for the hundreds of hours you can spend playing 
 it
  
  HDR and AA Problem with Nvidia Cards Fix...
  
  *There is a glitch or bug... (don't get me started about bugs SEE CONS...) that doesn't allow Nvidia 
 cards to enable both HDR lighting and AA at the same time. Only ATI cards can do it.
  
  BUT THERE IS A SOLUTION!!!!!!!
  
  Enable HDR in the Oblivion options and enable AA in "Nvidia 
 Control Panel". Just click on the icon and go Nvidia control panel - manage 3D settings - click 
 program settings tab in the middle - search and add "Oblivion. exe" from the folder its in - (and 
 then you can tweak any video setting from there) - AA setting 8x - AA mode "override any setting"
 
  
  (NOTE) I noticed if i turned some things on the game would be very strange and sometimes unresponsive 
 but dont worry it wont ruin your game or burn out your gpu. Just make sure your GPU can handle 
 AA and HDR. An 8800gt maxes Oblivion out with ease.
  
  
  ***Gameplay/Combat - 9/10
  
  So much to do. In Oblivion you gain experience for the attributes you use. It is not a system like 
 Fable where you get general xp points and buy the feats and attributes you want, in Oblivion, in 
 order to be good with a bow you have to use a bow, and with the sword or axe or magic spells, etc. 
 By the way almost any magic spell or weapon you'd expect from a stereotypical RPG... Oblivion has 
 it. First person sword fighting is pretty intense and very fun. It never gets old when you see 
 a huge monster wind up for a big swing and you pull your shield up (which in this game you can 
 control blocking unlike Morrowind) and the screen shakes as the monster or other bandit makes contact 
 with its claws or with his sword. Magic is great. Kill somebody with lightning and watch their 
 body crackle with electricity still flowing through their bodies or watch them lay there burning 
 because you sent a fire ball their way. Stealth and sneaking really takes advantage of the lighting 
 system. It allows you to use the shadows of caverns or dark rooms to sneak up behind them and deal 
 extra damage. The stealth elements aren't Splinter Cell caliber but they do make a fine addition 
 to combat.
  
  ***Sound/Voice Acting - 10++++++++++++++++/10
  
  Seriously, Oblivion's voices and sound effects and musical scores destroy any competition. And 
 certainly exceed any standard set by any one or any game.
  *Music* Oblivion's musical score is great. The opening menu song never gets old. It fights the 
 game well and... man I think that symphony stuff is annoying and boring to listen to but musical 
 scores as good as that I will rate that up their with Star Wars, and Lord of the Rings.
  *Sound Effects* Sounds effects are flawless in Oblivion. The smashing of shields, the stabbing 
 of flesh, the opening portals of Oblivion, opening of doors, I kid you not every sound effect is 
 perfectly placed and well done.
  *Voice Acting* Oblivion has superb voice actors for the main roles. Patrick Stewart (Prefessor 
 X in X-Men) ... (though I wish he was there longer) ... does the emperor. Sean Bean (Ronin [mercenary] , 
 Troy [Achilles best bud] , my most memorable character he plays is Treyvlan in Goldeneye) voices 
 Martin Septim and does a terrific job. Those are the big names I saw but the other voice actors 
 do a great job too.
  
  ***Quests/Replayability*** 10+++/10
  Like I said Oblivion claims to offer 200 hours of gameplay. I can tell you theres a lot to do. 
 I'm only at 100 hours and I've beaten all the guild quests, main storyline, and all of Knights 
 of the Nine, and am now starting the Shivering Isles. With 3 different combat personalities (combat, 
 magic, stealth) you can certainly replay and try going with a mage instead of a savage brute of 
 a warrior, however if youre like me then you can certainly have all 3 in one just with a lot of 
 micromanaging in leveling up (which is done very well might I add.) If you want a lot to do then 
 this game will give you that.
  
  ***Mod support*** 
  Easily one of the best fan bases 
 ever. There are hundreds of mods that add quests, weapons, armor, houses, bases, entire castles, 
 even graphical enhancements, you name it probably someone has created it... (well maybe not a GTA 
 style sex mod... so sorry for all you teenage pervs out there... Although I guess the Witcher has 
 sex scenes in it....)
  
  ***All the little things***
  
  Your next objective is marked on your map making finding the dungeon very easy and not having to 
 spend time looking around for it. Dialogue is done completely by voice... except you have no voice 
 in the game but every person you come in contact does. Fast traveling allows you to go from one 
 area of the map to the other without having to waste time running and allows more time questing. 
 The alchemy system is so easy to use and creating potions and gathering ingredients is so simple 
 and rewarding in the end. People have daily schedules. They actually go to sleep, get up, go to 
 work, come home and eat dinner, which allows the time of the day to really play a factor. Break 
 into their house and steal their stuff when they're gone or when they're sleeping. If you want 
 to be a murderer kill them in their sleep. No worries you cant kill anybody of any quest. It will 
 simply render them "unconscious", and even if for some reason something does happen just get a 
 mod to fix it or reload using the easy quick save and save interface.
  
  ***CONS*** - Although VERY MINOR and have almost no effect on the superb quality of Oblivion... but 
 I'm like that and have to find fault in even the best things.
  
  *Cor mbat* Thought it is good its still very basic. You block and strike and repeat the process 
 or if youre fast you strike, then when the guy winds up you step back make him miss and repeat 
 the process. I'd like to see The Elder Scrolls games take their combat anothestep further.
  
  *Other* Oblivion just doesnt have that "epic feeling" to it. Oblivion has (I think it said) 
 4 miles (game to real life ratio or some mumbo jumbo stuff like that) of territory to explore, 
 and thats not including dungeons. But the cities just dont feel densely populated even though they 
 are big. The only time you have big fights are the last two Main Story Quests. And even then its 
 kind of a joke... oh yeah 10 people are fighting to stop Hell from claiming earth...
  
  *BUGS!!!* Wow Oblivion is full of VERY MINOR but ANNOYING bugs. Like for some reason I can click 
 out of my game screen onto the desktop and of course that'll freeze my game. Or there are times 
 when you'll just magically fall through a crevice and be stuck and have to reload or your friend 
 your escorting in Oblivion will knock somebody off a bridge into lava AND FOLLOW THEM INTO IT! 
 ERRR RELOAD AGAIN!
  
  *Other* I've read hundreds of posts about people not being able to uninstall or reinstall Oblivion. 
 Just Google the problem and you'll find a solution.
  
  *Repetitive at times* I recommend playing Oblivion in "episodes." It'll start to seem boring if 
 you constantly play it. I found myself sick of Oblivion gates after about 4 or so and your probably 
 required to close atleast 9 of them. Its always fun and feels fresh if you play the game a lot 
 then take a couple weeks away from the game then dive back into it... because it will consume you.
 
  
  Overall the cons of Oblivion are EXTREMELY MINOR and will have no effect on you loving this game.
 
  
  ***FInal thoughts***
  
  Oblivion gives you by far the most non-linear, open-ended, open-world, RPG gameplay experience 
 ever. This game gives you any RPG element you could ask for and does them very well and at times 
 flat out better than other RPGs. This game will consume hundreds of hours of your free time. I 
 can only wait to see how Fallout 3 will turn out because the makers of Oblivion are making that 
 game too.
  
  Oblivion an easily and well deserved 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerjpines
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Amazing graphics, massive and addicting world, seemingly endless hours of gameplay, great 
 mods, excellent voice-acting, fun combat, tons of items and character choices, variable difficulty... the 
 list doesn't really end...
  
  Cons: Many glitches before the patch (es) came out, identical voices within each race, computationally 
 taxing/inefficient
  
  This game is all it's cracked up to be and more. Plan on sacrificing other areas of your lifestyle 
 in order to make time for the endless quests and characters you will encounter in this open-world 
 fantasy epic. Accompanied by memorable and well-crafted music, Elder Scrolls IV Oblvion is best 
 described by one word: Masterpiece. Well, after the patch came out at least. The first release 
 of the game suffered from a number of glitches, many of which decreased the overall game-value 
 significantly. However, as aforementioned, the patch release cleaned up the mess.
  
  With over 200 hours of gameplay involved, you would think that I could come up with some major 
 complaints to pass on, but I honestly cannot. The only downsides to this game are superficial at 
 most. Be prepared to hear only a handful (albeit a large handful) of voices used to represent all 
 of the thousands of characters in the game, and remember to upgrade your PC if you don't think 
 yours will handle the graphical feats of Oblivion.
  
  I've said enough. If you haven't played it and are even remotely interested in RPG/open-world gaming, 
 grab a copy and a comfy chair and get stoked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimnasium12786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is genuinely fun and often quite addicting. The combat system is what accounts for most 
 of the entertainment, at least for me. There are few things in the game more satisfying than doing 
 the sword spin move to throw someone back, then lunging forward and slashing them while they try 
 to get up, making for an incredibly violent and invigorating kill.
  
  The landscapes are gorgeous, if your computer can handle the ultra high quality setting. For about 
 half the time I've been playing the game I've had to struggle with medium settings at 640x480, 
 but since an upgrade, it's been pretty good. Obviously the graphics are a huge upgrade from Morrowind. 
 The world simply breathes with vividness. One of the easiest things to do in the game is admire 
 Bethesda's success at replicating nature.
  
  The voice acting is fantastic (except for the voice of the Redguard women. Completely lifeless. 
 Can't stand it) . The only thing that really bothers me is how few actors there are. I know for 
 at least the males, all the elves have the same voice (three different races) and the same actor 
 does the voices for Nords, Khajiits, and Argonians (in battle, you can't tell the difference between 
 Khajiits and Argonians because they use the same sounds) . The Imperial male voice is present in 
 what seems like most of the game, and that voice in particular gets pretty tiring to listen to, 
 especially when you can tell he's trying to change his voice to fit into character (f. e. the torturer 
 guy in Shivering Isles and Sheogorath) . Overall though, the voice acting really does add to the 
 life of the game and its characters, and it cuts down on the incredible amount of reading you had 
 to do in Morrowind in order to follow everything (especially in terms of game lore) .
  
  From what I've read and seen, as the games in the Elder Scrolls series emerge, the amount of detail 
 and substance steadily decreases with each game. I've personally never played Daggerfall, but I've 
 read the GameSpot review and it seems to really emphasize the staggeringly insane amount of things 
 to do and details in the game. Morrowind was also acclaimed for having a huge world with so many 
 things to do and explore that it even helped it get a slightly worse rating because of the lack 
 of direction. 
  
  Oblivion continues to steadily decrease the amount of detail in the Elder Scrolls series. I'll 
 try to avoid doing an in-depth game comparison, so I'll just say that compared to Morrowind, Oblivion 
 simply doesn't have as many subtle treats and interesting easter eggs as Morrowind does. Don't 
 get me wrong, the world is humungous, and it takes days to cover the entire map (possibly even 
 weeks) , and there are still a huge number of forts, caves, mines, shrines, and other places to 
 discover and explore. In terms of real, fascinating attention to detail however, Oblivion doesn't 
 quite match up to Morrowind.
  
  This review probably won't make for a very good one, mostly because I'm taking the standpoint of 
 a pretty nitpicky player who ruthlessly compared Morrowind and Oblivion to each other, looking 
 for improvements and mistakes. A really good review would take the standpoint of a first-time player 
 and would talk about the big issues to an audience of other first-time players. I just really wanted 
 to get this stuff off my chest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and is very large but gets real boring and fast. The horse controls are a bit 
 buggy being not able to turn right and it is too slow for a real horse. There is alot of NPCs but 
 its a shame you cant kill them and doom the hole world. This game is fun but once you've killed 
 one enemy you've killed em all. Its fun to robe the shop keeps and its hard to get anything good 
 for along time into the game. This game is rather dull and uninspiring. It gets board quick and 
 the graphics really slow the game play. This game is ok but its nothing new and there just not 
 a hole lot thats fun in it. sure you run back and forth catering to the kings son and the cloud 
 ruler people, it just not any fun its run here pick up that do this do that kill this guy kill 
 these people, solve the murder and random crap like that leaving you to be just a tool through 
 out the game. Heck its more fun hunting the deer than it is playing this game. The game is very 
 dull and fails to amuse me even the slightest bit. Its not worth a dime and the add ons like the 
 crazy world and the nights templar are just as boring as the actual game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanninsei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is probably one of the most spectacular computer games to date. 
 There a few cons to the game, but you'll probably neglect these errors when you're exploring one 
 of the most fascinating game worlds. It'll be easy to get lost in the scenery and dungeon exploring, 
 not to mention, you'll probably spend a lot more time on the side quests than the actual main storyline.
 
  As soon as the game begins, you'll get a feel that you're about to venture into an entire universe 
 of awe. The graphics are pretty amazing, to say the least. If you've got the technology to run 
 this masterpiece, you'll love every second of it.
  As always, you're placed in control of just a typical, average person who has had destiny thrust 
 upon him or her. You're given the task to save the world and what not, but who needs all that nonsense 
 when you could be mindlessly exploring all the other quests and adventures? The world of Oblivion 
 will draw you in and probably won't let go for quite some time. From slaying vicious monsters to 
 collecting herbs, you'll find all you're looking for here.
  One of the most amazing parts of the game is the combat system. Instead of a slow, boring fight, 
 your skill as a player marks a big portion of your ability to survive. Getting stronger and more 
 powerful won't save you if you don't know how to use the skills you've acquired and put them to 
 good use. The difficulty is almost perfect. There are occasional deviants to this, such as fighting 
 a few simple rats to difficult battles against powerful beings from Oblivion. It's nothing that 
 should weaken the will of a skilled warrior, magician, thief, rogue, or whatever your hero of choice 
 may be.
  You're probably wondering: how can there possibly be downsides in this glorious game? First of 
 all, it's the voices. Everything was made perfect, but the voice acting was greatly neglected. 
 Sure, you've got Patrick Stewart, but when every, single person sounds the same, it can be rather 
 annoying. So, except for a couple of important characters, you've got some generic, uninspired 
 voices to fill in about 95% of the game at the very least.
  In short, Oblivion is an amazing game with some snazzy graphics and gameplay. While it does have 
 a few minor annoyances, it pulls itself together to unleash an incredible gaming experience. Say 
 goodbye to your friends, relatives, and loved ones, and say hello to immersing yourself into a 
 gaming world unlike any other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  TES: IV Oblivion was the first Elder Scrolls Game I played, and It's safe to say that it blew my 
 mind. I have never seen such a game as Oblivion in my entire life, and I doubt I ever will again, 
 with the possible exception of TES: V :P. 
  
  The Graphics in Oblivion are amazing, and even on my utterly average PC, with the settings on low, 
 it still looked fantastic. After buying the GOTY edition for my PS3, I saw the graphics of Oblivion 
 in their full, and it was amazing, especially for a game released in 2006. 
  
  One of the things that impressed me the most about Oblivion, was the online community that established 
 itself and grew so quickly after the game's release. Now there are hundreds of thousands of mods 
 you can download to tweak or alter you Oblivion experience. Everything from new weapons, houses 
 and armor, to entire houses, NPC's and quests. A select few even add an entire faction to the game. 
 Also, if you're not completely satisfied with the game's graphics, you can download texture packs 
 to improve the sharpness and quality of the game's graphics. 
  
  Oblivion itself has enormous replay value, and when you factor in the countless mods available 
 for it, the number of times you can play it through is limited only by your imagination. I think 
 I have played it through at least 15 times, but I am maybe a little obsessed. :)
  
  The sheer open-endedness and variety of choice within Oblivion is amazing, and I believe that any 
 gamer could enjoy Oblivion, if they sit down and immerse themselves in this totally amazing RPG. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vallyon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  As every other review ever will tell you this is a big game, with many potential hours of play. 
 This is very true. However, I would like to point out three issues that I feel are rarely addressed 
 enough in these reviews.
  1. There are lots of bugs!
  2. Bethesda released patches for a while, addressing some bugs, but stopped. Therefore:
  3. There 
 are still lots of bugs!
  Of course, since the release of the game the wonderful modding community has developed an immense 
 amount of additional content for this game (as well as the high quality addition content released 
 by Bethesda) , which has also provided some 3rd party patches to address some issues, for which 
 I am very thankful.
  The reason I raise this issue is that, big and wonderful as the world of Cyrodiil is, I am yet 
 experience large amounts of the game due in no small part to all the bugs. The first time I tried 
 to play through Oblivion was about a year ago, and after spending many hours playing (and enjoying) 
 it I had a growing number of quests building up which I would never be able to complete as bugs 
 in the game (quest relevant items not appearing, NPCs not doing as they are supposed to do) rendered 
 them incompletable. Had these been minor side quests, it wouldn't really have mattered, as there 
 are so many quests in this game, but they were mostly faction based quests, which meant no more 
 work could be carried out for that faction, meaning large parts of the game were then unplayable.
 
  A year later however, I have now began a new game, and have been reminded what a brilliant game 
 this is. More mods are now available, fixing most problems I had before. None the less, it would 
 have been nice to see more updates from Bethesda themselves (maybe in TES: V?) .
  So, If you haven't already got this game - get it! Just don't forget to get all the patches before 
 you start the game - some patches only work with new games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mulanos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is only the best rol-playing-game I have ever played. Is interesting, has a fantastic 
 game play, a wonderful story and you can stay 5 hours and you don't get bored. The story is about 
 you start as a prisoner and the king enters in the cell, you follow him and he dies. Since that 
 point, you have to find the prince. The only point bad is that you can't get married or be the 
 count of a city (except shivering islands) . You can be a lot of classes, races nad there a lot 
 of items, and excellent quests.
  You can do anything that you want: stole, kill, save people, live alone, etc. And you can join with 
 a lot of factions (thief guild, mega guild, etc.) , with 17 64 km. (enormous) to walk, this world 
 is amazing.
  I recommend it, for all: the price, the duration, the game play, the story, is an amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niall1998
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  a really fun and addicting game. it is better on xbox360 but its still really good the graphics 
 are amazing it has very good quest and gamplay is really good its not a game when u just go kill 
 somthing it has lots of stuff to do u can pickpocket steal from shops kill a guard become a vampire 
 trap peoples souls for ur enchanted weapons become king of the land get a house and get lots of 
 upgrades it has loads of armour and weapons and items. it is brialliant .i really like this game. theres 
 more to do u can also become one of the dark brotherhood enter the arena as fighter or bet on matches 
 make ur own potions enchant weopons with soul jems become a blade or join nights of the nine it 
 it has over two hundred hours of gameplay it is a very addicting game it is good the mains story 
 is to close the oblivion gates i would recomend buying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  I want to make things clear from the beggining: the only Elder Scrolls game I had played before 
 Oblivion was Morrowind. My experience with that games was about 1 hour. I mean, I can't say it wasn't 
 a great game, considering the fact that it was released in 2002, but I didn't like it at all, it didn't 
 sucked me in it at all. Maybe I wasn't the adept of an open-ended game, having played & replayed 
 both Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic games, which gave a sense of freedom, but not exactly. To 
 make things short, I was very sceptical when I started playing Oblivion for the first time. I had 
 set off with the impression that I'm playing Morrowind with cutting edce graphics. Impression which 
 was terribly wrong. Oblivion made me a great impression from the beggining,& it sucked me in it 
 like few games managed to do. Three days I played Oblivion continously with small pauses. What the 
 hell made me do that, l; et's find out!
  
  Graphics:10/10
  
  I had read several reviews & admired several screenshots from Oblivion before playing the game,& 
 it was not hard for me to see that it really was "the shyte" .Graphically speaking. Well, it really 
 is. I don't really know what graphical engine it uses,& to be honest, I don't care. Thing is, it's 
 not very techically proficient, it's not really a next-gen engine. But it's still a wonderful engine, optimized 
 to the max & filled with art. I mean, this game had better landscapes than FarCry did, but that was 
 not entirely the merit of the engine. While FarCry relied on its next-gen impressive engine, Oblivion 
 did it better with the artistic impression. I mean, Oblivion's engine has numerous flows, such as 
 the one with the distant textures. When looking close everything looks great, the vegetation (a lot 
 of different herbs, flowers, trees) looks almost real, but when you look at the distant hills or mountains, there 
 is a horrible texture that srews up the whole landcape. Some mods fix this but I'm reviewing the 
 original release. Excepting this texture & some walls, which also look horrible, everything is superb. You 
 can enjoy a romantic sunset near Anvil, where you can watch the sun disappearing over the sea, or 
 the mountains. It's not Crysis, but hey, we're speaking of 2006. The people don't look great, but they're 
 decent. The weapons & all the objects, on the other hand, look fantastic & are incredibly detailed. Interiors 
 are again good enough, water is just great,& the meteorological effects (snow, rain, thunderstorm) 
 are simply amazing. There is a problem that weather changes too fast. Now it rains hard, a second 
 later it's all sunny & dry ;but if you go over these minor bugs, you'll have a stunning visual experience. The 
 physics engine Havok wanted to make a better gaming experience out of Oblivion, but it didn't go 
 out as planned. It is cool,& I think it was the only RPG back then which used a real psysics engine, but 
 it is badly optimized. I mean, when you strike a skeleton with your sword it dismembers into a lot 
 of pieces, but why then can't you cut people into peaces? Or why can't you shatter a can or a plate 
 when hitting it with your axe? Oh,& certain objects really can't be moved a bit, which is simply 
 absurd if you hit them with the biggest of weapons. In all, with the problems I mentioned, the visual 
 side of Oblivion is great, even thoug it's heavily compensated by the artistical touch of some lanscapes 
 & places, such as the painting-world or flower fields.
  
  Sound:6.5/10
  
  I really can't understand why, but Bethesda simply scrwed the audio part of Oblivion. Now the few 
 good things about the sound are some cool effects, such as the weapon sounds, animal sounds & meteorological 
 sound effect, which are really good. A questionable aspect is the music. It's composed by the famous 
 Jeremy Soule,& I usually love that kind of music, but not this one. Some good parts, but I don't think 
 real instruments were used. That's because it sounds false, shallow, it almost hurts your ear. Take 
 the piano part for example; if that's sang at a real piano I'm Ozzy Osbourne. It sounds computerized,& 
 it's not cool at all. The war music is quite good instead, but the way it's used is catastrophic. I 
 mean it starts when you'll have at least one enemy around you. It sounds epic, like an epic battle 
 between good & evil is taking place, even if the only enemy is a poor little rat! That's simply idiotic. Next, the 
 voice acting is simply awful, with two or three exceptions. Ignoring the fact that a man plays the 
 voice of about 10-15 different characters in the game, a lot of these guys just read their lines, without 
 expressing any emotions, any feelings at all. They say "My wife's been killed by bandits" or "The 
 Emperor has been assassinated with the same tonality they use when saying "My neighbor is called 
 George,& he's a farmer" .At the end of the game, when a crowd is saluting the Emperor, who marches 
 to same the whole Tamriel from the forces of darkness, they do it exactly as they would cheer a 
 bar brawl when being very drunk. Disgusting, Bethesda.
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  
  In terms of gameplay, I'd divide Oblivion into three big & different parts: the main quest, the secondary 
 quests & your character & property management. Let's speak about each of them, but first let's see 
 the generalities of the game.
  As you might know, Oblivion is, as Morrowind was, a first person role-playing game. I didn't like it 
 at the beggining, but I've seen that the first person view is much better & easier to use as the 
 3rd person view is. I personally use the 3rd person view just when I ride my horse or when I want 
 to see how my chharacter looks. Now, moving to another aspect, you'll have a huge territory in which 
 you can travel & complete quests as you like, because Oblivion is open-ended. The whole place is 
 quite much bigger than San Andreas, but there are few cities (about 8 I think) ,& no villages. The 
 rest of the space consists in  & inns or ranches from time to time. There 
 are also mines, caves, forts which can be found & explored. Now, the teritorry is open & you can travel 
 anywhere without loading times, with exceptions. When entering cities there are loading times,& when 
 entering buildings there are also loading times. The absurd aspect is that inside buildings, when 
 you go from one room to another, there is almost everytime a loading screen, which is very irritating 
 & throws you out from actively participating into the game. The map is quite OK, showing you any 
 interest point where you have travelled already. You can also use the quick-travel function, which 
 is very well thought & much more natural than the stupid teleportation from Gothic 3. Basically, you 
 travel without seeing it, because time goes on accordingly to the distance you travelled, which is 
 a great idea indeed. If you wanna travel by yourself, you can go on foot (very good if you want to 
 build stamina skill) , or with horses. The bad thing about horses is that you can't fight at all while 
 riding them, which is quite bad. Mount & Blade did it perfectly, but Oblivion can't? Geez... The skills 
 are gained by using them more; using your sword will get you sword skill, etc .It is more realistic 
 I'd say, but the level up is done really really slow & you might be only level 5 when you finish 
 the whole main quest & save the world. Another bad thing is that the enamies advance in level as 
 you advance, which totally sucks. It would have been nice if you wouldn't be able to beat a certain 
 level 9 enemy at level 3, but when you'd be at level 14 you'd kill it in one strike. Such a pity... 
 Well, speaking about combat, it is quite good & you really feel like fighting.  
 always say that swords are the best because they are quite fast. You can also wear a shield for 
 dodging & protection. About object, there are a hell lot of them,& it's really nice to make commerce 
 with them, which is one of my favorite parts in Oblivion. I steal everything in a shop at night, store 
 home what I need & sell on the black market what I don't need. Very enjoyable. You can also invest 
 in shops, buy houses & arrange their interior as you like. You can set off to find valuable artifacts 
 or other rare things. There is magic in the game, but as I hate it very much everywhere except Harry 
 Potter, I didn't even mind to look into it. OK, now about people & their behaviour I've got a lot 
 of good things to say. Seems that Bethesda have taken the example from Gothic series to make the 
 world a more credible place. They did it quite good, but not as good as it is in Gothic 3 (or STALKER) 
 .They all roam around, take a drink at bars, stay at inns, close their shops over night, sleep at their 
 homes, etc. The reaction towards you can be affected by your quests, popularity or by bribes & converastions. This 
 system works pretty good, but it can also generate into very funny situations you'll certainly bump 
 into. I'd wish to tell you how I had gone deer hunting & ended up wiping out a whole bandit camp 
 but I'd rather let you make your own adventures.
  The primary quest starts interesting, continues very bad, by the end it shines a bit but it finally 
 screws up. It is badly written, lame, very boring, repetitive, without any substance. Thank god it's 
 firly short. Basically, the emperor is killed,& you have to rescue his son, bring him a lot of objects, get 
 aid & finally win a battle. The catacombs & underground tunnels where you have to find those object 
 are boring ,repetitive & badly designed, so you'll get sick of them really soon. You'll have to close 
 some Oblivion gates too in order to complete the main quest. You get trough the gate, try to find 
 a path to the biggest tower & climb it, while killing stupid enamies & avoiding some cool or idiotic 
 traps. Maybe one of the most boring moments in all the games I've ever played. B ythe end I was impressed 
 by Camoran's Paradise, a beautiful place where everything is not really as it seems. Camoran's speech 
 impressed me deeply, being one of the most touching moments in videogaming history. But it all went 
 away & the lameness reapeeared. The "epic battle to save the world" means you & 8 guards battle 
 a couple of creatures, than you go to the Imperial City, the heir fights the bad guy's leader & 
 defeats him, but also dies,& that's the end.
  The secondary quest are something totally different. Some are amazingly atmospheric & tensioned. I 
 will never forget how I sneaked into a house, waited into the attic untill evening to untie a furniture 
 object in order for it to fall & kill the owner. Or a contest that somehow reminded me of the Saw 
 movies: a couple of people must stay in a house while I secretly kill them, being one of the participants,& 
 they panic & don't know who the killer is... It's simply amazing. Other quest are briantly written, such 
 as one where you enter a painter's world full of ... paint ,or the dream world... ah, unique moments. Also, these 
 secondary quests never get boring,& there are a couple of fantastic turning points, especially in 
 the Dark Brotherhood. I really felt the members of the Brotherhood as a family, as close friends, feeling 
 I didn't have for the characters in the main quest.
  
  Storyline:8/10
  
  I've described the story in the gameplay section, so I'm not gonna do it again. But as something 
 more to mention, if it wouldn't have been for Camoran's speech at the end, I would have given the 
 story a 5/10. Clichees over clichees, nothing interesting or impressive at all. But the speech is 
 simply majestic... somewhat like Andre Ryan's speech in Bioshock, but not really that well done.
 
  
  Overall Impression:8/10
  
  Did I mention that Oblivion is a game full of bugs? Big bugs that prevent you from passing certain 
 quests? Or how annoying & boring it gets from time to time? But forget those, Oblivion is a great 
 game still. I'll give you a tip: get Oblivion Game of the Year Edition, patch it, including the unofficial 
 patches, than get the best mods for it. I had built such a game & the rating for it would be 9.4/10. Trust 
 me!
  
  Strong Points:-amazing graphics, technically & artistic
  -some superb sidequests
  -Camoran's speech
  -the battles
  -commerce
  -vampirism
  -shops/inns
  -huge game world
 
  
  Weak Points:-abysmal voice acting mostly
  -computerized music doesn't fit
  -the horde of bugs
  -the primary quest
  -the story
  -leveling up is way too slow
  -rats 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  The Good - Fully customized character and class. Bethesda sets you off on the main quest from the 
 get go, lots of loot, towns, and dungeons to explore. Quest system always lets you know where to 
 go and the quick travel system allows players to quickly go from one area to another without trekking 
 through large landscapes. Immense world that will still keep you exploring even after 40-50 playing 
 hours. Finding quests to do and guilds to join will not be an issue. Combat system is extremely 
 fluid. 
  
  The bad - Combat feels the same at level 1 as it does at level 20. Too many quests give you that 
 "haven't I already done this" feeling. It's rather easy to lose focus on the main story. 
  
  The Ugly - some great voice talent!....... giving some rather mundane performances make this 
 reviewer a sad panda knight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psiho246
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Game has pretty graphics, thats ok.
  The game unfortunately doesn't have anything else.
  Its a shame that a game Like Fallout 2 is rated 8.8 while this game gets 9.3.
  The game is not 
 even close to how good Morrowind was.
  
  Game lacks quests, world is boring its like Devs copy-pasted all the structures cause every ruin, 
 or a church looks the same all over the world. No originality or imagination at all.
  World levels along with you which is stupid. No danger or anything, high level monsters are there 
 only when you are high level...
  Quests are boring like hell, except the Dark Brotherhood and Thief Guild quests which are awesome 
 but other side quests, at least most of them... suck!
  Main quest line is awful. Shame of RPG gaming industry. Whole main quest line looks like this - 
  Enter Oblivion gate, climb the sigil tower, take the sigil stone, repeat the process 1000000 times 
 and you finished the main quest line!
  Ridiculous.
  Great character Editor? Not really, even though its complex, every face in the end look like a 
 bloated balloon. Your character can't have a beard or a mustache.
  Character animations suck horribly. They don't look natural at all, your character swinging a sword 
 animation consists of sword position #1, sword position #2 and sword position #3. Its not even 
 an animation. When you jump your character will look like hes frozen mid air, there is no jumping 
 animation at all...
  World travel doesn't exist at all, you can simply go to map screen and choose a location you want 
 to warp to...
  I am shocked that its rated 9.3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarko_54
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? Just like the game itself. I got the game for Christmas, and have yet to finish 
 it. There are so many different quests, and side quest, and minor errands, and mini-games, it just 
 blew my mind. I was used to the set path games where the ending is inevitable. This, you can choose 
 to be a murderer, a thief, a knight, a mage, a hero, an entrepreneur, a loner, good, evil, you 
 name it. I have even started the main quest yet, but im not even close to finishing all the side 
 quests. I especially like being able to save multi files as many as i want (i know this seems insignificant) 
 because there are so many option to complete one task: do i kill the guy and loot his body, pickpocket 
 him, befriend him and do some crazy task for him, bait him to attack me and letting the guards 
 take him down, have him follow and assist me on seperate quests. I love all the options, and I 
 recommend trying each one.
  excellent controls, realistic, fast paced, challenging, very rarely monotonous, unique, and really 
 fun
  some of the best graffics i have ever seen, especially on such a huge map. Certain towns and areas 
 look like photos from beautiful places on Earth. really realistic
  Great, music is appropriate and serves as warnings in certain situations. suspenseful, never louder 
 than the sound effects. realistic. occasionally slow to match the action if a lot of stuff is happening. Its 
 great every gamer should try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I haven't yet finished the game but i felt the urge to write a review and express my feelings about 
 this one, so here goes...
  
  First off, the amount of content that this game has buried inside of it is ridiculous, and i mean 
 RIDICULOUS. Its just so much stuff that its really hard to grasp in a couple of hours of playtime. 
 Hence why i started off thinking, wow ok this is really not that great, kinda boring and slow... 
 but i kept on playing and boy is there stuff to see and do in this game to keep you going and going 
 and going. Seriously now, I've been playing this for about 2 weeks non stop and from what i can 
 tell im not even halfway done with the game considering my character is only level 6! Theres just 
 so much to do that it just never seems to end. Once you're done with some random quest in one of 
 the cities here pops another quest just by talking to some soldier sitting there looking at you. 
 You'll have 7 or 8 quests in your journal that you'll start thinking about planning you're route 
 so you can complete more than one at a time! its crazy!
  Its good that they DO keep the main quests there so you dont get sidetracked but the secondary 
 quests just keep on popping up the more you complete them it just never ends!
  
  Got that out of the way, another aspect of the game that deserves credit is the world itself. Its 
 just incredible, plain and simple. The vegetation, the mountains, the rivers, everything is so 
 large and pretty that you just want to walk around and discover whats behind that ridge, that dense 
 forest, the big mountain. The environment, and the music along with it, really give you a feel 
 for the world and let you become part of it.
  
  I recommend downloading the Qarl Texture pack 3 mod if you think you're computer can handle the 
 extra jolt, and boy, if it can..... wow does it make a difference. Everything will look ever more 
 spectacular and realistic.
  
  Concluding, this is a defenite must have for any RPG fan or gamer alike. It offers hours upon hours 
 of gameplay that will keep you glued to your seat.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  To some up what oblivion is about
  I get asked so many times what is Oblivion about well this is what Oblivion is
  
  You are a 
 prisoner who is locked up in the Imperial dungeon for reasons unknown and fate has let you out 
 because it knows you are much more then a petty theif. The guards come down and the emperor seems 
 to know you (the emperor is voiced by Sam Neil) from his dreams he knows you are much more then 
 you seem. The emperor is escaping through an old pathway which runs through your cell you get a 
 taste of oblivions combat
  when you finally reach the end get out and see light for the first time that is where you are free 
 to forge your own destiny this is what most players do forget the story line when you can be an 
 unstopable warrior unmatched in his\her talents in melee combat or a mage that can heal, frighten, confuse
 
  ,enlighten, trick, paralise or kill with the elements you could even be a legendary theif or an 
 assassin there is so many oppurtunitys in Oblivion that
  you will probable make at least 6 characters on of every class mage, warrior ect and even all of 
 them or a strange mixture it is however you want to level your character
  
  The gameplay it self is fantastic the fighting is great it's not the crap pop up
  fighting and 
 turnbase attacks in all japanese rpgs no you control the character and manuever him how ever you 
 wish there is a rich environment of leveled monsters from ghosts to wolfs to trolls and the unique 
 race of the daedra
  
  The graphics are beautiful to look at, at first but if you really focus on them they are a bit 
 off but there are some very good mods that improve the graphics making them look fantastic 
  
  The replay value is very high some quests can be so fun you save the quest from the start finish 
 it then reload it to do it again even just starting fresh again is a great experience just about 
 anybody whatever there genere in games is will almost most definately love it
  
  Mods in this game is a bliss there are a whole stack of them that make you replay the game again 
 from powerful weapons and enchantments to pets
  and your very own armoury you can even create addons yourself with the Oblivion construction set
 
  
  There is so much to this game it's very hard to describe it all what I love about this game is 
 all the bonus stuff that is in it from a one of a kind mud crab that is ginormaus in size and even 
 people that are cheating on one another there are so many caves old fortresses to explore and some 
 of them have a history behind it you can find secret doors that lead to treasure ir even just an 
 interesting story it is a lot of this detail that gives this game so many hours of entertainment 
 
  
  personaly I think they underrated the violence this game can get a bit gorey
  not through blood but just some things like arrows through the head or neck
  and even bodys hanging 
 on ropes burning and mutalated corpses
  
  Over all get this game it is a must have for almost anybody and it clearly deserves a 10 out of 
 10
  I just hope they make another one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is great! You can do alot of stuff inside the game and since the computer 
 version have access to mod, you almost have unlimited replay value. Anyway, lets continue.....
 
  
  Story: Story is pretty average actually in my opinion, you are a prisoner for a unknown crime and 
 theres a secret entrance at your cell. Lucky you. Anyway, the king had a vision and said he saw 
 you inside his vision and the king died and you're supposed to find his heir. You rescue heir, 
 heir died. World save. But there is also a lot of side quest which can occupied you for a long 
 long time.
  
  Gameplay: Its massively fun. You can create any class you want. Be a elf serial killer? You got 
 it! Be a orc orc slayer? You got it! Be a dismember guy with no legs? Sadly no. The best fun you 
 can have is sword fights. You will have to block in time or suffer more damage. Its fun. But sadly, 
 the magic fights and shooting arrows is not that much fun. Feels like a first person shooter. Imagine 
 playing a first person shooter but the bullets travel 2X slower. Arrows on the other side, well 
 imagine like the magic, but it will fall after long distance. Sadly, the game is quite repetitive. 
 If you over level, you basicly commiting suicide. So to avoid this is to level 5 extra skills from 
 trainers. Speaking of skills, you have 7 Major skill which will determine your class. AI is sometimes 
 stupid. But its a good thing. Why? They are stupid on the right time. Once I had 5 vs me. 2 were 
 archers and 3 were swordsman. So I was running around casting restoration spells while they chase 
 me. And the archers shot the swordsman until I can easily kill them with 2-3 hits.
  
  Graphics : Its nice! Feel like you are in a living breathing world. Seriously! But sadly some faces 
 looks, looks fugly.
  
  Pros:
  High replay value
  Amazing swordplay
  So-so story
  Nice graphics feels like you in a living breathing world
  Alot of mods to play with!
  
  Cons:
 
  Need a good computer to fully experience the game
  Quite hard for new comers
  Magic sometimes dull? But still fun but not as fun as swordplay
  
  List of mods I suggest you 
 try out:
  
  MMM 3.0 (adds more monster)
  Natural faces (obviously)
  OOO (almost a entire new game! WARNING! If you comp cannot play the game without lagging, you cannot 
 play this mod at all!)
  Darker nights and dungeons (make you use torches cause its quite bright without using it)
  Book 
 jacket mod (adds better cover for books)
  Quad damage for arrows and bows (no longer make people and monster over powering against arrows)
 
  Color map mod (adds color to map)
  Ruins tale (have a Argonian battlemage as your companion)
  Harvest flora/ containers (makes it 
 more realistic) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordCOTO
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is an heroic experiment. One the one hand it is only next-gen addition to Morrowind, but 
 on the other hand it is brilliant sequel which combine fantastic HDR graphics with considered gameplay 
 and story. However, Oblivion also have some problems with performance and frequent loading times, 
 and it is also not as innovative as Morrowind was. Further more there are also many similar locations. 
 But those are nothing of the kind in compare with brilliant portion which bring Oblivion by using 
 next-gen principle of making detailed world full of interaction and impressive artificial intelligence 
 with gorgeous graphics. Skill system is also well designed, there are also plenty functions. Oblivion 
 is improved Morrowind. Next-gen Morrowind. All in all, Oblivion is one of most ambitious rpgs ever... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidMetle
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Well Oblivion is quite possibly one of my favorite games, and this coming from a guy who instead 
 of studying would play Morrowind until the wee hours of the morn. There is some much that I could 
 go on about this game, and being a modder more that I could go on about modding the game. Let me 
 begin by saying hell of a combat system, out does Morrowind by 100%, the game really drew me in 
 fighting in first person, I felt as if I was their, headphones helped with this but that is a tale 
 for another day. Given combat had its flaws, like the second you get on a horse there is none, 
 but what doesn't have its flaws. The story line was epic, traveling through the realms on a quest 
 to save the land, thank god for clichs. The graphics where wonderfull, as long as you kept your 
 clothing on, the skin textures on the body wheren't the best but putting the game on the highest 
 view distance made up for that. Oblivion has taken many of my hours and I think that it shall take 
 many more, until TES V is realized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uidin
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 25, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  'cause this game is a huge step back from Morrowind. But let me take things one at a time.
  
  I am sure everyone knows what the game is about by now, but let me just sum it up quickly. 
 You are waking up in prison, and the first thing you do is to give your character a name, race 
 and appearance. You have quite a lot of sliders to fiddle with, but you have to be at it for a 
 long time to make something really unique. And in the end, almost every face looks somewhat alike 
 in the game.
  
  After creating your character, you find out that you are conveniently placed in the cell which 
 also contains the secret path out of the city (called Imperial City by the way) . Luckily for you, 
 the Emperor has to escape an attempt on his life, you tag along. This is the tutorial, where you 
 learn everything you need to know. Up to this point the game seems awesome. The graphics are gorgeous, 
 even though you have only seen the inside of a prison and some dungeon. But when you see the skills 
 you have, you just have to be disappointed. Gone are skills like unarmored, block, medium armor 
 etc. Some skills are merged, like the short blade and long blade. With the new skillsystem you 
 have only four combat skills, against the seven you had in Morrowind. The only thing this does 
 is making the game less RPG-ish. You can now use every bladed weapon equally good. No matter if 
 it is a long katana, or a short dagger.
  
  But some things are improved. Sneaking is better, alchemy is easier, and you can now poison your 
 weapons. The physics are great, although exaggerated. It looks silly when you hit an orc in the 
 face with an arrow, then seeing him fly across the room. 
  But the thing I like the most of the improvements is the combat. Yes, it is not very RPG-ish, as 
 you are more of a factor when it comes to combat. In Morrowind it was all about how good your character 
 was, which is how it should be. But it is very satisfying to connect your mace into the head of 
 a bandit, and see him topple to the ground, blood splattering... Very satisfying.
  
  And the graphics are, again, gorgeous. When exiting the tutorial dungeon, you just have to stop 
 and look around. Some feels the game is dull, as it is the more normal medieval fantasy setting, 
 but I like it. Walking around in the forests, hiking up mountains. Yes, it is less mystical than 
 Morrowind, but that's ok. The magic-system is also a lot better now. Nothing is more fun than throwing 
 a fireball in someones face right after smashing them with a mace.
  
  However, the bad far outweighs the good in this game. While every dialogue is voice-acted, it is 
 for the most part dull. The dialogue-system is also dumbed down, making talking to people dull 
 as well. You always know if an NPC has something important to say, 'cause if he has, you will see 
 a topic about it. You can also see if an NPC is important, since the important ones now have a 
 crown instead of the normal crosshair when you hover your mouse over them. This also makes them 
 immortal. If you kill them, they will only fall unconscious. So you can no longer chose to "ruin" 
 your destiny, like you could in Morrowind.
  
  And that is one of the very bad things in Oblivion. Choice. Where is it? Yes, you can chose some 
 things, but there is almost none of it. The Main Quest is linear and have only one outcome as far 
 as I can tell. There might be two ways to do some quests, but the outcome rarely changes. It seems 
 the only real choice you have is when you want to do quests, and what kind of weapons you use to 
 do it. And what is up with the quest compass? I do not want to be held by the hand the entire game. 
 But you are here. You rarely have to figure something out on your own, because everything is told 
 to you in the quest descriptions. And you are shown exactly where to go. At least put in an option 
 to turn that off.
  
  The AI, which was supposed to be great, is only mildly amusing. Alot more work is needed to make 
 it anywhere close to perfect.
  
  Roleplaying also more or less disappears, as you can join any guild no matter what (There are also 
 less guilds in this game, and they aren't even that interesting, save for the Dark Brotherhood) . 
 So you can play a mage who is also a member of the Thieves Guild, Mages Guild, Fighters Guild, 
 Dark Brotherhood and a participant of the Arena. You can also be GuildMaster in all of them I think. 
 Where is the roleplaying here? Yes, you could argue with "but why would you join all of those if 
 you where roleplaying?". Well, you shouldn't be able to join all of those. There should be some 
 requirements to join. Like in, you guessed it, Morrowind.
  
  And after some playing you find out that the people at Bethesda have made one of the worst game 
 mechanics every. Level-scaling... everything. Gone are the days of exploring a dungeon, filled 
 with weak enemies, to find a one of a kind sword hidden behind a barrel. Gone are the days of getting 
 your behind kicked by some nasty bandits in a cave, only to come back twenty levels after to exact 
 revenge. Because now, everything is scaled to your level. Enemies, loot, even quest items. You 
 can actually beat the game being only level one. And if you make some bad decisions during your 
 leveling, you would be able to beat it easier on level one than on level twenty. Bandits that used 
 to have rusty equipment at the beginning of the game, will have daedric equipment when you return 
 with a much higher level. And where is all the unique loot? It is gone. All that remains are chests, 
 giving off items according to your level. This is the one thing which ruined the game for me, and 
 made it virtually unplayable.
  
  So, what makes me still play this game now and again? Mods. And plenty of them. So if you want 
 a better Oblivion, find mods for it. Fix the horrid level-scaling firstly, then add and change 
 things to make the game into a truly great game. Which it can be. But only with mods. Without it, 
 it is barely a decent game. With it, it is a great game. But, I have to base my score on the vanilla 
 game, so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deluhathol
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Despite being toted as one of the greatest role playing games of all time, oblivion was, for me, 
 a total let down. I was reading everything I could about the game from day one, every scrap of 
 information I could find was carefully scrutinised and catalogued. I had bought Morrowind on release 
 date, and I loved it so much it is hard to describe the way I feel about it. I counted down the 
 seconds to release with eager anticipation.
  
  However, once getting past the impressive opening sequence, the game feels more lifeless than Morrowind 
 did. Despite having a large world, most of it is devoid of any sense of human life. There are a 
 handful of main cities, dotted with a few meaningless villages with cookie cutter characters. With 
 3 quests per city, plus the guild quests, there is a fair bit to do (though most of it is nothing 
 compared to the depth of a real RPG) , just don't expect to be surprised by anything, it is almost 
 painfully repetitive.
  
  A lot of interesting features from Morrowind were cut, such as weapons, magic, one off artifacts, 
 but a lot of very poor ideas were added into the game. For starters, there is the level scaling; 
 which in my opinion is the worst of them. It removes any sense of progress by constantly switching 
 the enemies you are fighting, so you never feel stronger than you were 3 levels ago. Another problem 
 is scaled loot. All items in the game are randomly placed, there are no interesting one off artifacts 
 to go hunting for. You can just raid the same dungeon again and again hoping that some decent loot 
 gets spawned. Booooring. Also the journal is pretty much an explicit walkthrough, and automatically 
 pops up to tell you exactly what to do at any one time, this is one of the main things that ruined 
 the game for me, it prevented my from thinking for myself.
  
  In a lot of ways, though, Oblivion stays true to its predecessors, it pushes the envelope graphically, 
 it leaves you the same open world experience (although the world lacks any interesting detail) , 
 it retains the combat style, and many of the skills are left unchanged.
  
  All in all, I would recommend Oblivion who wanted an RPG "lite", without any real substance or 
 soul, but if you want to actually be engaged by an RPG, stick with Morrowind or Baldurs Gate. I 
 must say, I fear for the future of the Elder Scrolls series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdstn
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion sucks you in right from the start and it does not let you go until even after the end. 
 There are always new sights to see, new places to explore, new characters to meet. But after the 
 first 15-20 hours you start feeling like you have already seen it all. And the typical dungeon 
 system does not help. I admit, the dark, claustrophobic places are typical for fantasy RPG-s, but 
 that isn't an excuse. I'm quite sick of torches and light spells. I want more outdoor combat with 
 more place to manoeuvre. There are also tons of characters to interact with... in theory. Most 
 of them will only share with you a couple of rumours and some tips for their hometown. The number 
 of quests just can't match even one sixth the number of NPC-s. And the sights and new places to 
 explore? After some time they also start repeating. The spaces are big, maybe too big. There are 
 a lot of hostile creatures outside the towns, but not many characters. Also, I just can't get why 
 there are so many abandoned forts and not even one populated by friendly forces. I mean, where 
 are the imperial armies stationed? They cannot be placed only in the cities, or the bandits were 
 going to be much more.
  
  And that were all the bad things. But the good ones are far more. The story is interesting, well-told, 
 with several twists. Right from the start it involves you deeply into the action. You just can't 
 stop until you have reached the end and unveiled Tamriel's mysteries. The side characters are believable 
 and carefully made, although a bit similar and the main characters are so well created that I felt 
 a kind of grief when they started to perish. The story isn't as innovative as it can be, but we 
 can't expect new type of story from every RPG. The battles are a perfect mix between your own skills 
 with mouse and keyboard and character powers. And the graphic... Well, nothing can be said about 
 it. It is just fantastic. And maybe the two most important things: Bethesda has not stopped working 
 and adding content and the modding community is friendly and very, very active.
  
  The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is a must-have game for every RPG fan and a nice refreshment for people 
 not involved with the genre. Its bad sides are easy to swallow and the good sides are uncountable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunToShine
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Reviewer's note: While I have sporadically played Oblivion since its released in March 2006 both 
 for the Xbox 360 and PC, this review is for the PC version. I recommend the PC version to anyone 
 who has a mid-end or high-end rig, because the healthy mod community built around the game is a 
 huge advantage. Also, the final score is given in relation to games released near the game's original 
 release, not at the date of being reviewed.
  
  The Best Thing: The intriguing and variety-packed collection of quests that raises the standards 
 of conversation, quest lines, and quest objectives in role-playing games.
  
  The Worst Thing: The graphical pop-ins and less-than-stellar distant land textures can really kill 
 some great visual scenes (both of these issues can be potentially be fixed by using mods) .
  
  9.4
  (rounded up to a 9.5 for The Man)
  
  I was a huge fan of Morrowind. I must have 
 merrily pranced around for over a hundred hours before finally moving on with my life. And if you've 
 never played the game, you may be surprised to hear that I never actually beat it. I didn't feel 
 like it. There was a whole world to explore, and I didn't necessarily want to see it in the order 
 the game wanted me to. And as any Morrowind fan will tell you, that fundamental freedom that lay 
 at the center of its design made for one of the most memorable role-playing games ever crafted.
 
  
  Oblivion is a different beast more than I thought it would be. To put it kindly, its world is geographically 
 much more conventional than Morrowind's  to put it bluntly, it borders on boring and monotonous 
 once the wonder of the technical beauty begins to dim. The towering mushroom trees and endless 
 ash deserts of Morrowind are replaced by grass, trees, and then some more grass and trees (to be 
 fair, the Oblivion gates are strange and exciting at first, but quickly become repetitive because 
 of level design) . Dungeon difficulties scales to your character's level, giving you even more freedom 
 on where to travel and when but removes virtually all threats and their fatal (but exciting) consequences.
 
  
  Of course, there's another side to the story. Morrowind had a creative and intriguing world filled 
 with dull and monotonous characters. Oblivion has a dull and monotonus world filled with creative 
 and intriguing characters. Once I caught onto that fundamental switch, the Elder Scrolls magic 
 was reborn. Oblivion sets a new standard for creating quests that are actually interesting, unique, 
 and usually pretty funny too. This excludes the main storyline that starts off strong but falls 
 into an unfortunate routine of fetch quests as the actual narrative becomes slower and thinner 
 as it progresses. But the side quests and guild quests, which there are hundreds, are easily some 
 of the most entertaining quests you'll find in any role-playing game. Very strong voice acting 
 and writing combine to exceed your expectations of how interesting a simple NPC conversation can 
 be.
  
  The combat of Oblivion has been refined incredibly since Morrowind, and it'd be hard to understate 
 how much this improves the entire game. Combat in Morrowind often felt like a chore, but the combat 
 in Oblivion proves to be some of the most satisfying and intense combat you will find in any role-playing 
 game to-date. At its worst, it's what we've been playing for years, except with fancy physics. 
 But at its best, the raw intensity of the battles transcends the entire genre of role-playing games.
 
  
  There's a prominent group of people that insist Morrowind is the superior game. But like with most 
 things in life, it's not that black and white. While on the surface Morrowind and Oblivion seem 
 like very similar games, they have a surprising amount of differences. Morrowind is a great game 
 for anyone who loves challenging and rewarding exploration without anyone holding their hand, while 
 Oblivion is more suited for the average gamer looking for intense and refined action framed in 
 some very entertaining quests. Many have argued that Bethesda made Oblivion friendlier towards 
 casual gamers and role-playing newbies, and sacrificed the creativity and uniqueness of Morrowind 
 to do so. Again, on the surface this seems true, but what really has happened is Bethesda drained 
 the uniqueness and creativity from the world, and has directly infused it into the NPCs and their 
 quests. The magic is still there, it's just in a different place.
  
  In summary, if you've ever leveled up and liked it, Oblivion is the game for you. If you've ever 
 enjoyed a conversation with a NPC, Oblivion is the game for you. If you've ever lost yourself in 
 the intensity of a battle and loved doing so, Oblivion is the game for you. And if all of those 
 apply to you, then Oblivion is absolutely a must-play for dozens of hours, if not hundreds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is everything that a RPG should be and more. It has so many different things to do in 
 and explore in the game that is almost never ending it sometimes feels like. The game has gorgeous 
 graphics and much improved gameplay from Morrowind. They completely refurbished the fighting system 
 in the game so when you swing you dont just hit air even though the guy is only a foot away from 
 you. The stealth has been much improved as well making it more playable than ever as more of a class 
 and fighting style now. The AI in the game is very impressive and some of the best I have seen 
 even from todays games. They dont seem to have the problem of running into walls or getting stuck 
 in graphics. The story is well writen and fits with the elder scroll universe. Although I do not 
 like the fact of how many oblivion gates you have to close in the game. It feels a little boring 
 after the first two or three. Character customization is as good as ever making your hero look 
 as anything you want him or her to look like. Even if you manage to make it through and get mostly 
 everything done in the game you can always download mods from different websites to add hours more 
 of gameplay or even if your into it make your mods ad use them. I must complain though that the 
 game does take some time to load making things go kind of slowly at times just waiting for the 
 loading screen to vanish. Also if you do not have a very good system dont bother with the game 
 it will just completely ruin your experience of the game. Overall the game is great and I am curious 
 to see what comes next in the series to top an already masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobotFreshPies
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  This was my first Xbox 360 game, and I would have to say, that it was a great example of what the 
 360 is capable of. Personally, I never played any other Elder Scrolls game, but I heard that this 
 game had some class and is worth having a go. After looking at vids and reviews, I thought this 
 game would be great to start off my 3rd Gen console.
  
  The Good
  - Graphics: What can I say? Fantastic!!!
  - Physics: Ditto, great work on how the models move 
 and fall.
  - The NPC's: I love how all the NPC's have lifes that you can follow, watch and interact with throughout 
 a whole game-day. Really something special there.
  - The Story and side quests: The main story and all the side missions are fantastic. It has depth, 
 suprise and really keeps you busy.
  - The Massiveness: This game is HUGE. It has a sandbox style and there is so much to do and interact 
 with, it was kind of overwhelming at first.
  - The Weapons: I love the weapons in this game. So much variety and choice
  - Detail: The amount 
 of detail in this game is staggering. Everybook has text, every person how a personality and more. 
 The creators did well indeed
  - The Music: Although there is a limited soundtrack, the music that you listen to while adventuring 
 is great, very suitable.
  - The Environment: You can be in a bright forest, to the dank swamps, to a dark cave, to.... hell. 
 There are so many great environments in which you can explore
  - The Secrets: I loved finding secret stuff in this game, very entertaining
  
  The Bad
  - 
 The Arrest for Picking Stuff Up: In the game, you can pick up items and wave them around or whatever. 
 In a shop, if you pick something up (but not steal it) you can get busted, which is kind of annoying.
 
  - Killing consequences: You have to be careful, because if you kill a character that may be potentially 
 involved in a quest, the quest would be ruined
  
  The Lowdown
  Fantastic open ended RPG. Very worth buying. I didn't give it a 10 because I'm not a real massive 
 RPG fan, but still awesome. So def get it on 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasadora
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game featuring a long main quest line with plenty of depth and can keep you 
 occupied for hours.... if you know how to play and where to go! Sure the compass will give you 
 directions to your quest location but in some cases even this doesnt work and you are completely 
 by yourself.
  
  On first getting the game i was completely confused i had no idea how to play and was instantly 
 frustrated and wanted to snap the disk, in some cases this may be true with its strange levelling 
 system and breaking the law with ease, ending in a trip to prison or a loss of gold. Eventually 
 getting the nack of it it did become addicting and offered a great sense of depth and danger but 
 the learning curve may put new comers off within minutes.
  
  Oblivion in itself is quite a masterpiece in its own right, showing amazing visual effects and 
 you can tell alot of thought went into every nook and cranny of it from the tallest mountain to 
 a blade of grass, its just dazzling! The first person view also offers an amazing sense of adventure 
 and an urge to just run and fight making you feel like a hero which in this case it does. 
  
  Oblivion offers so much but in some cases a little bit to much in cases of guilds and skills 
 which can put an inexperienced RPG player off, but when you have learned its main structure Oblivion 
 is a great game and you feel the urge to just leap into its awesome tale of fantasy. Definitely 
 worth buying but requires about 5 hours of patience to get the learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_k
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Just right in every single way, I must say. Perfect, perfect, PERFECT! I mean, seriously, can't 
 get any better than this. A game worthy of me over-obsessing with for months and months, on and 
 on. I haven't stopped playing it since I got it around when it came out, back before it was rated 
 M.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Wow. As I said before, wow. Wowie. Wowimungo. WOW! Jeez, it's amazing! Quests of all kinds, the 
 main questline, hundreds of little storylines to follow, and little things taken from books and 
 movies, just little things that will make you go "Oh! I've heard of that before."
  
  Fighting is amazing, with magic and melee being both easy to control and powerful, but ranging 
 (for me) is difficult. I can never aim right and when they get close it's useless. I enjoy the 
 fact that you can do any quests, go anywhere at ANY time. Even if you are only a wee ickle level 
 1. Unlike Runescape and WoW and many RPGs, Oblivion has no limits. Level 1s can do just as much 
 as a level 32s, except for one or two restrictions (quests invovling minor dieties, mainly) .
  
  As for quests, I find them spectacular, the storyline, the fighting, the events, the EVERYTHING! 
 I love them! Love, love, love. I especially like that one where that lizard woman person gets captured 
 by these crazy villagers. I forget all of the names, I've never been good with names. And the rewards 
 are cool, but if you recieve them at a low level they're useless later on, unless you get a certain 
 mod.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  What can I say? Better than WoW, WAY better than Runescape, WAY better than Neverwinter Nights 
 2, WAY better than almost every game I've ever played, especially RPGs. These graphics are quite 
 something indeed. Just take a glance at a couple screenshots and you'll understand.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Though the songs repeat a lot, I find them wonderful and exactly fitting, and 
 the voice acting is fantabulous, with a couple famous actors. Remember, I'm bad with names. You 
 could look it up though. I once just sat at the computer, closed my eyes and listened to the music 
 for an hour or so. Almost as good as Indiana Jones.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  I'd pay almost anything for this game, so the 60-ish bucks were worth it.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
 
  
  I don't know what this is. =P
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Yaaaaay for Oblivion!
  
  Sorry it's short, but... I'm tired. Heehee.
  
  Buy this game. And love it. And feed it. And 
 care for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Writing a critical review about Oblivion feels ike facing the wrath of God. Who can face up to 
 a solid 9.3 and an editor's choice award? 
  Well I will try here, because in my opinion this game isn't as great as it is cracked up to be.
 
  
  First off, Oblivion as a technical implementation is a true master piece. It looks beautiful, runs 
 well and is easy to mod. When you got the rig for it the game is splendid.
  One remarkable thing is that Oblivion invoked for the first time in a long time a creepy scary 
 feeling of doom that is such fun when entering Oblivion for the first time. The way the sky turns 
 red and stormy, the evil tower and strange landscape make for a pretty good experience.
  
  But what the worshippers of Oblivion however can't deny is that the main story-line is simply ramshackle 
 at best and told in a dull way. The story follows the well trodden path of some evil force that 
 is about to invade with inside help and the only protection against it, the emperor , get's himself 
 killed in an ambush. Of course the old man has no apparent heir (what an oversight) and of course 
 this much loved ruler seems to get little help once confronted by many enemies (repeat that again?) 
 . The city support a wizards tower with powerful wizards, but the one thing the emperor does is 
 trying to flee the city via the sewers. Oh yes, there might be bad guys among them, let's run then.
 
  Oblivion isn't alone to display a story containing elements that are are at odds which each other 
 and as is usually the case once a story starts out in a such bad way it follows up in the same 
 way. One way to safe such a story is to support it with good music, good dialog or humor. If you 
 are doing really great then you do it all. But alas none of this is apparent in Oblivion. 
  Of course there is hero (that is you) and of course there is an heir (lucky enough, it isn't you) 
 and of course the hero just needs to get this reluctant guy to accept his new fate, drag him to 
 some important place, kill some opposition along the way, close some portals to make the world 
 safe again. We all know the drill.
  All in all the entire story holds no candle to the light of a BG2 or Torment or, for that matter, 
 Mask of the Betrayer. Neither in the way it evolves nor in the way the story is presented the game 
 made me bat an eyelid. 
  
  Why then does this game get a whopping 9.3?
  I don't know. Maybe expectations have steadily dropped over the years and for once a game hit's 
 the marker that doesn't disappoint. Maybe requiring a good story is something that belongs to other 
 realms such as movies, books and plays. Or maybe game reviewers can't recognize a bad story unless 
 it wears a red hat and yells 'baddie baddie'? 
  Or maybe I am in the wrong. 
  It is a mystery 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of my favorite games, I love RPG games and this is game is state of the art. At 
 first it was kind of difficult to understand until I got the gamer guide, if you really want to 
 play the game at the maximum state you need the gamer guide other wise you won't know what you 
 are doing. The graphics are outstanding, you will be delighted with the graphics. This is a long 
 game, lots of hours of gaming. The mechanics of the game are good, has a story plot and many extra 
 missions. Step inside the most richly detailed and vibrant game world ever created. With a powerful 
 combination of free form game play and unprecedented graphics, you can unravel the main quest at 
 your own pace or explore the vast world and find your own challenges in the massive world of Oblivion. 
 Love it, recommend big time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothingsaid
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is astounding. Beautiful graphics that build a rich, detailed, immersive 
 fantasy world. NPC's will interact with eachother, enter/exit, and have a unique disposition with 
 you depending on what you have done in the game. I love the ability to pick up just about anything 
 in the world in real-time and manipulate it. The quests are involved and quite entertaining. You 
 have an infinite amount of freedom to do what you like, and you really never have to follow the 
 main quest line till you're good and ready. All this really adds up to very fun, very realistic 
 gameplay. I've also always given Bethseda props for leaving the source open on these games and 
 allowing user add-ons. That right there is priceless and probably the best part of buying an Elder 
 Scrolls game for the PC.
  
  With that said, there were some obvious shortcomings despite the HUGE (and I do mean HUGE) hype 
 that revolved around the release of this game. Granted, nobody is perfect. The first atrocity is 
 the PC system requirements. MY GOD. I actually built a PC based on the anticipation of playing 
 this game, and it was nowhere NEAR the horsepower needed to enjoy all Oblivion has to offer by 
 the time it was released (very late) . I have since majorly upgraded and I still can't ride a horse 
 around without my CPU chugging. It's ridiculous, but there are user-patches that help with this, 
 and nowadays (years later) most people have a sufficient PC to run it.
  
  Secondly, although Oblivion's predecessor Morrowind was released as a PC & Console game as well, 
 it had nowhere near the "control pad in-hand" feel that Oblivion does. The menu interface was very 
 obviously written to satisfy a multi-platform fanbase. To put it short, I see the menu as bulky, 
 annoying to navigate, and frankly a pain in the arse when it comes to the PC gamer. I'm still looking 
 for a good user-made menu to replace it. I'm sure they are out there.
  
  Lastly I have always found it interesting, in the Elder Scrolls series, how the level scaling works. 
 You can pretty much, as a level 1 or 2 beginner, run anywhere on the map and take on every creature 
 that jumps out at you. There is no real feeling of "boy I have to come back to this place once 
 I'm strong enough to do it". Everything is scaled to your level, and gets harder as you move up, 
 which (unless you choose the right primary skills) is a long process. I was also shocked how much 
 smaller the explorable territory feels, than in Morrowind. It almost seems claustrophobic in comparison.
 
  
  Despite its shortcomings, Oblivion is a very fun, very beautiful, very immersive game. It is easy 
 to get very attached to, however it is also just as easy to put the game down after some time and 
 not feel too bad. I'm looking forward to seeing the next release... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3r_88
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The visuals were stunning and revolutionary on a high-end PC. On the other hand on the xbox 360 
 and PS3 on a flat screen TV were a little worse, but i am still not saying they were totally bad. 
 The story line was superb and there was a nice little twist at the end of the main story, but i 
 won't spoil it for anyone who isn't done the story. The free roam idea was the best ever allowing 
 you to have full control over everything that is happening around you from owning your own house 
 to customizing your own class of character. It seems to be endless of how meny different side story 
 quests there are. There is only one downside to this remarkable game, it has no multiplayer. That 
 is right, no multiplayer. No chance to show your friend over in Iceland how good you enchanted 
 that pwnage armour you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viet1125
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  There are only few things that bore me, anything else is wonderful:
  1. Some investigations are so complicated to complete that you need a walk through beside your 
 keyboard. (Unless you are such an patient gamer) .
  2. Repetitive missions: Yes, every game is somewhat repetitive. Oblivion is not an exception. In 
 many quests you just walk into a cave, kill some monsters, take valuable things and take it to 
 some NPC.
  3. Somewhat confusing for new comers to this role-playing style. They often get overwhelmed because 
 of options, skills and abilities. Another thing is leveling. Many friends of mine complain about 
 this but I just enjoy the beautiful sights in the game.
  4. The story lacks romantic factors. A Hero always sides with beauties! However it's just a thought.
 
  
  The most comfortable thing that I want to say about this game is: You don't need a trainer for 
 Oblivion. Adjustable difficulty and cheats are awesome!!
  So don't hesitate to bath yourself in the Elder Scrolls world! See other great things for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFadi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Publisher: 2K Games
  Developer: Bethesda Softworks
  Release Date: Mar 20, 2006
  
  System Requirements:
  System: 3.0 Ghz Intel Pentium 4 or equivalent 
  RAM: 1024 MB
  Video 
 Card: ATI X800 series, Nvidia GeForce 6800 series, or higher.
  
  After the mysterious and untimely death of the Emperor, the throne of Tamriel lies empty. With 
 the Empire ready to crumble, the gates of Oblivion open and demons march upon the land - laying 
 waste to everything in their path. To turn the tide of darkness, you must find the lost heir to 
 the throne and unravel the sinister plot that threatens to destroy all of Tamriel
  
  Oblivion is the quintessential role-playing game for the next generation and another leap forward 
 in gaming. Step inside the most richly detailed and vibrant game-world ever created. Oblivion is 
 the latest chapter in the epic and highly successful Elder Scrolls saga and utilizes the latest 
 PC and next-generation video game hardware to fully immerse you into the experience. With a powerful 
 combination of freeform gameplay and unprecedented graphics, you can unravel the main quest at 
 your own pace or explore the vast world and find your own challenges.
  
  Live Another Life in Another World. Create and play any character you can imagine, from the noble 
 warrior to the sinister assassin to the wizened sorcerer.
  
  The Bad:
  High System Requirements
  
  The game has very great music.
  The game is one of the greatest 
 games i have ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bamul
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  THIS is the GREATEST GAME EVER MADE!!!
  
  Graphics
  Very, very, very great, but could be a tiny bit better so 9.8
  
  Controls
  Great Controls, 
 the best controls so 10
  
  Difficulty
  It depends on what difficulty you play, I would say 10
  
  Story
  Great story, the only bad 
 bit of it is that you have start from jail which is a bit annoying and boring after going through 
 it with different characters but overall the story is amazing, so 9.9
  
  Sound
  Sound is very, very, very good, the only thing bad about it is that voices of some NPC's can get 
 quite annoying... 9.8
  
  Value
  Great, 10
  
  Mods
  The thing that Bethesda lets you create your own stuff to the game is perfect, 10
  
  Overall
 
  Oblivion is the greatest game ever made, maybe it wouldn't be so great if not for the mods, there 
 is thousands of them!
  
  Rating - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadw_genx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  This game ranks right up there with my favorite Final Fantasy Games 6-8 as far as awesome single 
 player games go. This game will immerse you like a mmorpg normally would. In fact, if this game 
 was a mmorpg, I wouldn't be writing this review right now.
  
  Simply put, this is a stellar game. It's easily the best Elder Scrolls game ever. A game like this 
 only comes around once every few years. It is simply a must own game if you have an Xbox 360 or 
 a PC. My only gripes would be incredibly minor. In fact they are so minor that they aren't really 
 worth mentioning. The only reason I didn't give this game a perfect score is because I don't believe 
 a perfect anything on this Earth could exist.
  
  My advice to anyone new to this game, though, is don't use the origin where you are not granted 
 magic regeneration. I played that character my first time through and it was so hard that I almost 
 gave up on the game. You will constantly be in search of money to trade for more magic potions 
 or ingredients for magic potions if you have the birth sign that I am thinking of.
  
  A+++ Bethesda Softworks, let's see what Fallout will bring :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhannibal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Actually, oblivion is one of the most huge detailed games i d ever seen... Actually incredible 
 amount of options: items, weapons, armors... magical & normal...  
 & summoning... skills... spells... weapons enchanting... even spellcrafting... can u imagine ? u can 
 make ur own spells!!! 
  
  But... the problem is that if u don't work ur head u ll spend so so so long time just to figure 
 out how to accelerate ur quests seeking... For example... i solved early 1 or 2 quests then for 
 the next 30 hours couldn't complete a quest because many quests were dependent on an extremly hard 
 quest which i didn't know how to complete ( ( the vampirism cure ) ) ... The problem is that i couldn't 
 find the items needed for the quest ( (grand soul gems) ) ... i actually didn't find them to steal them... 
 and also, being a vampire made me unable to talk with any of the marchants cause i was always feared 
 ( (go away u filthy beast) ) :D loll... And the most painful part was that i had either to do the 
 quests only in the night ( (cause the sun damages the health) ) by sleeping in beds of mage guilds 
 which don't take a lot of time... but if u're unlucky ( (and this happens a lot) ) ... and u are in 
 a place where there is no near mage guilds... u'll have to stay in a place a complete 12 hours 
 till night fall which is equal on ur handwatch to 24 minutes as every hour in oblivion is equal 
 to 2 minutes !!!! Such a pain in the A**....
  
  Probably there were details in books inside the game telling u where are 
  every things for most 
 of quests... but this may be the problem itself cause there are thousands books inside oblivion 
 ... u can't just see them all... but probably u can carry them to sell them ( (best use of these 
 books :D lol ...) )
  Well... anyways... after i solve the vampirism cure quest, i found everything running quickly... 
 and actually i m enjoying this now :D
  So... probably if i found a solution for the situation earlier instead of neglecting this stupid 
 quest and seaking to finish other quests, i would had saved a lot of time...
  
  So, except for the last incident, this game is awesome... so much awesome... so much fun... u can't 
 imagine how happy will u feel when u finish a quest...
  
  Also... AI is fine... enemies are not that stupid... :D
  It's amazing to see that if u're running 
 from an enemy around a circle and he's running such that the distance between u and him in the 
 running direction is longer than the distance in the opposit one; ur enemy changes his direction 
 and try to take shortcut to catch u!!! 
  
  Plus... when practicing skills... some skills are chosen carefulls such that, u don't need to confront 
 the enemy to raise them... at contrary, u can raise these skills by just practicing alone ( (alteration 
 & restoration) ) ...
  
  Actually... this game if u agree or not is a game that comes once every 10 years... i take my hat 
 off for the makers... And it's so much fun... And it's the real first RPG to attract me after DIABLO 
 2 & FINAL FATASY... Specially that i m fond of the infinity enemies in diablo 2 which goes in the 
 style of BEAT 'EM ALL & the turn base combat in final fantasy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerone1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than good.
  You play it and you actually feel like a citizen of Tamriel.
  The world feels right. It still 
 feels like a computer game but only just in a way.
  You could walk for hours, explore mountains, rivers, lakes, cities, towns, very small villages, 
 dungeons whatever you want to really! Hundreds and hundreds of people to talk to, all with there 
 own voices that they use when they speak of course! 
  
  Before i got this game i played Morrowind. I really enjoyed this game as it had a large immersible 
 world as well. When you play Morrowind you think about how good a game it is. Morrowind was one 
 of the best RPG's ever.
  
  Then along came Oblivion, sequel to morrowind. It was at LEAST! 5 times better than morrowind. 
 The world is bigger and better. There are animals roaming, there are grassy meadows (LOL) and there 
 are flowers, mushrooms and plants. I could go on for hours but i don't have mush time.
  
  I am simply going to tell all the people in the world who havn't played this game to buy it or 
 get it at all costs! it is a MASTERPIECE! 
  
  Although i love this game sooooo much there are a few annoying features in it like how you spend 
 hours just wondering around and puzzle solving and fighting in many near identical dungeons. You 
 do get kinda bored of them as there is a wonderful colorful world on the curace and i think more 
 quests should be based on the surface. :-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  no need to talk about this game for hours, the best RPG since The Baldur's Series, bethesda exceeds 
 itself once again since the Elderscrolls : Arena, daggerfall and morrowind, aside from the stunning 
 graphics, the game istelf is amazing, incredible story, millions of side quests (In fact there 
 is a rumor that there are 2.000.000 side quests in the game :D) lots of guilds to join, great combat 
 system for melee players, incredible sneak and critical hit system for thiefs and assassins :D 
 and the best part is the game can be modded in anyway possible, just look around the net and you 
 will find millions zillions of different mods changing how the game looks, new guilds new quests 
 new clothing and many many many (Believe me it is many :D) mods... 
  
  So if you are an RPG fan you MUST try it, also there are 2 expansions to the game to try out, give 
 it a try you wont regret it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls Oblivion is a game that it for sure WORTH THE MONEY. The whole character creation 
 is awesome because there is always a new thing to do. I found my self in the Blade/Conjuration 
 business and raided the empire city and such. The bad thing about this game is the danger of random 
 enemies. You need to relly level before you can do much in this game. I got bored of this game 
 when i got to lvl 41, pretty long time. I was more the explore and kill guy than the sneak around 
 and shank people, if oyu know what i mean. The best part of the game is the sense of adventure
 
  
  Ex here
  You get bored of the main story, so??
  Go get in the figters or mages guild, explore and do random quests. Go into random caves hoping 
 for loot and enemies, etc. The reson this game is rated so high is its freedom, not becuase its 
 an RPG or rated M, no nono people. Its a greatgame 
  
  Withminor flaws it goes down 0,5 for me just cause money cheat takes the fun outta the game, plus 
 the umbra glitch lets you get amazing crap at lvl 1.
  
  I hope you enjoyed this
  
  If you have ay questions about this game PM m i beat the story, brotherhood mage and fighters guild 
 and was a vampire an did that quest.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WASP-Phoenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  The main point in mind is, is this game worth purchasing? The the answer to that question, on so 
 many levels is simply "yes". This game offers elusive depth of gameplay, and also offers an intriguing 
 storyline, Landscapes and factions. What really puts this game in-front of the eight-ball is the 
 fact that there's always something to do, whether your exploring forbidden caves for new types 
 of loot, travelling through the country side watching the sunrise to sunset, or even assassinating 
 someone for the Dark Brotherhood faction, this games leaves an open ended world for you to explore. 
 When you start your game you can create your own character, and i mean you can really create him, 
 from eye colour to cheek-jaw ratio, you can actually make your character to be what you want him/her 
 to look like. You start the game off in a prison cell, where you get caught up in this plot to 
 assassinate the emperor and it proceeds from there on leaving you at the end of your chair. The 
 other great thing about this game is that even though the main story line has twists and depth, 
 the factions you can join go for just as long and are no let down either, they offer great missions, 
 exciting twists and unique loot on the way. This game is so big and has no many quest within it, 
 that you could just walk up to a Dark Elf and a Orc having conversation and they could end up talking 
 about some treasure, and all of a sudden a quest log pops up and you have another quest on your 
 hands. The fact that there's so much to do is great because if you get stuck on one thing you can 
 just finish off a different quest, and you will never run out of things to do because if you finish 
 all the quests in your quest log, just go talk to a few people and i guarantee you will find a 
 interesting quest to do. There is also a first-person option aswell as the RPG mode, may i recommend 
 doing the first-person mode just simply because it gives you a better feel and sight for the game. 
 The skill options are quite fantastic itself, no matter what your doing it's putting your skills 
 up whether it's running, swimming or fighting your working your way up another level. The way this 
 game works in leveling is you have your majour skills and your minor skills, your majour skills 
 make up what type of profession your character is and the minor skills are just the skills your 
 character doesn't really require to full-fill his/her profession. When your majour skills go up 
 a level it contributes to your main level, if you get your minor skills up it has no effect on 
 your main level, however it is still handy to have all levels boosted up, just because it's simply 
 useful. However every exception comes with it's price, if your looking for the minor downfalls 
 in Oblivion is probally the combat does tend to lack depth, point and click is pretty much what 
 to expect here, you can click the mouse for a normal attack or you can hold it for a power attack. 
 The bow and arrow actually has a pretty good combat system, where you click and hold for how much 
 power you want in the shot, and your arrow will slowly fall closer to the ground over longer distances, 
 so it requires some skill in getting use to where your arrow will land. This also depends on how 
 advanced your marksmen skill is, obviously the higher the skill the more power and damage you can 
 get into the shot therefore it will last longer through the air, this makes it easier to hit enemies 
 from a longer distance. The magic however does lack detail, most of the time it's a fireball or 
 an electric blast, there's thousands of spells to acquire, but the imagery just isn't that great, 
 good but nothing special. Also i found with the game and know that allot of other people found 
 this is aswell, is that the game is so big you tend to feel really lonely at times, there's heaps 
 of people in the cities but outside the cities there isn't alot of NPC's, and where there are quests 
 where you have to kill someone, (which there are alot of those quests by the way) , it kinda makes 
 you annoyed because your making the number of NPC's even smaller now, and once there dead they 
 don't come back, unless you wanna look up cheats on the internet of course to get them back. But 
 if your a fan of RPG's i defiantly recommend buying Oblivion, trust me, you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan8080
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game for the PS3. It was incredibly dull. I normally enjoy complex character creation, 
 but no matter how you make the character he looks half dead. Also, I read theonline levelling FAQs. 
 According to them you have to lvl your character in a really convoluted way or he will become weaker 
 an weaker relative to the monsters as you lvl up. 
  
  ll this equates to a boring game that is designed for you to do work in. Alsothe magic spells were 
 too difficult to cast on a ps3 controller, so that just leaves swords. 
  
  I played for 20 mins in char creation and 30 mins in game. That was enough for me. Never played 
 it again, so I sold it to a store a month later. 
  
  Don't waste your time or money on it. Or at least try it b4 you buy it -- it is not for everyone.
 
  
  I recommend Hellgate: London as an RPG. It is not perfect but miles better than Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  All I can say is that despite it's brilliant graphics in overall it's a very dissappointing game.
 
  
  I've been a huge Elder Scrolls fan. I played the Arena, Morrowind with Tribunal and Bloodmoon expansions 
 and I can say this: If it wasn't for the amazing graphics that in my opinion are of the highest 
 quality this game wouldn't bring anything to the genre. Even more, this game is the perfect example 
 how the rpg's of the new era replace the great storyline and addictiveness of games such as Fallout2, Baldur's 
 Gate, Gothic series, Neverwinter Nights etc. with great graphics. It's like replacing an engine in 
 ferrari with nice set of spoilers. It looks very nice but it won't splash the dirt.
  
  It's the same with oblivion. It's very nice and at the beggining I was just stunned with the textures, models 
 and the environment but the more I played the more frustrated I was becoming. After gaining about 
 30 levels I realized that it didn't matter if I was running in a Daedric or in an Iron armor. It 
 actually doesn't matter at all what you're actually wearing or how strong your hero is because 
 even the petty rats advance to the same level you're advancing making the game totally realistic? 
 Hitting a stupid Goblin with daedric Hammer or Claymore more than once when you're on the 30th 
 level? What about a horde of goblins with couple of goblin shamans and 2 goblin warlords? It's just 
 impossible! And when you turn the game difficulty slider to 'easier' the game is to easy! You can 
 kill a minotaur king with your fart!
  
  Besides the quest system is constructed according to some 'the more the better' formula which has 
 nothing to do with the quality of those quests. All of the dungeons, missions, ruins get very repetitive 
 after couple of hours. In fact it's the only rpg game that I left unfinished after a total of 50 
 hours of playing.
  
  The music is pretty decent but nothing to remember.
  
  After beating Morrowind 3 times I can only say this: If you're a total hardcore rpg fan and you 
 don't mind the lack of good story and you like hacking and slashing throughj hordes of monsters 
 and you don't mind having epic battles with sewer rats and if you're a completist then this game 
 is for you.
  
  Otherwise save your money and wait for something else. this game is not worth sacrificing 200 hours. There 
 are other games like WITCHER for example who will thrill you much more than this imitation of an 
 rpg.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lakin0817
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  In a nut shell, Oblivion was a huge disappointment. With all the high reviews and good comments, 
 I was excited to play the game. The graphics, controls, sound , etc were all fine. But certainly 
 weren't enough to overcome its failures. Bringing up my point, The game is just buggy. 
  
  The leveling system completely destroys the point of playing a RPG (everyone became a hero in time 
 with you ) . So I tried to mod it to my preference. I have to admit there are some good mods out 
 there for Oblivion where you can customize it to about whatever you want out of it. I modded for 
 two weeks straight trying to get the best RPG experience I could out of Oblivion. Even with the 
 mods, the game was still buggy. Half of the mods had bugs themselves. Sometimes it will crash, 
 other times freeze up. There are several issues with sound cards and sound files that cause the 
 game to crash. I had to delete some of my windows sound files in order to keep my mouse and keyboard 
 from freezing up in the game. The game would randomly minimize to the desktop. I later figured 
 out it was Internet explorer causing it to minimize through back door programs. So I had to delete 
 that and go to firefox. I compromised my computer, time and gaming desire to play this game. All 
 to the same conclusions, crashes, missing textures, and bugs. Way to much work just to try and 
 enjoy a game. If you don't mind a crash here or there, or missing textures or modding for hours 
 on end to get a desired game, then give it t a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 366z0rs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  My first exposure to the Elder Scrolls series was playing Morrowind on a friend's XBox. I never 
 truly got into the game at all, mainly because I found the combat boring and I never knew where 
 the hell I was going or what I was doing. What can I say, I was young. 
  
  So when I heard the Oblivion had real time FP combat, I thought I'd give the series another go. 
 Initially, I was completely blown away by the game. I enjoyed the faster paced combat, I loved 
 the openness of the world. But after playing through a few of the guild quest lines, the game quickly 
 became stale. Even the combat which had initially attracted me to the game began to show its shallowness. 
 There is truly no depth or complexity to it at all -- if you click with an enemy under the crosshairs, 
 you hit them; if you block when they hit you they stumble; sometimes you get knocked over and vice 
 versa. There are spells but most of them have the equivalent lethality of a BB gun toting six-year-old 
 against a grizzly bear. And, with the exception of a few noncombat skills like Alchemy (not terribly 
 exciting but at least useful) , the mindless clickfest is the only way to make your character stronger.
 
  
  But the mindlessness (perhaps mind numbing would be better, since it requires basic math skills) 
 doesn't stop with the clicking. I'm not a power gamer by any means, but I don't believe the system 
 should reward pedantic planning of skill ups as opposed to simply playing the game (OK, I need to 
 get X skill increases in Y attribute, but my minor skills can only count towards my increase Z 
 number of times and if I level major skill W too much I'll level too early and not get my modifiers.) 
 The system flies in the face of Bethesda's objective of making the game more accessible to the 
 casual gamer -- I enjoy RPGs and character development already and found it stupid, boring, and shallow. 
 I can't imagine trying to play this on consoles where mods cannot rescue the player from the tedium 
 of clicking your way to +5 modifiers.
  
  Not that earning the coveted modifiers will have much effect on your experience -- since everything 
 in the entire world is scaled to you and your level, you are unlikely to encounter anything which 
 will endanger you. You can mow through anything in the game at any level -- nothing will surprise 
 you because the enemies' gear will be of identical quality to your own. Even lowly bandits will 
 be decked out with the latest and greatest armaments, provided you, the hinge upon which this command 
 economy of baddies turns, have become sufficiently powerful.
  
  This may not have been such a deal breaker if the game had lived up to what Bethesda had hyped 
 it as -- a hardcore RPG with action elements, providing multiple ways to complete a quest. As it 
 stands, virtually all the quests are resolved by combat, which isn't necessarily bad in itself, 
 but in a game that was marketed to be freeform in its quest solutions, its an egregious lapse. 
 There are certainly a few exceptions, such as the Thieves' Guild line, but even so, Oblivion is 
 only an RPG insofar as the game gives you a set role to play. Inside of the role you are to play 
 (the Hero) , there is very little room for your own input, especially in the main quest. It essentially 
 railroads you and lets you pick absolutely nothing except for ONE miniscule choice that comes down 
 to "Which magical item am I least attached to?" An ironclad narrative can be forgiven, if the writing 
 is engaging and interesting enough that you are willing to play for the sake of hearing the rest. 
 Unfortunately, Oblivion's main quest fails miserably on this count, and offers little more than 
 the standard high fantasy churned out year after year ever since Frodo and Sam went traipsing around 
 Mordor. The other questlines offer tales only marginally better (though the Thieves' Guild, again, 
 stands out) .
  
  I won't say anything about the complete failure that is Bethesda's Radiant AI. Other people have 
 ripped it to shreds better than I can. Suffice to say it fails in what it was made and touted to 
 do: creating an interesting and alive world for the player to interact with. 
  
  Oblivion has one thing going for it that has made me keep playing it (and yes, enjoy it) -- a mod 
 community that is quite talented. I will list a few of my favorites at the end of this review, 
 but I should note that most of the mods I enjoy correct much of the flaws which the stock Oblivion 
 includes. It speaks to the competency or dedication (maybe both) of Bethesda that unpaid hobbyists, 
 often working alone, and using the exact same developer tools that Bethesda used, have immeasurably 
 improved on almost every aspect of vanilla Oblivion, from combat to graphics to character advancement 
 to quests and writing. Perhaps it is lack of talent, lack of interest, or pure laziness, but the 
 fact of matter is Bethesda put out a mediocre game and it took the modders to exploit the framework 
 to its true potential, to make it more like it ought to have been.
  
  If you haven't already, I'd say buy this game -- it's cheap now and with some proper modding it'll 
 make for an enjoyable experience. Just don't go in expecting the greatest RPG of all time. Don't 
 go in expecting just regular ol' great RPG either. It is a game that doesn't take any chances and 
 as a consequence, falls short of any greatness it could've had. Enjoy it for what it is, and thank 
 the mod community for giving us a glimpse of what might have been.
  
  
  Mods I recommend:
  most of these are found as www. tesnexus. com
  
  Skycaptain's Deadly Reflex
 
  This mod expands on the base combat and makes it much more enjoyable. I won't describe it in too 
 much depth, all you need to know is it makes it better, gives you some more moves at your disposal, 
 and adds a bit more challenge.
  
  Tameriel NPCs Revamped
  While it doesn't do anything for the cookie cutter personalities, this mod vastly improves the 
 faces of most of the NPCs in the game, injecting some much needed uniqueness into the world.
  
  Simbacca's Player Advancement Method
  This mod is one of many that takes the agony out of 
 levelling. It gives you a set modifier for attributes depending on what your chosen specializations 
 are. Very simple and won't break the game.
  
  Simyaz's Quest Mods
  There are several quest mods made by Simyaz -- Malevolent (in collaboration with another modder) , 
 and the Legacy (a combination and continuation of two other mods) . They are both excellent -- the 
 scripting is complex and makes for some exciting scenes, the writing is quite well down, and the 
 storylines branch and give the player enough freedom of choice that it feels more like an actual 
 RPG. I can't say enough about them -- they blow any of Betheda's quests out of the water as far as 
 quality and originality. 
  
  There are dozens of other mods, but these are the major ones I use which actually effect (correct?) 
 the gameplay. Look around and find others. There are plenty ranging from cosmetic to world altering. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HavocEbonlore
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a beautiful game to look at (with the right PC and graphic mods, ofcourse) , but where 
 it has strengths in appearance, Oblivion's RPG mechanics have about as much depth as a spoon. 
 
  
  
  Dialogue: 
  1) The dialogue system leaves alot to be desired. The game gives the player the freedom to do whatever 
 they want, yet the game's dialogue system is about as flexible as a grain of rice. Conversations 
 go as such, "click here, click here, here... and here, proceed with quest." Although all games are 
 like that, they atleast make it immersive by allowing the player to conduct themselves in a manner 
 of their choosing, resulting in different outcomes. Oblivion has the most uninspiring material, 
 though it isn't at the bottom rung of the ladder in general. It's paltry at best as an Elder Scrolls 
 game, and most definitely poor as an RPG (as it tries to make itself out to be) . Diving into oblivion's 
 RPG elements (the elements that make RPGs "RPGs") is like diving into an inflatable kiddy pool 
 via a triple lindy. You have to admit though, the game looks damn good while doing it... until it 
 hits the water...
  
  2) Another dialogue issue I have is with the NPCs. In the tech demos of this game, it was emphasized 
 that the NPCs communicate with eachother, carrying on conversations and such. Even though the NPCs 
 in the first Half-Life did this, it does sound cool, but there are very limited scriptings. I can 
 only hear the story so many times (in different cities...) between people about the mudcrab by 
 the shore and how they decided to totally steer clear of it. Even worse, hearing it from high ranking 
 members of the FIGHTERS GUILD. Some even go along the same lines as this....
  Person 1: Hey there!
  Person 2: Check out The Best Defense, they will have all of your armor-needs!!
 
  Person 1: Bye!!!
  
  
  Content: 
  Oblivion boasts over 200 hours of content. That's all well and good, if only the vast majority 
 of that content wasn't substandard fluff. The game's content is about as inspiring and has as much 
 variety as a box of Cheerios, but with the occasional toy inside. Most of the game's action is 
 isolated to caves and dungeons, so much of it, infact, that it can wear on the mind and becomes.... dare 
 I say it.... boring? Once you've been through a few dozen caves, you'll spot the copy-and-paste 
 tidbits. But some parts of the game are great!! The thieves guild questline was good, amongst other 
 rare gems, but they're few and far between. The game may have alot of content, but small snippets 
 of it are actually engaging.
  
  Combine the content and the dialogue, and you have a bland experience. The graphics are nice though.
 
  
  
  Dislikes:
  While in shops, the merchant follows you all over the place, even while stealthed. How the hell 
 can you steal? And they all flip out if you just MOVE something, not just pick it up and put it 
 in your inventory (that's understandable) , but if you nudge it, everyone in the shop will curse 
 you to no end. Also, the hit-detection is garbage; a hit to the head is like a hit to the toe.
 
  
  Likes:
  Character creation and character progression. Open-endedness of the world, despite most of the 
 action taking place in dungeons/caves. The combat system is also good, finally allowing the ability 
 to cast spells with a weapon out in this installment of the Elder Scrolls.
  
  
  Personal thoughts:
  
  I just couldn't finish the game, not to say that I didn't play it though; 
 I did all the guild quest-lines, and many more all over Cyrodiil. I got near the end of the campaign, 
 but I just couldn't go on. It started to feel like a job or a chore that I felt I had to do or 
 something, "ahhhh... i came this far, just finish it off". I couldn't, so I YouTubed the ending. 
 A total letdown. I made a backup of my saves though, so I may actually come back to the game to 
 finish it off sometime.
  
  The game is a nice looking first-person hack-and-slash, and there's nothing wrong with that. The 
 game's character creation and skill-system are both amazing, giving you the ability to totally 
 customize your character. There's plenty of items throughout the game to cater to anyone's playstyle. 
 For me, the game fit like a glove as an an adventure hack-and-slash (like Diablo 2) , but it just 
 doesn't live up to being an Elder Scrolls title, and that it trumps itself as an RPG is an even 
 bigger smack in the face to games such as Baldur's Gate, Fallout, Neverwinter Nights, etc... Morrowind 
 didn't have RPG elements to the degree that the aforementioned games had, but Oblivion was expected 
 to meet that standard, and in first-person. Sorry guys, but it swung and missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful. It's a super-easy monotonous grind of identical quests and the most generic 
 setting and characters you could imagine. The lack of imagination in this game is almost overwhelming. 
 There is no freedom in this game, you can go wherever the hell you want, yes, but you can't do 
 anything.
  
  The greatest of all the problems in this game is the fact that it's actually classified as an RPG. 
 Can someone enlighten me of how exactly this is an RPG? It's anything but. Now, if this wasn't 
 marketed as an RPG, I'd be a little less hard on the game. But hell, can someone tell me how quests 
 with only one possible outcome, stats having absolutely no use in combat, topical dialog, the most 
 derivative story ever made, the most unimaginative setting and the most unlikable characters in 
 the world could qualify as a true RPG experience?
  
  You never get emotionally involved with anything in this game. I saved the world, I'm the Hero 
 of Kvatch, I'm the Arena Champion, the leader of all factions, and yet people treat me like they've 
 never seen me or like I'm the farmer next door. How rewarding. There is nothing special about this 
 game. Can you play this game for 100 hours? Well, yes. But it depends on how much you value your 
 sanity.
  
  I actually spent a long time with this game leveling my character thinking the game would get better, 
 but the game requires no skill and it even has level-scaling, which renders leveling completely 
 useless. I guarantee you can complete the entire game along with all side quests as a fist-fighting, 
 buttnaked sorcerer. Everything is unbalanced, nothing is in place. In addition the quest rewards 
 are always coins or an item you have absolutely no use of because of the major fail (aka level 
 scaling) . There's no variety in armor or weapons and 98% of all potions and items are pointless 
 and you never use them.
  
  The game starts with you in prison, and then suddenly the emperor comes along with his guards entering 
 a secret passage which happened to be in your cell. You move through the caves and introduce you 
 to the different gameplay aspects and whatnot, and the game evaluates you and recommends your character's 
 class depending on how you played.
  
  All of these classes are completely useless. You can chose to start as your class of choice, and 
 then start anew as an entirely different one and won't notice any difference, you'll still be doing 
 the same thing. You can even become the leader of all factions, Mage's Guild, Thieves Guild, Fighter's 
 Guild and the Dark Brotherhood guild without actually sneaking or doing any magic, because the 
 majority of them is just "go there and kill that guy".
  
  The game is big. A big turd. But no, really, the landscape is huge. One complaint however: every 
 god damned thing looks the same. The game is boring to look at, boring to play, boring to listen 
 to, and I'm embarrassed to own a legitimate copy of this piece of garbage. Does anyone think it's 
 enjoyable walking around admiring the landscapes when there is nothing worth looking at? No, you 
 all use fast travel.
  
  If you want to get some information out of someone but has not yet acquired the appropriate amount 
 of trust from the NPC, he will most likely flatout say he doesn't like you enough. Here you can 
 start with a confusing minigame trying to tell jokes and charm you're way to gain his trust. And 
 honestly, I have no freaking clue how this works. All the times I just gave him some gold and then 
 5 seconds later after hating me he says "Yeah, okay, I like you, I'll give you the top secret information". 
 You'll be stinking rich anyway so I don't see how anyone could have the patience.
  
  The story (if you can call it that) is weak and predictable. Demons from another dimension wants 
 human kind dead. The Emperor is assassinated and apparently you're the chosen one. That's all there 
 is to it.
  In the beginning of the game you'll quickly enter one of many daedra portals leading to this other 
 dimension which is appropriately evil and red. Go through a maze-like tower, deactivate it by acquiring 
 an orb, and you're done. These can take to up to 30 minutes each since the layout of the rooms 
 are extremely confusing. And there are one quest which I remember telling you to deactivate like 
 10 of these. There are dozens randomly scattered across the game world as well. They are so repetitive 
 and there's no benefit for destroying them, so why you'd want to go around closing them is beyond 
 me. Well, "no benefit", you get an orb you can attach to your already overpowered sword, which 
 makes the game even easier.
  
  All the quests consist of the usual MMO-type affair, kill 10 pigs, skin 10 bears, save people, 
 talk to people, kill people, deliver letters, explore stuff. Not alot of distinct quests but there 
 are a few. Like the one where you enter some other guys dream and have to take 3-4 trials to free 
 him. And the one where you save the guy trapped in his own painting. I like that, but there are 
 so few of them, and they NEVER have more than one outcome, and I hate that.
  
  The combat system doesn't make the game any better either, it's actually pretty horrible. It consists 
 of swing, block and swing harder. The hit detection is absolutely abysmal and if you have a friendly 
 NPC with you there's no telling if you hit them or not. The sword just swaps past the screen and 
 you can barely indicate any damage inflicted on your enemy.
  
  The AI is absolutely laughable, Bethesda spent alot of time hyping this supposedly revolutionary 
 Radiant AI. The end result is some kind of cruel joke. NPC's walk around, but they do absolutely 
 nothing noteworthy. It's like they have no lives at all. All there is to it is unnatural, robotic 
 conversations between two NPC's spouting random incoherent lines at eachother about mudcrabs. Then 
 I saw some people stare into a wall for 5 hours. I sat in a tavern watching the AI, I followed 
 one specific NPC just to see what he would do. He sat at a table, turn his head towards me and 
 greeted me, got up, talked to someone else about mudcrabs, both NPC's turned their heads towards 
 me and greeted me at the same time, he went back to his table and sat down... He greets me yet 
 again even though he did like half a minute ago. He gets up, and talks to someone else about something 
 completely irrelevant, they both greet me, he gets back to his table, sits down, stares, and then 
 greets me again.
  
  You lift anything, and the shopkeeper goes insane and starts yelling for help, and then a magical 
 guard he rubbed out of his magic lamp warps to your location and will fine you or throw you in 
 jail. FOR LIFTING SOMETHING.
  
  Also, if you're a thief-like character and start lockpicking a door, go inside and steal some stuff 
 to sell to your fence, go outside, sometimes a guard will arrest you, even when he wasn't anywhere 
 near the area of where you broke in. Not to mention the stuff you steal can't be sold to anyone 
 because they must have some sort of telepathic abilities because other shopkeepers on the other 
 side of the world just happens to know those particular items you have on you are stolen.
  
  If you hit someone, he will hit back, but if you say sorry he'll just accept it. You can even 
 knock some guys unconscious 500 times and just say you're sorry and he'll leave you alone. You 
 can even try to kill the freaking Emperor and just say you're sorry and he'll let you go. It makes 
 no sense. After the emperor and his guards came along through the secret path in my cell I began 
 punching one of the guards, and he said "You're lucky I like you". We just met and he likes me 
 already.
  
  Are people in Cyrodill mentally retarded? What the hell happened here? And if that wasn't bad enough, 
 I was sneaking in a cave full of bandits, saw two of them sitting by a fire, ambushed one of them, 
 and the other one doesn't notice, he just sits there like nothing ever happened looking at his 
 dead buddy in his own pool of blood. No, that wouldn't concern me either.
  
  All the characters in the game world are completely unlikable and not one of them has any distinct 
 charm. They all sound the same because there are only like 5 different voice actors in the entire 
 game, covering 1,500 NPC's. They can also magically change their voice when asking them different 
 things. And sometimes the voiceovers even have outtakes the game developers obviously missed. The 
 voice acting is not bad, it's just repetitive and feels flat. Because the only notable voices are 
 Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean who both deliver dull and boring performances. The lip sync is mostly 
 accurate but on some occasions it goes completely off board. The weird head bob they do when they 
 talk also gets annoying after a while.
  
  The graphics are actually kind of ugly in some spots. The characters look like apes in clothes, 
 animals and creatures look like plastic and the character creation sucks so bad. You can spend 
 2 hours on that thing and your character won't even look decent. The facial hair looks like some 
 sort of skin-disease. The animations are stiff and robotic, sometimes the eyes on dead bodies still 
 blink, and the lighting is way off. I'm in a pitch dark cave but my sword is still reflecting light. 
 How?
  And the game just doesn't feel very realistic whether you're playing in first or third person. 
 You just feel like a camera sorta floating around. Other than that the game's graphics are in general 
 pretty good.
  
  This game is devoid of real roleplaying because of one basic thing: choices and consequences. There's 
 a lot of dialog in Oblivion, granted some are well-written, I won't deny that. But the game plays 
 itself, it never lets you take control your decisions. After each quests a box of text explains 
 your actions and it always says something like "I had no choice but to kill him". No, I did not 
 have a choice, because the game didn't even let me have a choice. What a huge opportunity they 
 missed. I wouldn't mind the god-awful combat if the game had meaningful choices. Well, there are 
 still so many things wrong with the game, but it would have made my opinion on the game much less 
 harsh. Vampire: Bloodlines is an excellent RPG because, YES, it has choices and consequences! The 
 combat on the other hand is clunky and unbalanced, but it doesn't stop it from being one of the 
 better RPG's you can get your hands on today.
  
  The soundtrack is amazingly boring, you never get a kick out of anything, not even the battle music. 
 The other music is derivative and uninspired that's just boring to listen to. Jeremy Soule is not 
 a musical genious, get your ears checked.
  
  Oblivion is a major dumbing down in every sense of the word. Yet the game gets amazing reviews. 
 Seriously, what the hell did this game do that you hadn't seen before? Oh, yeah, that's right. 
 Nothing! How rewarding is it to go through a huge cave with monsters scaled down to your level, 
 throwing any remote challenge out the window, getting to the last chest after half an hour to be 
 rewarded with a pair of leather boots, a couple of coins, a fork and a carrot?!
  
  What the hell were they thinking?
  
  There are RPG's 20 years old better than this game, why 
 this one should get special treatment is beyond me. I'm not exaggerating when I say that Oblivion 
 is one of the worst games I have ever played. It's embarrassing to see Bethesda making Fallout 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion is a strong game. Rarely do you see games that have this level of 
 depth in the gameplay and the world. You can roam free for hours and hours on end, doing really 
 whatever the hell you want. The game entertains you for hundreds of hours, there is so much content 
 here it's mind boggling.
  You play as some sort of hero, although you start inside a prison cell. The emperor tells you that 
 you will be the hero of the land and you're going to close this hellish realm called Oblivion, 
 which is spewing out demons all across of Tamriel. He tells you he's gonna die and he gives the 
 Amulet of Kings, tells you to go see some guy. Now you're left outside the sewers faced with this 
 huge world of fantasy. You can go do what the emperor told you to, or you can ignore it completely 
 and go off joining these criminal groups such as the thieves guild or the dark brotherhood. Essentially, 
 you are bound by no quest or mission, you can just wander around Tamriel being whoever you want 
 to be. You can attack anything in this game. Take (or steal) almost every item you see. Of course 
 by being a criminal your bounty rises and guards will become hostile. If you go to jail you lose 
 skills and stuff.
  Oblivion also has a great combat system. You fight in real time and it looks like a cool action 
 game due to the nice graphics and animations. You press one button to swing your sword and it works. 
 The physics are great and blood splurts about and gets on the walls. But there is a lot of good 
 RPG magic going on behind this flashy spell casting and sword swinging. You get to choose from 
 a long list of classes (or make your own) then level up stats like personality, stealth, destruction, 
 etc... and the game handles all these thing very well. You're going to have a lot of fun with it, 
 trust me.
  It all ends of creating an awesome game that everyone has to try and some point or the other. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This games has so many hours of play if you were to buy it you would could play it for-ever. I 
 would only get this game if you like rpg's though because since it is a massive rpg there would 
 only be that there for you. The game is so large that you don't even need to do the main quest 
 untill you want to. LIfe moves on.. You can go deer hunting all your life and be a merchant or 
 you can join a guild. The greatest thing i saw is that even when you level the rest of the world 
 levels with you so it all stays challenging. I even bought a 20$ help book for this massive game 
 which might be nessisary. Later i found out there are many guilds online you can look at. I would 
 say if you like great graphics go for this game you will get amazed your first glance at the mid-day 
 fields. If you liked morrorwind you will fall inlove with its sequil the first day. Not to forget 
 the awesome player creation at the start which gives you so many options. If nothing else try this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamehopper
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  From the ,moment you enter the world of cyrodil, you are practically stepping into your characters 
 life. There is literally a limitless things to to ranging from hunting in a swamp to betting on 
 gladiators. Never before have a seen such a variety of quests to do in one game. Not to mention 
 the hundreds of mods mods out there that add many, many new quests. 
  My favorite aspect of oblivion is that is is an open world, open ended experience. In other words, 
 from the beginning of the game, you can go anywhere you want in the world. You can head north to 
 bruma, south to Leywiin or just enter the imperial city. There are 8 major, distinct cities that 
 all have their own quests and chracters that have their own 24/7 things to do. So if you want to 
 be an evil assassin, you could stalk one specific character for a day and see where they go and 
 find out when they are alone in some ally. Then you can murder them...:)
  Although that may sound barbarac, you could also be a peace loving citizen who doesn't even kill 
 people at all.
  I could go on and on about all the amazing things you could do in the game, but i; m not. If you 
 want to find out all about the variety of fun things to do, you'll just have to bye it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Best Feature: There is so much to do! So many ways to do battle, stealth, magic arrows. Create 
 the character you want, be the bad guy, good guy or something in between...
  
  Worst Feature: THERE IS SO MUCH TO DO! You'll never do it all without using a huge chunk of your 
 life! Game is buggy in a some places.
  
  Move over Grand Theft Auto! You thought you showed us the meaning of free form gameplay!? You know 
 nothing! Oblivion has shown me that, even GTA gives you a bit of a direction to got in from the 
 start. After escaping the prison to learn the controls, Oblivion basically gives you no objective 
 and allows you to make your own destiny.
  
  This game does have a primary quest arc, the side quests outnumber the main quests several hundred 
 to one. This never leaves you with a shortage of things to do, and even after that you can level 
 up just about any ability or magic type you can think of, in a very unique way. Not buy simply 
 defeating monsters, it all functions on how frequently you do different actions, how quickly they 
 level up. Fight with a bow a lot? Your Marksman skill will increase very quickly. Use healing magic 
 a lot? Same deal, your Restoration skill increases quickly. 
  
  Not only that the world itself is amazing, (If you liked Lord Of The Rings, you'll feel right at 
 home) but unlike other games, every action you make has a effect. It could just be something small 
 like picking a flower that won't grow back for a few days, or large like the murdering a citizen 
 which puts an immediate bounty on your head. Everything affects the world in some way, and your 
 standing in it. Be a good boy and people will slowly begin to recognize you for the hero that you 
 are. Commit wanton murder and theft, and you'll become infamous for you deeds, so much so that 
 the churches will refuse to off your blessings. (And I thought that they were all about forgiveness...)
 
  
  With so much to do, and so much possible this is really a fantastic game, but its not perfect. 
 It can be pretty buggy sometimes. On occasion there is a random Windows crash, a sound glitch or 
 two, and I have even been attacked through an object, but these are rare. I was even prevented 
 from completing a quest because a person I required for it walked randomly off of the entire game 
 map and never returned. 
  
  But despite that, there is so much to this game that a few mistseps are easily forgivable. I have 
 spent almost 90 hours with this game and I still don't think I'm anywhere near an end. A game that 
 can occupy this much time is well worth any $50-$60 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ace
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion is a strong game. Rarely do you see games that have this level of 
 depth in the gameplay and the world. You can roam free for hours and hours on end, doing really 
 whatever the hell you want. The game entertains you for hundreds of hours, there is so much content 
 here it's mind boggling.
  You play as some sort of hero, although you start inside a prison cell. The emperor tells you that 
 you will be the hero of the land and you're going to close this hellish realm called Oblivion, 
 which is spewing out demons all across of Tamriel. He tells you he's gonna die and he gives the 
 Amulet of Kings, tells you to go see some guy. Now you're left outside the sewers faced with this 
 huge world of fantasy. You can go do what the emperor told you to, or you can ignore it completely 
 and go off joining these criminal groups such as the thieves guild or the dark brotherhood. Essentially, 
 you are bound by no quest or mission, you can just wander around Tamriel being whoever you want 
 to be. You can attack anything in this game. Take (or steal) almost every item you see. Of course 
 by being a criminal your bounty rises and guards will become hostile. If you go to jail you lose 
 skills and stuff.
  Oblivion also has a great combat system. You fight in real time and it looks like a cool action 
 game due to the nice graphics and animations. You press one button to swing your sword and it works. 
 The physics are great and blood splurts about and gets on the walls. But there is a lot of good 
 RPG magic going on behind this flashy spell casting and sword swinging. You get to choose from 
 a long list of classes (or make your own) then level up stats like personality, stealth, destruction, 
 etc... and the game handles all these thing very well. You're going to have a lot of fun with it, 
 trust me.
  It all ends of creating an awesome game that everyone has to try and some point or the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply one of the best games ever created. For every RPG fan, or gamers, it should 
 almost be a shame to never had tried this game. Because if you havn't, there is no words for what 
 you have missed!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just outstanding. Everything you can do in this game, it's so big! There 
 is just one word: Freedom! You start with creating your character in a kind of "sims creator" scheme, 
 and then you soon can go out to this amazing world. Choose whether you want to be good, or evil, 
 or both! Sneak around at night and steal from poor or rich. Or just help other people and make 
 moneys in the right way. Just do whatever you need to survive! The possibilities are huge. 
  
  Graphics: This is simply one of the best, or even maybe the best looking game of the year (2006) . 
 How well and colourful everything is done, just standing in the sunset is just amazing. You have 
 to have some real horse powers in your PC if you wan't to enjoy it for full, and if even thats 
 not good enough for you, you can download mods that will make it looks even better!
  
  Sound: The music in this game is great. It has an important role to create a great mood in this 
 game, and it's fits very well.
  
  Value: This game is so big you won't probably ever finish it. Even after plenty of hours with this 
 game, it's hard to get sick of it, and it's funny and entertaining all the way
  
  Other words: 
  Just how well this game is created, sometimes make me both happy and scared at 
 the same time. The Elder Scrolls Oblivion gives me a good feeling that no game has ever giving 
 me before. Just how everyone in this game world is living their own lives, is almost scary. Everytime 
 I kill somebody, I think about who that could be. That guy I killed could be my neighbour, or probably 
 a guy that has his own home and maybe a wife. Or maybe it was a guy that sometime in the future 
 would give me a small quest that would change his life, but now I have killed him and it will never 
 happen. The scary thing is that all this could happen, and some of it has for me. Most of the people 
 in this game do have their own life and own houses, and you can deside their destiny (atleast for 
 very many) . 
  
  No game has ever giving me more motivation either. How well you can see that the quests in this 
 game do actually changes lives. You can sometimes help people, and afterwards come back and see 
 that things are different. It's really amazing, and it makes me so happy to think about that the 
 quests I do in this game, aren't meaningless.
  
  Conclusion: The Elder Scrolls Oblivion is for me the best game that came out in 2006, and it's 
 also one of the best games I have ever played. That a game actually can be this good, almost frightens 
 me. There are just a few glitches in the game that kills the score of "Perfect", but be sure to 
 download the mods out there which can fix most of them, and I'm sure if this game game out with 
 a lot of them in the first place, it would probably be Perfect. Make sure you can enjoy as much 
 of this game as you can, it's worth every hour of your life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str1keR-S1R
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for an RPG in which you can do anything you want, don't deny this game anymore. 
 Get out and buy it. Of course, be sure you have a system that can run it at high settings smoothly 
 for an amazing experience. The game takes place in the Imperial province of Cyrodill. It is definitely 
 the largest, a lot of forests have grown in it (Morrowind consisted mainly of desert) , and normally 
 it wouldn't be wise to wander in them unprepared. Keep in mind that this game was meant to be played 
 in a first person perspective, it is possible to play in third person but it is just not the same 
 when it comes to the skill of marksmanship (bow and arrow) . You can do many things in Oblivion, 
 even steal from houses late at night. Pretty much anything you can do in real life (of course if 
 it's illegal you can easily end up in jail, which also happens in oblivion) , you can choose to 
 be evil, good, a thief, a murderer, a warrior, etc... Basically demons are invading Cyrodill and 
 it's your job to retrieve the Amulet of Kings (A powerful magical gem) that was stolen from your 
 previously assassinated emperor, in order to return it to his son and crown him emperor and light 
 the dragon fires, thus shutting or crumbling any oblivion gateway in Tamriel (the world of he Elder 
 Scrolls) . Unfortunately if you don't get it back in time, an evil sorcerer dedicated to the demons 
 and their god, Lord Dagon (A very powerful demon lord) , will use it to bring Lord Dagon upon Tamriel, 
 and that's not good news. The only way to stop the invasion is to light the dragon fires using 
 the Amulet of Kings, so that's basically the main story. The game will not end if you complete 
 it though, there are over 200 quests (if you install the expansion pack, Shivering Isles, or any 
 of it's official plug ins) in which you fight creatures other than demons (undead, ogres, minotaurs, 
 goblins, etc...) and in which you can enhance your players skills and raise his level. When you 
 have a high enough level you can get the best of gear in order to battle much stronger monsters. 
 Oblivion is a must have to anyone who loves RPGs, especially The Elder Scrolls. Fans of Dagger 
 Fall now have something to dedicate their lives to (Be warned, The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is highly 
 capable of ruining your social life, so I would advise a timer whilst playing) . Have fun playing 
 this great example of graphics, game-play and value. 10/10, that about should say it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatethiry
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Hands down the best rpg ever and in the top 5 games of all time. right of the bat it immerses you 
 in deep character creation system and then gets you right in to combat. you can spend hours adventuring 
 around with out even starting a quest, but when you finally want to start the quest it takes you 
 through an epic story line with many twists and turns. in my opinion the best part about oblivion 
 is the freedom to complete quests the way you want for example you could go through a quest with 
 out killing a single person or you could kill 20 people its all up to you. The controls are spot 
 on the graphics have faded slightly with time but they are still very good with all the mods and 
 expansion packs i have probably spent about 200 hours on this game. I don't care if you don't like 
 rpg's this is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Kane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a hack 'n' slash, free-roaming action-adventure game with some RPG elements. 
  
  All the dungeons look the same and the main story quests are almost all "hack through Oblivion 
 and close an Oblivion gate", which gets tiresome very quickly. Fighters and mages guild quests, 
 as well as the vast majority of the side quests, are just "raid a dungeon, kill a boss creature 
 and/or acquire a particular item". The above are all made all the less interesting by extremely 
 generic storylines. I kept hoping or expecting some twist to come up, but no luck. 
  
  There are no choices. Beyond creating your character, choosing a race and picking what weapons 
 you use, armor you wear and quests you do, there are no choices that actually affect you or the 
 world around you. You can be leader of all four guilds, champion of the arena, and complete the 
 main quest and you are still treated in the same way by most characters. You can choose to be good 
 or evil, but no quests reflect this, and every option still remains open. One who rises in the 
 ranks of the Fighter's Guild, can also be the Listener of the Dark Brotherhood, yet no one will 
 treat you differently. The character can do every quest; can become a fighter using only magic, 
 a mage who uses only a sword, and a thief who never sneaks. You might even say that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 or GTA is an RPG. Morrowind was different, it was deeper
  
  Though it's a fun and a long game, it is not a ROLE PLAYING game. It's something like a virtual 
 world game
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Sound: 9/10 (music wasn't as good as Morrowind's and only a few voice actors were used, but at 
 least it didn't feel like a book like Morrowind)
  
  Story: 6.5/10
  
  Replay value: 9/10 (it's a very long game, there's a lot of mods, but gets repetative)
  
  Score: 
 feels something about 8.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleath_hunter33
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  its games has every thing form blood thristy beast to man eating demons in hell it is the best 
 pc game in its class. its not as great as fear in enteractment with the environment but it get 
 the job done. its also the perfect way to kill time when your bored and it never gets old in my 
 opinion its the best pc game. this is why i give elder scrolls iv oblivion a 10 in the rating system, 
 for greate graphics, amazing gameplay, gory fight and action scences, and beautiful scenery give 
 oblivion a high rating in my mind. smacking down most rpgs its game has realy out done it self 
 without use a online play to save itself; however, without a online system it loses a myriad of 
 point to world of warcraft and many other masivly online muitliplayer games. but it out profroms 
 them when it comes to battles, melee and magic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancoman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  I'll start with this: When i first put the Oblivion disc in my PC i thought: "This will probably 
 be one of the better games that I'll appreciate, but nothing more..." But i was wrong! Just the 
 character creation itself is amazing, you can edit EVERY single detail in your character's face, 
 from the distance of the eyes to the width And depth of the chin.
  
  There are a total of 9 races to choose from: Human-like races are: The imperial, A smooth talker 
 and a persuasive trader. and the Breton, Better with magic than most races but still versatile. 
 And the Nord, Heavy drinkers and great fighters.
  Elf-like races are: The high elfs (or the Altmer in their language) , The most gifted magic users 
 in Thamril, The dark elfs (or Dunmer in their language) , They perform best when their deeds are 
 not generally noticed. And the Wood elf (or Bosmer) , Fast and alert although not too tall.
  Animal and goblin-like races are: The Orc, Scary and strong, The Khajiit, There are no better thieves 
 and archers in all Thamril. And the Argonians, Lizard-like creatures who are great swimmers and 
 fast fighters.
  I think that covers them all.
  
  Then when you have created a character, the real fun begins! Once you get out of prison you are 
 not gonna go from level to level to play out the story and kick some @ss along the way. and then 
 be done with it and never play again. NO! when you get out you are presented with nothing less 
 than TOTAL FREEDOM! You may choose to immediately play out the main quest of kicking evil's butt 
 and beating the big boss.
  
  But aside from the main quest there are over 300 side missions all over Thamril, ranging from 
 retrieving an item to rescuing a person to beating some monsters etc. And aside from any kind of 
 mission you can: Buy a house, upgrade your weapons, buy stuff, sell stuff, level up and make your 
 character more kickass, Turn into a vampire etc. etc. etc...
  
  The cities itself are a thing from the future. At dawn the generic citizen: Wakes up, gets washed 
 up, goes to work, spends money, talks to other people, sometimes does illegal stuff, goes to sleep 
 and redoes everything next morning, the only thing is that no day of the generic citizen looks 
 the same. How? well, see for yourself.
  
  and even the woodmen from the wilderness never have something like dja-vu. they wake up, get washed 
 up, go hunting, goes to an inn to relax, practice with the bow, and goes to an inn to sleep and 
 prepare for their next morning.
  
  Yet, not every fight can be solved using smooth talk and kind words. you need weapons and if that 
 doesn't work ya gotta use more weapons! Weaponry can range from Swords, daggers and claymores to 
 bows, warhammers, maces, and axes. and those weapons can sometimes be upgraded with magic.
  
  I wish i could go on telling you guys how ultimately cool this game is but my hands are starting 
 to hurt from typing too much. my advice: Stop reading this review and buy, rent, borrow or steal 
 (i don't wanna know where some people get their games) this game! you have no idea what the F**k 
 you are missing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  9.5/10- too much to say here. In Oblivion, you can do almost an infinite amount of stuff, and 
 it all starts by creating you character, choosing the race, choosing/creating a class and choosing/creating 
 a birth sign. Each of these three factors will specify the character's different states like speed, 
 strength, magicka, etc. During the game you will that some skills have increased and your character 
 will have to sleep eventually to get is level raised. Also, you can join guilds: Dark BrotherHood, 
 Thieves guild, Fighters guild and Mages guild, each guild having a numerous quests to do and to 
 join you have to pass a test to prove yourself worthy. For example, to join the Dark BrotherHood 
 you will be ordered to kill someone who lives somewhere without anyone noticing. When you do that 
 you will be accepted and you will be given missions of murder and will be paid. Your rank will 
 be higher after doing some missions and eventually you will become the leader of the guild. That's 
 just one example so imagine doing equally amazing things in different guilds countless times. The 
 game also contains a lot of other sidequests other than the guilds like the Arena where you have 
 to fight some combatants in order to become the Grand Champion, or trying to free a prisoner from 
 the imperial prison which is no easy task, or getting locked in a dungeon and trying to get out 
 by solving some puzzles and killing enemies- the game has literally no end. Lets not forget about 
 the main quest here, not too long and not the best, but good enough to let you feel excitement 
 travel through your mind. I didn't give it a 10/10 because I felt the combat system missing something, 
 missing some depth. If the combat system, which is very good nonetheless, was made a but more precise 
 and deeper I would've given it a 10/10
  
  Graphics
  9.0/10- The game has a world that is bound to let enjoy exploring a game like never before, thanks 
 to the amazingly designed world with stunning details. Could've been better though.
  
  Sound
  9.0/10- a very well-performed voice acting making the story and quests much easier to 
 follow. Soundtracks are simply delightful, giving you a sense of relaxation when playing the game.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal
  10/10- this score is a result from the Gameplay of the game, 200+ hours to do everything forbidding 
 you to finish the game so you'll play the game almost forever.
  
  Value
  10/10- paying from your pocket is definitely worth it when it comes to a game that is sure to make 
 you have fun for 200+ hours, I don't think anyone will disagree with this.
  
  OVERALL
  9.4/10- this is most probably the ultimate Role-playing game. Tons of character customization, 
 literally never-ending quests, beautiful graphics and delightful music will ensure that RPG fans 
 will have a mind-blowing experience with the game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Wolf88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the game that introduced me to TES, it also happens to be possibly the worst in the 
 series. It is also hardly an RPG at all as many RPG elements and concepts are missing and the game 
 requires modding to have any replayability.
  
  Character customization is probably one of the few things this game actually improved upon from 
 it's predacessors. So many options and fine tuning allows for great customization of appearance. 
 I find myself losing about anywhere from ten to twenty minutes alone refining my characters cosmetics 
 before going on to save the almost uninhabited world you are thrown into.
  
  The world looks pretty though if that counts for anything. Most enemy encounters will be in dungeons 
 or by the entrances to these dungeons. These monsters are also level scaled so don't expect to 
 see your character become so skilled that you become nearly god like except against the toughest 
 foes. Human occupance outside cities is almost non-existant and the ones that are around were put 
 there solely for one quest or two. This makes for a rather lifeless world in which you get to be 
 a lonely little soul.
  
  What guilds there are to join offer probably the best experience. It appears as if actual thinking 
 and effort went into their story arcs and it provides an excellent chance for your new guy to eat 
 his peas and grow strong so he may tackle the amazingly "difficult" main quest, which almost no 
 thinking and effort seemed to go into as the story was rather unimpressive. Also anything you do 
 in this game is made even "harder" by the fact that monsters level with you and the fact it holds 
 your little hand through the whole thing. Following a giant red/green arrow is all you need to 
 do. This game requires no more thinking than that.
  
  Luckily though there a great many mods made by the players themselves that greatly improve many 
 of the aspects I brought this game down for. These mods make the game alot more completed for lack 
 of a better word.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, sounds and music are great, and gameplay lacking. If you're looking 
 for a quick fantasy fix or you are new to the RPG genre pick the game up. That's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  On March 2006, the colossal masterpiece from Bethesda that is Oblivion was released.
  
  Oblivion is an RPG. You have your usual RPG fare, but the greatest selling point in Oblivion is 
 its size. The world is HUGE. I personally have not gone everywhere and there is a lot of places 
 I have yet to explore. There is a lot of things to do. You can be an assassin, a mage, an archer, 
 a thief or whatever. You can be all of them at the same time!
  
  You can spend hours just walking around exploring the world. The game encourages you to do what 
 you want to do. You can go around wandering aimlessly from the start and not get penalized in any 
 way! In fact you might even get rewarded for doing so!
  
  The story is also top notch compared to other games of the same genre. The story is immersive, 
 you really feel like you are inside the game. I'm not going to spoil the side quests that is a 
 large part of the game as they are worth experiencing for yourself.
  
  There's not much to say about this game as any gamer would recognize this game as a legend. You'd 
 be pressed to find a game like this. Oblivion is truly a rare treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  I know there are still much discussing which one is better but generally speaking Oblivion has 
 improves game style of this series in almost every aspects. Following are some major factors that 
 makes it best RPG of 2006:
  First off it's the control system of the game including Maps, Journal, Inventory and so on. In 
 Morrowind, there is no way to find out the location necessary to do quest except for continuously 
 reading your journal. Oblivion offers a perfect quest track that allow you to make one of the quest 
 active and pin point the important location on the map. The quest can be sorted and filtered easily 
 in this game. That's obviously better than the linear journal in Morrowind. Inventory is also redesigned 
 to categorize items better, making it simple to find the item you want. There are some other minor 
 modification helping to get rid of the frustrating features in Morrowind
  Secondly, the skill system has been drastically improved. Take the example of Speech craft skill. 
 While it's rather boring and useless in Morrowind, Oblivion has changed this skill into a small 
 game require you to take more notice rather than a mere veiled dice check. Skill system gives you 
 the feeling that your character is gaining power gradually. And at the point you jump from lower 
 rank , for example journeyman, to higher, like expert, you are granded a new special ability which 
 is useful in many way. Skills are so creatively designed that you will easily get addicted to improving 
 it the whole time in the game. This feature is undoubtedly much better than that of the previous 
 version.
  Thirdly, take a look at combat system in this game. If you remember, combat in Morrowind is mostly 
 hack and slash despite the fact that you have 3 types of attack with melee weapons. Now every time 
 you unlock a special attack when improving you skills such as blunt, blade, mask-man... you can 
 immediately apply them in next battle. Besides block is a under control action that is default 
 assigned to right mouse. It's different in Morrowind: this action is automatic (and somehow useless) 
 when you carry a shield. The combination of normal, special attacks , movement, spell casting, 
 block, item usage ... making combat more challenging and interesting. Moreover, your opponents 
 is controlled by great AI and usually have some tricks up their sleeves. No doubt you will get 
 satisfied after winning battles in Oblivion.
  That's not everything good in this game. But the rest is for you guys to discover yourself. Good 
 luck!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseMolina18415
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Stunning graphics effects.
  - Real-Life simulation of the NPC's.
  - Game play.
  - A huge world completely free to explore.
  - Sound and Music are very detailed.
 
  
  The Bad:
  - Running the game in PC, don't minimize, or the game will crash.
  - Shadows in characters may be odd.
  
  First, thank you for see my review :-)
  
  Very well, 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the franchise of the series TES,
  and in this episode, the game has completely forged in all refer to NEW STUNNING GRAPHICS. This 
 role playing game has a unbelievable ambient simulation very well designed. Here, you will find 
 great missions, dungeons, undead, puzzles, and a heap of skills for all the character races. But...
 
  
  Also...
  
  May be than you experiment with attack other villagers or some Soldiers of
  this empire, and, 
 ha ha, you not try to escape of the angry people or watchman's in every town because don't be necessary, 
 you will go to the calaboose, it inevitable  :-) believe me, i tried, an the only salvation is 
 load your previous save game. This may be a little problem if you don't has save the game and it 
 possible that lose some levels, and, yes, waste of time :-s be careful.
  
  Yes yes...
  
  Not all is perfect. In fact, the game is very good, Is very complete, and i recommend you, 
 well, if you looking some RPG of height, The Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion may be your choice.
  
  See you later :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  ElderScrolls 4: Oblivion the previous Game of the Year Winner, and it deserved it. With over 200 
 hours of Gameplay and an awesome storyline you'll want to play it over and over.
  You begin the game in an abandoned Jail cell, when the emporer Uriel Septim arrives. He says that 
 it is your destiny and you are to close shut the gates of oblivion. You quickly learn that all 
 over the world Gate to the world of oblivion are opening and creature are coming forth wreaking 
 havoc to everyone who lives there.
  Graphics: The graphics in the game are some of the best. With the amazing lighting and vegitation 
 the world seems very realistic and real. Sometimes you may just want to stop and view the scenery. 
 You will even begin to feel like your in the game. 5/5
  Sound: The sounds in the game bring nature and battle to life. This adds to the realism and the 
 effects in the game. The makers did a great job in every aspect. The voice acting is superb and 
 Patrick Stewart did an amazing job.. The music can get repetitive but it can be dealt with. 4.5/5
 
  Gameplay: The game play is a First Person/Third Person RPG. You can switch between one or the 
 other adding variations to the gameplay. You can also earn countless weapons and armor to add to 
 your armory and improve your defense and attack. The more you play the more you advance in rank 
 and level. You have many customizable classes and skills to choose from. Whether it be a mage, 
 knight, or many more to choose from. Plus with skills you are able to do more things in the game 
 as you advance. 5/5
  Overview: Because of superb sound, voice acting and gameplay you'll never want to stop playing 
 and will lead to late nights or playing. 9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pereira19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  This game came revolutionize technology! The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a great game. I never 
 saw a game well. I love the game. Its creatures and the environment of fear that surrounds it fascinates 
 my head. You can root out evil in hidden dungeons, join and climb the ranks in a number of different 
 guilds, visit all the different towns and try to solve everybody's problems, compete in a long 
 series of gladiatorial battles to the death, break into someone's home and rob them in their sleep, 
 get caught and face the consequences, contract a disease that leads to vampirism and then try to 
 find a cure, buy a house, steal a horse, invest in your favorite shop, and, if you can believe 
 it, there's much more. I think the game is in the minim, in the minor of hipoteses is surreal!
 
  I recommend everybody buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulstik
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Well Ima keep this short. Basically, if you play this game without mods, then you will probably 
 get bored in 10-30 hours and end up not finishing the main quest and quit. The overall graphics 
 is good, but the characters look _extremely_ ugly; not only do the NPCs look as if the Beth. employees 
 had to win a  contest, but there's no way you're gonna make your 
 own character look good unless you either spend literally hours and hours on the facegen screen 
 tweaking eye-brows, or you're some kind of facegen master that does this kind of stuff for a living. 
 And after the novelty wears off, you'll find the quests repetitive, the storyline cliche and generally 
 unrewarding. All the dungeons look the same as the ones you've explored before, and you can kill 
 everything just by mashing the attack button since you got some uber sword. And then you'll probably 
 quit.
  
  With mods, however, the picture changes completely. The strongest point about Oblivion vs other 
 RPGs is how easy it is for others to mod the game. This not only includes how easy it is for your 
 mod to be implemented into the game, but how easy it is to actually design the mod and use pre-made 
 content from the original game to make your own mod. So in the end, this game sort of becomes an 
 open-source game where everyone can pour their talent into modding the game and host it on the 
 PlanetES or TesNexus for you to download. And after implementing of about 100 mods, the game, my 
 friend, changes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderWiggen66
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  The only real purpose of fantasy games, to me, is to let the player lose themselves in another 
 world. Prior to Oblivion I couldn't stand them. I tried Shadowbane and got bored within an hour 
 because the storyline was so formulaic and the gameplay so uncomplicated that I had no desire to 
 explore any further. When I first started Oblivion I was skeptical, but once I saw the amazing 
 scenery and character realism I was impressed. A story was unfolding that I wasn't terribly interested 
 in yet, so I decided why not just go up and kill a guard and take his stuff? So I did, which was 
 fun, then when I tried to enter the city all the guards remembered my illegal act and tried to 
 arrest me! The realism of my criminal tangent absolutely fascinated me. I paid the fine and tried 
 to sell my illegal booty, eventually discovering that there were straight merchants and crooked 
 ones and all sorts of skills one could improve for sneaking, picking locks, and pickpocketing. 
 My criminal tangent had become a whole game! I was hooked. Within a few days I'd burglarized and 
 robbed those virtual people blind. And when I'd had my fill, I still had the storyline and all 
 sorts of other neat abilities to learn and unlock. I now consider Oblivion the best game I've ever 
 played, even more so than Half Life, because of its unprecedented realism, complexity, and allowance 
 to break the rules.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chellmit55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a huge area and very fun! The story is great and you can even take a break from it 
 and do side quests or explore dungeons and level up you skills. You can level in Oblivion, I think 
 the system of leveling is pretty good. The only flaw is that you have to increase a number of skill 
 to level instead of killing enemies, but if you like that then that's great. Oblivion has a lot 
 of places to go and things to do, you can do anything, and I mean ANYTHING. Own a house, rob a 
 house, don't do the story line and just become a mass murderer being chased by guards, or be a 
 hero and do good quests and join guilds. The guilds are very good, but I think they need a bit 
 more, maybe add a Archery Guild or Axe Guild, or even Horse Racing Guild. The AI is great and outstanding, 
 you'll feel like the people are real. A great game but their are some minor problems. Oblivion 
 sort of feels too... robotic. You can attack and block with a sword and thats about it. The spells 
 are VERY plain and everyone uses of the two only animations. A simple throw of you're hand to cast 
 a destructive spell, and raising your hand to enchant you're body. The need cooler looking and 
 better spells too. The fighting is good for swords, but spells and archery is horrible. When being 
 a archer, you have to shoot about 100 arrows at someone (even if it's all headshots) . When you 
 shoot an arrow enemies don't usually stagger so you have to keep running back. When being a wizard 
 it's the same story, 100 spells, don't stagger, lot of running, too plain. Despite that, Oblivion's 
 graphics and gameplay are still amazing which makes this a GREAT buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krischan1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  If there a chance .......
  If it happens..........
  if its possible....
  I really want to travel to OBLIVION and live my whole life there.
  
 
  may be A hundred times not possible.......
  So iam feeling bad
  
 
  This is one of the best games i have ever played
  I will Rate it 10 a lak times............
  
 
  The game provides the Player to improve his English (Speaking, Listening and Reading Skills) , and 
 provides /Information how to interact, what to do and not to do, how can u build your character, 
 Identify your Major Skills and win the world with it.
  A hundred Thanks for the Bethesda Softworks for providing such an MindBlowing Entertainer. 
  
 
  I LOVE OBLIVION
  DO YOU? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game gets close to a 10.0. Only gamespot's interface forced me to choose between 9.5 and 10 
 - a rough round-up, since games like Assassin's creed were scored 9.0 by gamespot - and there simply 
 is no comparison, not even in the slightest - between these two games. Oblivion remains in a league 
 of its own. Gamespot's scoring has gone the way of figure skating judging, it appears.
  
  With the exception of Crysis, Oblivion it's probably one of the most gorgeous games when it comes 
 to landscape rendering in a game, done to date.
  The score and effects are outstanding.
  Etc. etc.
  
  Rather than focus on all the great aspects of the game (there are many) , I will 
 touch on the few points that keep this game from getting a 10.0:
  
  1) it's subtle, but the auto-leveling (mobs level up as you do, you level up as you improve major 
 skills) is flawed. In particular, if you intentionally improve your minor skills only (e. g. block) , 
 you can become invincible - e. g. A cleric who repeatedly blocks becomes an expert in blocking - 
 mobs can barely hit you - yet you retain all the powerful major skills of a cleric at the level 
 you/enemies are. 
  Conversely, if you intentionally or unintentionally improve particular [not so great] major skills 
 too quickly, you can find yourself unable to fight any enemies encountered in the game. At this 
 point, it is possible you are forced to abandon this character for another, or for a saved game 
 from several levels back.
  2) Classes are a bit unbalanced. Contrary to the last point in 1) above, there are a few cases 
 where focussing on one major skill - only - make you invincible. In particular, a conjurer who 
 carefully improves summoning far more than any other skill is pretty much untouchable (summon, 
 walk away from fight, summon again when ally dies, rinse and repeat - you will never run out of 
 mana)
  3) Oblivion gates get old/boring after a while - same landscapes, same enemies.
  4) Animation and look of NPCs is fine, but the quality doesn't match the level of perfection the 
 rest of the games carries. Included in this is collision detection/fight sequences - again a minor 
 point in an otherwise perfect game, but since there is a sense of realtime control to fighting, 
 hits/misses/sense of character distance. should be more precise.
  
  I am sure many look forward to the next in the Elder Scroll series.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has won the award for the best game of 2006, and after playing it, I can see clearly why. 
 It stands out among other RPGs. Personally, I hate RPGs, but Oblivion is just... great. It has 
 a variety of classes, races, skills, etc and many other things and mini-skills you'll encounter 
 in the game. It's mind-blowing to explore the world of Oblivion, you'll probably get "lost" in 
 this game for a few hundred hours, especially if you choose carefully which class and skill you 
 wanna have at the beginning. The main quest alone is long, but completing the other side quests, 
 exploring, leveling up, etc will take a while of your tim, but don't worry, you will enjoy that 
 time spent playing it :) Also, try picking it up even if you don't like RPGs, I already told you 
 I hate them, but this one I like it very much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemkeer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games every created in our generation. This game has something for everyone 
 no matter how much or how little you play games. The Overall game structure each time you play 
 is always the same but how you complete your objectives and how well you construct your character 
 are always fluctuating. You can decide to be a thief character one time around relying on quickness 
 to get you through the game. Or you could be a brutal fighting class that relies on destruction 
 and the use of heavy weapons to bash your way through your enemies. Either way there is something 
 for everyone in this game. The best part is if you get board of the original plot line there are 
 literally hundreds of mods out there that only add more fun and adventure to the game. This game 
 is addictive and can keep the intense interest of even the most hyperactive ADD person around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limowrecked
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game for some time and didn't finish it not that i really cared to do that because 
 as in all true RPG games biggest fun comes from exploring the world , doing secondary or even hidden 
 quests and trying to find all tastes that type of gaming has to offer. I'm quite far from opinion 
 that this game is a masterpiece in terms of gameplay and that it has huge replay value because 
 it just simply doesn't. U can start as a thief or warrior and quite quickly became not bad magician 
 so at some point most characters u play will became really similiar to each other. When it comes 
 to fighting monsters or other opponents u'll discover that while some fights are really tough at 
 the start of the game there comes a moment when its u who can smite packs of once deadly monsters 
 and difficulty setting option which u can change during the game doesn't help. It just artificially 
 makes fights longer and rather more frustrating than difficult.
  
  This game is surly big fun at the start but further u go and stronger u became more and more boredom 
 and monotony starts to show. It's surly not the type of game that dedicated hack'n'slasher will 
 like (but on the other hand who knows) because as in morrowind it seems that main goal for creators 
 in Bethesda was to make a game which is rather a realm which u want to visit after a day in school 
 or work than just a game in the strict meaning of this word. Places u can explore, hundreds of 
 NPC's u can meet, many ways u can define your character and develop it lately so u get more attached 
 to it. All this is supposed to make u want to come back to the world of oblivion and in many ways 
 does it well. 
  Summarizing if u look for a game with exciting gameplay designed to deliver plain fun i'm not sure 
 if Oblivion is for u (anyhow in some longer perpective) but if u're a kind of person which is after 
 some true RPG at it's finest don't think twice just try this one out especially if u liked morrowind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owyns
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  The Elder of Scrolls 4: Oblivion is the First FPS and RPG combinated game. With perfect graphics, 
 models the 2K Games gets forward. The Elder of Scrolls 4: Oblivion is a great game, a great over 
 200 hour of playing with realistic game graphics, with a combination of FPS and RPG is getting 
 a great space in our computers for about a year. By out of perfect design and the story is amazing 
 too. Closing Obivion Gates, completing all over 270 quests, include the main quests, people will 
 get lost in a great adventure for a long time. Powerful swords, bows, magical effects, tricks and 
 others make this game the best. Different races, classes, different countries, different people, 
 quests makes players Oblivion addicts. Play like Blademaster, like Thief, like Vampire, like Archer, 
 and like Mage makes game playing in different legions (legends) . Also the guild quests are very 
 good, Brotherhood Guild, Fighters Guild, Thieves Guild and the Mages Guild.
  The gameplay is exellent, they have made a great game, I've watched before the developing of Oblivion 
 what they used many materials, many persons which are perfect Sword users or Sword-Masters, also 
 the sound effects and speech at game is perfect but sometimes get bored when characters always 
 say to you "Bye!, Goodbye!, Talk to your friends about me!"
  In the game you are able to see what there were many Oblivion Gates are open and do not bother 
 yourself by closing them one by one, close only the ones which have given to you from quests like 
 the quests of Aid for Bruma.
  There are many different characters which have different roles, different quests that mainly are 
 secondary. Also the Secondary Quests are very exciting. The secondary quests go mainly into caves, 
 old left castles, and other places.
  In the game there are also many caves, old castles, and others that you can find many powerfull 
 things like swords, armor, coins, and potions and etc. There is a good face of game that you can 
 travel in two types. 1. Fast travel on map; 2. Travel by your own on foot or on Horse which that 
 makes the game perfectly amazing. There were also traps in caves, and opening the chests what were 
 you can find many things and also oppening the closed doors with lockpicks make the game more realistic.. 
 There may are a few bugs but it's cannot be measured with playing. 
  And the Oblivion at the end of the game is a big monster, I never seen a monster like that before 
 at Oblivion, it is pretty cool designed, also the other hero which one helps us and destroys the 
 Oblivion.
  This game must be played - It's not a kind of Morrowind or others. This is different.
  Thank 
 you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Story 9/10:
  The stories from the elder scroll series are always pretty good. They really immerse you into this 
 new world. You feel almost over whelmed by the detail. There is the main quest line, plus hundreds 
 of other quests, factions, goals, etc.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  -Absolutely incredible
  -Enormous open ended world, go and do as you please.
  -Even though there were a couple things, 
 listed below, that I would've changed about the gameplay, I still felt like the developers did 
 an absolutely incredible job.
  -Lots of dungeons, some with traps and secret passages. 
  -The Physic engine adds a pretty cool touch.
  -I didn't really like the automatic NPC leveling 
 system. I preferred the Morrowind style. This also made it hard if you didn't choose your "main 
 skills" related to combat because if you leveled your character but not with you combat skills 
 you eventually get to a point that the game is near impossible because the enemies are way too 
 strong.
  -Nor did I like the automatic Item leveling. It took away from of the joy of finding a neat special 
 unique weapon. In morrowind, when you found an excellent item you could rejoice that you found 
 this incredible item. Where as in oblivion, you kind don't get that because you know in just a 
 few levels you'll get a new item that beats the old.
  -Sometimes if you did something bad, trying to be sneaky, the guards still knew about it even when 
 nobody was around. I made it frustrating to be a thief.
  
  Controls 9/10
  The controls at first can be a little difficult to learn if you're not used to previous elder scrolls 
 games, but otherwise they're pretty intuitive.
  
  Sound 9/10
  -The sound track is awesome. I just love traveling around listening to the music.
  -Huge amounts 
 of dialog. All of the characters speak to you now, not mind numbing pages of text.
  -The sound effect of the enemies and the sword fighting can get redundant and annoying.
  
  
 Graphics 9.5/10
  Wow! The only bad thing about the graphics is that you need a high powered machine to run them.
 
  
  Fun 10/10
  A total blast to play. Really immersive. 
  
  
  ************
  Overall 9.0/10
  ************
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  For me Bethesda, Microsoft and EA Games have to be leading the way in game. Alot of great games, 
 can't wait for Fallout 3 was thrilled when I read Bethesda was taking over. Fallout nut. Enough 
 about that don't know where to begin. Jumped right into this game and started exploring. No clue 
 how many hours I played. I just know I completed every quest I came upon, explored every inch of 
 every cave, fort, you name it. If there was one draw back I don't like games where you are not 
 allowed to exploit every skill. I have played countless hours and still can't max out all the skills. 
 Then again might just be me and don't have the patience to cast a hundred conjuration spells. Excellent 
 game own Knight of the Nine, Shivering Isles, and got a lot of other downloaded stuff. A game I 
 believe that you can just keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  What a game. If you like RPG's do not miss out on this one. You get a massive world to explore, 
 thousands of characters to interact with, hundreds to quests to occupy yourself with, and countless 
 weapons/spells/armor etc for your chosen character and his/her specialty.
  
  You can literally walk around the game world for days exploring, it is so big you will have to 
 play it for weeks to unearth all the hidden caves and dungeons to loot. 
  
  You can intereact with any NPC in the game, and they will even react or treat you differently depending 
 upon your actions/faction within the game. Whatsmore you can literally do what ever you want, if 
 you want to you can walk around stealing and killing people (although you will probably get caught)
 
  
  You have plenty of main and side quests to keep you occupied and there is also subtle humor built 
 into the game to keep you entertained. I have never played an RPG so involving as this one, you 
 can do what you want, when you want.
  
  to top it off you get a gripping and compelling main story line, which spurs you on to the very 
 end. 
  
  If your PC can handle this and you have the funds, buy it. You get so much bang for your buck, 
 and there are also 2 expansions to this game to boot. 
  
  A complete and utter work of art 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spar_hawk
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is astonishing, an epic masterpiece of game making and one of the most beautiful games 
 ever made, but it's not only the graphics, also the game play, the storyline and everything else.
 
  I bought the elder Scrolls IV Oblivion a few weeks ago, so I had the holidays to play it in but 
 now that school has started again I've got less time to play it.
  The first time I played it I was overwhelmed by the immense world that had unfolded before me that 
 for a while I just ran around soaking in all the sights and sounds that there were to see and hear, 
 but enough about the graphics.
  The game play is astonishing, with an entire world to indulge in, endless dungeons, abandoned forts 
 and caves. The NPC's also make for a more immersive experience, talking just minding their own 
 business, giving you help when you need it (most of the time) and being relatively useless the 
 rest of the time.
  Altogether these elements and many more combine to make a modern classic. Definitely a game that 
 every RPG fan should have, and pretty much everyone else, too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miradwyn
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  After playing ES: Oblivion I'm not sure how this game manages to get such unbelievably high reviews.
 
  
  The melee combat is awkward and good luck trying to drink a potion or finding the spell you want 
 to cast while in combat. You can set items and spells up in a "quick" bar... too bad the quick 
 bar isn't actually shown, making it useless since I can't tell which hot key the item is bound 
 to without it. The mini-game of charming people to get information is dumb. Needing to use the 
 mouse+keyboard at all times to do something as simple as walk in a straight line is a huge nuisance. 
 Trying to find a place to sleep, a requirement to level up, was a nuisance. A rat being as powerful 
 as I was throughout the game was a nuisance, you are infinitely weaker than whatever you are fighting. 
 The whole game was nothing but a string of annoyances.
  
  Most of the time I spent playing was wandering around aimlessly with nothing in particular to do. 
 There are few if any quests to be found, few if any monsters to kill even in dungeons where you 
 are supposed to go to kill them. You can walk across a vast plain and run into nothing but a single 
 wolf.
  
  The game auto saves when opening most doors. This caused me to be saved in a death trap loop when 
 I entered a door and was immediately attacked by a handful of angry villagers, reloading the saved 
 game put me back into the room causing me to die again with no way out. My previous saved game 
 would have set me back several levels and at this point I decided to just uninstall since I wasn't 
 enjoying the game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Elder scroll IV is surely an amazin game.. can't deny. I was totally addicted to it when played 
 it.. it offer more than 150 hours of gameplay till you finally happen to put it down.. missions are 
 not linear, makin it flexible and you can decide what to interact in your game.. you can be a beloved 
 hero or a maliace killer.. it's no great heroism or battles which hundreds and hundreds men fell 
 in one battles but, it is great already. You can make up potions , addicted to magic, or can just 
 put up armour and go chop somebody.. you can steal, investigate, stalk, tranpass, heal, kill.. just 
 use your imagination.. t's not hard at all.. but it's still definely challenging. An awesome experience 
 that is hard to forget-among all other games.
  
  Presentation-8
  Storyline-10
  Graphic-9
  Gameplay-9
  Sound-8
  Value-9
  AI-7
  
  Overrall-9/10
  Amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Could be one of the best Hugh single player role playing games that's ever been made to date. awesome 
 graphics combined with great game play with lovely background music which makes it so very easy 
 to get lost in this game with its easy to master control interface even a five year old could learn 
 the controls plus it allow you to use usb joy pads which i think all game's should have this as 
 an option in there games cause some PC games are easier to play with a joy pad than using a mouse 
 and keyboard. the story line to this game is great with an added bonus of that you don't have to 
 play the story line you can to what ever you want in a huge epic world made just for you. another 
 great thing about this game is it will never end until you say so with the ability to make your 
 mods to extend the world into your unique image ,now i could go on about how great this game is 
 so I'll put down some bits of the game which lets it down a bit. the number of errors, bugs , unexplained 
 lags and incompatibility issues which Bethesda Softworks wont get of there lazy butts and fix spoils 
 the game which makes me sad cause this game should be in a hall of fame and stay there for live 
 cause in my eyes its earned it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don0van
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun for what ever system you get it for, But when you get it for the pc it makes 
 it 1000 times better because now you can mod the game to ur likings u can put whatever you want 
 into the game soo you can play this amazing game and even make it better you think it you can out 
 it in. Best thing to do is get the Game of the year edition so that you get all the fun new quest 
 powers and items and whole new world to max out the fun you can have in this game. Its not super 
 fun when you first start because ur weak and useless but as you play on you lvl up get better in 
 whatever abilitys you wish to become great in then you become the greatest and strongest person 
 in the whole game. After you do all this thou you might think its broing cuz there is no real things 
 to do now. Thats where moding comes in you can mod new quest in new items, spells even monsters. 
 If you like rpgs and have a good computer then this is the game for you. If you are not sure that 
 ur computer can run this amazing game go on google. com then type in can i run it. then there will 
 be a website called can i run it clikc on it. then goes threw the agmes find oblviion then clikc 
 run then it will tell you if ur comp can run it or can not and if it can not it will tell you what 
 u dont have where you can get it how much it will cost and tells you everything youll need to get 
 the most outta ur computer to play this amazing game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the most immersive games out there. the sheer size of oblivion is 
 a highlight. the map is made up of over 30 square miles of pristine landscape. the scope of the 
 game is so immense that you dont even have to do the main quest line to still have your time taken 
 up by the side quest s and guild quest lines. the depth of the combat styles means that you can 
 replay the game over and over without ever getting bored. it has been made even better due to the 
 fantastic new game play added by the shivering isles expansion pack and the knights of the nine 
 expansion. both of these together add at least 60 + more hours of game play and much more land 
 to explore. You can now pick up a copy for under 15 pounds so take my advice and pick it up while 
 its cheap. you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurgowichLV
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  What made Morrowind so great? A true freedom to do whatever you want. I got bored with main stroyline 
 a quest two after the start, because there were much more intresting things to do. Besides basic 
 monster slayin' thing and exploration you could take part in politics by joining one oh the great 
 houses, or try to free the slaves by joining the twin Lamps, collect the alms for the poor etc. 
 Even your religion was your choise. IYou could find everything you imagined. Oblivion takes all 
 that away. The guilds are to basic. Theives for stealth, fighter guild for warriors, mages guild 
 - big surprise - the mages. The arena? The best choise by far. They took away text dialog and gave 
 full voice acting. result? Morrowin had so much detail, if you didn't mind reading. There were 
 many topics to talk about. Oblivion has far less to them. there are no real dialog options the 
 outcome stays the same. The world feels casual compared to the Morrowind. There is less wow moments, 
 because visuals are not as important as it's design in my mind. Morrowind made me feel a completely 
 different world. Combat is really good in oblivion, and has an action game feel to it. Oblivion 
 has a good story line too, same goes for soundbut leveling is a f*****g joke. How come that even 
 rats die nearly as easily one first level as at 10th. Whats the whole point then? the best part 
 about rpg is to feel yourself getting stronger. and that just doesnt show up here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soren008
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Oblivion starts off in prison, right after choosing your race / character
  Nothing too impressive yet till ... BAM!!! you go outside...
  
  This is a game that, purely 
 and simply, has visions and excitement to blow us away once again. The mazzive 200 hour complete 
 game has become together a supreme adventure fantasy epic, a staggering triumph, a game to delight 
 all ages, tastes and sexes. Sweeping us along on a vast cinematic landscape strewn with wonders 
 - with elves and wizards, theifs, knights and great mythological monsters.
  "Spare Me" says the synic ...
  
  Sounds like all the conceited RPGs before but this game has 
 a liberating wit and imagination.
  Finding the theives guild is only one of the magical delights....
  Buy this game! its a landmark 
 for games to  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLADEOFEND
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  This is my first review!
  Oblivion simply rocks in all aspects.
  Graphics: The graphics are eye candy the characters and the environment are very lifelike down 
 to the smallest detail.
  Sound: The sound of Shields and swords bashing against each other and all miscellaneous in game 
 sounds sound perfect. The music changes when appropriate with the environment your in and doesn't 
 get boring.
  Gameplay: Now the gameplay has it all. Almost everything is interactable in the environment (even 
 cutlery and feathers can be picked or moved around) . The controls are easy to use. The world called 
 "Cyrodil" is immense and there will always be new places to discover, the dungeons of the game 
 are all different from each other and that makes the game always interesting. The quests are hundreds 
 and the main story proceeds very well.
  Physics: The physics are nice, except when you kill or knock down enemies (they fly a bit as if 
 hit by a giant and hover for some time before falling to the ground) .
  Taking all into consideration if you are a fan of rpg's i think you'll love this game.
  Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game i was very excited because everyone praised Oblivion the best 
 RPG game ever made! Then, I start the game, and soon, one of the 'disillusionments' begins... while 
 you personalizes your character, you can only change the face and the color of your skin. But there's 
 something strange... I can't make a beautiful face! Or a 'normal' face... the most beautiful person 
 in entire game looks like someone that have 'syndrome of down' with leprosy in decomposition!! 
 Then I noticed that the Orcs have the same look of the humans! At least being a game in first person 
 you dont need stay looking at your 'sick' char.
  
  Now, one point for Oblivion: the way that you chooses the attributes of you char. You are introduced 
 in the history while you are inside of a little dungeon and you continues to build your character 
 in an interesting form. Then I started to look at the graphics of Oblivion and see that all is 
 very beautiful with great textures, lights and shadows, dust and very detailed creatures and enemies. 
 One of the most impressive best looking games I had play.
  
  But all this does'nt pass of mere appearance. When I finaly get out of the your very first dungeon 
 of the game, I saw a immense world that go far in the distance. Lakes, rivers, florests, swamps, 
 mountains, bridges... only to discovery that is all empty, without life, without animals, insects 
 and all that things that you encounter in one world. But don't worry, maybe you take 20~30 hours 
 to discovery this (maybe more late in the game, like me) . An when you first enter a city you see 
 one more thing: humans, elves and orcs living together as if they didn't have differences (really 
 big differences) between them. I think that is the model of society that many people are looking 
 for... Where in the world a Orc will live together with a Elf?? This game have one 'social system' 
 in the borders of indifferent. The guards will kill any thief because of one apple for example. 
 And when someone die, nobody give a sh*t for it... even if this person is the mother or a son, 
 nobody (including the guards) will notice that. Even if they look at the body, they all will ignore 
 that. And one of most disappoint aspects of this 'social system': no kids. For some reason, Oblivion 
 don't have kids! Don't ask me why. Maybe a phobia for the part of the producers? Who knows...
 
  
  And you start to think "so, why play Oblivion?" Wait! I still did'nt speak of the combats! The 
 attack-defend-attack again-defend one more time system. The lack of diversity and creativity in 
 the combats you can ignore in the begging of the game, but soon, you will make everything to avoid 
 combat, just to dont fight and make all over again (attack-defend-attack again-defend one more 
 time scheme) until the end of the game. And this is valid for any weapon or magic you use, is all 
 the same thing. Well... sometimes you run too...
  
  Now I ask my self: "why they put a leveling system and horses in Oblivion?" And you ask "what do 
 you mean?". First: the enemies will level up with you. If you stay stronger, they will be stronger 
 too. Second: this means that you can finish the game in the same level that you start it. Ok, you 
 can't, because the producers knowing that, they had placed level limitations, then you are forced 
 to level up and reach that level to move on. And about the horses? Why they're so useless? Ah! 
 The horses... yes. I almost forget them. Ok, now the horses. First: why you should use a horse 
 if you can be much more fast than them? Not use a horse means that you don't need to go down to 
 fight. Yes, you can't fight in top of one horse. At the very least boring. Second: horses don't 
 want to know if he will die, they will fight until the end! Luckly Shadowmere is immortal! Who 
 is Shadowmere? The one and unique reason to use a horse in Oblivion. He is like a bag with unlimited 
 capacities.
  
  Now the sounds. If you played Oblivion, than you must have noticed that are only 22 differents 
 voices in all the word of Oblivion. Two for each race (male and female voices) , one for the King 
 and another for Martin. The Daedras? Only mixed voices. And the musics that in the beginning enchants 
 you, in the middle of the game will annoy you. At least, all the voices had been very well interpreted 
 (Yay! One more point for Oblivion) .
  
  But... what really called my attention was the rain and the snow. These two atmospheric manifestations 
 they just ignore all the laws of physics! At least in Oblivion, the rain crosses the ground and 
 if you try to hide yourself from it, like under a tent, you will notice that the rain just cross 
 it too!! And the rain is just to say that is raining... because the water don't touch nothing (including 
 the ground) , diferent from TimeShift and Crysis. The snow makes the same thing. The only 'atmospheric 
 manifestation' that really shine in Oblivion is the fog.
  
  In the end, Oblivion is a very limited game, where lack details that in a long period makes all 
 the difference. Then the poor leveling system, the stupid AI and all that lifeless little word 
 more the repetitive quests makes you wonder why they hadn't passed one more time 'polishing' the 
 game. Oblivion is for one pass for the revolution, but fall before reach it.
  
  Ps: a multiplayer mode didn't go kill anybody... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armless1987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is for sure one of the greatest games ever made. It is a game of monumental ambition but 
 one of the few that manages to live up to such potential. Oblivion is more of a second life than 
 a game, it sucks you in so completely and gives you such a wealth of things to do it can be very 
 hard to put the controller down and leave the beautifully realised world.
  For any fans of RPG'S this game is going to be a must buy, and its pretty much a must-buy for everyone 
 else too. The game basically turns the bare skeleton of its prequel Morrowind into a fully bump 
 mapped creation that manages to have almost none of the game breaking flaws of it s prequel but 
 heaps more fun and exactly the same scale and ambition that that game had. The weaknesses of Morrowind 
 that many found too damaging to the game to keep playing have been almost entirely removed. The 
 combat has gone from tedious and broken to being huge fun. The graphics have gone from bland to 
 cutting edge. It is safe to say if you liked the idea of Morrowind but not the reality, then you 
 will most probably love this game.
  The game is not without its flaws, however. Sometimes the odd quest is bugged and impossible to 
 complete, and the game maybe doesnt go far enough for some people to take out some of the tedium 
 and hassle associated with maintaining your character i,. e repairing your weapons inbetween dungeons 
 and selling ure loot. It can be a hassle to have to go through 3 loading times inbetween every 
 dungeon, and those loading times are unforgivably big and common.
  But the problems Oblivion has are so overwhelmed by the amount of fun that can be had and the amount 
 of hours gleaned from playing it that they are almost deemed irrelevant. There is basically no 
 reason not to buy this game, unless that is you want to spend the next few months of your life 
 not sat at your console or pc.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieatorium
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  I bought into the Hype of Oblivion and when i first loaded it up I was really Excited It looked 
 great but as I started to explore the world and progress the story I became very dissapointed. 
 The way everything levelled with you took aout alot if the challange as there were no real dangers 
 and left you with not much sense of acheivemnet. The much hyped Radiant AI was pretty average all 
 things considered and i felt the story was too forced and most of the side questing was a letdown. 
 
  
  Other than the beautiful visuals it just didnt grab me in and thats the most important part of 
 an RPG it's ability to keep you playing. I still play games like fallout today and get much more 
 enjoyment from their "outdated" graphics and turn based gameply on my umpteenth playthrough. Oblivion 
 was a step backwards from Morrowind in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Well... i dont know where to begin. The story... its a veery long, exiting, mysterious and cool story 
 with a lot of tasks and side quests. I dont wanna spoil the plot for the ppl out there who are gonna 
 get this game. The gameplay is great... The hack-slash-crush gameplay has been replaced with a far 
 more realistic random hitting gameplay. So basically the gameplays improved... a lot. Graphics are 
 good as well... i think hellgate: london even didn't beat its graphics. The world is also realistic... some 
 people live their happy life in a regime. Some have their problems, whichs worries them so much making 
 them an insomniac and approaching you at night in torchlight and telling you their problem. The 
 game (sadly) doesnt include multiplayer. But the long cool story is sure to suck you in for hours. In 
 summary this is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhiice
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the best game i have ever played. It follows a similar concept to 
 morrowind, a previous Elder Scrolls game, which i never beat because i got a 360. You have the 
 major skills and the minor skills, leveling your major skills levels your character. I really enjoyed 
 this aspect of the gameplay, especially if you create your own class, because it really made it 
 like real life. You learn things and you grow as you learn them. There are A LOT of quests and 
 you don't have to do the main quest line right away, which i also liked because it gives you a 
 freedom and you don't feel restricted to doing something you don't really feel liking doing at 
 that time. Before i finished the main quest line i beat two guild quest lines mages and assasins 
 guilds, and the arena quest line before beating the main quest line. Theres an array of exstensive 
 dungeons to explore and the game really never gets easy because it adjusts to your level which 
 i thought was very innovative. Having just beat the game i can tell you that the ending to the 
 story line is fulfilling enough but it makes you go, uh... WTF. Quests aside the customization of 
 your character is emmense although you usually just pick the strongest armour or weapons. Making 
 spells is a pain because to make really good spells you need to be a master in whatever school 
 the spell your making is under or its a crap spell. The NPC's are very well done as you walk past 
 them in the streets they notice you and say hello, have conversations with eachother sometimes 
 even fight eachother. Ounce you get attached to some of them and then a quest makes you kill them 
 you actually feel bad which is hard to do. I can't wait to continue my journey in Cyrodill by getting 
 Knights of the Nine and The Shivering Isles expansions furthering my experience. From my point 
 of view I say this game is perfect best game i have ever played. Four thumbs up, i highly recommend 
 it. Go buy it. Right now. Do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyder77777
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Simply incredible game.
  
  Other than [sorta'] guilty pleasures like Diablo 2, never has a game garnered so much of my time. 
 I love RPG's to begin with, but since Baldur's Gate 2, I hadn't been overly impressed with any 
 of the single player games in the genre. This game changed everything.
  
  From an intricate design of the character's physical appearance to customizing spells, this game 
 has more than I ever expected. Additionally, the FPS aspect makes it that much more of a pleasure 
 to play. It is designed so well that one could easily compare the FPS gameplay to nearly any shooter 
 out there.
  
  I could rave forever about all the positives, I'm sure you'll find plenty in others' reviews.
 
  
  I'll mention a couple cons to the game just to give a little credibility to this review. First, 
 the menu access is definitely awkward for the PC version. This is the telltale sign of the port 
 from console. Also, why don't games like this ever have the unbelievably difficult final enemies 
 to battle (like FF VII) ? True, I "could" turn the difficulty all the way up and play through various 
 bosses. However, I think a totally separate and optional enemy that dwarfs the rest in difficulty 
 always adds a fun goal to the endgame. It would be perfect for this game. The only other complaint 
 I have is the number of bugs it has. It's not unbearable or excessive by any means, but it'd be 
 really cool to see a game of this magnitude even cleaner than it already is.
  
  It's an amazing game though, easily one of my all-time favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  The "Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" is a game I looked forward to greatly; a more compelling and involved 
 story, a truly living world (quite unlike the cardboard characters from the previous game in the 
 series, "The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind") , and exciting combat. 
  
  While my first impressions of Oblivion were altogether negative, it does have a lot to offer for 
 both casual fans, and role players alike, with a good 100 hours of quests to go through.
  
  
  The game gets off to an action-packed start, as your character bears witness to several attacks 
 on the Emperor (voiced by Patrick Stewart) , before he is assassinated by agents of a mysterious 
 cult. As always, your peculiar status as a former convict is ignored, and you quickly become embroiled 
 in the effort to save Cyrodiil from certain destruction. 
  
  The main quest has it moments, to be sure, from the desperate assault on the ruins of Kvatch, to 
 the final defense of the Imperial City, but the real draw comes from the various groups and factions 
 you can join. Although the number is greatly reduced from Morrowind, Oblivion's five main factions 
 (the Arena, Dark Brotherhood, Fighter's Guild, Mage's Guild) are much more involved. The Dark Brotherhood, 
 in particular, has you carry out several memorable assassinations, and the climax of the last few 
 missions is not to be missed. 
  
  Cyrodiil also has many villages and inns spread across the various regions, making it seem like 
 a world that's truly inhabited. Imperial Legion soldiers and foresters roam the roads and wilderness, 
 as do bandits and marauders. And there are plenty of caves and ruins to explore. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, the combat is greatly improved.
  
  While Oblivion is definitely fun, 
 for the most part, there are several disappointing aspects to the game. 
  
  The main quest, though having some great moments, is not particularly original or memorable. Martin's 
 character seems wasted; although he hints at having been involved in Daedric magic at one point, 
 you never learn much about it, or anything else about Martin. It seems strange that he would consider 
 you a close friend, as well, considering you were formerly an inmate in the largest prison in Tamriel, 
 and you've spoken to him all of five times. (Slight exaggeration) . 
  
  Dialogue is definitely a major weakness in the game. While Morrowind relied on vast paragraphs 
 of text, Oblivion's dialogue is fully voiced. Unfortunately the writing is mostly of poor quality, 
 and the voice actors are often re-used. 
  
  The player character gets few chances to choose different responses (and when you do, it's usually 
 a yes or no answer to accepting a quest) . The Speechcraft minigame is also fairly boring, and doesn't 
 add any value to the game whatsoever. 
  
  Also, the skills you can choose from have been diminished. Enchant, Spear, and Unarmored have been 
 removed from the game, and the only type of ranged weapon you can use is a longbow. All three melee 
 types of weapons (Blade, Blunt, and your fists) function pretty much the same, so combat can get 
 a bit repetitive. 
  
  The vaunted "Radiant AI" is also not all that innovative; it's basically just like any other game, 
 only the NPC's move around and sleep. Guards will sometimes fight each other for seemingly no reason, 
 NPC conversations are beyond excruciating, and the soldiers of Cyrodiil seem to have a penchant 
 for jumping into lava. Other than that, they function adequately. 
  
  Overall, the game's flaws are noticeable, but don't detract from a fun experience. It's a great 
 action game, and definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gshuller
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I played through this game, and found myself engaged at some points, but could not overlook certain 
 critical drawbacks. I am an RPG player and have a pretty good idea what it takes to create a good 
 RPG. This game falls short on several counts.
  
  Don't get me wrong, it has great graphics and lots of quests/items, but the essence of an RPG is 
 the sense of reward, and Oblivion has little to offer in this area. 
  
  I compiled this list of issues shortly after completing the game. There are some potential spoilers 
 in here, but these are valid points nevertheless:
  
  1. You don't get stronger with level. Never find glass (high level light equipment) at low level, 
 never find iron (low level heavy equipment) at high level. Treasure and monsters somehow detect 
 your power level, which means the worthless fish in the lake are as strong as you no matter your 
 level. This damages immersion.
  2. You never find good treasure while exploring because its quality is tied to your level. You 
 find artifacts at daedric shrines, and the occasional magic item, but never anything very useful 
 found exploring.
  3. Quest rewards rarely useful. The final gear I had, after going through the entire game, main 
 quest, archmage, grey fox: cheaply storebought chain armor and leather shield enchanted with common 
 soul gems, storebought illumination helm, silver dagger to apply poisons. Storebought robe with 
 +7 to merc. Even end game imperial dragon armor did not beat this.
  4. So they removed the main motivation to level up, and removed the main motivation to explore. 
 That's cardinal sin #1 and #2 for an RPG. I managed to get through this whole game without feeling 
 powerful or rewarded.
  5. Control suffers because they had to accommodate x-box console controllers. Run out of hotkeys 
 fast. Takes 30 secs to find and quaff a potion in the heat of battle. Can't use Y/N to answer yes/no 
 questions. Must move the mouse cursor to the yes/no button.
  6. Overreliance on navigation arrows to know where you are going. Encourages ignoring quest details 
 and just following the quest arrow.
  7. Petty soul gems (used for item enchantment) 60% as strong as grand soul gems. Obtaining the 
 grand gems is not rewarding.
  8. Too easy to get rich with alchemy. One round of picking grapes and tomatoes at easy-to-obtain 
 master level nets 8200 gold, about 50-100 times the average quest reward.
  9. Oblivion levels are too repetitive and numerous, not rewarding.
  10. The speed attribute worthless. 
 +100 gives about 10% increase in running speed. With "fast travel," run speed is a minor consideration 
 anyway.
  11. The Security skill worthless due to alteration @75. Speechcraft and personality worthless due 
 to illusion @ 50. Mercantile worthless due to alchemy riches. Heavy armor worthless due to AC cap.
 
  12. In general I found myself paying no attention to attributes other than strength for carring 
 capacity. So as far as stats are concerned, I am no more than a backpack.
  13. The much-touted Radiant AI is not noticeable. They have their daily scripted routine and always 
 say the same thing. Pretty much like Morrowind except now they go to bed and sometimes taverns.
 
  14. Very few voice actors. Patrick Stewart has only a few lines at the beginning. Then we have 
 voices: guard, jauffrey, martin, nord, black man, black woman, common woman (god-hater girl) , beggar, 
 lizard girl, lizard guy, English (nirnroot) guy, paradise ruler guy. So, in a world with 1000 characters, 
 maybe 15 voice actors? Not nearly enough.
  15. Magic/charged weapons fairly worthless, as they run out of charges after 2 or 3 fights.
  
 16. Attacking while sneaking does not alert opponent to your presence. They can't figure out that 
 they are getting stabbed in the back.
  17. Crashes like a MFer (eventually you get a sense of safe activities to prevent these crashes, 
 and later patches may prevent them entirely) .
  18. Many spell lines useless (drain skill, telekinesis, absorb skill, damage weapon/armor) . 
 
  19. Armor class is capped at 85, which can be obtained with enchanted light armor and a little 
 alteration skill. Heavy and medium armor is worthless.
  20. No real moral ambiguity. Good RPGs don't use black and white morality.
  21. So the game is 
 basically a novel in RPG format. You can cut out some chapters by not doing quests, but the world 
 is static, and feels that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkAngelDead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantastic RPG and a solid title for the Xbox360. When you first start the game, you 
 can create your character and choose a number of different races from orcs to nords and from reptiles 
 to weird cat-people. The entire game is pretty much completely free-roaming, you can choose to 
 follow the main quest or just ignore it and explore the world on your own, increasing your skill 
 level, collecting items, talking to villagers etc. You can also choose to do evil acts such as 
 stealing and murdering innocents. You can basically play it however you want to. The graphics are 
 outstanding and the characters (voiced by the likes of Sean Bean and Patrick Stewart) are excellent 
 and help push the story along. It's a nice change for me to play a Medieval-themed RPG, as i usually 
 play Japanese RPG's like Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts. Don't buy this game expecting it to 
 be a short one, apparently it's very long (even though i've only just bought it, haven't got very 
 far!) so for 20 you get your money's worth. I would reccomend this game to anyone that owns a 
 360, it's up there with Call of Duty as a must-own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shozz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  What more can I say this game is awesome, the sheer amount of quests and side missions gives you 
 loads of different ways to play, graphically Oblivion is amazing boasting beautiful landscapes, 
 emotive and lifelike characters and just an amazing attention to detail everywhere you look. Gameplay 
 wise, I love the first person hand to hand combat (anything in first person gets my thumbs up) , 
 its also not a matter of button bashing you can have some truly epic fights which require you to 
 think tactically. Will you block your opponents attacks or try go for his legs knowing full well 
 he could hit you back. The sound is excellent, voice overs are extremely good quality and the music 
 is reminiscent of the excellent soundtrack to the Lord of the Rings film trilogy. One gripe I have 
 is did they have to make horseback riding sound like some bloke bashing two halfs of a coconut 
 together. This is oblivion, not monty python and the holy grail! Aside from that though an excellent 
 game guaranteed to keep you busy and alienate you from your friends, partners, work colleagues 
 etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Done well enough and executed pretty well for the most part. Tons of weapon choices, 
 you can enchant your weapon or go to the trade goods to pick up an already enchanted weapon. Enemies 
 put up a good fight if you keep it at the normal settings, plus this game is so big, you never 
 run out of things to do in a good 200 hours. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Great on the 360 and the PS3, but if you've got a 2 year old system. Most likely, you 
 can't run the game at its best. This game pushes your system to its potential and if your video 
 card is good enough, the game is gona look amazing. Lush plains, grimy swamps, dark dungeons, and 
 sharp peaks. Drinkable water, and outstanding weather effects and lighting effects. 9.5/10
  
  Sound: Getting into detail, the game sounds very good. Characters respond accordingly, everyone 
 will have almost different voices, but you might catch a couple of little chubby elves who sound 
 a like. Your character does not talk, its dialouge choices as your voice, sound effects r nice. 
 Solid 9/10
  
  Entertainment: This game is just the full package. You'll get your 100-200 hour gameplay, gorgeous 
 graphics, detailed and lip synched voices that are executed perfectly. This game has it all, don't 
 miss it, and if you got it, have fun ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  After you play this game the only word you could say is wow. Clearly one of the best RPG games 
 ever. I think it will be a while before any games will top oblivion.
  
  Everything is about it is perfect. The gamplay, sound, custimisation of characters, skills, graphics, 
 even the story. If you though morrowind was good, you have seen nothing. Oblivion manages to tower 
 and overpower all other RPG games in history. It manages to become an adictive game to get your 
 adranaline pumping. 
  
  Oblivion takes a different story rather then the ordaniary hero born to save the world. It shows 
 a story of a man/females destiny to save the world from the horrible race- the deadra and their 
 twistered world- oblivion. This game also contains a great veritey of cheats and glitches whihc 
 can be used to make the game more interseting. This game has tones of quests to leave you playing 
 for hours, days, weeks even on end. It contains hundreds of endless tunnels, caves and forts to 
 keep you playing. 
  
  The defult game difficulty is fair and can be changed easily if your up for the challenge. Oblivion 
 provides an understanable tutorial which can be learnt in about 10-20 minutes and provides heaps 
 for people and dungeuns to practice in.
  
  Apart from the halo series, this game is the best game i have ever played. It is pretty cheap now, 
 so it is a must buy. Outsanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  About 30 hours into this game, after doing the main quest [atrocious, as the gates get really old 
 after the second one] , killing the Archmagus: the most powerful mage in the game at level 3, and 
 becoming the prized fighter of Cyrodil at level 5, I realized what it was that made me dust off 
 my copy of Morrowind, and reinstall and happily play that. It is the scaled encounters: that feature 
 where everyone is always just about your level. Going in to the game, I thought it would be a nice 
 change, thought it would bring around some really nice fights... but it ends up being depressing. 
 Why would you care about leveling up, if you will still be hard pressed to kill a cougar even 4 
 levels later? Why would you explore their gorgeous world, if you explore a cave for about an hour... and 
 make only about 60 gold. They have it set so you pick up the same boring, crappy weapons and armor 
 for levels 1-15... The first characters, who I clocked around 40 hours each on, had barely gotten 
 to orc armor... let alone ebony, glass and Daedric. So I was walking around with infinite money, 
 not even doing quests as they netted me nothing. The only thing that had me playing was Alchemy 
 and the ease of picking up items as opposed to morrowind, but that could only last so long.
  Sure, the graphics are great: the sound was also nice: but this game is more for the people who 
 do not really like RPG's, the people who just want to smash and look at the scenery. I loved morrowind, 
 its huge world with actual things to DO, to COLLECT, things of value, where going off and searching 
 for that secret hole was worthwhile. Even the big world of oblivion.... they beg you not to explore 
 it because of the quicktravel!!
  
  It was an average game, but after hearing so much about it, so much hype on how great it was, how 
 people clocked 300 hours and are still finding new stuff.... I just cannot stay interested in a 
 game that rewards a 3 hour trek through the wilderness with a 500g stone, has quests that seem 
 beyond repetetive, and where you, a level one fighter, can rise to the top of the mage's guild. 
 And that is where their immersive world just fails.
  
  ~besides... now that morrowind has the brilliant infinite draw distance-widescreen compatability-HDR 
 forcing- DX9 updated mod.... the only reason to play Oblivion would be the bulky interface of Morrowind. 
 
  
  Mod is here, as gamespot is not hosting it http://timeslip. chorrol. com/mge. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -sakabatou-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  This is a must play game for anyone whos ever played an rpg.. the world is simply fabulous and 
 was executed just about perfectly- the game is just about as real as it gets - or should get atleast. 
 however, there are places where it loses out. the fact that there are no 'high level' creature 
 areas takes a lot of satisfaction out of the rpg. While the levelling system is a little less static 
 and simplistic than most games, a combination of creature level segregation, and levelling up 'correctly' 
 would add huge amounts of value. Apart from this, I feel ( and seem to be one of the few who does) 
 that the games storyline was extremely unsatisfying. No twists, no betrayals, no climatic boss 
 fights, all takeaway from what is an absolutely wonderful world. Well, thats about all the criticism 
 Ican possibly think of regarding Oblivion (not a lot as you might have noticed..) . This is one 
 of the best games out there, its complex, visually attractive, and challenging. Prepare to face 
 severe addiction and even worse withdrawal syndroms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telemedp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Although the rating is a bit late, the game is very great fun. It offers a lot of ways to complete 
 everything, and you can do, or evade the main quest. The difficulty is adjustable, which is very 
 good because if you find a group of trolls on max difficulty, you just adjust difficulty and you 
 are ready. The fight can get a bit monotonous after a very long play time, but still it is very 
 good. You have to time your blocks and parrys and strike on recoiled opponents. The game is incredibly 
 extensive, you can even buy your own house. Super high number of quests, and (not sure) but 60 
 hours of endless active gameplay. Plenty of creatures and weapons, though you can get through them 
 very fast. If you get bored, you just get Shivering Isles the expansion pack. Makes the game very 
 interesting and fun. The great mods for it are a must have. Here's a list: Obscuro's Oblivion Overhaul, 
 Martigens Monster Mod (recommended) , and Francesco's Optional Quests and Items Mod (recommended) .
 
  
  Medve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mashish82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Well I was never big fan of RPGs and somehow to stick around a game for 2 months was out of question 
 for me and then came Oblivion, one of the best RPG game ever created. 
  It came, it saw, it conquered. Well I played this game endlessly enjoying the vastness, plots, 
 storyline, music, creepiness, energy, and magic. 
  A game with excellent replay value, I assure you, that you would give this game at least two try 
 before even realizing that you played Oblivion for a month. 
  I was drenched with delight at the type of atmosphere I was always thrown into. Oblivion certainty 
 has its unique way of story telling and grips you into a sub quest even before you realize one 
 yet you always have your options to choose from. 
  Wow!!!! Graphics!! you have the machine to prove, be rest assured Oblivion will deliver and for 
 some reason I just gazed and admired at the beautiful environment created in this game. 
  
  Well this game has really had me wondering if I could really live its world. Really deserving. 
 
  
  Oblivion is must try for all game lovers who respect a decent game. And it is an indispensable 
 collection item for any RPG freak. Play it, love it and Live It. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsmeChez
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is just... Well lets see, I was going to get assassins creed but they were out. So the 
 dude suggested oblivion! It is simply one of the most addicting games I've ever played. If you 
 make your guy based off of what you like and your personality. You will find amazing creatures 
 and graphics in this game and well my personal favorite, the pickpocket option. Or if your more 
 ambitous just kill the man, loot him, and run from the guards hehehe
  
  Only regret
  
  I wish it were bigger, or had an extra province or 2 added on
  
  10/10 (as an RPG, Xbox 360 
 game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This title, I purchased the day it came out. Since them, I have created character after character. 
 . I'm not sure when it will end.
  The graphics are quite simply some of the best we will ever see *point to note here, that with 
 the other two add on games with dx10 capability the game is even better*.
  
  The character generation is the most comprehensive I have ever seen. You can either go simple, 
 or spend half an hour designing your character.
  
  I give it five for addiction and good looks and the length of time you get for exploration and 
 interration which is a seriously long time. It loses a star overall because of the other characters. 
 They are *ok* but sometimes the voice acting is just uninspiring.
  
  Half Life 2, whilst not comparing, had very good character interractions. Oblivion seems to have 
 spent the money on everything else and left the people out. It's ok, I forgive, I'm about to create 
 another character ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nec-romancer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  my only dislikes i am sure you've heard a million times are about the graphics requirements and 
 getting it to run smoothly, 
  frankly i think the investment in upgrading hardware is well worth it!
  
  i just love the games 
 you can modify yourself with construction sets and mods,
  some people post some brilliant mods, however i find a lot of people get carried away making mods 
 and just make the game too easy.
  
  the quests available in this game seem unlimited, ive had the game over a year now and im still 
 discovering new quests and secrets. unless you're the sort of person who just reads the guides 
 and clocks the game asap, ill admit, i ask for help if im stuck in a particular place, but i don't 
 play games just to finish them, i play for the enjoyment (and of course, sometimes just to kill 
 time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mass28
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  How can I explain how awful this game is?? I was so excited to play this game, man was i dissappointed. 
 How anyone can actually say they enjoy this game is mind blowing. I really tried to give Oblivion 
 a chance, hell I even got through playing Beyond the Beyond on the PS1 and at the time that was 
 probably the worst game I had ever played. Compared to Oblivion that game is a masterpiece. Its 
 mind blowing how anyone can like this game. Its slow, tedious, and most of all boring. I know it 
 may be a matter of likes and dislikes, but anyone who likes this game must love to watch paint 
 dry. I wish I could rate this game in the negatives, its that bad. The only thing going for this 
 game is the graphics, but after that wears off your stuck with what I believe to be the worst game 
 ever created. Please do yourself a favor, and avoid this game. Unfortunately, by now a lot of people 
 have already played it and probably wishing the could get all that time back. This game is crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnsucks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game non-stop for a few days, I feel that its fun and draws you into the world. 
 The setting of the game resembles medieval Europe and there are a wide variety of wildlife and 
 plants and the weather system is well made. The landscape is beautiful and there are a wide variety 
 of terrain from mountains to valleys. The quests are enjoyable and there are over 200 there are 
 also ton of books that you can read in the game that allow you to learn about the background of 
 the whole world of Tamerial. The combat system is typical for an rpg and the magic spells have 
 cool effects. The graphics are very well done, trees look life like and the grass and leaves move 
 according to the weather but my main gripe is the draw distance isn't too far, so far away objects 
 like mountains are featureless, unbelievable in 2006 and also the npcs having limited lines. Very 
 fun and beautiful rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  As I stated Oblivion was the first RPG I ever played and to this day is the best. Characters, quests, 
 the world , the towns... I played a wood elf reaching the level of 47 without touching the main 
 quest story and when I did boy was I in for a suprise cause the game adapted to my strenght and 
 that what was once easy became challenging. Gameplay is also very fluent and you can master it 
 rather fast without killing the game but making it more interesting. Storyline will take you all 
 over this imaginative world offering you a chance to be good or bad at any moment. there are only 
 two moraly questionable quest or should I say champagnes but they are also the best. So if you 
 are asked to join the dark brotherhood do it, and do it right and also you should look for azura 
 shrines cause they will have you doing the most terrible things to good people showing you the 
 true human nature (even if you are an elf) . Play it enjoy it ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudaMarrTL
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I really did want elder scrolls, and I got it for christmas, i gave it a wack it. Your a first-person 
 sword/axe wielder, armed with spells, and even shields.
  
  Now the open world is quite nice as the graphics were probably the best. But im the kind of guy 
 who craves decent combat, to me, this is where Elder Scrolls fall. The AI has only two tactics, 
 charge at you and hack and slash, and fire arrows or magic, this gives the AI so little personality, 
 Rats and Wolves are basically the same in this game.
  
  And at one time, I froze in the middle of the forest, and another time, i jumped off a cliff in 
 a Goblin's Cave, only to realize im stuck behind a crate and cant move.
  
  I think this game was appreciated because of its massive freeform, thats where they charm you, 
 but if you like that kind of thing, go ahead and buy this game, nothin stoppin ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conrad0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV Oblibion is a great game. It is everything I wanted when I purchased Everquest 
 II but didn't get - A Massive NON-Multiplayer Role-Playing Game. The world and the graphics and 
 the plots/subplots are great. About time the FPS RPG fans got a top notch game like this!
  
  I wrote a bit about my Oblivion experiences on these blog posts:
  
  http://www. conradzero. com/2006/06/archetypal-shift. html
 
  
  http://www. conradzero. com/2007/09/oblivion-gate-is-shut-dead-keep-it-but. html
  
  My only real complaint is pretty minor: The Voice Talent. After a while, you will recognize the 
 three or four people used as voice talent for hundreds of different characters, trying to do different 
 voices and accents. Getting Jean-Luc Picard to play the King was perfect. The Kings Heir was good. 
 Everyone else (the other two people) well... you get the picture. 
  
  But this is nothing. The game is probably replayable, but by the time you finish the mission (Took 
 me 60 game hours with plenty of screwing around on side quests) you are ready for something else. 
 
  
  I also loved how they weren't so locked into classes. If you want to change from a wizard to a 
 warrior, just buy the equipment and start doing. The longer you work at things, the better you 
 get. The fairly constant character improvement kept the game interesting. 
  
  Oblivion was Game of the Year for a reason...
  -Conrad Zero
  www. conradzero. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  And that is pretty much it in a nutshell, the game is presented really well and starts off nicely 
 but eventually despite all there is to do in the world of tamriel, the main story is very substandard, 
 the battles are too simple, the statistics and options available to your character seem pointless. 
 Overall if you really loved games such as fallout or more recently the witcher you're going to 
 be disappointed with the simplicity of this rpg.
  
  Despite its shortcomings its still definitely an enjoyable game and well worth a purchase since 
 there is still a ton of side quests to do and places to explore. Just dont expect the next huge 
 step in rpg gaming if you havent already got this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a very wide open game that you can play at your own pace. There is almost too much 
 to do in the game and I would have to say it is one of the best games i have ever played.
  
  The gameplay is very dynamic and complex but still easy to grasp, its also fully customisable 
 with mods (from Bethesda and the community) and its free to play at your own pace, you are open 
 to do what you want when you want. you can be an assassin, mage, fighter or thief in the 4 guilds 
 that are in the game, not only that you can fight in the imperial arena, play the main story or 
 do many random quests from local NPC's in the various towns and cities
  
  The world you play in is huge it would take you a good 30 minutes to go from one end of the map 
 to the other, that is if you don't stop along the way to explore an abandoned fort, mine, dungeon 
 or fight off bandits, highwaymen trolls and wild animals that attack you. You also have a huge 
 variety of spells amours and weapons to have and an advanced levelling system that improves your 
 characters skills and stats
  
  the graphics are amazing but unfortunately my PC can't handle it on full (lousy 7300LE GPU) but 
 i have seen the settings on full and it is stunning to say the least 
  
  Overall a very impressive game that is a must if you are into RPGs and should be tried even if 
 you are not 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyHunter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has bugs. Oblivion has issues. But the brilliancy of Oblivion, I believe, lies in the 
 user created mods. 
  
  Bethesda was simply brilliant in releasing the CS. Every aspect of the game can and probably has 
 been altered by users (mostly for the better) . Vanilla Oblivion is a masterpiece, but with the 
 right mods it turns into. . .well, what's better than a masterpiece? A super-masterpiece?
  
  In any case, I can never get enough of Oblivion. I could play for days if it weren't for my 
 petty real-life needs such as school, work, sleep and nourishment. 
  
  The one downside to Oblivion are the system requirements. I can play on a low end computer only 
 if I want to crash every third save and whenever I try chasing a deer through the woods. With a 
 higher end computer, though, I am simply blown away. Especially with the addition of enhanced, 
 higher resolution images via mods. 
  
  The stock Oblivion was way too easy. With some tweaks and modifications, though (again through 
 mods, of course) I was able to get the absolute perfect difficulty. I have never before experienced 
 such perfection that I'm not sure how to explain it.
  
  The vanilla Oblivion probably gets a 8 or 9 by itself. This is more a review recommending the use 
 of mods for Oblivion which boost it to a 10 easily.
  
  Oblivion will most likely be one of my favorite games for a very, very long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tron563
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  ok guys time to tell out my review on this rpg game alrite now the game graphic isnt bad at all 
 and is better than morrowind more over controls are fine good, good story ,and lots of weapons they 
 have even noe they got more features like u can ride a horse, more dungeons and so on and not many 
 bugs there have less and good req for it but a little graphic card req medium it nids like 128 
 mb and watever. 
  
  ok ppl now the bad review on this,
  
  there are lack of weapons like the magic staffs and bows those of u who are a fan of magician, battle 
 mage or archer well this is the bad news for u even though the 2 expansion shivering isles still 
 has a little weapons they have but most of the weapons u mostly find is melee weapons for warriors, knigths 
 and more. there arent any spears, throwing stars and crossbows in the game but u will find it at 
 another game call elder scrolls 3 morrowind those of u like this kinds of weapons well too bad 
 for ya guys xD cuz they arent any weapons in elder scroll 4 .
  
  ok i have play elder scroll 4 in the ps3 and is so DaMm CooL LiKe HeLL!!! i tell u wat guys buy 
 this game and u will never regreat it cuz its the best rpg game from bethesda softwords the best 
 creators of elder scrolls series.
  
  i will give it a 9.5 out of 10 since the game i never feel sumthing amazing like this so try this 
 rpg game it will suit u guys : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  I have played this game and soon after 5 hrs, I now realize that it has turned to be my best game 
 in all aspects. I'm running this game on my pc :- 2.8 Pentium D, nvidia geforce 8500 gt 512 mb 
 , 1 GB RAM and it works fine with a fine Frame rate in settings of Medium - High. Everything in 
 this game is fantastic.
  STORY :- I think story is great which leads to some good suspenses and also some material that 
 keep you impressed.
  GAMEPLAY :- You'll be playing it with all interests. First-person view is better as it involves 
 realizism and correct aim.
  SOUND :- Speeches are mind blowing   Each and every character in the game has a different voice 
 along with different emotions, behaviors and problems. Sound effects are also good.
  GRAPHICS :- you'll need a fine GPU and be enjoying the graphics. The trees are beautiful, mountains 
 look as real as they are and every thing look very colorful and gorgeous.
  VALUE ;- AH! The best thing of the game. It takes more than 220 hours to 100% complete game .
 
  It is everything you imagine. You can read books, sleep, buy / sell items, training , bet on matches 
 , be a combatant in arena this is only 1% I have written in this section. 
  
  SUMMARY :- IT IS THE BEST RPG GAME EVER MADE. It has all the things a RPG game needs. If you don't 
 have it , GO GET IT NOW ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  What can i say? After you readed the Review Deck you know everything what you need to. This game 
 has amazing graphics, sounds, and a veeeeryy biiig map. You can go anywhere you can do anything, 
 you... you will love this one. The elder scorlls IV is better than every RPG i've ever played. 
 If you love RPGs than you will love this one too. Try it!
  
  Graphics: Nice! Niiicee? PERFECT! 10/10
  
  Sounds: The musics are great, but the voices... 
 Well there's only 4-5 voice in the game. 7/10
  
  Controls: Nothing problam. Easy. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: If you begin it, you can't stop. For more than a hundred hours. 10/10
  
  The 
 good: Incredibly nice graphics, great story, lots of missions, real freedom.
  
  The bad: Could be more sounds, only for RPG fans cause if you want an RPG you will be disappointed.
 
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.5 SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Griffen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Perhaps the most striking thing about Oblivion is the graphics. They are very good, with beautiful 
 rolling plains in an immersive scene. Even on low graphics, they are a sight of majesty. Then you 
 see a character, and it looks like melted wax. Don't get me wrong, it is a very good looking game, 
 but it seems the ES can't quite get character graphics right.
  
  Unfortunately, several things seem to have gone downhill on the graphics front from Morrowind. 
 The weather, for instance, is much less immersive than Morrowind; who can forget taking cover from 
 a sandstorm which limited visibility to a few feet? That was missing in Oblivion (I would suggest 
 downloading mods to improve the weather) .
  
  Then there are performance issues. Oblivion is... strange, shall we say. It seems to develop random 
 bottlenecks, and achieving high framerates consistently is unlikely. regardless of your system. 
 When compared to other games like Crysis that are coming out, Oblivion starts to appear lacking.
 
  
  But now onto gameplay. Combat in Oblivion is much improved. The immersion is much improved by making 
 your actions in combat mean something, rather than being almost exclusively based upon behind the 
 scenes number crunching. The balance of character and skill seems just right.
  
  Nevertheless, I have some concerns, primarily with the level up system. In Morrowind, the problem 
 of efficient leveling was one for power gamers; everyone else just grew in power more slowly. In 
 Oblivion, if you don't level efficiently, you end up with a game that gets increasingly hard to 
 play as you level. The problem is, efficient leveling means taking all your main skills as secondaries.
 
  
  I found myself barely able to kill anything on normal difficulty by the end of the game; let that 
 be a warning to you. I'd recommend using a mod to fix this, perhaps OOO (google it) , but unfortunately 
 you need to start a new game for these to work properly.
  
  The storylines are good, and of just the right length. Casual players are quite able to pick the 
 game up and do a side quest to its conclusion, or even the main quest, and they are very satisfying, 
 while more hard-core players can complete a range of them. The stories are compelling enough to 
 keep you going, though nothing exceptional.
  
  There are some oddities, however. Selling stolen property is only available to a member of the 
 thieves guild, while enchanting and spell creation is only open to a member of the mage's guild, 
 requiring a large number of quests. Membership of these are somewhat constraining, and it feels 
 like you are being forced into them (though mods are available to bypass this, if you want to play 
 a freelance thief, for example) .
  
  Now, my biggest problem with the game compared to Morrowind. In Morrowind, I felt immersed in a 
 different culture; I was the Nevarine, the hero of the Dunmer, protector of Morrowind. In Oblivion, 
 I feel like a man running around doing quests. I feel no loyalty and much less immersion.
  
  I think it boils down to the cultural and landscaping blandness of Oblivion; it's very like 
 modern Western culture, and the land is quite boring when compared to the floating lands and the 
 deserts of Vvardenfall. Trekking across Vvardenfall felt like an adventure, while in Oblivion, 
 despite the closely packed content and beautiful landscapes, it feels like a walk in the local 
 park.
  
  Having all lines voice acted was a mistake; they obviously didn't devout the time or funds needed 
 to do so. Morrowind had a vast number of individual characters; Oblivion seemed to have a run of 
 quest givers. In addition, the effect upon the modding commuity has been decisively negative.
 
  
  All in all, Oblivion is a very solid game. The gameplay is much better than Oblivion, and the graphics 
 are good. But it still lacks that cultural immersion that keeps Morrowind dear to my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackdragon397
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Hello and welcome to my first review in a long, long line time. For my first review in a while 
 I decided to review Elder Scrolls VI: Oblivion (We will just call it Oblivion to save space) . It's 
 one of my favourite games of all time and quite a defining game in it's genre. I know it's not 
 a new game by any stretch of the imagination but as they say, "Don't run before you can walk!" 
 Now onto the main event we venture.
  
  Oblivion is the fourth in the Elder Scrolls series (As it's roman numerals suggest) and the best-selling 
 game in the series to date, followed closely by Morrowind. You start the game in the Imperial City 
 Dungeon (The capital of Cyrodiil) for no apparent reason and being jeered at by a very rude prisoner 
 in the opposing cell. And with that you start your journey through the land of Cyrodiil and its 
 many wonders and adventures.
  
  Now the first aspect of the game you will come across is the character generation, which you are 
 straight away thrown into the moment you start a new game. Through this menu you will decide what 
 your character will look-like, using what can best be described as scroll bars. These bars when 
 you adjust them either up or down change what your characters complexion is like, jaw size and 
 hair type among other things is. Once you get your character to the way you fancy you can decide 
 your name, which can be anything from Rumpatump to Barry. Anyhow there's potential to have lots 
 of fun with your characters looks and I have personally seen people create Joker look-alikes (From 
 Batman) to a pink lizard.
  
  Once you decide what your going to look like and begun the story (I won't explain how just to ensure 
 I don't spoil anything for you) you work your way through a very simple but lengthy sewer killing 
 creatures, collecting items and working your way out of the sewer. When you finally reach the end 
 of the sewer and arrive at the exit, you get to finish your character creation. Through your journey 
 through the sewer the game judges what class type would best suit you, from the way you worked 
 your way out of the sewer. This part of the character generation is perhaps the most important 
 since your chosen class will define how you play the game to a great degree. You can choose from 
 fighter, knight, mage, assassin, witch hunter and many more besides, the game will recommend you 
 one as I mentioned but choose whichever one you fancy at the time.
  
  Now as you enter Cyrodiil proper which if you've never seen it before is quite awe inspiring. You 
 can see for miles around the hills, trees, water and buildings dotted around the landscape which 
 are visible (depending on your video settings if your playing the PC version) . The word awe inspiring 
 pretty much rounds up the whole of Oblivion's graphical style. It is a style that is amazingly 
 imaginative and of the likes you see in few other games to date. However the pitfalls of the intensity 
 of the graphics are quite visible if you are a PC gamer. Depending on your computers specifications 
 (specs) having the video settings at full can make the game unplayable or seriously laggy. Adjusting 
 your settings to suit your particular computers specs can solve this issue but it does degrade 
 your visual experience of the game. This is not too much of a problem since the games actual gameplay 
 is it's strongest feature. For console gamers there are not the same issues with performance since 
 the game is developed to suit the particular systems.
  
  One of the key developments in this latest in the Elder Scrolls series is the combat system. In 
 past games it was a case of press your attack button or mouse button and your attack direction 
 and if you hit what your aiming for is randomly decided. With Oblivion you can direct your swing 
 in a specific direction with the use of your joypad stick or mouse direction and hit your enemy. 
 No missing unless of course your not close enough to the enemy or your marksmanship is not too 
 good and you aim and miss your target. This is a vast improvement upon the old style and adds realism 
 to the game in a way previous games in the series could not. When you hit an enemy they react depending 
 on where you hit them and if your weapon holds some enchantments you can throw your enemy backwards 
 upon hitting them. This is good fun and if you're a magic user you can literally throw a skeleton 
 across the room or over a hill with a fireball.
  
  Now the sound and music of Oblivion add to the game greatly, the sound when you hit an enemy and 
 send him/her flying backwards is like music to my bloodthirsty ears and the music score in the 
 background sets the mood of death nicely. The musical score of Oblivion is in three words 'Great 
 but repetitive.' The slower music when all is calm and the fast paced adrenaline filled music when 
 you are in combat are good when you first hear them and really bring you into the world's medieval 
 feel. Across the different parts of Cyrodiil the combat music stays pretty much the same throughout 
 which does after a time get repetitive. However when wandering around Cyrodiil to hear the background 
 music suddenly changes to the very identifiable combat music, is a good hint that some creature 
 is coming towards you even if you can't see them. This immediately gets you prepared for the impending 
 attack and allows you to defend yourself in anticipation. Overall the musical score and sound effects 
 add to Oblivions very distinct atmosphere in a good way, though the downside is, like I've said, 
 hearing the same music time and time again (Which does happen almost constantly) and this does 
 get fairly tedious sometimes.
  
  When you enter the many cities and settlements of Cyrodiil the NPC population does seem to have 
 a life of it's own. Walking round the city you will see NPC's of various races going about their 
 daily business. This is quite interesting if you decide to follow a specific NPC for the day you 
 will notice they have set patterns and do socialise with other NPC's and discuss various topics. 
 These topics aren't vast in number but a few of them can lead you to a certain quest or just teach 
 you a little lore of the land of Cyrodiil (For no real purpose except to integrate you into the 
 game) . A lot of NPC's have little to say when you talk to them but a few have interesting things 
 to say and quests to give. By asking around the local population about rumours you can unlock quests 
 that you may not otherwise of found out about.
  
  The main quest is vastly interesting and takes you on a journey to greatness (well at least that's 
 what I think anyhow) ! Sadly once the entire main quest is done the population of Cyrodiil don't 
 start worshipping you and bury you in gifts, they just seem to carry on none the wiser except for 
 the odd comment here and there. This is a downfall of the game for those of us who hunger for power 
 and would like to be worshipped, but alas maybe it is just my personality that cries out for recognition 
 never fully achieving it. Ok, so the finishing the main quest is not the be all and end all there's 
 hundreds of other quests to go and do in Cyrodiil.
  
  The most interesting of these side quests is joining the various guild of Cyrodiil these are the; 
 Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves Guild, Dark Brotherhood and Arena. The names of the guilds 
 pretty much suggest what they are except for the Dark Brotherhood which is a guild of assassins. 
 If you join this dark and secretive guild you spend your days killing various targets for money. 
 The other guilds deal with their specific area; the fighters act as mercenaries for hire, the mages 
 act as developers of magic and cleansers of dark magic users, the thieves spend their days stealing 
 specific items for profit and the Arena has you fighting to the death in a Gladiator style arena 
 till you are champion of the arena.
  
  If you complete all the quests (Which will take you a hell of a long time) all is not lost. The 
 land of Cyrodiil is large and vast and there are many adventures of your own creation to be had 
 in the many dungeons, ruins and caves of the land. Or you could alternatively settle down in one 
 of the houses you can buy and furnish in Cyrodiil and spend your days regaling in your past conquests. 
 The choice is ultimately yours and this word, "Choice" is the pinnacle word to describe Oblivion. 
 Choice is the basis of the game, you do not have to do the main quest, you do not have to explore, 
 and basically you do not have to do anything if you don't want to in Oblivion and this for me is 
 what makes Oblivion a near perfect example of the Role-Playing game genre and how it's evolving 
 year by year.
  
  So this completes my short but hopefully interesting review of Oblivion and it's many wonders (Hopefully 
 it's all coherent lol) . Check out below for my ratings of the game overall and I'll catch you next 
 time, game away!!
  
  
  PROS
  Next-Gen graphics, Great replayability, Interesting storyline, Plenty to do
  CONS
  Repetitive 
 Audio, Not alot of major settlements, Graphical issues on PC
  GRAPHICS: 9.0
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5
  REPLAYABILITY: 8.5
  AUDIO: 7.0
  OVERALL: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tao_1
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a visual master piece. Unfortunately the game play lacks in many areas, especially 
 as compared to its predecessor Morrowind.
  
  First the scale of the Oblivion world is makes for easy travel, but leaves a weird impression of 
 being small. It seems as if the whole province is only a couple miles wide.
  
  Mainly the gameplay is dumbed down compared to Morrowind. For example weapons do 1-30 damage in 
 the game. with a set value. For example a fairly powerful sword will do 16. Morrowind on the other 
 hand had weapons that not only did a range of damage, but had more scale of separation. A basic 
 weapon did 1-5 dam, and a end game weapon would do 50-80 damage.
  Also the spells are dumbed down with alot of the cool ones gone such as levitate. Also enchanting 
 is dumbed down as well as spell making.
  
  It still is not a bad strategy game and has the best graphics to date. It is simply disappointing 
 to play after playing Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argonianfreak2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is huge, the world spans over hundreds of game miles and you can go anywhere. The size 
 of the world adds to the feeling of being in the game. If someone tells you something is far to 
 the north, they mean it!
  
  the characters all have a 24 hour schedule and follow it religously some will actually attack you 
 just for talking to them. Each person has a different personallity, making difficult to tell how 
 people will react to your character. This kind of in-depth detail took three years to develop. 
 Bethesda has put masive time and efftort to make one of the greatest RPG's ever
  
  The story revolves around you and the last heir if the emporer who must light the dragonfires before 
 this huge bad dude comes out of oblivion and detroys everything. Just after the second mission 
 in which you save Martin the last emporer, hundreds of the gates known as oblivion gate open up 
 all over Tamriel. Demonic creatures begin pouring out of these gates which must be closed to stop 
 them. And by pouring out I mean literally waves of bad guys coming at you in the last few gates.
 
  
  The gameplay itself is a little challenging at first but once you get the hang of it you'll be 
 hacking away at various creatures with perfect ease. Controls do what you want so you never have 
 to worry about accidentally hurting your partners, or running off a cliff. (unless your acrobatics 
 are high and you want to test them.)
  
  The variety of creatures is kind of linear outside of the world of Oblivion compared to Morrowind 
 but the expansion The Shivering Isles makes up for that. 
  
  The fourth game in this excelltent series is one of the greatest games ever made. I would advise 
 anyone who likes RPG's to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game505
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is interesting and it has great graphics but the story isn't that great. Gaming is great, 
 you can touch, open almost everything. You can talk to everyone. But the game is happening in nigh 
 age. At first it looks the game is great but more you played, more you hatted. You mast think when 
 playing. You can go to jail, you can rob someone, you can pic-lock. The game is weary big. I am 
 at 20 hours, and I can't play it anymore it is going on my nerves. And it is boring at some stages. 
 If the game was happening in this age, it would be more interesting to play.
  You are a knight who is doing some tasks and joining some "clubs". You get coin for every task, 
 you can bye some stuff or make your own potion. You can ride a horse and you can have fight with 
 the "cops". You can pay your globe or go to jail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games every made, this is truly addictive, i play it for hours and hours 
 and still i find new things to do and to wear or fight with. the collection of armore and blades 
 and so on is so large that you can never fight with all of them. they graphics look great, the 
 ai of the enemys could have bin a bit better but i aint complaining, the leveling up system is 
 someting that more games should have, it also makes the game more intresting. i am already waiting 
 for the next elder scroll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoWilson
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion absolutely has a place in the top 5 games i have ever played. Not only that the story 
 itself is good but it seems everything surrounding is fantastically made. First, gameplay system 
 - one of the best as the map, character creation, quest systems are very convenience and you can't 
 complain about this. Graphic is one of the best today, but it's been a year and the video & graphics 
 industry rapidly grown, it might not look as shiny as those newly released RPG but still, with 
 some texture improvement packs (modification) it look sophisticated. Value, high replay value as 
 you there are various mods from both Bethesda and the community, you can finish the game in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series is nothing to sneeze at in the gaming community. This series has been 
 known for innovative and immersive gameplay for a long time now. Morrowind was indeed a hard game 
 to follow-up on, and this game doesn't do a good job of it. (It does a SPECTACULAR job of it.)
 
  
  It's hard to look at this game and not give it a 10 out of 10, but the few flaws can't simply be 
 overlooked. Since these are the most minor issues, and there's so few, we'll talk about THEM real 
 quick. For one thing, the naggy little loading points every now and then can really irritate someone 
 that gets truly immersed in this amazing world, but unless your running on a bare-bones, barely-able-to-play-the-game 
 computer, these shouldn't be much of a problem. The other issue is the various little bugs that 
 can really mess up the experience (How much do you think you're going to like getting stuck on 
 a rock you've ran over several times in game before, thus having to reload the game?) . The game 
 is plagued with a few minor bugs that pester you now and then, but they're rare for the most part 
 and not to the greatest extent worth griping about. (You can save ANYWHERE, so you shouldn't have 
 much trouble if you have to reload unless you're a chronic save postponer.)
  
  Now, let's move on to the gameplay. To sum it up in one word, let's say "Excellent." Not many games 
 can capture the essence of so many genres in one and combine them so fluidly that you can play 
 any way you want. We'll start off with combat.
  
  If you want to go head-to-head with an enemy in some raging Melee combat, feel free. Though attacking 
 and blocking is as simple as pressing a button, the overall feel of combat in the game is rather 
 invigorating as you find yourself trying to cleverly outsmart your opponents and exploit them to 
 your attacks. If you so choose, you can be a Marksman, best combined with some great stealth abilities. 
 A well placed arrow with a dab of poison can take an opponent down with one shot while sneaking 
 (Journeyman [Rank 4] Stealth bonus includes the ability to get a stealth damage bonus for any non-two 
 handed weapon.) Also, never forget the amazing catalog of magic spells at your disposal. With a 
 few hundred spells to offer, it may not sound 'astonishing', but if you are so inclined to do a 
 little work and get into the Mage's guild, you can actually create your OWN spells, and even enchant 
 weapons with magical effects. (Fire sword that absorbs health, anyone? How about a bow that magically 
 imbues its arrows with the ability to explode? Maybe you should even get a bow that fires paralyzing 
 arrows.) Combat will be a key item in the game, so it's nice to know it's so refined.
  
  Also, depending on YOUR tastes, you can pretty much have a character that's anything you want. 
 Do you want a chubby lizard-man that's masterful at swinging a big club (Barbarian much?) ? How 
 about a drunkard human that loves to fight with his fists? (Try the Nord human race for this, instead 
 of the Imperial or Redguard, which are also humans. Nords drink a lot anyway...) The first thing 
 you find yourself doing is making your character's appearance with a very robust character editor, 
 choosing a gender and one of 10 (Yes, 10!) races, then editing their appearance to your hearts 
 content. After this, you are faced with trials and tribulations alongside Emperor Uriel Septim 
 as he and his royal guard attempt to escape through the sewers using a secret passage in YOUR jail-cell 
 (Convenient, eh?) . Near the end of the sequence the game will automatically choose a class based 
 on the way you've played and ask if you want to use it. If you don't, you can choose from 20+ others, 
 or better yet, make your own. After you set this up, you make one final, swift escape from the 
 sewers in which you are asked ONE LAST TIME to make ANY changes to your character (even appearance... 
 wow, what magic it is to change yourself so.) before you enter the entire game-world.
  
  Now that you've made YOUR character, it's time to go off into the world and meet everyone else. 
 There are several towns in the game, along with several remote locations (Camping Spots, Roadside 
 Cabins/Inns) to meet some generous (Or not so generous) people. As you travel throughout towns, 
 you'll see that every person in the game has their own little routine. They also have another dynamic 
 feature: They're own little impact on the game. Almost any character (excluding Guild/Main Quest 
 important patrons) can be killed. Watch who you slaughter, though. Even if you're a killing madman, 
 there are some characters more worth killing in the game. If you kill everyone you see, you may 
 close some doors to fun quests in the game, or quests that just plain get you cool stuff. Some 
 characters come back to life after a while, and others will remain dead (And in the same spot as 
 where murdered. Goody!) . Don't expect to just go off killing people all willy-nilly either. This 
 game has law enforcement, and unless you're playing with the difficulty slider REALLY far to the 
 left, they will usually kill you if you resist them, as they're always 10 levels above you. Other 
 than resisting arrest you can pay your fine (each crime in game, such as assault, murder, thievery, 
 and breaking in, all have their own separate fines that eventually add up.) or go to jail (In which 
 there are several ways to break out... but I won't spoil that for you.) . If you choose the latter, 
 you're bound to escape or lose skill points for not doing so. Depending on how long you have in 
 prison, you can lose up to TEN skill points for varying skills. This is NOT good.
  
  Speaking of skills, this may be one of the best parts of the game. Depending on the class you chose 
 (or made) at the beginning of the game, you'll have 7 of the 21 skills at your disposal as 'major' 
 skills. What does this mean? Well, for one, major skills start out at Journeyman, or Rank 4, level, 
 enabling an instant perk, of which there are 5 for each skill (Which you earn every skill rank.) . 
 For instance, if you like to use melee weapons then getting a higher rank for the class (Blade, 
 Blunt, Hand-to-Hand, etc.) , you will earn more powerful attacks as perks. If you use magic, you'll 
 earn the ability to wield much more powerful spells. If you upgrade acrobatic all the way to level 
 100 (Rank 1, Master) , this otherwise nearly useless skill allows you to actually be able to hop 
 across water with proper jump timing. The lowest Rank is 5, or Novice, which is levels 1 to 24. 
 Rank 4, or Journeyman, is levels 25 to 49. Rank 3, or Apprentice, is levels 50 to 74. Rank 2, or 
 Expert, is levels 75 to 99. And the best rank of all is Master, earned with a level 100 skill. 
 And your MAJOR skills also play another, more important role in the game. Each time you level one 
 of your MAJOR (no, minors count in no way towards this.) skills, you add experience towards your 
 overall character level. Every 10 skill levels earned (Any combination of the 7 skills will do, 
 just as long as you earn 10 skill levels combined) allows you to level up the next time you sleep 
 in a bed, increasing your overall stats.
  
  Now that we've got gameplay out of the way (Well, all that I could explain here.) , let's delve 
 into the Graphics. As long as you have a powerful graphics card and at least 1 GB of RAM (1.5 GB 
 or higher recommended) , you can crank the graphics up as high as they can be. However, you'll take 
 a pretty hefty toll on your Frame Rate if you play with the bare minimals to do this, and you'll 
 still experience a good bit of lag on some of the epic battle scenes with only 1 GB of memory. 
 The graphics, at their max, are rather amazing. This game is beautiful in nearly every aspect, 
 the only thing degrading being the fact that there are (Yes, there actually are.) better Humanoid 
 models out there, but that doesn't change much. The landscaping is beautiful, and you'll want to 
 take the time to appreciate the game quite often, as long as you're not busy doing something else.
 
  
  The sound is excellent as well. Each and every bit of dialogue in the game is voiced by excellent 
 voice actors. (Come on, you've got Xavier from X-Men playing the Emperor... and a few other roles 
 if you listen carefully.) The sound effects are quite nice as well, but nothing absolutely astonishing. 
 As for the music, it's nothing to clamor for, but it's good enough to keep you amused as you play. 
 (Though you'll mainly be focusing on the taunts your opponents throw at you while you fight them.)
 
  
  And since you're playing the PC version, you can download a tool to edit the game and, better yet, 
 download one of the hundreds of mods available. Do you want to have a team of allies to follow 
 you around and level up with you as you play, but don't want them to die? Then a mod for some levelling 
 allies set to 'Important' (i. e. They come back to life after around 30 seconds) status is for you. 
 Some of these characters even come with bonus command mods that allow you to give your little squadron/sidekick 
 orders on what to do. And of course, since they're YOUR allies, you can outfit them however you 
 want, making the game more immersive than ever. If that doesn't pique your interest, then how about 
 you get some custom-made races, guilds, or quests? No? Why not check out some brand new villages? 
 Or even take your chances playing with an enhanced battle system (Area damage and realistic weapon 
 balancing making for a TOUGH challenge in EVERY fight.) . Still not what you want? Well, you can 
 find new NPCs, enemies, weapons, armor, accessories, spells, and much more. (Google Oblivion Mods, 
 and poof.)
  
  Overall this game is nearly perfect, but a couple of very minor bugs barely keep it from greatness. 
 No matter what, if your computer can handle it, I recommend you buy it. If you can't play it on 
 the computer, then try the X-Box 360 or PS3 version if you own one, or even the scaled down PSP 
 version. (Overall, due to the fan made mods, the PC version is still the most enjoyable version 
 of the game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  How much free time do you have? It's a legitimate question if you're considering Bethesda's epic 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, as it's likely to engulf whatever tidbits of unoccupied hours permeate 
 your life. It might even start chipping away your daily responsibilities. With over 200 hours of 
 gameplay, Oblivion's depth is nothing short of staggering. However, depth means nothing if it's 
 paired with crippling bugs or frustrating gameplay. Though Oblivion has a few issues, it thankfully 
 avoids any major blunders, making this the best single-player role-playing experience to come along 
 in years.
  And i am sure that all single player gamers would love this game. No multiplayer!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-origin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to do pretty much anything you want, at any time you want. It has almost a 
 thousand NPCs, all of whom have their own seperate AI packages installed, and a world that stretches 
 over 15km. Furthermore, it has adjustable difficulty, the controls and gameplay are relatively 
 easy to get a hold of. The scenery in the game is great, and the textures are amazing.
  
  What could be improved on, is to make the textures have a higher resolution, as, when you get closer 
 to something, you start to see the flaws in it.
  Furthermore, the AI could have been more complex - but apparently the creators of Oblivion had 
 to dumb down the AI so that you can find the characters better, so it's forgivable.
  
  The replayability of this game is only constrained by the fact that you have to go through the 
 same dungeon x100 times... However, this problem can easily be solved by keeping a saved file at 
 the end of the dungeon, before you leave into the open.
  
  All in all, one of the best RPGs ever, unique in it's face generation, and scenery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalek200
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I had never played an RPG before and didn't really know what to expect, but this game is awesome. 
 It is easy to get in to and there is some really nice armour e. g. Daedric. You just select your 
 race, what you look like, your type (what things you are good at) , your birth sign and off you 
 go once you are out of the sewers. The graphics are some of the best in a released game.
  This is a truly awesome game. I would definitely recommend it to anyone.
  And if you want some 
 more content you can easily download some more or download the construction set and make your own 
 stuff very easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game. I consider myself a RPG lover. And Oblivion give me everything I would 
 ever wanted from this kind of game. It is amazing the fact that you can practically do what ever 
 you want to do. Grab, collect, push, move almost everything. It gives you a lot of freedom plus 
 a lot of hours of exiting game play. It is hard to get tired of this game. You can get rich by 
 collecting and selling armor, you can invest in stores, you can be part of the many different guilds, 
 and you can even become a vampire. Can you believe a game where you can do all this? 
  There is so much about this game that if I keep going I would never stop. This game is a paramount 
 for the RPG to come, although I think it would be hard to get even close. I just can wait for the 
 next elders scroll game in the series, but this time I'll play it in the Xbox.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrabbit99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the latest from the elder scrolls series. The game is very imersfull filled with lots 
 of relpay value. I own an above average laptop and the graphics are good. The only problem is in 
 combat when the framerate slows. 
  The world itself has so much to explore. The game is a must buy for any rpg fan, whether you like 
 bein a thief, a mage, a fighter or anything in between, the game will acomidate you. 
  Oblivion is the best rpg ever, and now is the best time to buy it if you haven't already. They 
 just camo out with the game of the year addition, with all the expantions. 
  
  
  The game is hard to describe, but it's a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackoracle16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  There is simply nothing to not like about this game. Every aspect of it was perfect. I loved the 
 complete custimization, you could have every thing from tiny eyes to huge nose. The different types 
 of clothing, armor, weapons, spells, etc. were just amazing, which leads me to combat. The combat 
 wasn't the best, but with everything else awesome, I really didn't care. The music in this really 
 set the tone of the game. Like that eerie music you hear in dungeons, it just makes you feel like 
 there's another troll around the corner, or out in the sunshine, with that sort of peaceful music 
 that really puts you in the game. Don't even get me started on the graphics, those were just outstanding 
 in every way possible. You've really got to see it to believe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kole37
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is without doubt one of the greatest games ever, and the best rpg so far. Every aspect of 
 the game is nearly perfect. I say nearly because i think Bethesda can do a even better job. This 
 game has everything to make it a true classic: great gameplay, great story, Huge world... It is like 
 a improvement of its predecessor Morrowind. I hoping the next part of the saga will be even better 
 than Oblivion. Everybody who is thinking of buying this game should do it its worth  
 whatever your currency is) . Only thing i didn't like is that in Morrowind you had more weapons than 
 in Oblivion. With all that said if you are a gamer of any sort Oblivion is a must have, a true classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWBFIIMast3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is exellent. It's perfect. I could NEVER ask for a better game. The graphics are stunning, 
 even on my engine. (which is very bad. = [) The quests are entertaining and keep you going a very 
 long time. You can do the main quest, but you don't HAVE to. The one thing I don't like about Oblivion 
 is that when I went to level a character then went on to the main quest, the main quest was much 
 harder. So I recommend starting the main quest right away. Then go on to the side quests. This 
 game has so many things you can do. I really feel like I'm living another life. This is bad because 
 it seems that I'm putting more time and devotion into my Oblivion life than in REAL life. I have 
 become anti-social because of Oblivion. My next action is to sue Bethesda for my lack of friends. 
 I mean really, what other game can you do everything? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzo1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The previous Eldar scrolls games were really lame to me so i was suprised when i saw Oblivoin i 
 checked out the review and bought it. and when i started playing it i could not stop. The graphics 
 are great compared to morrowind and the sounds great. and this game really encourages you to play 
 it even after you finish the main story. Another thing is that it much much easier than morrowind 
 the game tells you or shows you an arrow on where to go next unlike morrowind. and when i played 
 morrowind i could not pass that quest where you have to kill 3 rats. Anyway Oblivion has great 
 combat and there are lots of weapens and carectors you can kill. and my personal favourite is the 
 arena quest where you have to fight other arena combatents its really fun and challenging. Oblivion 
 is a great game one of the best i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hopsman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun to play and certainly better looking than the Elder Scrolls III. However, I felt 
 less invovled in the story and the leveling system seems to need some work as the creatures you 
 meet just wandering about in the land will make sudden leaps in difficulty as soon as you reach 
 a set level boundary. Two of the things I did enjoy about the game was the number of side quests 
 and the fast travel feature which really let you cut out a lot of the annoying travelling time 
 ifyou happened to die on a quest and had not saved. One flaw of the game that I have not already 
 mentioned is that you are given some quests much to early in level terms, meaning it is easier just 
 to run past all the creatures you are meant to fight and so, complete the quest in that manner rather 
 than that originally intended by the game designers.
  In conclusion a good game and enjoyable but some issues that need addressing (maybe in the expansions) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinochild
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  To all the reviews that love this game - yes, it's massive, expansive, populated with tonnes of 
 characters, quests, and ruins and provides hours and hours of playability. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 this game until I got to about level 15 or so. Then it became repetitious and boring. 
  
  Let's start with the interface. They only allow 8 total hotkeys. Would it kill them to have 10? 
 Maybe 20 or 30 using the ctrl or alt keys?
  
  VOICES - They have some great actors in this game. Unfortunately, they're asked to voice over uninspired 
 dialogue, useless dialogue, and tell stories that fail to engage a player beyond the typical 'just 
 tell me what I need to do next' i. e. no emotional attachment to the story. Beyond that - and I'll 
 blame the director for this - the voices for different npcs are often indistinguishable. The more 
 people you talk to, the more they all sound the same. There's also the issue of the change in voice 
 from the standard things you can talk to them about and then when you attempt to improve their 
 feelings towards you with the speechcraft wheel. 
  
  Speaking of the speechcraft wheel, this thing is next to useless. Rarely does an improved opinion 
 result in any significant different in the way you're treated or information you can glean, and 
 even when it does, it's so simple as to be redundant. It's especially redundant once you get a 
 charm spell - since no one seems to mind you casting a charm spell on them. 
  
  While we're talking about npcs - it can alter the game in many ways if certain npcs are killed 
 - for example, the person who sells horses. Of course, I don't see why anyone would want to buy 
 a horse. You can't attack while mounted, you can't outrun the bears and wolves that populate the 
 world. Horses are more trouble than they're worth.
  
  COMBAT - I enjoyed the combat for the most part, but it soon became repetitive. Wait for them to 
 attack while you block, then hit them twice, block again... or just carve them up. At the standard 
 difficulty setting, unless you're being attacked by a horde, I don't see how you could lose a fight. 
 When I first played the game, I set the difficulty level up one notch and the game was nearly unplayable. 
 I was being killed by rats. 
  
  The biggest problem with the combat is the opponents. As you increase in level, the npc monsters 
 you face change - they get stronger. Some people complain about this, but imagine how boring it 
 would be if you had to fight rats and goblins the whole game? Once you hit level 10 or 15 or so, 
 you max out on the type of creatures you face. It's bears and wolves and bandits in the wilderness, 
 daedroth, spider daedra, etc in oblivion... what happened to the escalation? I got so bored, I 
 stopped fighting. I just walked around invisible all the time. 
  
  CHARACTER CUSTOMIZATION - This kind of flexibility is common in just about every game these days, 
 although considering the degree of detail you can put into your character's face, you'd think that 
 a) it would somehow play in the game, and b) that you'd actually be able to make yourself not look 
 like some sort of ugly, deformed pig-man. If there was a multiplayer aspect to the game, perhaps 
 detailing out your jawline and eye shape would be useful, but since no one is looking at you, including 
 yourself, what's the point?
  
  Choosing skills is nice - and there's a nice variety, but it seems like increasing skill levels 
 is too easy in some cases and too hard in others. In just about all cases, it seems like there's 
 a ... cheesy? way to improve. You want higher Restoration? Continually cast restoration spells. 
 You want higher sneak? Sneak around a stationary character (ideally using the 'q' key and running 
 into a wall so you don't even have to play) . Now, I don't play 'cheesily', but when there's a mysticism 
 spell I can't use until I reach level 50 and I'm at level 45, I start casting 'life detection' 
 constantly and for no good reason. It's lame, but I'm not given any REASON to use my skills in 
 the course of play often enough that they would increase at a reasonable rate. Try to increase 
 your Mercantile skill - I had it as one of my top 10 skills and at character level 40 I was barely 
 a journeyman. 
  
  On the theme of repetition and boringness - there are basically three terrains in the world - forest, 
 snowy forest, and swampy forest with a varying degree of rocks. It's great fun exploring for the 
 first while - the game is truly immense and you get a good sense of that. There are ruins and caves 
 all over the place which is a great incentive to go out exploring for exploration's sake, but the 
 rewards for finding them, and exploring them quickly become insignificant. They're all the same! 
 There's not even a 'boss' to beat. The same is true for the oblivion realms. Sure there's different 
 layouts, but these just get frustrating after you've gone through 10 of them, and easy to figure 
 out once you've gone through 11. (often, I'd end up just running across the lava) . 
  
  Some other quibbles - why are daedric weapons and armour the best out there? What if I don't want 
 to look like a demon? Considering how far to the 'good' the game is slanted, why would people tolerate 
 me walking around in armour forged in hell and why would I want to wear it if I'm such a great 
 guy?
  
  Also, if you ever get into a combat situation and other 'friendlies' come along to help you out, 
 if you attempt to engage the enemy, more often than not you end up striking the friendly. Often, 
 these friendlies have a low tolerance for your inaccuracy and will attack you. Worse, sometimes 
 a single strike against a friendly will end up alerting the guards and they'll come in to either 
 fine you, take you to jail, or just take you down. It's incredibly annoying. The best is when you're 
 fighting an enemy, accidentally hit a friendly, have the guards attack you, and then have your 
 fellow guild mates attack the guards because they're sticking up for you (and of course, they don't 
 get arrested) . How ridiculous.
  
  And finally (for this review anyway) the story. Yeah, yeah - cliche you say. But hey, it's fantasy 
 so I accept the illegitimate heir who must save the world from an incursion of evil. My problem 
 is that I'M NOT THE ILLEGITIMATE HEIR!!! This is a classic example of the game industry not giving 
 story the attention is deserves. One of the most basic principles of story telling is that the 
 PROTAGONIST is the one who takes action/changes/changes the world and in every game, the protagonist 
 is/should be the PLAYER.
  
  As I got toward the end of the main quest, I started thinking the writer actually had a surprise 
 in store for me (later I learned that they didn't bother even hiring a writer - I assume the designers 
 came up with the story) . I thought - hey, this ISN'T about Martin saving the world - it's going 
 to be about Martin taking over the world - all that backstory about him dabbling in the dark arts 
 could come back and he's been using me as his pawn to actually open up this super-gate. But no. 
 Nope, instead I escort him to the imperial city, where I get to sit frozen by the game while I 
 watch a cinematic of him saving the world. Wow, that was so much fun for me. 
  
  Here's what they didn't realize. I would have LOVED to DIE. How cool would it have been if I - 
 the player - was called upon to sacrifice myself to save the world, turn into a flaming dragon, 
 and kick some demon's ass and then become immortalized in a statue? DAMN cool is the answer. That 
 would been tremendously satisfying emotionally. But few game producers would think that's a good 
 idea - because players want to keep on playing. Guess what? I was bored out of my mind by this 
 point. This could have saved the game for me. If I then started a new character, but saw my statue 
 standing in the center of imperial city, that would have been cool. 
  
  Instead, it's just another standard, cliched story we see in every other rpg. And until the industry 
 accepts that you need to START with a story and not with game mechanics (and perhaps some companies 
 are beginning to consider this) , we're doomed to live out stories that only appeal to 8-year-olds. 
 
  
  So, in closing, Oblivion is a great game by most standards for the first 20 hours, but after that 
 it's just another dungeon hack. Still, it's worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxhammer
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  It is boring, does not have a fun combat system, enemies are lame, and it requires you to do a 
 multitude of tedious tasks for little reward. I do not understand why it is rated so high. I am 
 upset that I actually bought this game based off the reviews only, now i have an expensive frisbee. 
 I like role playing games so i was looking forward to this game but it did not deliver. The character 
 models are pathetic as well as the imaginiation of the design of the creatures you may encounter 
 in your tedious journey. This game is overrated! DAMN IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_jay
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The TES: Oblivion is really good, from the good gameplay and open-ended world that corresponds 
 to your level this game is giving a gamer one good RPG game to play, but it lacks something, and 
 I think its the leveling system, I cant stand using protect spell over and over again! I'm here 
 to play and be thrilled not to hold down "C" and watching my character shining, the environment 
 is good but while exploring the caves it gives me the "I explored this cave already" feeling, the 
 enemies gives me some thrill factor but when you get the better equip fighting Ogre Cave Boss is 
 the same as fighting Ogre Groundling even at hardest difficulty. over all you will enjoy this if 
 your a TES gamer and loves routined work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  The game is populated with over 1,000 NPCs, each leading a fully realized life, following regular 
 schedules according to their individual wants, needs, and positions. Players are encouraged to 
 interact in the world as they choose, as noble heroes, greedy villains, or anything in between. 
 The game's main story is designed to conform to characters of any moral bent, and plenty of side-missions 
 provide extra adventuring for all.
  
  Oblivion is a fantasy-based role-playing adventure game and an example of open-ended or sandbox 
 gameplay. The main quest may be delayed or completely ignored as the player explores a game world 
 consisting of approximately 16 square miles of terrain, following side quests, interacting with 
 NPCs, and developing a character according to their taste. The player is free to go anywhere in 
 the land of Cyrodiil at any time while playing the game with no penalty, and even after completing 
 the main quest storyline the game never ends. Oblivion allows the player to build their character 
 in whatever way they want, with no restrictions on skills or equipment. The game contains many 
 enemies for the player to fight, including monsters, demons, and animals. Many enemies, quests, 
 and treasures are "leveled," or become increasingly difficult, as the player gains levels. The 
 player, however, has the option of adjusting the difficulty level.
  
  The fast-travel system found in Daggerfall but not Morrowind returned in Oblivion. Oblivion also 
 introduced ridable horses while removing Morrowind's transportation options, such as Mages' Guild 
 teleporters, silt striders and teleporting spells. The game also removed all levitation spells 
 and items, as the cities in Oblivion are separate cells from the rest of the world and thus must 
 be entered into, and exited from, the town gate to avoid glitches. The skills system is similar 
 to Morrowind's, though the number of skills is decreased, with the medium armor and unarmored skill 
 removed altogether, and the short blade and long blade skills condensed into a single blade skill. 
 The game also introduced "mastery levels," which give skill-specific bonuses when the player reaches 
 a certain level in that skill. The combat system was also revamped, with the addition of "power 
 attacks", generally given by mastery levels, and the removal of the separate styles of melee attacks 
 present in Morrowind. Ranged attacks were also changed, so that the determination of a hit is based 
 solely on whether the arrow struck the target in-game, rather than the character's skill level. 
 Spears, throwing weapons, and crossbows were removed as well, while staffs no longer counted as 
 weapons, but were only used for casting spells.
  
  Oblivion also added the idea of a leveled system, where the enemies encountered get progressively 
 stronger as the player gains experience, rather than staying at a constant level. Enemies also 
 gain increasingly better equipment, making higher level equipment largely inaccessible to a low 
 level character, and quite easily accessible to players of sufficiently high levels.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaking_pie
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a was 1 of the welled hyped games for the 360. It didn't live up to its word on a lot 
 of things and became a really big let down for me.
  The AI sounded amazing and it is 1 of the things that would have been amazing if they kept to their 
 word. The AI turned into pretty boring were the NPC does what it needs to and then goes home and 
 sleeps. This was of course sounding way better when it was talked about, like how NPC were meant 
 to hunt, shop and all that stuff.
  The graphics were surprisingly a let down, when people talked about it before it was released it 
 was said to be something you might want to just look at. When I got the game I was annoyed, I looked 
 into the distance and it was really smudgy. 
  The combat is better compared to Morrowind, in the fact that if you swing and it hits the enemy 
 you will hit, instead of it being random with a chance of a miss. Switching between magic and swords 
 in Morrowind was also really annoying, which was changed so that you never needed to switch to 
 magic. The combat still gets boring after awhile.
  The thing I like most about The Elder Scrolls Series is the construction set. This allowed for 
 mods to be made if you had the time. If you didn't you could get other peoples mods. With mods 
 you can make the game look a lot better.
  All in all its an ok game, but with a big let down if you had been expecting it. Though after awhile 
 the game gets repetitive and quickly becomes boring once you've done everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaryad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  When I played TES Morrowind I thought it would take lots of hard work and creativity to beat the 
 wonderful and complex history of Morrowind. I don't speak only about the graphics here, because 
 graphic quality changes with time... So, speaking about the plot... how can Mehrunes Dagon defeat 
 the charisma of Dagoth Ur? And on Morrowind we were the Nerevarine (mysterious and unknown at first) 
 and not the middle-hero of Kvatch (at first, I know but...) . 
  So, graphics: Oblivion is the best, of course, think about those natural environments, architectural 
 spaces, the sky, the grass, the vast world to explore, etc.
  Playability: I prefer Morrowind's. Sometimes on Oblivion our character doesn't move so smoothly 
 (and I have maxed Speed and Agility) . On Morrowind we could levitate... please, how could they 
 have taken from us the benefits of levitation?
  Plot: Well, about the main story, I go for Morrowind's again, apart from being very short (but 
 this is a matter of taste right?) . About the secondary quests I think Oblivion exceeded expectations 
 (I loved the quest about Dreamworld in Bravil) and managed to place some puzzles that reminded 
 us about those sweet old adventure games, but not so hard, and that's a pity.
  Other: Oblivion brought us lots of improvements. The journal is not so confuse, and now we can 
 leave a secondary quest for later *without* forgetting bout it's existence. The quest organization 
 is improved and good, you can choose your active quest and go for it, then you choose another, 
 etc. You have a list of completed quests and others to complete (and you always know were to go 
 on the map for each quest - 5 stars) .
  The horse is a wonderful idea if you need some speed and climbing expertise. Be careful not to 
 fall from your horse! And the option of fast travel (if you're not in the mood for bandits, finding 
 caves, gates to oblivion, ruins) its straight and clear.
  Gates to Oblivion: Nice at first, lots of boredom after (with increasing difficulty) . There's a 
 natural similarity with the daedric ruins of Morrowind but the realm of Oblivion is (visually) 
 breathtaking, specially when you can't find your way out of it...
  For me, it's a Masterpiece, like Morrowind, and a natural gathering of different arts into a videogame 
 that is totally immersive, like when you're reading a book and don't want to stop until reading 
 last page, and when you do, it's not over yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickside6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda Softworks newest addition to the Elder Scrolls is one of the best games ever made. A mixture 
 of Action, Adventure and RPG elements, this game is a gem to behold. 
  
  Some Good Points are:
  -Open Ended Game-play: There is huge land to walk around filled with monsters, 
 NPCs and Awsome vegetation.
  
  -Awesome Graphics: Environments with high detail vegetation, out of the world lighting and huge 
 drawing distances.
  
  -Genius Fighting system: The physics are really well done with special effect magic and a nice 
 Marksmen system.
  
  One bad point is:
  - It needs a really good computer to run without any lag and at high quality.
  
  Overall this 
 is an awesome game which is a must buy for every RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC1313_9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is probably the best RPG I have ever played. You are really made to feel part of the world 
 of Tamriel - allowing you to really play your "role".
  
  Quick rundown:
  
  +Excellent graphics
  +Excellent gameplay
  +Original
  +Quick loadtimes
  +Large areas
  
 +Many quests
  +Difficulty is completely adjustable
  +Many different races/classes to choose from
  +Many different items and spells to collect/learn
 
  
  -Boring after a while
  -No multiplayer
  
  The only problem with the game is that it gets boring after many hours of play - it gets quite 
 repetitive. However, the multitude of excellent mods make up for this, by providing knew items 
 and quests. Mods to improve graphcis further also exist.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone that is a fan of RPGs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  That's not a shot at younger people, just an admission that my tastes have changed as I've aged. 
 While I used to love leveling up a single character with beautiful scenery, games such as that 
 don't do it for me anymore. I want something deeper.
  
  Yes, the graphics are wonderful, but I find myself caring less and less about graphics as it always 
 seems graphics and game play are inversely proportional.
  
  That is to say, the actual game play left me wanting. The story is of the fairly unoriginal type, 
 evil is coming back and you must stop it. I'll admit, there's not many stories left that are truly 
 original, so really it comes down to the telling of the story. That is handled well, the voice 
 actors are fairly good. The quests themselves, however, boring.
  
  Okay, there's a few interesting quests, but the vast majority have you exploring some cave (read: 
 killing everything in said cave) , or fetching some item (read: killing everything surrounding said 
 item) . There's really just nothing interesting about the vast majority of quests. Generally you 
 have the options of, "I'll take on your quest!", or, "I'll take on your quest later!" There's no 
 decisions to make.
  
  Where's the Role Playing? No matter what character I make, it all ends up with me killing everything 
 I'm told to kill. Want to be a trader? Kill everything you're told to kill. Want to be a Paladin? 
 Kill everything you're told to kill. Want to sneak into a Thief's cave and join 'em? Too bad, you 
 have no other option but to kill them.
  
  Also, character interaction? I remember hearing one of the hyped features is that NPCs would talk 
 with each other. That sounds pretty cool but the execution is lackluster. You never get the feeling 
 that they're actually talking about something, rather, they're just saying words in turn while 
 facing each other. For example:
  
  NPC 1: "Fine weather we're having!"
  NPC 2: "I can't find my shoes."
  NPC 1: "Bye."
  
  I suppose I need to just accept RPG really 
 doesn't mean anything anymore as anything that lets you level is automatically an RPG.
  
  By far what I found most disappointing about Oblivion, is leveled creatures. I understand the theory 
 behind it, "Make everything stay at the player's level so we don't have to actually make challenging 
 fights!" On paper it sounds great! In game, it means no matter how far into the game you get, those 
 creatures you saw at level one are now just as tough as you since they increased in level and have 
 better gear.
  
  First off, that just doesn't make any sense. Why would a highway robber still be highway robbering 
 when he's carrying around gear that would sell for thousands? Second, it takes away the feeling 
 of accomplishment. What's the point of improving your character if everything else improves at 
 the same rate? This leads to the third point. Because everything stays the level you are, that 
 means you can complete the game as early as you want, because even bosses are your level. Why spend 
 time leveling up if a boss is even easier when you DON'T level?
  
  This also carries over to exploring; there's no point other than finding interesting arrangements 
 of trees. When you come across a cave, you know it's either filled with undead, cultists, or thieves 
 that will all attack you on sight. Furthermore, you also know they are all adjusted to your level 
 guaranteeing no amazing gear is within unless you already own amazing gear, in which case the amazing 
 gear that drops is worthless to you.
  
  I won't say the skill system is entirely bad, but suffice it to say, I was left unimpressed. I 
 can't quite put my finger on what it is, but every character I rolled, no matter the striking difference 
 in descriptions, played almost the same. Either I shot things at it, or I swung things at it.
 
  
  In the end Oblivion is definitely not a game I'll come back to play again. I played through it 
 once and even through that I felt it was a game I had played before. Just prettier. Killing an 
 enemy just felt empty. There's no reason to kill it beyond doing what you were told or to level 
 a skill. That just isn't deep enough for me anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_white
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is another RPG but with combination of freeform gameplay. It has huge world to explore. 
 You're free to go anywhere you want, of course inside a land of Cyrodill.
  Oblivion starts with murder of emperor and you are great hero that emperor dreamed so you must 
 save Cyrodill from demons and find lost hair. It's simple, you make your own character and his 
 seven mayor skills and you begin this adventure. You also can joined the guilds such as thieves 
 or mages guilds. Oblivion has many quests. For me the main quest is too short but it's still exiting. 
 You have many weapons to choose, many spells and some things that haven't any role in this game 
 ( bone, spoon) .
  Oblivion is virtual fantasy world that many of us, true lovers of RPG, been waiting for a long 
 time :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is probably the best example today of great marketing. Everybody 
 was so completely sold on the graphics and the expansive game world that only by carefully examining 
 the gameplay mechanics do you realize just how truly awful, uninspired and rushed this game is. 
 All of the basic immersion and gameplay factors that you would expect in such an epic RPG are oddly 
 missing or have somehow been horribly butchered, and this review will tell you what I mean.
  
  The gameplay is extremely deceptive. You will definitely be hooked at the very beginning as 
 the in-door environments look phenomenal and there isn't anything truly wrong with the intro level. 
 The way the tutorial is setup is one of the most inspired and well-done portions of the game as 
 it serves as a plot device (you are escaping the jail whilst escorting the emperor to safety) and 
 as a weapons/gameplay tutorial. This is easily the best part of the game as it all goes downhill 
 from there. Let me first start by saying that the leveling system is DREADFUL. EVERY monster levels 
 up with you and will ALWAYS be more powerful than you no matter what. And, on top of this, unless 
 you are a full-on warrior or a full-on mage you will have a hell of a time beating the game, even 
 at the highest levels. Stealth characters play like complete crap after a very short amount of 
 time. They get noticed way too easily, are very weak at magic, melee attacks and defense, and their 
 stealth arrow shots don't do enough damage to kill enemies or almost kill them. The way you level 
 up is by increasing a certain amount of your primary skills which you need to choose VERY carefully 
 or else you will spend a LOT of grinding time leveling boring things like mysticism or alchemy. 
 You are actually much better beating the game at level 1 because then at least the enemies will 
 be more or less on par with your character (if you have good items, that is. Speaking of items, 
 it is just as easy to get crappy weapons and armor as it is to get the best weapons and armor, 
 and this is easily the worst design decision for any RPG, EVER) . There are virtually NO unique 
 bosses to fight like in every good RPG I've ever played, and there are no (save for maybe one or 
 two) unique and powerful weapons to obtain that take a vast effort to acquire. Exploring is a complete 
 waste of time because all of the enemies will level up with you and you are never going to find 
 a unique dungeon with unique loot and bosses. Absolutely terrible. On top of this, combat itself 
 is very boring, repetitive and uninspired. All you can do is block, shoot arrows, swing a sword/axe/dagger, 
 use 3 different types of offensive magic (whose effects NEVER change - fire, ice, lightning - you 
 get other magic like burden, invisibility, feather and some others, but they aren't really THAT 
 great) . It's all great fun for a day or two, but you'll get bored by it very quickly as NOTHING 
 stands out in ANY way shape or form. Buying items at shops is useless as they never have anything 
 good to sell and you can just steal them all pretty easily anyway. If you get caught murdering 
 or stealing, though, be prepared for one hell of a lame time trying to avoid deadly and all-knowing 
 guards who somehow know everything you've ever done even if you committed the act on the other 
 side of the universe. Overall the A. I. is just terribly coded, and the gameplay itself is very 
 broken. A neat little feature, though, is the lockpick feature that, although broken, is pretty 
 fun to use. If you have a lockpick then you can play a minigame with 1-5 minilocks that you have 
 to pick in order to open the door or chest. Once the pick reaches the top of the lock then you 
 have to left click in order to keep it in place. If you mess up any of them then you start all 
 over again (and messing up will break your lockpick. The broken aspects about this game, though, 
 are that it is VERY easy at ANY level, lockpicks are extremely easy to acquire for free, and even 
 if you find a very hard lock to pick at level 1, you will 95% of the time be rewarded with something 
 like 15 gold and a carrot... (uhh, what?) ) . It is actually a relatively neat idea in theory which 
 i liked a lot, but it was executed beyond poorly. As a tangential topic, if you roll your character 
 as a thief then you will find that there is basically NOTHING worth stealing that every other class 
 couldn't get just as easily (if you spend enough time at the game then you can make every class 
 exactly like every other class  except that they all might have 
 different signs (signs being specific bonuses to your character that you pick for yourself at the 
 beginning (though none of them are THAT great in the overall scheme of things) when you choose 
 what class you want to be) ) . Although you can join guilds and eventually become the head of each 
 one, the benefits of being a guild leader are not worth your time. You get more gold, yes, but 
 since gold is pretty useless to begin with then the only reason you would ever bother becoming 
 a guild leader is to get bragging rights (yay...) . The only real use that gold has is that you 
 need a TON of it to recharge all of your magical weapons (on top of repairing all of your regular 
 armor and weapons) which is THE WORST IDEA EVER! To make magical weapons and items act like guns 
 that need reloading is such a weird and annoying design choice. Add to that the fact that the act 
 of recharging them takes a lot of time out of your gameplay (and is really expensive) and you've 
 got yet another broken and poorly implemented aspect of gameplay (you can essentially only recharge 
 your items and weapons at the mage's guild in the cities which can disrupt the immersion factor 
 a lot since you'll need to recharge fairly often) . Also, by the end of the game level-wise, you 
 will find that there is virtually nothing that separates light armor from heavy armor. By that 
 I mean they will eventually be the same stat-wise pretty much, and the only actual difference between 
 them will be their appearance and how much they encumber you (which, by that point, shouldn't be 
 too difficult to overcome) . The controls are actually pretty intuitive and work well (definitely 
 a good thing) , but, considering the rest of the gameplay doesn't add up, the controls don't do 
 much to save the game from its' various faults. Overall you will initially like the gameplay but 
 will end up getting bored to tears with it after a while.
  
  The graphics are the best part of the game, even IF they have problems too. For one thing, animations 
 are very stiff and rigid and they range from generally very mediocre to just plain bad. The jumping 
 animations are particularly awful as they don't look right at all. The first-person combat animations 
 are decent enough, but considering they will never improve or change throughout the entire game, 
 this is just plain lazy design. Speaking of never changing, ALL of the environments, despite being 
 pretty nice to look at (mostly the indoor parts, though) , repeat themselves ad nauseum. You'll 
 get sick of the fact that there are only like 6 different types of ruins/oblivion gate dungeon 
 designs (despite there being TONS of "uniquely" (just barely) named and positioned ruins and oblivion 
 gates all around the world) , and you'll get sick of the fact that the entire game world is made 
 up of nothing but endless forests with the same old enemies, NPCs, wolves, rocks, etc. Nothing 
 stands out. You would think they would include icy mountains (there is some, but they aren't cool 
 or big at all) , deserts, swamps, jungles, etc. Although they did this because of the lore, that 
 just tells you that the lore and story better be good enough to justify such a bad design decision 
 (they sadly are not) . All of the characters in the game look very ugly (though some monsters are 
 actually pretty well-modeled) , and despite you being able to customize your face to extremities, 
 you'll never get it to look right and it's all very pointless to begin with. It's pretty ironic, 
 too, that you can customize your face to no end, but when it comes to wearing armor and equipping 
 weapons there is just a disappointing lack of variety in the choices you can make (you can't add 
 dye to change the color of your clothes, and the actual amount of unique and interesting weapons 
 and armor in the game is way too low for an RPG like this) . Although mods help out with this, you'd 
 think the developers would do a good enough job to not make you have to search online for a better 
 version of their game. Everybody looks the same as no character stands out at all (although the 
 emperor at least has some appropriately unique royal garments on) , including yourself. If they 
 were aiming for an RPG with no standout characters and no real satisfying character development 
 then they definitely hit the nail on the head. Overall the graphics are terribly mediocre in the 
 grand scheme of things (only certain armor and a majority of the indoor graphics look very well 
 done) as there is just an absurd amount of repetition in every department. It's a visual treat 
 at first, but after a while you'll grow very very sick of it.
  
  The soundtrack to the game is pretty generic and not all that memorable. The weapon sound effects 
 are pretty well done, but all of the other sound effects are terrible. The reason for this is that 
 all of the monsters repeat dialogue and sounds that aren't that great to begin with (especially 
 all of the guards' dialogue which isn't that varied and is poorly acted out for the most part. 
 You'll get so annoyed listening to their meager attempts at jokes) . The worst part is twofold - 
 1. completely different NPCs will repeat the same dialogue and voiceovers a LOT so much so that 
 it destroys the immersion and believability factor (you can tell they either got very lazy or ran 
 out of money/development time/ideas) and 2. sometimes the same NPC will speak IN TWO DIFFERENT 
 VOICES! That's right - you will be talking to a beggar who sounds like a beggar, but then if you 
 talk to him again he will sound like an aristocrat. If this isn't broken I don't know what is. 
 The unique voiceovers, like that of the important NPCs like the emperor, are pretty decent, but 
 they aren't anything special. You can tell they were trying so hard to be the next Lord of the 
 Rings with their musical soundtrack (and even graphics - the Imperial City tower is such a ripoff 
 of Isengaard) that it's shameful. You won't be impressed by this soundtrack, that's for sure.
 
  
  The story itself is so generic and boring and doesn't even come off too greatly from the start. 
 Talking to the emperor at the beginning is actually kind of annoying, and talking to NPCs in general 
 is too. It's just not that thrilling of a system. The worst part is is that there are no standout 
 characters, there are no character arcs or plot twists really, and in general everything is just 
 extremely amateurish and derivative. You are essentially tasked by the emperor to find his son 
 (the remaining heir to the throne) and give him his amulet of kings. As long as an heir to the 
 throne is not wearing this amulet then the gates of Oblivion (hell) can be opened. It seems pretty 
 cool at first, but it ends up being very cliche and not even engaging at all. There is no real 
 drive to beat the main story line and the game doesn't even encourage you to do so. You're encouraged 
 to do all of the side quests (and there are TONS) scattered throughout the game, and it's dissapointing 
 that a lot of them are more fun than the main storyline (though not by much) . Even with the vast 
 amount of sidequests such as guild quests and the like, you are probably going to be so bored and 
 underwhelmed by all of the repetitive and amateurish portions of the game that you won't even care 
 enough to complete them.
  
  I obviously bashed this game a lot in this review, but it isn't the WORST game I have ever played. 
 Surely the controls are actually pretty easy to use and this helps things a lot, but the game relies 
 way too much on its' "newness" factor. By that I mean that at the time the graphics and the concept 
 of such a huge world was so new that just LOOKING at the game for the first time was enough to 
 keep you hooked for a while (I was a victim of this) . Like I stated above, however, if you give 
 it enough time you'll realize just how broken and underwhelming the game actually is. Except for 
 downloadable mods (if you have the 360 version then you are screwed in this case) , the game has 
 ZERO replayability. Even if you think that re-rolling as another class will grant you a much better 
 experience, you will be sorely disappointed. Just LEVELING another character will extremely frustrate 
 you to no end. Fortunately the user-created mods are about the best thing the game has going for 
 it besides its' beautiful indoor graphics, and this definitely boosts its' rating up a lot. There 
 are a lot of interesting mods out there to try out (including ones that try hard to fix the broken 
 leveling/monster system, and they more or less do a goob job. Sadly it is pretty hard and confusing 
 to get these to work and work correctly) , and although none of them make the game THAT much better 
 than it already is, they definitely help its' overall value. For a game as ambitious and hyped 
 as this, it is sad to see that it was so poorly made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate1222
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is, hands down, the greatest RPG ever made. IT redifines the term fan 
 controlled content . From the onset with designing your characters race, sex, initial abilities 
 and appearance-it emerses the player. You'll constantly find yourself tackling countless random 
 missions and striving to upgrade your character and/or join various guilds. The main story is interesting 
 enough; gateways into a hellish realm have been appearing all over the land (Tamriel) , the emporer 
 gets wacked after freeing you from prison to find his illegitimate son. The emporers son is the 
 key to closing these gates to Oblivion and restoring order to Tamriel. Once you've gotten past 
 the task of finding the Emporers son and givig him a trinkett to prove who his dad is, things open 
 up signifigantly. I highly advise you to tackle the aformentioned task and procede to the first 
 Oblivion Gate before veering off the beaten path. It will help you get a feel for how the world 
 works, gain some much needed experience and win favor with some important characters in the main 
 story. Once that's out of the way, you're set for one awsome f---ing game. Enjoy=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quaxot
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I have a confession - I came to Oblivion looking for a change of pace from World of Warcraft. Yeah, 
 I realize they are not completely the same style, but...
  
  The game is visually beautiful. A nice change from the cartoony visuals in WoW. But WoW does the 
 interface so nicely it's difficult not to compare Oblivion negatively in comparison. I'm sure I'll 
 get used to it, but I find it difficult to manage my inventory and switch between spells, potions 
 and weapons. 8 hot keys is just NOT enough.
  
  The multitude of racial types and skill specialization seems like a nice feature. It will definitely 
 take some time to figure out all the nuances.
  
  I have only been playing for 4-5 hours, so I reserve final judgement until after I've played it 
 out a bit more. 
  
  ------------------------------------------
  Well, I never did get to like the interface. In fact, I gave up the game and went back to WoW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunk888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be amongst my personal favorite in the elder scroll series. The game has a 
 ton of in depth character customization, and offers a system not to hard to get your character 
 to were you want them to be. At this point the game becomes a much much more personal. The first 
 person is awesome and the fighting system only compliments the gameplay throughout the game. I 
 was most excited about the ability to interact with my environment especially the characters through 
 out the game. The graphics once again move you to have a better connection with the game. I personally 
 have a very picky eye for graphics in a game ever since halflife 2 (face it people Halflife has 
 singlehandedly changed the gaming industry) The in game graphics though are pure and total eye 
 candy they are very impressive. There are still factions in the game and each one has something 
 different to offer, this of course depends on your own personal likings and what you want to accomplish 
 on the side rather than always sticking to your main quest constantly. But while you level up throughout 
 the game so do your enemies and that includes the city guards, so unfortunately reeking havok and 
 turning an entire city upside down and spanking it isnt so much of an option any more other than 
 that the game is awesome! I enjoyed playing it from the begining to the end and more, and I wish 
 it was online (DONT WE ALL!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say that I love some aspects of Oblivion and it's just one of those games 
 that you'll keep returning to, to get your daily doses of adventure.
  
  Second I'll start of explaining what makes this game great, from my point of view. The world is 
 massive and it's detailed, it's one of those games where you might find a very funny quest just 
 behind the next tree, hidden under some mushroom or flowers. It's the kind of world that just sucks 
 you in and makes you ride your horse slowly through the forest just to enjoy the view.
  
  Instead of making another huge review I'll just do a long pro/con list, since it's normally more 
 useful :)
  
  Pros:
  Great world
  Great quests
  Many quests
  Good feeling
  A lot of character customization
  TONS of useless stuff xD
  
  Cons:
  Worst combat ever, 
 period, its mainly just you flinging ur sword in 4 different ways, and the magic quickly gets monotone
 
  You CANT make a cool looking hero
  Everyone in the game looks like retards
  Small arsenal
  There's only like 3 voice actors for like 5k people (and they all SUCK!!) , not 
 on the main quests thou
  
  I love oblivion and even while my cons list seem longer and more serious id like to UNDERLINE all 
 the pros and say these things REALLY, REALLY add up for the game. Its and incredible experience......
 
  
  Play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalinmoor
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay  / B \
  The mechanics are fairly well rounded but are nothing to write home about, combat, while fun at 
 first can become endless tedium after your hundredth battle (particularly on higher difficulty 
 settings) Magic is, in the end, fairly pointless, yes it can be entertaining to cause a massive 
 explosion blowing all your enemies into the geometry, but you can just as easily run up to them 
 and beat the [Insert choice expletive here] out of them with any melee weapon. Stealth can be useful 
 at skipping some of the aforementioned tedium of combat but as with magic you can just as easily 
 hack and slash your way through. Exploration can be moderately rewarding and exceedingly dull; 
 outside you can run around the wilderness for hours finding an abundance of dungeons, unfortunately 
 the dungeons are all exactly alike, in fact it seems the art team only used the same 3 or 4 tilesets 
 the entire game. The traps were an admirable attempt, but unless youre completely oblivious to 
 your surroundings you can avoid all of them entirely. The rewards you receive from dungeon crawls 
 are scaled (just like everything else) and range from a wooden spoon to a full set of enchanted 
 armor that makes you border line immortal.
  
  My biggest problem with this game by far is the enemy and item scaling. You can beat the game at 
 level one if you want or you can spend an inordinate amount of time doing everything you can possibly 
 do, and then beat it just as easily. All NPCs level up with you, as do their items and the items 
 laying about the place. Whereas some people like this, sighting it keeps the game evenly matched 
 from start to finish, it kills any sense of progression you might have received otherwise by making 
 everything in the world a potentially deadly opponent.
  
  Graphics  / B \
  The world is absolutely stunning at first glance, beautiful panoramic vistas seem to be everywhere, 
 the castles are lavishly decorated and the hovels are modest. The graphic quality is top notch 
 for the time of its release and has aged passably. However there is one, glaring flaw in the gemstone 
 that is impossible to overlook and takes away greatly from the game as a whole. The character models 
 are absolutely horrid; with extensive work you can make your character look almost attractive 
 and passably human however every time you talk to an NPC you will be reminded that the art team 
 put no thought or effort into the modeling whatsoever, the male body is passable but there is absolutely 
 no excuse for the female body in this game.
  
  Sound - / A  \
  The sound effects are fairly average, the standard wind / echo that seems to be in every subterranean 
 structure nowadays lends itself well to the ambiance. The sound track by British Academy award-winning 
 American composer Jeremy Soule is, as usual very, very, well done.
  
  Value - / A  \
  You get what you pay for, your standard issue fantasy role-playing game with its high and low points 
 that wont leave you speechless in any way. However the game does have moderate replay value and 
 can prove to be a worthwhile distraction from time to time. The real value of the game comes from 
 the fantastic community that has made many thousands of Mods for the game, from the large like 
 Oscuro's Oblivion Overhaul, to the small such as a colored version of the default map, to the necessary 
 for youre own sanity such as Rens Beauty Pack, its the mod community who really make this game 
 worth the money.
  
  Tilt  / B + \
  I base tilt almost entirely on the story in the game, and I am sad to say oblivions story has 
 been told so many times, so many ways, that you spend the entire time thinking youve already heard 
 this, even if you havent. However buried in that endless tangle of RPG clich&eacute; s is a little 
 gem of a quest line, the dark brotherhood, is perhaps the best part of the entire game, it has 
 the best story, quests and rewards in the game by far, as well as the most entertaining Gameplay 
 experience youre likely to have here, and its the main reason tilt is a B+ and not a C.
  
  In the end, the fourth installment of the elder scrolls is a pleasing distraction but nothing 
 more, you could pass on it and be none the worse off but if you absolutely love RPGs then its worth 
 a play through, and if youre not a RPG fan then this is not the game to change youre mind.
  
  And that's why I give The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion - / B + \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Have to say to this date 03/11/2007 or if your American 11/02/2007, Oblivion is the best RPG i've 
 ever played on the PC...
  
  I don't play RPG's too often, i loved KOTOR, apart fromt hat i can't remember much else really 
 apart from FF7 on the Playstation. I understand many hardcore RPG gamers don't seem to like Oblivion 
 for reasons that normally people who know their stuff are picky, however i loved Oblivion.
  
  As soon as you get into Oblvion the first things you notice are the fantastic graphics and 
 music, this greatly helps to draw the player in and want to play more which i find very important, 
 i can't stand a game with bad graphics/art style. What i also love is how the games a first person 
 style and it greatly improves how immersed you feel in the game and if Oblivion didn't have it 
 i'm not sure i would like it.
  
  The world of Oblivion is really good on the whole and has lots of stuff to do, really reminds me 
 me of like i said GTA but set in fantasy with soo much to do. I love the whole fantasy feel which 
 isn't all dungeons and Dragons but more like a historical feel of the medieval times and lots of 
 myths from back then which some over the top fantasy like lizardmen. The Mythic Dawn really set 
 a nice conspiracy tone for me and just made the whole game story worth while. The Only problems 
 i have with the world would be theres not enough diversity that i've played in other RPG's and 
 it makes sense because it's set in one land and trying to be more realistic. I'm meaning the whole 
 world is grass or abit of Snow, it would have been nice to have volcanoes and desert or something.
 
  
  The combat is fantastic, not as good as other melee First Person games like Dark Messiah of Might 
 and Magic, however still fantastic. It's sooo much better than the usual click a spell icon because 
 it engages you more into the combat and reals like your there. Theres also magic in the game which 
 is quite alot harder to hit your target with because your not up and close wacking with a sword 
 obviously.
  
  Theres soo many items in the game it's fantastic i love just walkign through peoples houses and 
 seeing all the items the developers have created and put into the game and made soo much detail. 
 This is great specially if your a theif and you want lots of kool items to steal and alot of it 
 makes good reading material.
  
  The main storyline is great and i loved it but it's very short for a RPG being only about 6/8 hours 
 long. Also the ending of the main storyline isn't so great and i wanted a much better one than 
 i got, it was also a short ending. However the side quests in the game are soo fantstic that i 
 ended up always getting caught up in hundreds and hundreds of side quests and the main storyline 
 was left alone for a couple of weeks as a result. Just love th elittle quests like working out 
 who the real vampire is or working out who killed who etc etc. Just really fun and better than 
 your usual boring RPG kill or deliver quests.
  
  Oblivion has no multiplayer but what it does have is a active and and lively mod community to download 
 thousands of addons and mods to improve the game to how you would want it to be if you didn't like 
 it originally like Oscuro's Oblivion Overhaul mod. Also you can download a total texture pack and 
 new races and new classes new towns and quests and items etc etc. Also theres a multiplayer mod 
 being made currently by a group of modders so google that and check it out.
  
  The music and sound of the game is fantastic and just love turning the music up because it's beautiful 
 to listen to. The sound effects are all perfect again and so are the voice overs which are acted 
 beautifully. also the graphics are flawless even a year after the game launched i'm still feeling 
 amazed by the game.
  
  The only faults i'd come up with the game are some bugs but on the whole it's all polished and 
 no multiplayer, but most RPG's don't have multiplayer anyways. I'd also have to say the world isn't 
 diverse enough bbut it's still a beautiful and satisfying one.
  
  Greatets additions are being able to warp back to places you've visted before, it stops you having 
 to run for 30 mins everywhere and really a great feature for when you can't be bothered, you don't 
 have to use it if you don't want to aswel. Also the scaled levels on everything are great so you 
 can play the whole game from the start and not have to worry about grinding your level, i love 
 this feature myself cause levels always put me off before.
  
  Oblivion is a fantasic RPG and the best one i've played on the PC to date. I'd reccomend it to 
 anyone because it's such a hybrid of different game types that makes it fantastic. It's soo hard 
 to fault but i can't give it a 10 simply because it can be improved on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlochLin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Here I am in my room with a buddy and he keeps on saying c'mon just try it , give it a go you'll 
 love it and other ramblings lost in time... was he trying to get me to do some new drug, consider 
 some illicit proposal... NO! He was trying to get me to play Oblivion!
  
  I'd become a bit jaded by the whole fantasy RPG scene from consoles to pc to silver screen most 
 of it is rubbish... the rest is real rubbish!
  
  He persisted and like any true fan of the genre I gave in and played... and played and played and 
 played and played... my first session was just over 10 hours straight! And I wanted more!
  
  On load it was oh look a prison cell but shortly after the obligatory 'you have a destiny' 
 intro it sunk it's teeth into me.
  
  My one gripe is the dungeon dependency, I'm not a dungeon crawler... but you do it for good of 
 mankind and of course the loot! I was however over joyed that they took the time to fill the surface 
 with oddities and interactions as well so that there was room to explore without staring at rocks 
 and manky bones for hours on end.
  
  Not only that but the inclusion of the oil painting adventure and other nice quirky bits make it 
 an all round fantastic game with loads of play time...
  
  As Sparky said to me at work after the weekend Oh so you finally played Oblivion, personally I 
 call it Time Sink! 
  
  Be warned this is not a 30 minutes after dinner game... prepare to lose days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddaughtry333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game showed me that the gaming world was now in the next phase. The skins and physics were 
 enough to make me wet. The storyline was captivating, if widely scattered. I spent so much time 
 wandering around. The game mechanisms kept me involved, even looking for herbs was a joy. Goblin 
 hunting to Gate closings were a glorious romp of swordplay and movement. But sometimes I could 
 just stand in a meadow and listen to the wind pick up in the dusk of the evening, watching the 
 butterflies flit around the open meadow filled with bending grass. I had to call my dad and describe 
 it to him. One of my special moments in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  I describe this game as a FPSRPG , probably the best one to date. It has the best graphics, best 
 gameplay, best story.... best everything. Is it perfect? Well theres no such thing as perfect. 10 
 does not mean perfect....11 does. 10 means as solid as it gets.
  
  The game is RPG style so you go around hacking and slashing your way through things, leveling up, 
 looting and buying new things.... etc. Just like an rpg. You can change your view so your either 
 in FPS or 3RD person. But the level your in is ENORMOUS. And depending on how good your PC is you 
 can see it with amazing detail! As you level up so do your enemies, maybe you were fighting skeletons 
 lets say in the town you were last in, go back a few levels later and now they are evil ghostly 
 little creatures! And your character can be customized so much its ridiculous! In a good way! But 
 wait.... so your still not convinced? Did I mention the MOD community? Theres so much stuff to 
 download you can spend thousands of hours just with new junk you downloaded from weapons, clothes, 
 objects, spells, creatures, levels.... etc. You can even change the game itself. Don't like creatures 
 that level with you? Change it thanks to a mod? How about you want to change to a diffrent species? 
 Mod it! Maybe you just want to carry infinite bows? MOD IT!
  
  So surely there are negatives right? Well the game then had some high specs but most people at 
 the time I am writing this probably have better computers. And there were occasional glitches but 
 thats expected with a RPG of this size... such as missing items, losing things... etc.
  
  In case your wondering about its difficulty it can be changed on the fly. So that giant boss is 
 killing you instantly..... change the game from Hard to Easy and you got yourself an easy fight! 
 This game is just Solid all the way around!
  
  Go watch some videos if you aren't convinced to play it. Its really something you need to see to 
 believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluearmykid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but this review is quite long and cause I'm from Belgium, I didn't want to translate 
 it to English, so Dutch review of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion.
  
  Het doel van The Elder Scrolls is altijd het cre&euml; ren van een game met eindeloze mogelijkheden 
 geweest. Een game waarin je zelf kon bepalen wie je wilde zijn en wat je wilde doen. Ons motto 
 was: Leef in een andere wereld, en dat was precies wat we wilden doen. Dus als je ervan houd 
 om rond te dwalen en te verkennen, dan moet je dat vooral doen, wil je puur en alleen hoofdmissies 
 doen en het spel uitspelen, dan mag dat ook. De meeste gamers zitten hier een beetje tussenin, 
 en gelukkig komt er heel wat verkennen en dwalen kijken bij het spelen van de hoofdmissies. Hoe 
 het verhaal verdergaat bepaal je altijd zelf. Ontdek je eigen weg en kijk waar deze naartoe leid. 
 Dit is een klein stukje tekst uit de inleiding van Oblivion. Zoals je waarschijnlijk wel begreep 
 wouden de ontwikkelaars een spel, dat vooral veel vrijheid bood. Een probleem was echter dat er 
 al veel van deze spellen waren, dus moest dit spel opvallen in zijn genre door iets unieks. Aan 
 de naam zou het niet kunnen liggen, The Elder Scrolls was een al gevestigde naam in RPG wereld. 
 Eigenlijk vanaf het eerste deel bracht het spel veel vrijheid, na Morrowind kreeg de serie voor 
 mij een nieuwe impuls. Het spel was echt vernieuwend, het speelde fantastisch en bood ongelooflijk 
 veel vrijheid. Toen Oblivion moest verschijnen wist men wat er gedaan moest worden voor heel goede 
 verkoop cijfers. Een gigantische marketing actie werd op touw gezet. Over heel de wereld werd de 
 naam Oblivion genoemd. Op deze manier kreeg het spel gigantisch veel aandacht, dus was het ook 
 niet zo verwonderlijk, dat toen het spel uitkwam het heel goed verkocht. Het spel stond maanden 
 lang aan de top van de verkooplijsten, en vloog de winkels uit. Maar als een spel zo goed verkoopt 
 door alleen de marketing, dan moet het eindproduct geweldig zijn. Anders verkoopt het volgende 
 spel niet goed meer ( Kijk naar Driver, deel drie was zeer slecht, en dus verkocht deel viet slechter) . Maar 
 ik had er vertrouwen in, als je wilt weten of dat dat vertrouwen terecht was, lees dan hieronder 
 verder. Misschien kennen jullie de film van Lesley Nielsen Wrongfully Accused, wel. Een gigantische 
 debiel is op het verkeerde moment op de verkeerde plaats. Hij word verdacht van moord en krijgt 
 de politie achter zich aan. Het begin van Oblivion is precies andersom. Je zit onterecht in de 
 gevangenis (althans dat zegt iedereen) . Maar je bent wel op het goede moment op de goede plaats. 
 Klinkt vaag h&eacute;, ik zal het wat verder uitleggen misschien dat het dan wel duidelijk word. 
 Op een dag gaat ineens de celdeur open. De koning en twee van zijn persoonlijke wachten komen binnen. 
 De wachten schrikken zich kapot. Deze cel zou leeg moeten zijn, omdat er de ontsnappingsroute van 
 de koning onder lag. Op dat moment vond ik het wel een erg makkelijk begin, maar ik was weer eens 
 ongeduldig en dat heb ik gemerkt ook. iedereen Want op dat moment kwam een hele oude arrogant kijkende 
 man op me af, die zich de koning noemde. Hij stapte op me af en zei dat hij mij in zijn dromen 
 had gezien. Eerst dacht ik dat hij homo was, maar hij bedoelde dat hij een visioen had gehad. Ik 
 moest hem volgen tijdens zijn ontsnapping uit de stad. Wat volgde was wel tof. Eerst volgde ik 
 de koning en zijn wachten, maar dat ging al snel mis. Na nog geen 100 meter werden we aangevallen 
 door vijandelijke troepen, die het bevel plaats rust niet kende. Ze bleven gewoon op ons inslaan 
 totdat ze dood waren. Dit was echter snel gebeurd, dus kon onze reis voortgaan. Waar ik geen rekening 
 mee had gehouden, was dat ik de koning kwijt geraakt was. Op dat punt begon echter de tutorial 
 en leerde je van alles wat. Toen het spel me goed genoeg vond, voegde ik me weer bij de koning 
 en zijn mannen. De koning liep op me af en had een lang gesprek met me. Hij wist dat hij zou overlijden, 
 en dat ik zijn laatste hoop was. Mijn taak was het vinden van zijn laatste erfgenaam. Ik moest 
 daar even over na denken, want een minuut geleden zei hij nog dat al zijn zonen gedood waren. Maar 
 wederom bleek dat ik te weinig soapseries kijk. De koning had namelijk een buitenechtelijke zoon. 
 Mijn taak was hem te zoeken, en hem het amulet van de koningen te geven. Alleen dan zou Cyrodill 
 (zo heet het land) , verder kunnen bestaan. Zijn laatste woorden waren dat ik alle poorten van Oblivion 
 moest sluiten en de duivelse demonen naar de onderwereld terug moest sturen. Op dat moment was 
 ik me niet bewust wat al dat gezeur te betekenen had, ik snapte alleen dat ik geen rustig leventje 
 zou gaan leiden in Cyrodill. Na het moeilijke gesprek werd de koning vermoord, en mocht ik van 
 de bewakers hard wegrennen. Ik vermoorde onderweg wat ratten en Goblins en zette stap in de echte 
 wereld van Oblivion. Mijn leven kon bijna beginnen. Bijna ja, want eerst moest ik mezelf cre&euml; ren, 
 dit klinkt misschien raar. Maar het is de bedoeling dat je jezelf bouwt. Ik ben iemand die op momenten 
 dat hij veel moet kiezen misselijk word. Bij het maken van een poppetje in Oblivion had ik een 
 emmer naast mij stoel. Jezus, wat ongelooflijk veel mogelijkheden had je daartoe zeg. In het begin 
 voordat ik startte mocht ik alleen uiterlijk doen. Dat ging nog wel, je koos eerst uit velen eigenschappen. 
 Waaronder natuurlijk je ras, je kon kiezen uit menselijke soorten, dierlijke soort en weet ik veel 
 wat het zijn soorten. Maar daar houd het niet op. Als jij bijvoorbeeld een elf selecteert moet 
 je ook nog zeggen wat voor soort elf. Een Wood Elf, ze zijn goed met pijl en boog, alleen hun verdediging 
 is zwakker. Een High Elf, deze kan vast goed blowen was zo mijn gedachte. En zo had je 5 of 6 soorten 
 elfen die je kon kiezen. De meeste andere soorten die je kan kiezen zijn puur fantasie en ben je 
 nog nooit in een ander spel tegen gekomen. Aan fantasie ontbrak het de ontwikkelaars dus niet, 
 en dat is een groot pluspunt. Als je dan uiteindelijk dat besloten had, dan begon het volgende 
 proces. Het maken van het uiterlijk, dit was zeker net zo uitgebreid als de rassen misschien zelfs 
 nog wel groter. Je kon werkelijk alles aanpassen, van de dikte van de wangen tot de breedte van 
 de neusgaten. Je kon je leeftijd opgeven, een ouder iemand is sneller moe, maar is wel wat sterker 
 door ervaring en zal dus minder snel verstijven. Of een heel jong iemand, je leert dan sneller, 
 je bent sneller maar je verstijft sneller omdat je geen ervaring heb. Als je dan eindelijk denkt 
 klaar te zijn en te beginnen heb je het gedeeltelijk goed. Je mocht inderdaad beginnen, maar na 
 de dood van de koning kwam je wederom in het scherm terecht. Deze keer geen moeilijke dingen hoopte 
 ik, ik wou gewoon beginnen. Maar ja ik moest me klasse nog kiezen. Ook hiervoor weer een groot 
 compliment, want ook de klassen zijn zeer uitgebreid. Zo heb je een klasse speciaal voor dieven, 
 deze klasse geeft je voordelen in geluk en zachtjes kunnen lopen. Je hebt ook de mogelijkheid je 
 eigen klasse te maken. Je beslist dan zelf waar jou personage sterk in is. Ik heb dit gedaan, ik 
 wou namelijk dat hij veel op mij zou lijken. Maar als je dan eindelijk je mannetje naar jou wensen 
 heb kan Oblivion echt beginnen. Je loopt het riool uit, ver weg van de gevangenis de wildernis 
 in, en hoopt dat je nog lang zult genieten van je vrijheid. Zodra je de gevangenis uitloopt staat 
 er direct Quest Added, ik was wel erg nieuwsgierig. Ik had toch nog niks gedaan? Maar ik keek 
 en zag dat de Quest niks anders inhield dan het amulet naar een priester brengen. Zodra ik dit 
 had gedaan ging het verhaal echter nog veel verder, ik zal er verder niks over vertellen. Dat zou 
 het plezier verpesten, maar ik wil zeker zeggen dat het verhaal echt de moeite waard is om te spelen. 
 Na dat ik het amulet weg gebracht had, besloot ik het verhaal even te laten rusten en wat rond 
 te lopen, en met wat mensen te praten. Onderweg naar de hoofdstad Imperial City, kwam ik in de 
 wildernis enkele beesten tegen. Deze varieerde tussen herten die niks doen en rondlopen, tot wolven 
 die zodra ze je zien je direct aanvallen. De wolven waren echter niet mijn grootste probleem. Onderweg 
 kwam ik ook een struikrover tegen. Aangezien ik nog geen goede uitrusting had rende ik vlug weg. 
 Ik besloot naar de poorten van de dichtstbijzijnde stad te rennen. Toen ik daar arriveerde namen 
 de wachters me in bescherming tegen de bandiet. De wachters waren erg simpel, ze doodde de man 
 en lieten hem gewoon liggen. Snel kleedde ik de man uit, trok zijn kleren aan, pakte zijn wapen 
 en hoppa Dennis had een uitrusting. Terwijl ik door de stad liep hoorde ik veel mensen tegen elkaar 
 praten. Zo af en toe sprak ik ook eens iemand aan, ik kwam erachter dat bewoners ook wel eens tegen 
 elkaar zijn. Het is net een roddelende gemeenschap in Cyrodill. Ze kunnen je vragen mensen te bespioneren 
 gewoon omdat ze willen weten met wie ze een relatie hebben, dat zijn momenten dat ik hardop lach, 
 en aan het echte leven moet denken. Was dat het doel hiervan? Ik verkende de stad en kwam erachter 
 dat deze immens groot was. Er stonden vele winkels vari&euml; rend van winkels met wapens tot aan 
 herbergen. In die herbergen zul je moeten overnachten totdat je een eigen huis heb vertelde een 
 bewoner. Ik haastte me naar de plaatselijke makelaar en vroeg of ik een huis mocht kopen. Dit mocht 
 echter niet, nadat ik die gierige snol 500 coins gegeven had, had ze wel iets moois te koop. Ik 
 kon het echter nog niet betalen en droop teleurgesteld weer af. Maar ik vermaakte me al snel weer, 
 enkele bewoners hadden wel een klusje voor me. Deze waren ook weer zeer gevarieerd, je had klusjes 
 dat je alleen iemand in de gaten moest houden. Maar je had ook klussen dat je iemand moest beroven 
 of zelfs doden. Het leukste was toch wel dat ik tegen iemand opliep die me vroeg die avond langs 
 te komen. Ik ging daarheen en hij maakte deel uit van een groep dieven. Ze wouden dat ik lid werd, 
 ik zou rijk worden en kon me gestolen spullen verkopen aan &eacute;&eacute; n van hen. Ik werd lid, 
 en kreeg hele leuke opdrachten. Ik mocht wachters bestelen werkelijk alles mocht ik stelen. Er 
 zit echter ook een keerzijde aan de medaille, als je gearresteerd word tijdens het stelen, nemen 
 ze alle eerdere gestolen spullen van je af. Het spel kent meer van die groepen, ze hebben altijd 
 wel opdrachten voor je, je kan daarmee geld verdienen, verliezen, maar ook beroemd of gehaat worden. 
 &Eacute;&eacute; n ding is zeker, rijk zijn valt niet mee De eerste paar dagen is vooral geld verdienen 
 heel erg belangrijk, dit kan op verschillende manieren. Door de groepen die ik eerder al uitlegde. 
 Maar ook door opdrachten voor mensen te doen. Deze opdrachten zijn vaak kort, maar geven je respect 
 en geliefdheid, en dat is ook belangrijk. Want hoe aardiger de mensen je vinden hoe meer ze je 
 vertellen. Mijn persoonlijke favoriet is toch de arena. Iedereen kent het idee wel van de oude 
 Romeinen. Iemand die niet geliefd was, of die zich vrijwillig aanmeldde mocht in de arena vechten. 
 Soms tegen mensen, soms tegen dieren. In de arena draag je gedwongen kledij, maar je wapens mag 
 je zelf kiezen. Voor mij was dit echter een makkie, ik had al goede wapens. Mijn eerste gevecht 
 was nog makkelijk, maar al snel werd het moeilijker. Op een gegeven moment moest ik zelf tegen 
 3 tegenstanders vechten. Voor elk gewonnen gevecht krijg je geld. Na een paar gevechten te winnen, 
 ga je in rank omhoog. Hoe hoger de rank hoe moeilijker de gevechten, maar hoe meer geld je verdient. 
 Aan het einde van de rit ben je een hero, en is er nog maar &eacute;&eacute; n tegenstander voor 
 je over. De arena grand champion. Deze persoon moet je persoonlijk uitdagen. Als je dat heb gedaan 
 begint je gevecht. Deze tegenstander is ongelooflijk goed, al jaren is hij de beste vechter van 
 Cyrodill. Dat was hij echter v&oacute;&oacute; r ons gevecht. Na het gevecht had hij een scheef 
 gezicht en lag hij naakt in de arena.. naakt? Ja naakt. Ik nam hem al zijn wapens en uitrusting 
 af. Dat afnemen mag in normale gevechten niet, dan moet je je tegenstander laten liggen je omdraaien, 
 en weglopen. Echter voor de grote gevechten, mag je wel je tegenstander beroven. Echter is er nooit 
 helemaal iemand naakt. Ze houden altijd een onderbroek aan. Als je denkt dat nadat je grand champion 
 bent, dat je klaar bent is dat nietwaar. Je mag daarna &eacute;&eacute; n keer per week terug komen 
 voor een gevecht. Echter vecht je dan altijd tegen dieren, maar dat maakte mij niks uit als ik 
 maar betaald kreeg. De laatste manier om geld te verdienen duurt lang en is niet leuk. Je loopt 
 gewoon rond en kijkt in wat kistjes. Je zult nooit veel geld verdienen op die manier, en geld heb 
 je echt nodig. Oblivion is grafisch &eacute;&eacute; n van de mooiste spellen die op dit moment 
 in omloop is. Het spel ziet er geweldig uit. De natuur om je heen is heel mooi, de boompjes bewegen 
 mee met de wind, en de vogeltjes fluiten. Tijdens &eacute;&eacute; n van mijn vele reizen die ik 
 te voet aflegde kwam ik erachter, dat je niet over de grond loopt. Het was de eerste keer dat ik 
 Third-person keek. Normaal gesproken speel ik het spel First-person . Het maakte het echter niet 
 minder leuk om te spelen. Het is ook leuk dat je echt de verte in kan kijken zo ver als je wilt. 
 In veel spellen heb aan het einde in &eacute;&eacute; n keer een grijs scherm. Dat heb je in Oblivion 
 dus niet. In de verte heb je vaak bergen waar je net overheen kan kijken de wolken in. Het geeft 
 geen abrupt stop gevoel maar, meer een diepte gevoel. Het maakt het zo dat je verder wilt lopen, 
 dat je wilt zien wat er achter die bergen ligt. Misschien wel opnieuw iets wat je nog niet ontdekt 
 heb. Als je dan iets nog niet eerder ontdekt iets ziet verschijnt dat ook op je kaart. Als het 
 op je kaart staat kan je er voortaan naar Fast Travelen. Dit betekent dat je net als in Star Trek, 
 door een soort van transporter gaat. Je verdwijnt en komt weer te voorschijn op de andere plek. 
 Wat iedereen tegenwoordig heel belangrijk vind is hoe het bloed eruit ziet. Ik hecht hier persoonlijk 
 geen waarde aan. Maar veel mensen lijken dit wel te doen. Nou speciaal voor die mensen, het bloed 
 ziet er goed uit hoor. Het loopt lekker langs je heen en het is ook lekker veel. Een ander belangrijk 
 deel in een spel is natuurlijk geluid. Met Oblivion is een nieuw geluidstijdperk ingeluid. Het 
 klinkt super, alles klinkt heel goed. Je hoort aan de muziek wat er aan de hand is. Je hoort of 
 het vrolijk is, of je achtervolgt word, en allemaal van dat soort dingen. Je hoort het als je ergens 
 naar binnengaat terwijl dat eigenlijk niet mag. Je hoort je zwaard iemand doorboren. En misschien 
 erg pijnlijk maar je hoort jezelf ook doodgaan. Echter niet getreurd als je dood gaat begin je 
 vanaf het laatste save punt weer opnieuw. Als je autosave aan heb staan is dat nooit lang terug. 
 Houd autosave echter wel in de hand. Voor je het weet staat je hele harde schijf vol met saved 
 games. Maar op geluid en graphics scoort dit spel flink. Wat ik nu ga vertellen is nog over de 
 graphics en is misschien wel het enige kleine nadeel aan het spel. De paarden lijken van afstand 
 en als je ervoor staat zeer mooi. Maar als je erop zit verandert dat beeld direct in iets negatiefs. 
 De haren bewegen niet, en het gaat heel traag. Ook is het paard erg dik, en als je het niet goed 
 oplet tijdens het afstappen, loopt het zo weg. Paardrijden is verder wel leuk en ook erg handig. 
 Je zult het vaak gebruiken op je vele ondoorgrondelijke opdrachten. Ik had het er aan het begin 
 al over dat die (nu) doodde koning, mij opdroeg alle poorten van Oblivion te sluiten. Ik besefte 
 toen nog niet wat een immens probleem dat zou worden. Eigenlijk wist ik toen nog niet eens wat 
 de poorten van Oblivion waren. Nu ik dat wel weet, weet ik ook dat het spel uitspelen een heel 
 groot karwei word. Er zijn 16 Oblivion poorten, en &eacute;&eacute; n zon poort spelen kost zeker 
 een uur. In die poorten veranderd ook de hele spelwereld van mooie kabbelende beekjes, naar vuur 
 vulkanen en de dood. De muziek past zich ook aan, aan de sfeer daar. Je komt wezens tegen die nog 
 erger zijn dan de dood. Monsters met meerdere ogen, magische monsters die bijna onsterfelijk zijn. 
 Je hebt echt het gevoel dat je de enige op de wereld bent. Met de schrik effecten zit het ook wel 
 goed. Soms word je vanachter beslopen, soms loop je onopgemerkt langs een sensor, of een struikeldraad 
 waardoor er boomstammen op je vallen. Door die toevoeging worden de poorten van Oblivion, de meest 
 gehaatte speel locaties, maar wil je er toch steeds naar terug. Als je dan na een uur vechten en 
 puzzelen, eindelijk aan de top van Oblivion bent. Dan is het zaak de poort te sluiten. Denk echter 
 niet dat je na het sluiten van de poort klaar bent. De wezens ontsnappen namelijk ook uit de poort. 
 Je zult ze in de dichtstbijzijnde stad vinden. Je zult alles in die stad rokend en brandend aantreffen. 
 Je zult de hele stad moet leegmaken van die monsters. Echter krijg je in de stad wel hulp van de 
 wachters. Ik vind persoonlijk dat het spel in Oblivon erg goed is gemaakt, als je die overstap 
 maakt van rustgevend naar de hel, dan heb je ook dat gevoel. Oblivion is gewoon een fantastisch 
 spel, de pluspunten zijn er teveel om hier op te noemen. Het spel is verslavend, het is mooi. Het 
 is lang. Het is eigenlijk alles wat een goed spel moet zijn. In de inleiding stond een stukje tekst 
 uit de handleiding. Ik denk zelf dat deze tekst zeker waarheid geworden is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeykid871171
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  this game was terrible and thought it was very dumb. the graphics were amazing though. still graphics 
 aren't everything and there is so many more games that are better than this. if they made more 
 attacking features and you didnt have to walk around finding thing as much this game would be great. 
 I just dont like this game, maybe because its RPG. I went though the sewer level and then said 
 the heack with it. the game is impossible to play when you just walk around trying to find stuff. 
 Oh and just so you know the sewer level is the first level. what ever you do, dont buy this game 
 until you rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Well if your a fan of Elder Scrolls you know your buying something amazing when you first pick 
 up oblivian. The main idea of the game is that you this person or thing that is destined to save 
 mankind. While playing the main quest line you will explore lush forests, huge scary caves with 
 all kinds of traps, gorgeous cities, and towns, not to spoil anything but a certian plane of heaven 
 or paradise and of course the intense oblivian. If the main quest isnt your deal and you just want 
 to mess around and explore joining a guild or finding jobs is just as fulfilling. Theres plenty 
 to do, you may feel overwhelmed at first because of the choices that are set before you! For example 
 should i battle it out in the gladiator arena or join the darkbrotherhood of hitmen.
  
  On to actual gameplay, sounds, and visuals. First of all fighting isnt the same crap like before 
 theres blocking physics come into play and different strikes you can do. I think you will find 
 the combat very enjoyable and intense especially when your against a fiery deadra or a cave troll. 
 Now the music in this game is so damn inspiring, when you fire up the game your automatically taken 
 into a diferrent world sucking you in. The graphics are well.. THE BEST IVE EVER SEEN FOR THE PC 
 OUT THERE everything has detail (as long as you boost the graphics up) oblivian is a game that 
 you can spend all day with getting sucked in however after you beat the game and most of the guilds 
 you feel as though your left hanging because of the lack of closer at the end. Dont get me wrong 
 the story line is great just a bit confusing at the end but when the end occurs it is quite something 
 to see. A true good vs. evil classic. Well after beating the game theres always going back and 
 creating a new class while being a new race. Making your own character is very fun and enjoyable 
 however you cant trade in you attributes after you start.
  
  OVERALL: PLAY IT AND BE AMAZED EVERYTHING IS SO EPIC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twugofski
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  This game is the model for the next generation of gaming, the graphics are awesome, the gameplay 
 is awesome, and if you get bored, change the game up with the constuction set. The people mouth 
 the words with esquiset perfection, the enimies know your weaknesses, and there are over one thousand 
 head-scratching, nail-biting, spine-tingling, jaw-dropping, and even side- splitting quests to 
 go through while playing the game. no one person can play it the same, no quest will do the same 
 thing, and with the world changing as much as you, you'll have to find a way to mach the changes, 
 or end the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  From Morrowind to Oblivion, "Elder Scrolls" made its glorious leap of faith, and has been rewarded 
 for it.
  
  It is certain that if you would spend your whole life playing Oblivion, you would not uncover all 
 of its mysteries. You could easily play this game for days, weeks or even, hardly, months and still 
 your hunt would be incomplete, although I will admit that this game has almost no difficulty, making 
 it seem as if you had cheated from the beginning...
  
  The game's physics are another quality that must be taken as a significant one, knowing the lack 
 of interaction in most RPG-style games. But one big flaw I have seen and have not liked. That is 
 your lack of choice in the main quest, which makes the game's ending pretty obvious and "oblivious". 
 However, this flaw has almost no effect upon Oblivion soil, leaving the game to the classics list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HerculeSatan
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has been called many things, immersive, innovative even revolutionary. But I'll tell you 
 now, the only time I saw any revolution from this game was when I hurled it out my window. This 
 game shares something with titles such as World of Warcraft, in that it ultimately lowers the bar 
 on the standard of today's games. Oblivion hides behind a veil of deception, It creates the illusion 
 of a decent game yet in the end it's nothing more than a failed attempt at something that could 
 have been amazing.
  
  GRAPHICS: Where do I start? Let's see, how about the games' horribly conceived character customisation 
 tool. In theory a device that allows you to customise almost every detail imaginable on a characters' 
 face sounds too good to be true. Well, It is, to sum it up in one word I'd say it's redundant. 
 Many games offer character customise options, perhaps no where near the depth of Oblivion's tool, 
 but what they lack in depth they make up for in simplicity and style. Oblivion's character customiser 
 is bland and far too sensitive to be of any real use in the end, Seriously who really needs to 
 get their characters eyebrows exactly the right length, or who really cares that they can adjust 
 their characters nostril wide to a toleration of 0.1 of a millimetre? Such details largely go unnoticed 
 and are simply a waste of time.
  
  The environments, well at first I must say I was quite impressed, Not from the environments themselves, 
 rather how the folks down at Bethesda managed to immerse their customers into a unique world of 
 frustration and dissappointment, unless of course you have the latest and most up to date graphics 
 card and a sizable chunk of ram and raw processing power, you're not going to feel the full effect 
 of Bethesdas latest blunder. Fortunately I am able to run this game at its peak settings, but only 
 because I forked out for an 8800 card. Still this does'nt spare me from the games unwanted and 
 frequent real time loading. That is, since the environments (such as trees and shrubs) are generated 
 randomly each time, the game painfully pauses for 1/10th of a second which looks entirely unnatural. 
 Speaking of unnatural, lets take a look at the games flora. The trees from afar are somewhat decent. 
 However up close is where you can see just how cheesy the effects are. For example the leaves on 
 the trees seem to sway in the breeze, but that's a good thing right? Yes it WOULD be, if not for 
 the fact it was poorly executed. The swaying I mentioned is nothing more than sprites rotating 
 back and forth in an unnatural pattern, You may think It's strange of me to pick at something so 
 trivial but really the reason for my mentioning this is that during my time playing It caught my 
 eye as something completely bizarre and alien. I would of mentioned something about the fauna in 
 Oblivion, if there had been something worth mentioning. That's right besides deers, there are no 
 birds, squirrels, spiders or earthworms in Oblivion, heck not even a little bunny rabbit. If it 
 wasn't for the occasional NPC wolf or bear attacking you the game would feel completely dead and 
 empty.
  
  The NPC's in Oblivion is where the game really shows off its poor quality. To begin with, The designers 
 of Oblivion were obviously incredibly lazy or were simply way over their heads when undertaking 
 such a promising idea for a game. The people in this game are in one word Ugly . They are truly 
 a prime example of the Uncanny Valley effect. (Look it up) The animations in this game are uninspired 
 to say the least., take the jumping animation for example. In third person, pressing the jump button 
 will cause your character to leap unrealistically high into the air, albeit without even noticeably 
 bending his/her legs or showing any sort of effort whatsoever, landing is equally boring. As a 
 matter of fact, the jumping animation is very reminiscent of the way astronauts look while jumping 
 up and down on the moon. The animations basically feel stiff and rigid, while combat animations 
 are bland and very repetitive. (especially the casting animation)
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is ultimately the deciding factor for many games. Yet, surprisingly despite It's 
 graphical flaws, Oblivion does somewhat decently.
  To lay it all out, Oblivion offers up a satisfactory distraction for a couple of days. It has RPG 
 elements mixed with real-time combat and there is often a touch of exploration and adventure thrown 
 in. However that all sounds good on the outside, I mean hey, that's the reason I bought the game. 
 But It would be careless of me to leave out the numerous shortcomings of one of the most essential 
 cogs in the gaming machine. For starters, Combat. The idea behind combat in Oblivion is that It 
 is somewhat a self-defense only option. At least that's the feeling I got from playing. Basically 
 you can only kill the bad guys, or monsters you find out in the wild. That is unless you don't 
 mind being thrown in prison or hunted down mindlessly by hundreds of angry lethal guards. There 
 is the option to join the bad guys through a rather disturbing and emolicious cult known as the 
 Dark brotherhood. (basically a gang of murderers) However the whole Brotherhood saga feels very 
 linear and one tracked. As does the Thieves guild. Infact it almost feels as If Bethesda went out 
 of their way to eliminate any form of freedom or fun to be had creatively. For example, You are 
 forbidden from killing anyone from any of the guilds or the Dark brotherhood. So heaven forbid 
 you find yourself a rival in one of the guilds or someone who just irritates you. (which happens 
 quite often) You can't steal from the thieves guild. (an option which makes sense given the robin 
 hood like nature of the guild) which would have opened up numerous ways to express your own identity 
 in the game. Essentially, the combat in Oblivion feels far too much like a chore than an exciting 
 element of gameplay. It is seldom rewarding, as most enemies drop useless loot. And you can only 
 listen to your opponent yell, I've fought mud crabs more fearsome than you! so many times before 
 It loses it's flavour. Dissapointing.
  
  The skills in Oblivion are basically just a novelty. There are only a few skills worth having and 
 they take far too long to level up to be of any real use. Basically levelling up acrobatics and 
 athletics affords you the ability to jump over houses or run faster than your horse. Which also 
 leads me to wonder just how great a grasp of physics the design team had when making this game. 
 Take the gravity for example, Jumping off a tall cliff in game will see you fall at around 1 metre 
 a second yet the fall damage is still the same as if you were falling at 130mph. Terrible. The 
 ragdoll physics in Oblivion are atrocious and illogical, somewhat reminiscent of the ragdolls in 
 Battlefield 2
  for instance, shooting an enemy with an enchanted arrow will cause them to leap about 2 metres 
 into the air on a 90 degree angle, completely negating any momentum they previously had.
  
  Perhaps the most disappointing thing about combat in Oblivion, would have to be it's total lack 
 of gore. Despite the fact the game is littered with highly detailed and very mutilated corpses 
 or decapitated heads, there is no option to dismember your opponent, nor cause any sort of noticable 
 wounds. (Theres a fisherman in the game who apparently lost his leg to some slaughterfish... that's 
 right apparently ) Blood is minuscule in the game and without tweaking the games settings manually 
 alot of quest NPCs can't even be killed. This may seem acceptable if the game is going to be aimed 
 at a younger generation, however it nonetheless kills the magic and overall feel of bringing down 
 a heavy 2-handed claymore into someones skull. While on the topic of killing the magic, Arrows 
 are another culprit. Firing an arrow through the eye of an unsuspecting guard will simply result 
 in a pathetic exclamation such as Hey come on now, theres no need for violence and prompt the should-be-dead 
 guard to chase you around, hoping to make an arrest.
  
  SOUND: This is another let down. Oblivion does get points for having every piece of dialog in the 
 game spoken. It also gets points for the inclusion of notable voice talents such as Patrick and 
 Sean. However it yields those points after It recycles and jumbles the same voice actors over and 
 over. To put it simply. Heres the problem. There are 100+ NPCs in Oblivion, however there are only 
 10+ voice actors. What does this mean? It means that almost everyone sounds exactly alike, naturally 
 this is understandable, as it would be quite a feat to have 100+ unique voice actors simply for 
 a video game. What isn't understandable is that alot of the NPC's in the game will have 2 completely 
 different voices at the same time. For example the beggars, Talking to one will prompt the usual 
 May I have a coin sir which sounds like a raspy old man or woman, however if you ask them a rumor 
 their voice will change to a well spoken and well educated individual. Things like this really 
 throw you out of the immersion entirely and remind you that you're playing a bland and somewhat 
 overlooked excuse for a game.
  
  The soundtrack is also nothing to write home about. Infact I often found myself replacing the soundtrack 
 with something else, or playing music in the background.
  
  STORY: Story? Oh you mean that chain of boring and uninspired cliche' quests which tells the tragic 
 tale of a kingdom threatened by some evil force and a young man unaware of his right to the throne. 
 Have'nt heard that one before, tell me more. Well I would elaborate, but that's basically It. Old 
 Sean Bean, is set to be the king/deity, once his father Patrick is unfortunately assassinated.
 
  
  CONTROLS: The most impressive thing in the game. Nothing bad to say here, the controls were pretty 
 well laid out, too bad the same attention didn't go into the rest of the game. Although, I suppose 
 if you can't control a game, then you can't play it. I guess that's kind of ironic isn't it?
  
  OVERALL: The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is in my humble opinion an overrated piece of garbage 
 that is fitting as nothing more than a coaster for my drink. However, my opinion doesn't make it 
 a fact, and It's obvious that this game is very popular and enjoyed by many as evidenced from the 
 countless high ratings and good reviews. But I do know of others who share my dissappointments. 
 To be honest, despite this review I don't HATE Oblivion, I just like to make fun of it's flaws, 
 I think for me that's where I derive my joy from the game. It is mildly entertaining, but that 
 said, everything I have mentioned is indeed quite accurate, I guess I just like to b*tch about 
 things more than others. If anyone manages to read this entire review, I congratulate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Have you ever become tired from your recent life? Surely every one answers yes! So I say why don't 
 you go and taste a new life? You can become everything you like: a warrior, a mage, a wizard, a 
 thief or anything that you love to be. All these facilities are presented in OBLIVION best game 
 of the year . you will make your own character and continue the way that you yourself want to choose. 
 If you continue the storyline it will not take more than 8 hours to spend and after that there 
 will be a world to live and fights to do and persons to make relationship with. Best game of the 
 year is not a title that gives to any game. try to do this game before you die!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this review as I recently started to play this game again. I played it quite a bit 
 when it came out, and recently went back to it after picking up Shivering Isles and Knights of 
 the Nine. This is for those who have not played it yet. Get this game. If you have any interest 
 in Role Playing, or FPS for that matter, this game is for you. The graphics are still first rate, 
 but its the game play that stands out here. Basically, you can do whatever you want in the game 
 world, and while many games have claimed this, few have come close to achieving it. The oblivion 
 series is one of the closest you'll find to free form gaming. As this is an older game (relatively) 
 there are several well discussed detractions from it. One is the scaling of the difficulty, meaning 
 that you can do any of the quests in any order and the difficulty will scale. For some this is 
 a negative, but I think it is a good compromise, and it really opens up the world for exploration 
 as you are not overly afraid of getting crushed by going to the wrong place. The other major issue 
 is the typical grognard complaint that it is somewhat dumbed down (console portability and a larger 
 audience appeal being the reason) , especially compared to earlier Morrowind games. This is somewhat 
 true, however the net effect is a more elegant game system overall and less of a sense of 'not 
 knowing what to do' which was common in earlier Morrowind games. Again, I found it to be a nice 
 compromise. I will admit that it did make the menu system somewhat less user friendly than it could 
 otherwise have been on the PC. Finally, on the major plus side, is all the user content and the 
 expansions from Bethesda. Much like Neverwinter Nights, this game is well supported by fans and 
 the game company. I have downloaded and use many mods which have substantially improved the game 
 experience. If you have not bought this game, get it, and get the expansions, and download some 
 of the mods. It is one of the best values in terms of gaming hours for cost and re-play that you 
 will find out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goozmie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  There is only one word to in the dictionary that can be used to sum up oblivion. Immersive. With 
 the release of Morrowind much was expected from Bethesda, and I can safely say, much was delivered. 
 At the beginning of the game I found myself within a jail, after some chats with the emperor and 
 his guards, and some nice battles to begin the game, I soon found myself out in the wilderness, 
 to deliver an amulet to the emperors son. I was making my way there when suddenly I was sidetracked 
 by some ruins I found, then I came to a village and found a couple of quests there, and soon enough 
 I had realised that 3 hours had past, just like that. O Oblivion is so immersive, with a world 
 so large and with so much content, you might be amazed you aren't walking around elven ruins or 
 battling ogres in real life. Seriously, the content of oblivion is amazing, if you own an Xbox 
 360 or a PS3 and don't own a copy of oblivion then get one, now. Oblivion's adventures and quests 
 can keep you occupied for hours... and hours... and hours on end. A year later I find myself coming 
 back to the Beautiful world that is Oblivion, everything in Oblivion is executed masterfully, the 
 graphics and sounds will have you always wanting to create a new character and play more than you 
 thought you could play a game. So there is only one thing I can say, if you love RPGs, no, if you 
 even mildly LIKE video games, you owe it to yourself to BUY OBLIVION.
  So do it, GODDAMMIT, BUY OBLIVION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood-Angelas
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  As you play through the game you get a feel for the character and his surroundings. With the graphics 
 Bethesda Softworks have included you are almost there with a fantastic story line and the flexability 
 and freedom to do whatever you want it's one of the best games ive ever played. No other games 
 come close. Has the added storyline from Morrowind that gives it a final touch with the familiarity 
 of the previous Eldar Scrolls but the complete differance. One of the best games ive ever played 
 and i Cant wait to get the Expansions or to even try it on the Xbox 360 but it'll have a lot to 
 live up to with the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbark88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV breathes a welcome breath of life into the Elder Scrolls series. This is how 
 the series is meant to be. Most probably know, but for the rest, this is the follow up to the 2002 
 game of the year Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. This is not just a follow up, though, it is a complete 
 superior. I'll be honest, I was not expecting much out of this game. Morrowind really left a bad 
 taste in my mouth. So I was surprised, but on with the review. There has been much graphical improvement 
 in the four year span between Oblivion and its predecessor, and it really shows. Looking at a comparison 
 of the characters in the game makes you wonder why you ever thought games back then looked good 
 (to be expected with technology's rapid evolution) . Even beyond that though this game really does 
 stand out graphically. From environmental textures, shadows, character models, etc. everything 
 looks really good. If you are a total graphics junkie you would be better off nabbing the Xbox360 
 version, unless you have a super rig of a computer. Either way you'll be awed by the graphical 
 prowess. The sounds of the game compliment the graphics and gameplay perfectly. The biggest improvement 
 in this game in sound is definitely full voice acting. Scrolling through hours of text in a game 
 really gets old fast. With full voice acting for a very large number of NPCs one would expect quality 
 to be sub-par at best, but Bethesda really did a great job of giving all characters their own unique 
 and fitting voice. There is occasional bad voice acting, but by-and-large it's good and it's not 
 text (one of my biggest gripes about Morrowind) . The music is great. It really does a fine job 
 of building tension, backing up the tone of an area, and sequencing in and out efficiently. The 
 sound effects are also up there (a big example is hearing the footsteps or rustling leaves of a 
 moving enemy) . Gameplay is where this game shines. Whether you are obsessive about main story or 
 everything but the main story, you will be hooked. I felt that the main story in this game was 
 just executed more clearly and efficiently than the previous. Another thing is having choices. 
 This is well represented by the following: at one point in the game you have to get to the leader 
 of a cult. To do so you can either join the cult (you'll find out when you get there this means 
 giving up all your stuff) , or going Rambo on their butts 'til you make your way to the leader. 
 Either way the story progresses the same, but it caters to the agressive and the passive. There 
 are far more examples, and you really feel like you are ROLE PLAYING (key words there) . As far 
 as side quests go, whatever you're likings you'll be entertained for a long time. Throw in the 
 expansion packs, and you might as well kiss your life goodbye. The controls are simple, easy to 
 learn, and spot on. I didn't feel comfortable using first person in Morrowind and third person 
 felt clunky. Well I don't know what it is, but Oblivion did it right. First person is not only 
 comfortable, but really just feels like how RPG's should be. If you are just a FP hater to the 
 bone (like I was before) , you can go third person (both are fun but first person offers better 
 aim and a closer view) . There are many gameplay improvements in Oblivion. Here's a list of some 
 of them that I felt enhanced the experience: fast transport from almost anywhere from the beginning 
 (done by just clicking an available area on the map) , horse riding (walking around on a cross-country 
 trip does kind of suck you know) , dark brotherhood quests (pretty much evil hitmen, I'm big on 
 being evil in videogames) , owning houses (big deal you might say, well you'll remember how much 
 of a pain it was being over-encumbered and finding a place to put extra stuff, well your house 
 can be furnished with dressers and chests that make storage worries disappear) , a better haggling 
 system, along the same lines is a clear way to tell a characters disposition towards you and an 
 innovative way to increase it. Well before I type my fingers off, let me just say that the gameplay 
 in my eyes is near perfect for an RPG. Now, I'll finally sum it all up. I know I'm very late on 
 this review and many people have played, but if not, GO GET THIS GAME! This is not even coming 
 from a fanboy. Like I said before I didn't even like Morrowind, and if you're hesitant for the 
 same reason; don't be. This is a great game with good graphics, epic sound, phenomenal gameplay, 
 and a bag of chips (disclaimer: there is actually no bag of chips in this game, but if you want 
 to eat them while you're playing your life away have at it) . If you pick this game up, prepare 
 to be hooked and kiss your life goodbye until you finish it. Below I'll list my ratings of the 
 major categories that I deem fit.
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  SOUND: 9/10
  GRAPHICS: 9/10
  REPLAYABILITY: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GJK_WW
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, i was not intrested in this game when it first game out, in fact i had never heard 
 of it till i saw it in Future shop. It was about a year after the game was released that i decided 
 to buy it after asking some friends how it was. The rest is history, my expectations were mixed 
 but once i got into it the game ble my mind. After escaping the prison and sewers i emerged into 
 a truely amazing world. IT IS HUGE, multiple citys, endless forests, hundreds of cave, mines, forts 
 and lakes to explore. This is the largest game i have ever seen or played it.
  It just got better from there, the thing i love about this game is that it lets you do whatever 
 you want, you can ignore the main quest and do ohter side quests. You can buy houses, horses and 
 weapons, make your own potions and cast magical spells. There are also so many options on what 
 you want to do, you can train hard and earn money in the arena, join the mages guild and practice 
 your magic, or hunt down your prey as an assassian.
  The sound is really good, the music just enhances the gameplay, the graphics look great and the 
 controls are easy to learn (though you can change them)
  There are many creatures to do battle against like trolls, ogres, and bandits.
  
  In all this 
 game is just too big for any review to cover completely. You will just have to play it yourself 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divjak23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  First of all, I expected a lot from this game, because it's a sequel to the previous Elder Scrolls 
 series, which were all great. So was the fourth sequel, The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. It is based 
 on the same recipe like the sequels before, but it has some changes, like improved AI, better graphics, 
 improved game-play, etc. You have also a lot of possibilities when creating your character, from 
 gender to race, birth sign and so on. Like in every Scroll you can choose a good or a evil path 
 for you character, or maybe even both paths, so you can join different guilds and complete quest 
 either the good or the evil way. All in all, the game is really great and it's addictive, but it 
 also has some flaws. The biggest problem with Oblivion are the system requirements. If you want 
 to play the game with all graphics set on high and with a bigger resolution, you will need a high-end 
 computer with a high-end graphic card. The other problem in my opinion is the inventory menu, which 
 is a little bit awkward and you have to get used to it. The game has also some minor bugs, but 
 that don't change the fact, that it's a great, if not one of the best role playing games ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The first Elder Scroll game i played was morrowind. I was overwhelmed by that game. so much to 
 do, so many places to go. i thought nothing could top it. Oblivion did, and then some. Everything 
 about this game is incredible. There is no end to what you can do. i got it on it's release date 
 and still play it today. Visually, the game is stunning, even over a year later. The amount of 
 things to do in this game is absurd. 200+ hours is what is advertised, and this is comepletly true. 
 The combat feels very intense, you have complete control over everything you do. This is one of 
 those games where you can play for what seems like forever, and yet barely scratch the surface. 
 The main quest is fun, with lots of great battles and adventures. the guilds are all great, some 
 challenging and others brutal. The side quests are numerous and rarely feel repetitive. The difficulty 
 level can be adjusted to your liking exactly, because of instead of 3 or 4 different settings, 
 there is a slider. on one side is easy the other difficult. you can adjust it to your exact likings 
 whenever you wish. Overall, this is just a great game with endless things to do. I'd recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelderon56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  One of the few games that have come out in the last year that offer a truly open ended gaming experience. 
 Oblivion has a pretty standard storyline but it is done well and is easy to get swept up in. If 
 however you want to go off and become champion of the arena or Arch-Mage of the mages guild instear 
 of sticking to the main story you can do so. Thanks to the way enemies level and get better equipment 
 along with you, you can do any quest or dungeon at any time in the game and still find it challenging. 
 There is so much content in the game it is almost staggering but you can easily ignore what you 
 want to and focus on what you want to, and with the fast travel system you can bypass any slow 
 traveling you want to. All in all Oblivion is a very well made game with my only real complaint 
 being the re usage or faces and voices throughout the world. It can get really annoying to see 
 the same face on everyone from the beggars to nobility and bandits and heroes and hear the same 
 voice coming from that face. If you can grit your way through that then there is one of the best 
 made games this year waiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra-Fatality
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is the latest game in the Elder Scrolls series. It is an epic RPG considering 
 its scope. It has an average story about a demonic world called oblivion merging with the real 
 world (Tamriel) and as always you are the Hero who is expected to save the world. The main villain 
 in this game is a demonic Daedra Lord known as Mehrunes Dagon. The Combat system in this game revolves 
 around three types of combat, Melee (which consists of Blade and Blunt) , Range and Magic (The main 
 branch of magic that is used to directly attack is called Destruction magic, other branches of 
 magic are simply used to temporarily boost your abilities or give you certain advantages such as 
 walking on water, resistance to fire e. t. c) . The combat in this game is realistic and immersive, 
 fighting first person with a sword is more immersive than figthing in third person (which the majority 
 of RPG's use) . However, even if you score a direct hit at the enemy, it doesnt really feel like 
 you made much of an impact. The destruction magic and ranged combat are weak, the magic spell (for 
 example fireball) always looks the same wether level 1 or level 10, it would have been much more 
 satisfying if higher level spells actually looked like they were doing more damage, the ranged 
 combat is also undesirable as as arrows are way too slow and loop down in an annoying fashion. 
 
  
  The amount of content and the size of the world in this game is insane and makes one wonder how 
 it could possibly fit on a DVD disk, the world is enormous, so much that it would take around half 
 an hour in the real world to travel across in a straight line by horse, and it would take much 
 longer to travel all around it. The main quests in this game canbe finished in under 20 hours but 
 it is all the side quests that give this game a play time of 100+ hours , there are many guilds 
 such as The Dark Brotherhood, The Fighters Guild, The Mages Guild e. t. c. These Guilds all have 
 their own quests and the more quests you do the more your rank increases until you become head 
 of that particular guild. It is not just guilds that have quests for you but also certain people 
 all around Tamriel. However most of the non-Guild quests are rather lame and all of the side quests 
 are somewhat dull.
  
  Technically this game is amazing, as soon as i left the dungeons and saw the lush green mountains 
 and the crystal clear water i was amazed. However this game is very demanding and anything less 
 than a high end PC will not be able play it with all the graphics at full settings. However after 
 some time i felt there was something unpleasant about the graphics, I then realised that from a 
 distance the textures were stretched out, low-res and black/bumpy. I then downloaded a Mod to solve 
 this issue but this made the game even more intensive. The sound for this game is amazing too, 
 especially when you have sorround sound.
  
  The conclusion is that this game is an amazing game with great graphics and tons of content however 
 it has its fair share of technical problems and the side quests are not really worth wasting time 
 on. Overall could have done with a bit more work, effore and polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzdude666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  This RPG has opened my eyes. I strongly recommend it to everyone, Elder Scroll fans or no, this 
 game is amazing. From the detailed landscape and cities, to the addictive storyline and characters. 
 Great introductory tutorial helps you see your style of playing and very personalized character 
 creation for all the players.
  The map offers a rich environment for those traveling afoot or on horse. But there is always the 
 option to travel quickly from one place to the other. Unlike it's predecessor Morrowind, you find 
 yourself brought into the story in the first five minutes. Enough so that you get a good measure 
 of your surroundings yet can still avoid the story and go on your own.
  The amazing graphics, sound, plot, and characters make this game one of my favorites. A great RPG 
 but retains a FPS feel to it that make combat and sneaking a lot more interesting.
  The only problem is that there are a couple of bugs to be found that can irritate you every once 
 in a while but overall, this is a great way to spend those 200 hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Yes, yes, yes!
  Here it came the Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion. I can surely say that this was the greatest role-playing 
 game I've played in my life!
  I upgraded my PC just for this game, I bought ASUS N6600 and 2GB of RAM, and I.... I LOVE THIS GAME!!!
 
  If anybody can fall in love with a game, well that's me for Oblivion.
  I've completed the game 8 times. The first and the second were only to pass ot by... But afterwards... the 
 real oblivion began.
  With all the side quests, and the exp. sets, the mods, I spent 400+ hours on this game!
  Latest 
 two saves were 120 and 96 hrs, the 4th and 5th were 180 and 230 hours.
  None of them I keep now, becaouse I start the game from the beginning every time I install it.
 
  There were bad things in this game, and they mada me very angry and a little dissapointed. I experienced 
 many bugs. My horse jumped all the time at one place : (
  And some quests were non-completable.
  Over all, I still played the game more than 400 hours, 
 and I can't wait for some other expansion, and even Elder Scrolls V!
  
  ... and once again: I LOVE THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joethegamemaste
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The game Oblivion took me a long time (about 30-50 hours) to do the main quest and the two non-secret 
 guilds (Mage's and Fighter's guild) and over 100 hours to do everything I could find. It will take 
 even the most experienced players a long time to complete. It can be hard to quite easy but still 
 be the perfect challenge and easily better than Morrowind (the game in the elder scrolls series 
 before this one) as the upgrades and graphics make the game better although I find better playing 
 the game without one (fast travel - emergency only) . You have to remember to save the frequently.
 
  
  I give this game easily ten out of ten as of the graphics are superb, the storyline is excellent 
 and the improvements from Morrowind are purely great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSeptim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  well, this game is very complete but it need some more good thinks, like more imagination in the 
 creating of armors, weapons and some objects, and the more great problem, is the incompatiblity 
 with the pc, its so dificult to play it good, to get eliminate the message error -the one who take 
 us out of the game.-
  But is very adictive because of his quests, great world and to see a character on max lvl, to run 
 in hig speed to do so much things that in other games dont exist (one is have your own home) .
 
  now, this game have a excellent style to play, real combats, good skills and you need to be a 
 good player to get to the max lvl of your character, another thing adictive.
  So my score is 9.5 because of his incompablity, his bad imagination, etc.
  in other case, my 
 note will be 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonscream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  No other RPG can state that it has more game play hours than this game. I'm not comparing with 
 on-line games. In Oblivion, the 4-th installment of Elder Scrolls, the player has all the freedom 
 in shaping his character in any aspect he or she likes. This fact gives this game a huge advantage 
 above a lot of games no matter how many there are out there. Can you name a game where you can 
 be a mage and dominate with a knife or bow. This game provides.
  I have played countless RPG games for more than 20 years in my lifetime, (and I'm not exaggerating) , 
 but this game stands tall above all of them ever made. Let me be clear on something. We are living 
 in the so called Next Gen era, which means that you don't have to try to sell me a turn based game. 
 No matter how beautiful, or how well constructed, I don't care. If you present me a turn based 
 game, it brings me back to the 90-ies where I played the card game; Magic the Gathering. Do I want 
 to be reminded of a card game? Nope. Although Magic the Gathering, is also a card game that is 
 most copied in this genre (but at the same time still the best one) .
  Back to Oblivion. If you are looking for a RPG that will give you extreme freedom in; character 
 build up, the way you level up, game play and so on, than Oblivion is the game for you. And when 
 you think you have seen it all it has the potential to surprise you still. That is just one of 
 the countless reasons I just love this game. Tuck in!
  The only reason I didn't gave this game a 10 is mere for the graphics. Even if this depends on 
 your graphic card. Still, legendary RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edgard27
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, its hard to say what is best about Oblivion!
  It not only looks and feels good to play but its amazingly complete!
  You can do just about 
 everything! From the classic dungeon trip to gathering ingredients for alchemy, the game just gives 
 you a lot of new ideas to explore! There are so many good aspects to the game that it is hard to 
 talk about it!
  The graphics are quite impressive, and if you cant run it in its full dont be angry at your 
 pc. You just have to tweak it a little and it'll go just fine. (I own a Core Duo 6600 2.4GHz, 2 
 GB RAM, GeForce 8600gt. I play it at high definition and just grass shadows off. Looks great! ) .
 
  The story is really good!
  The RPG system is very different and interesting!
  You can ride a horse!!! (Sorry, Im an old Baldur's Gate fan and that just freaked me out!)
  
 Fantastic game!
  Complex and still very fun to play!
  You choose your playing stile and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved Oblivion when I first got it, I played Morrowind, then Oblivion, but it was such an amazing 
 game that I played it all the time, every weekend, all weekend. I ended up, after beating the game, 
 giving myself super armor to goof off, and yet, that kept me hooked for a good 4 months. Mods and 
 custom content from the website kept on giving me more and more to do. The game is amazing, and 
 I'm rating it as so, but it is extremely addictive. The graphics were great and are still good, 
 the gameplay is amazing, the AI is clever, and the game never ends. The game is great and I would 
 suggest it to any RPG player, but it's dangerously addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best action/RPGs i'v played in a looooooooooonnnnggggg time, great graphics, 
 lots to do, great Primary story line with many great sub lines (eg Dark Brotherhood) .
  
  The one thing that i dont like about this game, however, is how the games AI is fairly poor with 
 enemys running through traps they probably set (its in there cave after all) and how there is nothing 
 realy cool about the armour.
  
  But a good thing is how many MODs the games has, if there is something you realy want (eg Final 
 Fantasy weapons) there is a mod out there somewhere for it.
  
  All in all a great game with no serious problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  First of all, lemme start out by saying that a lot of people like this game. To those guys and 
 gals I say good for you. The problem is that i found it beyond awful. I wrote a review for this 
 game earlier and it was deleted because, according to gamespot, i was purposefully trying to annoy 
 people. This is not true in the slightest. I was expressing my opinions on this game and gamespot 
 apparently didn't like me saying anything negative about a game they hold very dearly to their 
 hearts. Again, if you like the game, thats all good and great, but i Hate it. That being said, 
 i will now get to specifics. First of all, i have a great gaming computer. There is a core 2 duo 
 clocked at 3.4 ghz, 2 gigs ram at 800 mhz each, and a Geforce 8600gt graphics card. For those who 
 don't know alot about computers, its more powerful than a 360. I can barely play this game on low 
 graphics without it lagging really hard. Also, i have trouble getting into the story. In order 
 for me to enjoy a game, i have to be drawn in by a compelling story, and it just wasn't there. 
 Not only that, but the action just wasn't all that good. It was vaguely fun at first, but seemed 
 to become a chore after the first few kills. In reality, i had to struggle with all my strength 
 to make my way through the first dungeon. Once outside, i really got an appreciation for how bad 
 this game. This is where the lag went from horrible to unplayable. Not only that, but nothing looked 
 extremely spectacular, at least not worthy of causing so much lag. How come I can play Bioshock 
 with DX10 perfectly and I cant play Oblivion on lowest settings. Oh well like i said, if you like 
 it, fine. But this is honestly the worst game I've played ever, other than Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akafresh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion not only looks great, but plays great too. It is really addicting, and one of the most 
 free roaming environments I have seen. Lots and lots of stuff to do. Also very comparable to the 
 elder scrolls III. If you liked that one.
  
  The Good: Open environment, lots to do, great graphics, lots of fun, very addicting.
  
  The 
 Bad: You get tired of it, and it takes like 5 hours of play time to even get into the game, and 
 start having fun.
  
  Overall: I would say buy it don't rent it. If you rent it you will not play long enough to get 
 into it. The first 5 hours of the game take a long time to get through, but just bare through it, 
 and its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentFireX
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of all time. You can create your own character and choose from 8 different 
 races and customize there faces with a lot of different options to choose from. You should never 
 run out of things to do in this game.
  
  Story: 10
  The great thing about the story is you can make it whatever you want you can do the main story 
 or you can join one of the many guilds included in the game.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The graphics are the best I have ever seen in a game every thing is very detailed the grass, walls, 
 peoples faces every thing.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The gameplay is great the fighting is easy to get into and challenging at the same time, and its 
 fun to just go around and slaughter people. Although there are a lot of brief loading times and 
 some little glitches, thats about the only thing wrong with the gameplay.
  
  Sound:10
  The sound is good it has great voice acting and every single character has there own speech. The 
 sound of the weapons clashing is really good too.
  
  Overall:9.8
  If you have a PC that can run this amazing game, then you should buy it immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I had a great time playing The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. I won't even bother singing its praises, 
 since you're read all that many times before. I will note that I tried to play Morrowind earlier, 
 and didn't like it. That scared me off Oblivion for awhile. But about an hour into Oblivion, I 
 could see that this was a much, much better game. The story line is intriguing, the voice acting 
 is excellent, the music is first-class. It is just difficult enough to be challenging without being 
 frustrating.
  
  Game tip: Make sure to create a character with at least some magic ability for range and area attacks. 
 I played a battlemage, with good melee ability. That worked well. I had a lot of offensive firepower, 
 but weak healing and buffing abilities. But when the hordes moved in, I could melee them.
  
  I think playing melee through the entire game would get way too repetitive. This is a long, 
 long game. I had fun throughout. ... And now I will get the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Reaper
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect. I spent too much time while playing with this game. I was my first experience 
 to play so much time with a game but it's extremely the best one. You can do everything in that 
 game that you desire to do in a middle-age game. joining the guilds, fighting with the vampires, stealing 
 from the riches and give them to the poor ones, fighting as a gladiator, escape from the prison :) ... There's 
 so much thing you can do and you can play this game over 200 hours. It's unbelievable but true. The 
 main quest is so good and you want to finish it and see what happens in the end immedately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razv111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  I had played Elder Scrolls III Morrowind before playing this and although it was bigger and it 
 took me more time to play it wasn't half as good and interesting as Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion. 
 The graphics especially are amazing and it doesn't require an ultimate graphics card, but the better 
 it is the more you will like the interface. You can be sure that the game will enter in your top 
 10 best games played, I assure you. You can enter a lot of guilds, meet a lot of monsters, bandits, 
 have a lot of action, sneak in someone's house to steal something valuable, do a lot of dirty work 
 for some people or militia work for others and especially kill a lot of rats ... damn rats :) . 
 The bad part of Oblivion is that the main quest is pretty short and you can finish it pretty quickly 
 but even though it's short it's pretty good. I suggest you enter all the guilds as you can find 
 a lot of secret places, some cool items, weapons, armor while doing the missions for the guild 
 leaders and eventually if you succeed in all the missions you will become the leader of the guild. 
 Last but not least, seek the shrines of the gods in Oblivion and if you cannot find them all enter 
 Gamespot. com and read a Walkthrough that will help you surely because some of the missions for 
 these gods can be pretty amusing and also you canF find very rare items and weapons. To conclude, 
 Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is one of the best games I played and I recommend it to all game players 
 as it is very exciting and you can have a lot of fun. The End. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  Okay, I must admit, I love RPG's, but I hadn't played Morrowind before. But that didn't matter. 
 First, I must say that the game is great in many aspects and points. It serves great graphics, 
 a huge world and tons of missions to do. 
  
  1) But as only a few players discover, is that you really get bored after a few weeks. And it has 
 NO replay value. The game is simply too big for that. I mean, who the hell want to spend another 
 weeks and months, levelling up another character, just because this time you chose to be another 
 class? 
  
  2) Thing is, I chose to be an Assassin, say Stealth class. I took every skill to my major skills 
 that I assumed being cruel and cunning, such as Marksman, security, blade, mercantile, mysticism 
 (turning out to being the worst of all magic skills, except alchemy) , conjuration and destruction. 
 But in the end, it only was blade really helping me levelling up. And when it got to 100, I really 
 was f***ed up. Now I had to spend the little of my magicka using torchlight and summoning all the 
 time just to go up one level. And when I got up with time, I realized that no matter how much I 
 experienced in level, the monsters and enemies I would encounter just were larger, stronger and 
 more irritating than before. So levelling up became incredibly boring and leaded me nowhere.
  
  3) Another thing is that you really can't choose which class you want to be. I choose assassin 
 because I wanted to be stealthy and slay enemies with my sneak attacks. But in the real game, you 
 haven't any use of it!!! Normally, most of the human enemies will discover you before you even 
 sneaked near enough them. All monsters and no-humanoids discover you already when you enter the 
 cave or ruin, so you absolutely can't launch a single sneak attack on them. Even chameleon or invisibility 
 won't help you with that. But if you choose to sniper with the bow, you won't deal enough damage 
 either. So no matter how it turns out, it's impossible to win the game (especially the main quests) 
 while playing a stealth character. When playing a Warrior, you can have 5 goblins attacking you 
 at the same time without you taking any serious damage. When playing a mage, you just have to cast 
 burden on them and shoot them down with enough destruction spells. But when playing an assassin, 
 you can be killed by a f***ing lion, even if you run like hell and heal yourself like a maniac!!! 
 And the worst is defending against magical enemies like ghosts, wraths or will-o-the-wisps. No 
 matter if you have umbra (the best enchanted sword in the game) or not, you will take enough damage 
 to die before you kill the monster. And even if you succeed, there will always be another monster 
 to wait for you. So I became bored and annoyed along the game. 
  
  4) My worst nightmares were Oblivion Gate missions. Sure, Warriors and mages sure can manage to 
 wipe out every living being they encounter in the Oblivion Realm. But I had really hard times closing 
 those f***ing gates. I ended up powering up my Illusion skills to 50 to finally being able learning 
 the most basic Invisibility spell being available to buy from others in the game. That way, I sneaked 
 past all enemies in the realms and closed them. But after a few times, even that became incredibly 
 boring. As I continued, I realized that there are only a certain amount of different realms available. 
 That means that if you had entered 20 of them, you had entered them all. And even if you saved 
 before entering the Sigil Chamber and loaded again if you weren't satisfied with the obtained Sigil 
 Stone, you never would get any Sigil Stone you really wanted to keep. I mean, I found about 50 
 different Sigil Stones and the best I possibly found amongst them had 20% Chameleon. Which I didn't 
 really need either, because I already had a Chameleon ring with the same effect. So there was no 
 real meaning in closing those gates in any way. I was lucky when all gates finally were closed 
 in the end.
  
  5) When I did the mission finding Martin in Kvatch, I didn't want to go the entire way by using 
 the real way, so I took the short cut stealing a horse and making my way straight through the forests. 
 It was then I really realized how huge the world was. I saw caves and ruins, forts, mystic stones 
 and other stuff and entered every one of them to explore them all. But after you played the game 
 a few days and discovered about hundreds of caves, forts and elven ruins which all look the same 
 from the outside as from the inside, you really s**t on entering those caves. I mean, caves, forts 
 and elven ruins would be very mysterious and exiting in every other game. But if you find one ruin 
 and another ruin and another ruin and one more ruin and about hundred ruins, it looses the entire 
 magic those elder places should radiate. In the end you just walk straight past them thinking "Oh, 
 another ruin, lets continue walking." They should have added more things like hidden villages or 
 mysterious places or at least changed every caves, forts and ruins by adding interesting underworld 
 towns or treasures or something like that. By the way, same goes for the Oblivion gates.
  
  6) One thing that really annoyed me with time was the recharging of enchanted weapons. I have no 
 idea how that was in Morrowind, but really, I don't care, because it was horrible enough for me 
 in Oblivion. Every time after I finished a mission, I was forced to fasttravel to the nearest magic 
 guild, recharge all my weapons for about 10000 gold and then go to the nearest armoury to let them 
 repair again! Okay, it's fine with the repairing, but recharging? I mean, those weapons are magical! 
 Don't treat magical weapons like they contained any ammunition so that you have to reload them 
 again and again. And repairing them wasn't easy either! I mean, increasing the armoury skill is 
 a hell of a work! You have to come up to level 50 journeyman to being able to repair enchanted 
 weapons! I played the game for months, but since I am an assassin, I did not wear any heavy or 
 light armour, so I wasn't experienced in Armoury at all! Thing is, my job wasn't to fight brutally 
 like warriors, but to kill silent and instantly. But since that isn't really possible in this game, 
 I had to get a normal heavy armour suit in the end. But nevertheless. I spend 2 months with the 
 game now and HAVE STILL NOT COME UP TO JOURNEYMAN ARMOURER!!! Do these producers have any idea 
 how much gold it would have cost me to finished this game if there hadn't been those gold glitches? 
 
  
  7) The seventh thing that I missed was the lack of special opponents. Sure, there were a lot of 
 them in the game and a mass of new, bizarre ones in the Oblivion realms. But still, there were 
 no ultimate monsters or bosses. Possibly it shouldn't, but I'd wished this game would have been 
 a little like the Zelda stories. A little bit more RPG- story and therefore also some bosses to 
 fight. Some huge dragons or demons or something like that. Also the fact that you in the end couldn't 
 summon really gigantic ultra monsters (with the deadroth reptile being the largest one) disappointed 
 me a bit. And here, the class variation combined with the horrible levelling up system comes up 
 again. As I said before, I choose to be an assassin stealth class. Still, I took conjuration because 
 I thought it would be really funny in the end summoning really cool monsters to defend myself. 
 But the largest thing I could summon in the end was a skeleton guardian! And it didn't help me 
 either. When one opponent rushed towards me and I cast summon skeleton guardian on them, they just 
 run past my guardian to aim for me in any way! So what was the point with conjuration then if your 
 summoned monsters even couldn't defend you correctly? And I wasn't able to learn stronger summoning 
 spells either. All because I didn't chose to be a mage in the beginning and so I never could get 
 enough magicka to perform the really cool spells. That really was a letdown.
  
  8) The next thing is the lack of variation of different landscapes. The world in Oblivion is really 
 huge, I admit that. But except the Oblivion realms and some bizarre dream worlds in certain missions 
 and the towns, there were only 3 different kinds of landscapes to explore. About 50 % of the world 
 is just meadows, forests, bushes and rocks. Only in the north, there you are able to find a snowy 
 landscape as well a marsh landscape in the east. That definitely makes you NOT want to explore 
 the world anymore, because all you will see is just copy of what you've seen one minute ago. Very 
 badly done if you ask me. Why didn't they create desserts, or dead forests, creepy graveyards, 
 canyons, magical places, big lakes in the middle of nowhere and so on? It would have let the world 
 look more magical. And why the h*** couldn't they create mountains you are able to climb on? In 
 many situations, I often spend a lot of time finding a way to my next destination which would be 
 located anywhere on any huge mountain. But the main problem in the first place was to get there. 
 Not even Shadowmere was sometimes able to get up those mountains! 
  
  9) Next thing is the clothing. I liked the fact that you could dress your character as you wanted. 
 But very often I didn't find the special clothing in the special colour I desired. Why wasn't it 
 possible to create your own clothing or at least to change the colour of some clothes you already 
 owned? I mean, when you start the game, you can change your characters face in every way you want 
 it! The face can have any colour, shape or size you like. But why can't you then at least change 
 the colour of your clothes? That would've made the game much better. 
  
  10) The 10th bad thing in the game is the magic. When I played games like Fable, I really loved 
 to use the spells available there. The game had as mass of different, new and interesting spells. 
 And with time experiencing your character, your spells definitely would become stronger, bigger 
 and cooler. But in Oblivion, the magic is totally absent! 3! Only 3 different destruction variations, 
 say fire, ice and lightning are available in the game. What about the other elements? Earth, water, 
 wind, darkness, light (torchlight, haha) and so on? There so many different things the producers 
 could have added to make use of destruction magic more varying in Oblivion. The next bad thing 
 with the magic is the look of the spells. You would assume that if you are able to cast just a 
 little fireball in level one, you would be able to create massive super inferno attack spells that 
 burn everything around you in an area of 5 meters! But in Oblivion, that NEVER HAPPENS! A fireball 
 spell (5 damage) at level one will look exactly as small and fragile as when you cast a "Super 
 Ultimate Heavy Thunder Inferno Mega Burning Fire Wave" (damage 300) at level 50! Question is: WHY!!!??? 
 The feature being able to create your own spells in the game is brilliant, but all spells will 
 exactly look the same, no matter how much you advance. That REALLY was a let down for me. And I 
 hated that there nearly weren't any cool spells, so mysterious that you wanted to use them on and 
 on. I liked the feather, burden, water breathing, water walking, chameleon and invisibility spells. 
 But that was all I found interesting with the spells in the game. I especially hated the fortify 
 and damage spells. Sure, in some situations, they would be nice to have, but otherwise, they were 
 fully unusable. Last thing I didn't like with the magic in the game was that when you created your 
 own spells, you practically always had to be at skill level 100 for the respective magic skill 
 when creating the really strong spells. But even if you trained like hell to come up to that, if 
 your intelligence attribute already had reached 100, you hadn't got enough magicka to being able 
 to use the spell at all! For example: The Invisibility spell for 30 seconds needs about 260 magicka 
 (you start with 80 and get 5-10 plus every level) to use and you have to have an Illusion skill 
 of 50. Then, when you finally become able to cast the spell at least, you may want to create a 
 similar spell that last much longer. But the same spell that maybe last 10 seconds longer than 
 the old one needs you to have an Illusion skill of 75 and a magicka limit of about 300! So no matter 
 how you turn and twist yourself in the game, - the fact that you have to be a mage to cast useful 
 spells remains continuously. 
  
  11) Last I found the side quests being much more interesting than the main quest itself. The story 
 was loose and not very exiting at all. I think a Roll-playing-game has to have a more roll-playing-story 
 than just the fact that you can play as your own character. Sure, the whole main quest was about 
 Martin and your support to him. So you wouldn't stand aside and watch they do all the work. You 
 really had to do a lot for them to help them achieve their goal. Still, I missed the tensions in 
 the story. No corrupted guild members, no intertwined plots, no interesting story characters, no 
 awesome ending story. I felt the whole main quest of the game being nothing more than a fast and 
 clumsy written Hollywood-story with the main goal to fill the game with some quests instead of 
 telling a very interesting, exciting and thrilling tale in the good old fantasy style. 
  
  12) Then again, there are some bugs in the game too, which let the game crash now and then. But 
 that wasn't that irritating for me as it seems to be for other players of the game. All in all 
 I found the game to be really good, huge, interesting, somewhat new, somewhat old, and including 
 a whole mass of nice little features. I can't say that I invested my money on the wrong game, but 
 I think, it always the same: No matter how good and well done a game is, you always will find things 
 that disturb you so you don't like it entirely. Exception goes for Zelda: Ocarina of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axia_777
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RPG ever. Why? It has a feeling like no other RPG I have ever played and I have 
 pretty much played the all. It is a feeling of real adventure. It is so big and open ended it feels 
 like anything could happen. To me, that feeling is more important than than great graphics. It 
 is better than Morrowind in a number of ways. First off I like the combat/action better than Marrowind. 
 Second it just looks so much better. Both had the open ended feeling, but Oblivion wins hands down, 
 no contest.
  
  The gameplay is smooth, the graphics are top notch and you can easily extend the life of Oblivion 
 by hooking with the MOD community. There are dozens of great MODS that have all kinds of crazy 
 stuff in them.
  
  By this game if you can play it on the 360 or PC. It is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 44020243
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Remember when you jump around city and try to hunt some crab or waiting for your prey . this feeling 
 all gone when i play obv dont let the beautiful graphic fools you .this game is for new face but 
 for people who play morrow wind/arcanum/boalder gate / fall out /torment/even the very best conversation 
 and mood in the longest journey .. obv quest its too easy to find and too boring to follow . some 
 reaction it just not reasonable . you have everything in RPG game but you dont know how to make 
 it to gather!. if it too big game for you to make i hope you will make it smaller but deeper next 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standard_222
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I have both versions of the game. I got the 360 version first, but then I bought the PC for the 
 better graphics since it went down in price. To my surprise, it was actually better for the 360. 
 Of course, the graphics were better for the PC, but that's a small price to pay for the way the 
 User Interface controls. Right off the bat you can tell that this game was ported from the 360 
 to the PC, or at least it feels like it, and they didn't make any effort to compensate for the 
 mouse and keyboard. Your standard movement is the same with most other First person genres (i. e. 
 w, s, a, d for movement and mouse for aiming and direction) , but the User Interface is laggy and over 
 complicated. The mouse pointer moves extremely slow when trying to access the menu and there is 
 no quick keys. Immediately you can tell that this was created for the 360 but they made little 
 effort to give it a good keyboard and mouse feel that would have been comfortable. This does become 
 extremely annoying as you progress in the game and have to access the menu quite frequentyly for 
 potions and stuff. In the end though, it is a good game. You'll enjoy it if you haven't played 
 the 360 version and only have a PC, but I definitely recommend getting the 360 version of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zediknight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  If you have not played Oblivion, then you are missing out on one of the best games of its genre. 
 Awesome graphics coupled with physics modeling generate an impressive world to get lost into.
 
  
  The great part about the game is that you can play is as fast or as slow as you want to proceed. 
 Players can zoom though the game by just tackling primary quests or can take in the scenery solving 
 every last side quest.
  
  Even if you wish to zoom though the game, expect around week's worth of game play from this game. 
 Amazing re-playability keeps bringing you back to the game again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Hearing so many negative comments about the leveled difficulty of the enemies put me off Oblivion 
 for a year. But eventually I gave it another go and had an absolute blast. I really enjoyed this 
 game. The missions were varied enough to make up for the somewhat monotonous combat.
  
  Combat with shield and sword is pretty repetitive. I invested in some magic skills just to change 
 things up a bit. Using enchanted weapons sharpens the combat a bit because you have to worry about 
 how much magic charge you are using and how you are going to recharge your weapons.
  
  Quests were frequently the go here, fight monsters, get item type of deals. But the context of 
 the quests were varied enough to keep things interesting. Consequences in some cases affected characters 
 you ran into much later in the game, which was pretty cool.
  
  Graphics were amazing. I have a C2D X6800 and 2x8800GTX cards with 4GB RAM. Had no problem playing 
 with everything maxed (and 8x AA) . However HDR lighting was horribly glaring. I used Bloom instead 
 for a more realistic picture that didn't hurt my eyes. Stability was horrible on Vista x64. I eventually 
 reinstalled on XP (thankfully I had a dual boot set up) where the game was much more stable.
  
  Character creation was a total mess. Not the class but the face creation. Unbelievably frustrating 
 to use. I can't imagine why Bethesda chose to go with that software except that maybe they were 
 able to license it cheap. Maybe experts can manipulate it to get decent faces but not your average 
 joe. Maxis did face creation well in Sims 2. If you are considering this game, don't expect to 
 get a face you really like out it. Thankfully you don't have to ever see your character, but in 
 this type of game creating a character you love is supposed to be part of the fun. There is no 
 undo buttons and no way to save your work to back it up or possibly use it later for another character. 
 Faces of NPCs generally looked very, very similar. I suspect even Bethesda had trouble using the 
 face creation software they licensed.
  
  The encumbrance limit is a pain, but being able to carry everything you find is too unrealistic. 
 Still there are mods for that. Clipping is bad in some sections. There were dead enemies lying 
 half in the wall, and more than once I had weapons knocked from my hands (which is fine) that disappeared 
 into the wall (which is not fine) . Voice acting is generally good, but it's the same voices over 
 and over. They must have had 5 actors voice 99% of the dialog. The leveled difficulty is not as 
 bad as people make it out to be. You just need to be careful to level your combat skills enough 
 between every character level-up. The effect is to make your character gradually increase in power 
 and strength against enemies since most enemies eventually top out. I started to see definite superiority 
 around level 25-30 (I topped out af 35 when I finished the main quest) . Proper enchanted rings, 
 armor, etc really help. By the end of the game combat had lost it's edge because my character was 
 so powerful. I will have to start another for Knights of the Nine and Shivering Isles.
  
  The story of the main quest was just ok. Not as good as Morrowind. Morrowind was notable for it's 
 exceptional storytelling. The story behind Oblivion is relatively simple by comparison. The story 
 behind the main faction quests were often more interesting (especially the Fighter's guild and 
 the Dark Brotherhood quest lines) . Still, I am looking forward to playing the Shivering Isles expansion 
 pack.
  
  Overall I think the game was amazing. I haven't been this engrossed in a game for so many hours 
 since, well, Morrowind I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schalk59
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I love this game!
  The world is huge and you can spend 200 or more hours playing it. So many side quests and stuff. 
 The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is great. After I beat the game, I can replay the game 
 over and over and over because I love it so much. Anyone that loves rpgs should get this game. 
 This is one of my favorite games ever. Definetely recommended to everyone. Can't wait for Elder 
 Scrolls 5 to come out. That will be great. GREAT Game!! Great Game! Almost perfect the only way 
 this could get better is if they included even more quests which is ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMontana1004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I remember when I first played Oblivion. The beautiful and realistic graphics amazed me! Let me 
 explain the graphics in a little more detail: the lush vegetation of Cyrodiil covered with a large 
 array of different climates that vary from mountainous, tundra, swampy, and subtropical is presented 
 in the most beautiful way. If you really want to see how realistic and gorgeous the graphics are 
 of this game, I recommend that you try this: rent oblivion or borrow it from a buddy. Then, pop 
 it into your disc tray and start the game. Once you get past the tutorial of the game, fast travel 
 to northern most city and steal a horse from a nearby stable. Lastly, travel on your steed north 
 to the mountains and climb as high as you can. Now stare out and I will ask you; how detailed are 
 the graphics now and you will respond, So detailed I can see the city where you start the game 
 at (which is very far if you are traveling on foot) . In addition to the alluring graphics, the 
 sound is also as realistic as it gets. When you get into your first sword fight with a warrior, 
 you will realize the how perfect the sound is; every time your blade smites an enemy's armor, the 
 loud clang of metal hitting metal will sound like real life. Now onto gameplay. The gameplay in 
 Oblivion is very immersive. You have the choice of three classes: magic, warrior, and stealth. 
 You can combine these classes when you choose your seven major skills. For example: if you choose 
 major skills that combine warrior style with magic, you will be considered a battlemage. Since 
 the gameplay is so amplified it is hard to explain it in a small review so I will give you a little 
 information. In oblivion, you will face many quests, meet dozens of people, explore hundreds of 
 dungeons, fight bounteous creatures, and scavenge countless amounts of weaponry, armor, spells, 
 books, and more! The gameplay is highly addictive that will keep you engrossed for hours at a time, 
 with its vast land area and fun combat. Now moving onto the final section of the review: storyline, 
 value, tilt, difficulty, and learning curve. First off, the storyline was very interesting. I do 
 not want to spoil anything so will just tell you that the story deserves a solid 9 out of 10. Next, 
 the value of the game deserves 10 out of 10 because you will play it for way over 100 hours with 
 the gameplay that will force you to lose hours of sleep. Next, the difficulty of the game varies 
 which is perfect because there is a slider that allows you to adjust the strain of the game. The 
 learning curve is very short because the controls are very complex and even the simplest of gamers 
 should be able to learn in less than 30 minutes. Lastly, the tilt. I am sure you are asking why 
 I am giving a perfect game 9 out of 10 for the reviewers tilt. This is easy to explain: The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the best game ever created on any console, fact, but I never said that 
 it is flawless. Every game has its fair share of bugs including Oblivion. But the biggest reason 
 why I gave the tilt a nine is because the loading screens can be very long and irritating at times 
 and sometimes the game has technical difficulties that usually cause you to lose your current game 
 progress. Despite the few problems that Oblivion has, this should DEFINITELY not stop you from 
 purchasing it. I said it twice and I will remind you once again that The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 
 is the greatest game ever created on any console. It has revolutionized gaming as we know it and 
 no other RPG, especially Fable 2, can ever be in the same league as it. Thank you for taking the 
 time for reading my lengthy review. I hope I have swayed you to buy this game. HAPPY GAMING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcusmead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Not very often does a game like Oblivion come around. After spending over 200 hours on this game, 
 I am still amazed and fascinated with how much time and energy was put in to making this game look 
 and feel the way that it does, which is, nothing short of spectacular. And I still have places 
 to explore and people to meet and quests to complete. There is a lot to talk about, so please forgive 
 me if I leave something out or screw something up.
  
  The first thing that I noticed about this game is that you dont necessarily have to participate 
 in or finish quests to move on in the game and build up your character. As you get stronger and 
 gain levels, so do your enemies, so you really wont be dominating your enemies just because of 
 your high level (except obviously mud crabs, rats, deer, etc.) It comes down to how you made and 
 how well you play your character. Running into the forest and finding a fort, or a cave, you can 
 build your character up by the well made leveling system. As far as quests go, the reason you do 
 quests as far as I can see is for gold and items (not saying you dont need them) , and obviously 
 the main quest to beat the game. But to level, you need to practice and use your skills.
  
  Leveling is the part where, if played correct, could make or break a character. You have 7 major 
 skills that you have chosen, and after improving any combination of these skills by 10 points, 
 you get a level. Go find the nearest bed and take a rest for an hour. On the leveling screen, you 
 get to raise the value of three of your attributes, and each attribute governs certain skills, 
 either major or minor. You get up to five bonus value points on each attribute, and the number 
 you get depends on how many skills (major or minor) were raised under that governing attribute. 
 So, if you know you want to raise your value in three attributes, you could take the time and level 
 up the major and minor skills in that attribute, to guarantee five value bonus every level. There 
 is a whole science to the management and waste prevention of skill points, so youll have to play 
 it a little to get the feel for it. All in all it is very well done and a balanced system, and 
 rewarding to those who play it right. Ive seen players who have leveled efficiently have 100 in 
 all attributes between levels 35-37. Takes quite of bit of planning, but it is doable. When you 
 raise the level of up a certain skill high enough, you will gain rank in that skill: Novice, apprentice, 
 journeyman, expert, and master. With each skill increase, you get a perk depending on what skill 
 you gained rank in.
  
  On a very basic level, there are about three different kinds of characters that you can create, 
 Warriors, Thieves, and Casters/Mages. Warriors are what they sound like: strong, heavy armored 
 axe/warhammer swingers who rely mainly on their melee attack. Thieves are light armored, quick 
 and acrobatic, and will most likely use a sword/dagger. Casters/Mages are the magical type, whose 
 main offense and defense is magic. Wether they are doing damage or defending themselves, they are 
 probably using magic.
  
  Yes, I know. In no way are these the only types of characters you are going to get. You can mix 
 and match, create your own custom class, decide what you want your characters major skills to 
 be, and many other options. And this is what makes Oblivion such a great and diverse game. You 
 get to decide who your character will be by choosing their class, race, birthsign, and even their 
 facial structure and skin color. The face editor is almost a game in itself. A person could spend 
 hours just adjusting their characters dozens and dozens of different facial aspects, trying to 
 get the right look, or just the doofiest one. Birthsign is basically just adding another step of 
 diversity to your character, giving your character a special ability, or improve upon a certain 
 aspect of your character. For an example of an ability, if you are born under the sign of The Lover, 
 you can once a day paralyze an enemy with a kiss. To improve upon an aspect, The Steed adds 20 
 points of speed to your character. Each birthsign has advantages, as well disadvantages, but it 
 is very important to choose the right sign for the kind of character that you want to create.
 
  
  As far as graphics goes, I have not seen a game that tops this. With all settings on high and using 
 HDR, the quality is absolutely amazing. However running these settings requires a pretty mighty 
 computer. But taking the settings down a notch does not take away from the game play at all. You 
 have lots of different video tweaking options that you can adjust to get the perfect balance between 
 look and frame-rate for your computer.
  The physics engine is amazing. I find myself sometimes grabbing a slain enemy and dragging them 
 off bridges or rolling them down cliffs just to see the incredibly realistic rag doll. Call it 
 strange, but I love it.
  
  While few and far apart, there were a few problems I found while playing Oblivion that could have 
 been improved upon. Im not talking about glitches or things that could be fixed with a patch, 
 just general game play.
  
  There are three types of dungeons: Forts, Caves, and Ayleid Ruins. While there are over 200 dungeons 
 and I have been to most of them, the interiors do not seem to be very unique from one another (I 
 mean, forts from forts, caves from caves, etc.) . It seems like they are all made the same way, 
 but just small tweaks and twists to make each one a little different from the next one. If it was 
 purposeful for them to be this way, like that is way the way the Ayleids always designed them (which 
 is what I choose to believe) , then that is fine. And yes I understand that it would be a very time-consuming 
 task to create a unique dungeon every time, but with the majority of the dungeons it just seems 
 a little redundant and has the possibility to bore. There are dungeons that are completely different 
 from others, but usually this means that on some quest, you will be making a stop there. I dont 
 necessarily see this as a problem, just something I noticed and you will definitely notice too. 
 But on a positive note, the exterior landscaping is all unique, and I have yet to notice any obvious 
 repeats. And that is pretty good with apparently around 16 square miles (dont quote me on that) 
 of outside game place, that is pretty impressive.
  
  While the AI is very well done, there sometimes seem to be little concepts gone wrong. For an example 
 of a major one, at the end of the Thieves Guild quest line, you acquire the Cowl of the Grey Fox 
 (head of the Thieves Guild) . And if you are seen wearing this cowl by any guard or authority figure, 
 you are confronted and have no choice but to resist. This makes perfect sense. But, while you are 
 wanted and you take off the cowl, do the block/surrender to the guard, he will act like you just 
 started talking to him. Then he will probably attack you again or a few times, but then he eventually 
 gives up and walks away.
  
  I feel that there is only one major flaw with Oblivion, and that is the lack of online play. My 
 god, all I want is arena play, match me up with another level 35 and lets go at it, show how powerful 
 my character is and how he matches up against other characters in his level range. Please? Just 
 something small like that and I would be playing this game all over again. I dont want the MMORPG, 
 just the arena. Ive heard rumors of it happening, but havent seen any evidence or talk from a 
 credible source.
  
  There are a few more subtle problems that I wont mention because of their insignificance, but 
 the problems added together are not even close to any kind of reason to not play this game. Bottom 
 line, you need to play this. Try it out, and if you are any kind of RPG fan, you will love this. 
 You get to basically live another life, in another world. So please, do yourself a favor and buy 
 it. Dont have a semi-good computer? Buy it for your 360; you just need to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sja30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  A truly immersive game playing experience with easily 250+ hours of game play as one character. 
 In theory endless game play with all the variant character classes and choice of professions. Visually 
 the game is stunning, although somewhat clunky on slower graphics cards (worth upgrading to 512Mb 
 if you can afford it) . With a large world to explore and numerous tasks and quests in addition 
 to the main quest there is ample to please the most demanding of RPGers. The AI is top notch, particularly 
 on higher levels where enemies will pursue for some distance. When you have played the main quests 
 it is worth investing in the additional games namely Shivering Isles but the Knights of the Nine 
 both of which are well worth playing and enhance the gaming experience.
  In terms of negatives there are very few, it would be good to be able to shoot from horseback, 
 some of the fighting can become repetitive and the game does occasionally crash which can be a 
 pain. In summary an excellent, immersive and intelligent game. Visually impressive and offers increased 
 playability as the character progresses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Oblivion I thought I was in another world. everything seemed so real. This 
 game is the most realistic game I have ever played. You start out in prison and then you escape, 
 and then you are thrown into an amazing world. The game has tons of quest and tons of cool armor 
 and weapons. This game has aw some sound and music. The one thing I do not like about this game 
 is that the combat is really repetitive and the the battles are kind of boring. If you like RPG's 
 than you should play this game, It will rock you world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woz2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that certainly is a must to add to your gaming library. The perfect balance between 
 fantasy and reality.
  
  As soon as the word go, the game manages to capture a plot to assassinate the Emperor, which hooks 
 you into it's fabulous game-play immediately. You may freely go around discovering secondary quests, 
 to increase your fame and gold. However, you can also easily start the game and follow the primary 
 plot and do them later. It is up to you, which is what makes this game fantastic. The game is neither 
 easy nor hard; however if you are finding it a little difficult or easy, you can simply change 
 the difficulty slider in your options which allows the perfect game-play for each player - those 
 who want a challenge, and those who just want to explorer the world, without having to get into 
 any long fights or battles.
  
  The game's graphics are still phenomenal; even a year on. Many games have unsuccessfully tried 
 to catch up with Oblivion graphics. On the other hand, with the release of DirectX 10; Oblivion 
 may soon fall behind in the gaming graphics race. It is simple to change the settings to suit your 
 frame-per-second needs. The only couple of down-sides to the graphics is that you need a fairly 
 powerful, and therefore fairly expensive, graphics card to play the game to match the superb standard 
 of Xbox360. Also, HDR and AA cannot be enabled at the same time in the game; but this is easily 
 resolved by forcing AA in Your Catalyst/Nvidia Drivers.
  
  The skills and talents bring the game to life which allow you to create the perfect character; 
 whether that may be a mage or a warrior, there are many other combinations. Sadly, some of the 
 skills and talents are a lot easier to progress than others; for example sneak. It is very easy 
 to go to the top of the stair-case in a shop and just shuffle back and forth; allowing you to increase 
 it very quickly; unlike blade or blunt.
  
  Overall, the game is clearly a must. It has easily succeeded its predecessor - Morrowind. It is 
 clear that Bethesda will have many great surprises and talents for us in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  The game is possible one of the Greatest RPG EVER
  
  - Great Graphics, - Great gameplay
  - Plenty and great quests
  - Big and Non Linear world to explore
  - Great sound I just love 
 this game since the first time i started playing with
  and i finished the main storyline and still there is many things to explore in the world of Elder 
 scrolls
  
  The game is addictive in every way you see it
  
  It is a little confusing at first but at least not so confusing as the previous game Morrowind
 
  
  Anyway
  If you are a big RPG lover this game must be your first choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackarcher
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  This is definately the greatest game ever made for medieval gamers (so far, hmm) and just beautiful 
 to watch. Like Sims 2, you start with the chance to modify your character, e. g. eyes, skin, face 
 etc. and then go on to play. It has extremely good graphics and storyline, plus the other characters 
 turn out on a scale of drunks to Emperors just pushes up the greatness scale! You play as a lonely 
 prisoner (and of a list of awesome races may I add) and turn out to be the marked emperor's chosen 
 one and are destined to close shut the jaws of oblivion (the game's hell) Plus top awe you even 
 further, it is one of those games where you can slack off and do other quests and favours like 
 beat up a paranoid elf and whatnot. You are also given the chance to cast spells, compete in gladiator-like 
 battles, pickpocketing beggars and rich ponses, and catch up with some evil, gremlin-looking Bosmer 
 (Wood Elf) Who just happens to have stolen your favorite ring. With great opportunities, passionate 
 landscape, awesome graphics and loads of bloodshed, Oblivion, in one word, ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I had fun for about a week then I lost interest. I didn't know 
 how to add mods but had heard others saying it improves the gameplay of Oblivion alot. I decided 
 to reinstall the game after quite a few months and learn how to add mods to see if it would improve 
 my thoughts about this game. I was very pleased to find that it did.
  This game is so immersive with the wonderfull modding communities help, I can't stop playing now. 
 I think everyone that was not into Oblivion and it's expansion needs to give it another go with 
 mods, if you haven't done so already. Thanks to the talented mod community I now have a VampWolf 
 Human character to level 80 and he lives on top of the highest tower in the middle of Imperial 
 City in a plush palace. Thats just one of many scenerios and ideas you could also have with this 
 immersive game and it's expansion. I have grown to love this game from watching the sunrise and 
 the fog form on the meadows to the dark nights in the old forest hunting in nightvision... what 
 a game. Thanks bethseda and the community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srichard5_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I really don't understand all the hype for this game. I have tried to get into it several times, 
 and quit out of boredom each time. I love RPGs and FPS, and this game is highly rated, so I should 
 love this game. But I don't.
  
  First of all, this RPG is horrible broke without some type of leveling mode. A RPG where you have 
 to carefully pick your skills or else you will level too fast ?? You have to pick skills you don't 
 want just for balanced leveling?? What kind of stupid role-playing system is that? Second of all, 
 the enemy mobs, dungeons, and gates are all too monotonous. Sure, there are a ton of them. But 
 they are all carbon copies of one another. How many skeletons and scamps will I need to kill? How 
 many gates of the exact same type with the exact same textures and exact same enemy mobs do I need 
 to close in this game? Answer: too many.
  
  Third, there definitely are a lot of quests in this game. The problem is that 80% of them are copy-and-paste 
 versions of each other. I played through many quests, yet there are only 4-5 of them that are truly 
 memoriable. The rest just felt like I was repeating the same motions.
  
  Lastly, I consider the combat to be a bit on the boring side. The spells are generally lame, and 
 combat options are severely limited. What you do at level 50 won't be much different than what 
 you were doing at level 10. You will just be using stronger versions of the same stuff. But since 
 your enemies will always be as strong as you (unless fixed by a mod) , you will still be doing the 
 same percentage damage as you were at earlier levels.
  
  What this all leads to is 20 hours of great gameplay, followed by 80 hours of doing the exact same 
 things over and over until you collapse of boredom. I suppose some people just don't mind the monotony, 
 which is what explains why some people think this is the best game ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (PC) Review)
  
  Pros:
  
  + Amazing Graphics - One of the best looking games to date, very betiful enovirments, realistic 
 grass, great looking character models, etc.
  + Freedom - This game is all about freedom, at the beginning you have a tutorial type section that 
 leads you through sewers, but once you get out of the sewers your free to do as you please.
  + Length - to complete the main quest it'll take you around ~40 hours, but if you want to do everything... well 
 count on spending at least ~200 hours.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Hefty requirements - this game will not run on your 3 year old PC, this game requires some hefty 
 requirements to get it to look amazing
  - Dumbed down compared to Morrowind - if you've played Morrowind you'll notice that the gameplay 
 is dumbed down when compared to Morrowind (less abilities and simplified gameplay)
  - Gameplay - The gameplay is pretty boring. The combat is the worst offender, the combat is simply 
 uninspiring and not very fun. I hate the combat of this game.
  
  This is an amazing game. Its length could keep you playing for days on end, and its beauty is unmatched. 
 The game falls short in the gameplay department though. The gameplay and combat system are uninspiring.
 
  
  I'd say if your a fan of RPG's, especially WRPGs, then get this game if not, then skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demigod_r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have never been big on RPGs but after playing this game for the last two days, I have to admit 
 that I'm hooked.
  
  I love the fact that you can switch between first person and third person views. Graet graphics, 
 almost endless landscape to explore and I like the realism regarding the heavier the weapon, the 
 more energy it drains from you.
  
  When I upgraded my PC to 1 Gig of RAM, this was the first game I said I had to get. The fact that 
 Best Buy finally dropped the price to $30 didn't hurt either
  
  This isn't one of those games where you'll breeze through it in 20-40 hours.
  I've heard everything 
 from 75 to more than 100 hours to go through the entire game.
  
  If you want a game that will definitely challenge you, has tremendous replayability.
  
  I HIGHLY 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRIMSAGE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about a year now. This has to be one of the best RPG's I have 
 ever played. It solves many of the boring combat issues in Elder Scrolls III. The world to explore 
 is ginormus. Many of great NPCs to interact with and all of them are well voiced. The story is 
 great as well. Plenty of side quests to keep you busy and the quests were much better than in Elder 
 Scrolls III. The leveling system is great as well. Your enemies never become to overpowering nor 
 do the become to weak. Overall I would have to say 9.5 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  The groundbreaking successor to Morrowind is finally here, and while it is better in just about 
 everyway, it also share a few of the inherent flaws of Morrowind. Oblivions story starts out with 
 you character in a castle dungeon jail cell, and the emperor comes in with guards to let you go, 
 stating that you have big plans in his future. After a little bit of dungeon crawling and fighting 
 off mysterious men, you are about to escape outside with the mysterious men kill the emperor. He 
 leaves you an emerald, and you are too stop the gates of Oblivion from releasing hell onto the 
 land. Not such a strong story, but there are a lot of enjoyable mini stories as you go along. One 
 of my favorites was a mini story involving a group of young ladies who would lure men into their 
 farmhouse for some fun, steal their money, and they would be too embarrassed to tell anyone. You 
 then go to them and they try to lure you in (if you're a male, if you're a female, they try to 
 get you to join their group) , but you end up dueling it out with the three of them and stopping 
 their games.
  
  This game makes big leaps and bounds in the graphics area, and that inherent beauty becomes very 
 clear at the beginning of the game. Huge, vast grounds are all around you, and there is nothing 
 short of breathtaking when you stand there and take in all the eye candy. That epic view comes 
 in at a hefty system requirement, though. As was Morrowind before it, this game will tax systems 
 for quite a while. And despite playing it on a high end system, there were a few hiccups that would 
 hinder gameplay as new areas were loading. There is also a seemingly unlimited amount of things 
 to do in this game as well, a lot more than in Morrowind. There are guilds to join, caves and dungeons 
 to explore, buy a house or merchandise, and a seemingly endless number of miniquests, besides the 
 main quest. If you intend to embark on most of these mini quests, along with the 40+ main quest, 
 you are looking at well over 100 hours + of gameplay. This is a blessing as well as a curse, as 
 sometimes you will lose yourself in the huge number of miniquests. There is no online, alas, but 
 I don't really feel like I was missing anything. I got too entwined in the main game to miss it.
 
  
  This fact is even further intensified now that Bethesda has released two expansion packs, Knights 
 of the Nine and Shivering Isles. Knights of the Nine is a bunch of different mods for the game, 
 including things like Horse Armor and a few properties you inherit, but you also get quite a few 
 long quests to complete. Shivering Isles adds a whole new island to explore, about a quarter the 
 size of Oblivions island. These two add a good 100 + hours of gameplay. This game could take you 
 a long, long time...
  
  Combat and magic use has also been greatly improved. You can manually block now, and you don't 
 have to sheath your weapon to use magic now. Sneaking has also been improved, as you now know how 
 well you are hidden with a sneaking marker that shows when you are sneaking. No Sam Fisher here, 
 but improved from Morrowind. The lockpicking skill has been enhanced with a lockpicking minigame. 
 It can save you on lock picks if you are at a good enough skill level, but at lower levels, it 
 can become tedious. There is an auto feature to this for those, like me, with a short fuse. There 
 is also a speech craft minigame, one that I am not too fond of, but I usually just bribe people 
 rather than trying my luck at that.
  
  Character customization has been improved as well. There are sliders that you can adjust for various 
 things such as hair, skin color, hue, etc. It left me feeling a little slighted, though, as I felt 
 there could have been a few more options. This also leads to a great amount of differing NPC's, 
 but you still feel like you are talking to someone you killed a little while back. Oblivion is 
 a real treat that should not be missed out on. Those who really can't play one game too long should 
 look elsewhere, but those really looking for an epic adventure of no other should look no where 
 else but here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is not a bad game. It has very realistic graphics. People look like real humans, or orcs 
 or elves, or whatever creature they are supposed to be.
  
  Oblivion is completely quest oriented - everything you do or can do in the game is completely revolved 
 around quests, whereas in Morrowind you can wander as your heart desires and randomly kill things 
 and search caves that are there for you to explore, free of any quest.
  
  Basically, you walk up to a character, talk to them, they tell you to go out and kill something 
 or bring them back something, you do it, and the quest is over. And for the most part, every character 
 has a purpose, and then once their quest is complete, there is no purpose for them to be around, 
 but they live on.
  
  Although the non player characters are supposedly living, their scope of living isn't quite that 
 impressive. They sleep at night, then get up and you can see them talking every day to other NPC's, 
 generally some basic line over and over again.
  
  Fighting is more advanced, than in Morrowind - when you hit something in Oblivion, you feel as 
 though you are slashing and actually whacking the heck out of whatever creature you are trying 
 to kill - the fighting system is skill based, meaning that how good of a player you are determines 
 how well you fight, not some number that decides whether you hit your target or not.
  
  The leveling up system seems cool; the more you use a skill the higher you get in it and you can 
 unlock cooler spells, or get cool fighting moves at certain levels. But ultimately, there is never 
 any sense of accomplishment from leveling up - because the creatures in the game world level up 
 with you! So no matter where you go in the world, the creatures will always be at you level or 
 higher, so although you might get a spell that does more damage, or a better sword skill, you never 
 will feel that the time you put into your character made him powerful; you'll always feel the game 
 is hard.
  
  This flaw in the game, the leveling - it really, really, really is a turn off, compared to Morrowind. 
 It's one reason after I stopped playing at around 40 hours. (In comparison, I must have played 
 approximately 1000 hours of Morrowind.)
  
  Another flaw in the game is quick travel. What this means is that after you explore the game world 
 and run across a landmark, whether it be a cave, or temple, or city, or whatever, you can instantly 
 travel there if you are outside. Although this feature speeds gameplay, it also detracts from your 
 gaming experience. Being able to quick travel makes questing somewhat awkward. You don't actually 
 feel like you truly are completing the quest - the adventure truly would be in having to run there, 
 or ride your horse there. Yes, you can buy horses and ride horses in Oblivion - but the fact that 
 you can quick travel basically makes riding horses useless - you can just get there automatically.
 
  
  The last flaw I felt about the game was it's overall tone. There is no music in the game - you 
 just walk around and hear everything that's going on around you, there is no epic or comforting 
 music in the backround - the game overall feels very creepy, and in most ways, it's just a very 
 bad thing.
  Morrowind had a very nice, cool soundtrack, that was soothing when you were just adventuring along, 
 and when an enemy attacked you, the music would change, and become epic as you were fighting - 
 in Oblivion - nothing. You just go about, hearing your sword bash into whatever creature's body. 
 In a lot of ways it's just too disturbingly real. You really feel like you're killing something.
 
  
  Oblivion eventually feels like you're living that life in real life, and real life is boring and 
 stressful; we play video games to relax and chill out, not to feel stressed out!
  
  Practically everyone likes this game, obviously, because they buy it, but this review is trying 
 to inform people who might want some deeper details about the flaws and downsides of the game - 
 everyone knows it has high quality, but showing the bad sides of a game need to be addressed and 
 mentioned in video game reviews.
  
  If I had played a demo of Oblivion before I bought it, I certainly would not have been willing 
 to pay $50 for it - I think Morrowind is a much better game than Oblivion, because it doesn't have 
 the flaws I mentioned above.
  
  Morrowind was a fun, fantasy getaway from the realness of life and the world, and Oblivion sucked 
 the magic out of the Elder Scrolls Series and made it too eerily realistic and obligatory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman47
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game that can last you for a few weeks or months, you stop looking as this 
 is the game that will allows you to play for a very long time. With open-ended gameplay, you can 
 choose which path to go in the game world, be it a knight or an archer. The graphics are also very 
 impressive. In fact I would say that the graphics are among one of the best ever. There's also 
 a great and strong fanbase for this game here, which means there's a lot of user-made mods that 
 enhance the replayability of the game.
  
  The music is also very refreshing to listen and be a part of the game, especially when you are 
 in battle or combat, which adds to the ambience of the game. However, it can get redundant over 
 time sometimes. Another issue is that with such beautiful graphics, it is likely that there will 
 be a lot of lagging or slowdowns so some tweaking or adjustments will be needed.
  
  But overall, it's a very great game to have. It's definitely one the best games of the year. It 
 just rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallschirm1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  This is the sort of games that will kill most of your social real life:-) I'm not the kind of player 
 that normally would spend all my spare time sitting playing a game, but i love playing games so 
 that have been said. I had very high expectation when oblivion was released for pc, so high that 
 i was almost sure i was going to be disappointed. But right from the start it was just amasing! 
 My girlfriend watch me played some hours before she to had too have this amasing game! It start 
 out in a prison where you are on of the inmate, and the customizing is just incredible. be one 
 of the many races, be girl or a boy... be a thief or a wizard. After a half hours time you have 
 escaped the prison and see the truly amazing world that is the plains of Tamriell. And the great 
 thing is, do what ever you want!!! Some have talked about stability problems but i have never experienced 
 those after the first patch was realesed. I also runned anti aliasing from Nvidia control panel 
 together with the hdr and it's just perfect!!!
  
  I thing i have used both on my 360 and on the pc about 400 hours on this game, and i think it's 
 some of the best hours i have ever spent on a game. If you havn't got this game and got a fair 
 good pc go buy this game right away, even if you normally don't like this type of games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanseltroy
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  good graphics, good gameplay, good story.... but is has got to work properly first! crashing problems 
 and all that stuff just caused this game to be abandoned... nevermind the endless patches and other 
 remedies... i think that this game should be sent back to its makers. BUYING this game only to 
 find out that it doesn't work properly... unpatched or patched...
  
  there's no excuse! Before they go into production, they have to make sure none of the above PROBLEMS 
 are present... i never even bothered to buy the expansions... since i've had too much problems 
 with the Oblivion... patched it, reinstall it again and then another patch comes along and then 
 another.... can i just get my money back??? i wish!!!!
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabeel200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  well, this is truly the most free lance game i have ever seen. you can go about any place you like 
 and fine out new ruins old run down forts, you can even search those forts for stuff. basically you 
 have to star from the initial level were you can chose your birth sign, class. depending on your 
 class you get your attributes. like you can become a warrior and slice your enemy ,or you cal be 
 a knight and use your blade skills and magic as well, or you can become a spell caster like a mage 
 and finish off your opponent with you magic. there are a lot of other classes you can chose from. basically 
 its a free world out there you can roam about any were you like. you can even do side quests with 
 out touching the main story quest. there fighter guilds, mage's guild and many more to learn and 
 perfect your skills. the best thing i find in this game is the arena fights where you are pit against 
 the other combatant and improve in ranks till you become the grand champion. i think its really 
 the most immersive game i have seen. you can spend a lot of time doing quest that are not repetitive, they 
 have a verity in them. its worth every penny you have spent on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a first person, open ended action RPG that has succeeded it's predecessors in nearly 
 every way. When you select New Game It starts you off with a character creation system with plenty 
 of depth for those who like that kind of stuff (like me) . There are several races to choose from 
 and tons of facial modifications that can be done. After you complete you're character you appear 
 in a dungeon jail cell and seconds into the game you here an can see from you're cell a Dark elf 
 speaking damnation to you. The story kicks off with the King and a couple guards entering you're 
 jail cell. When I say story I mean the main storyline and theres reason to say that because this 
 game has an enormous amount of quests that aren't required to finish the game which adds tons of 
 value to an already lengthy game.
  
  The Combat is done much better then it was done in Morrowind, i. e. in Morrowind without a substantial 
 amount of agility it would take many swings to hit an opponent leaving the combat feeling very 
 dull, wheres with Oblivion you don't miss when an enemy is right in front of you and your bashing 
 away. Also in Oblivion you can manually block instead it being chance and you can use magic and 
 sword at the same time. The AI is also very good as opposed to Morrowind's poor AI quality. The 
 Graphics and Visuals are great, and are spectacular with a high end graphics card. Realistic physics, 
 models, shadows and lighting bring to life the world of Oblivion. It looks great even on low settings 
 which is a good thing for people who don't have a gaming rig.
  
  Oblivion is a huge open ended game that gives you the freedom to go where you want and do what 
 you want. You can pick up and take nearly every item in the world as well as stealth fully steal 
 a villagers goods. You can summon creatures to help fight you're battles and use alchemy to create 
 potions with any ingredients you might find. You can buy houses and furnish as you please, Ride 
 a horse to a dungeon and explore everything inside. Overall Oblivion is a fantastic game and to 
 a few may be a turn off, but to many more will be one of the greatest games you will ever experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adraedous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has raised the bar for sandbox RPGs . It allows you to do almost 
 anything you wantm anytime you want, anywhere you want. For example, if you don't feel like saving 
 the world and closing Oblivion gates, you can go... be an Assassin! Or perhaps a Thief, or become 
 an Arena combatant. You could forego all of those and just look for treasure in the numerous dungeons 
 and caves littered throughout the land. There's no pressure to follow the main storyline. That 
 being said, you're bound to hit a point where you wish you could do more. For example, becoming 
 the head of the Assassin's guild or Grand Arena Champion are rather anti-climactic -- you're given 
 a menial repetive task you can perform for some extra gold. Chances are you have very little need 
 for gold at the point in which you attain those titles. Hell, even if you attain them at level 
 1, gold is pretty worthless in the game.
  
  The ability to steal whatever you want makes purchasing goods an almost pointless endeavor. Finding 
 better loot in easy dungeons is another nail in the vendors' coffin. About the only thing you'll 
 actually care to buy is either arrows or potions (that is, assuming you're unlucky with loot off 
 mobs) . This in turn makes the whole merchantile skill almost pointless. Sure you can sell your 
 loot for more, but what are you going to do with the money aside from purchase houses that, themselves, 
 are pretty pointless (aside from the few that have interesting quests attached them) . They're usually 
 in an area that you have to go out of your way to find, so you're better off spending the 10 gold 
 just staying at an inn if you really need to sleep.
  
  There is a bigger issue than a lack of things to do with gold, however. That is the fact that leveling 
 up is a penalty more than a boon. Specifically for more stealth-oriented classes. Am I the only 
 one that finds it odd that completing the main quest at level 1 was far, far, far easier than completing 
 it at level 30? Becoming Grand Arena Champion was also much easier, as was pretty well any quest 
 chain I an think of. Sure, a challenge is great, but when you're playing an assassin or archer, 
 and your tossed into combat the moment you step out of the door for many quests, the whole element 
 of surprise aspect of your class is thrown out the door, and you're left to try and fight like 
 a warrior without the proper tools of a warrior. Sure, there's the whole Deck yourself out in full 
 chamellion gear! idea, but then the game just becomes a repetitious bore with no challenge whatsoever, 
 and having to wear specific gear to overcome a broken mechanic is just not cool.
  
  One final issue that stands out is the lack of voice actors. There are all of, what, 8 or so? They 
 do a great job, but hearing the same person voicing 20 different characters is just... dumb. Were 
 they really that stingy that they couldn't have just hired a few more to give some variety? The 
 were obviously paying for someone to do those lines, how much more would it have cost to get, say, 
 one of the programmers to play a few of the characters instead? Hearing Nords and Orcs sound exactly 
 the same was stupid. All of that said, the game is still a solid game that sucks you in. Good graphics, 
 fun combat if a bit repetitive, and a huge world to explore with lots of great stories to be told. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewantcookie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is the fourth game in the TES series of RPG's. Just as in the previous 
 game, it plays mainly in first person with an option for third person view. Quite unlike Morrowind 
 though, hits are no longer determined by a behind the scenes dice roll which is a godsend for a 
 lot of people. This game's Main Quest has you saving the capital province of Tamriel, Cyrodiil, 
 from an invasion of the Daedric Prince of Destruction Mehrunes Dagon. Unfortunately for Oblivion, 
 the MQ isn't the strong point of the game. The MQ is mostly a series of fetch quests leading to 
 an almost anti-climactic battle. It does make up for it in the amount of interesting side quests 
 and guild quests though, so don't get me wrong.
  
  One of the greatest aspects of TES games is the character generation. This is one feature that 
 has greatly bulked up from the previous game. You still have the same races to chose from, and 
 many of the same prebuilt classes, though this time around you get to tweak your character's appearance 
 a lot more than just picking a head. You don't get to choose different body types, but you do get 
 to make a character look however you want, and sometimes you can spend hours just making a good 
 looking character. Actually, you have to spend hours to make a good looking character, since the 
 faces you have to start from aren't very good looking.
  
  There are a few things I don't particularly like about Oblivion. One thing is that the artifacts 
 there are for you in the game aren't strewn about just waiting for you to find them like in Morrowind, 
 they are all involved in a quest of some sort. That and the rare armors aren't exactly rare, as 
 once you are a high enough level you'll find them everywhere. There also aren't quite as many types 
 of armor and weapons to come across. The all encompassing leveling system in Oblivion is also something 
 I, and many people, dislike. It isn't the system itself that I hate, as for the most part it is 
 useful, but the fact that everything is leveled is what I dislike. Bosses shouldn't be leveled, 
 and nor should their gear. A good balance of leveled and non leveled things is needed for the next 
 game in my opinion.
  
  Being that this is on the PC, obviously mods come in great numbers and content. Most mods deserve 
 their own review, but to sum up all mods, they are an irreplaceable addition to the game that change 
 anything from adding quests to changing the main structure of the game. They also fix many of the 
 bugs and discrepancies found in the game, and make it an overall better experience. Without mods, 
 I don't think I'd have played it as long as I have so far.
  
  All in all, Oblivion is a great game that should at least be tried out by everyone with the ability 
 to play it. You may like it, you may hate it, but it's always better to have an opinion on something 
 rather than trusting another's opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  It's really too bad. I'm writing this review very late. I got the game the day it came out after 
 having followed the marketing campaign like a fiend for nearly 3 years prior. It seemed as though 
 those elements lacking in Morrowind (an incredible game) were going to be resolved by Bethseda 
 for this sequel. They weren't. They weren't resolved with Oblivion, or the Knights of the Nine 
 bonuses, or the user created content, or the Shivering Isles.
  
  The greatest thing Morrowind had going was its ambience. It's mystique, and irregularity. It was 
 a strange and exotic world where a player could explore and grapple with all the myriad foes, some 
 political, some hostile combatants. Lush areas, plus those in the vibrant, eclectic expansions 
 were all worth the time and effort. Oblivion is not. Oblivion is a static world where static NPC's 
 sit very still and look pretty. No one is fat, no one is crippled, no one has a unique voice. Everyone 
 is boring, and each race has two voices, male and female, and say pretty much the same boring thing 
 when you speak to them.
  
  Now, Oblivion does have its merits. The simple upgrade in physics make hunting, dungeon hacking 
 (traps) , and some fights more interesting than the dice role swing and miss agravation of Morrowind. 
 But the fact remains that Bethesda did not deliver a mature sequel that was interesting to play. 
 In Morrowind, I could spend hours angering guards and trying to best them with an inferior combat 
 system because their reactions were much more interesting, even if I did have to reads some (god 
 forbid) . In Oblivion, every time you bump into someone in a dark cellar in the middle of nowhere 
 every guard knows it and will try to kill you on sight. Bethesda made it seem like the AI was going 
 to blow our minds, Radiant AI! Radiant AI! Don't forget about Radiant AI! All Radiant AI improved 
 was the daily trajectories of too many boring NPCs in too many boring places. They cut down the 
 attire factor, too. A great element of Morrowind which was actually downgraded in Oblivion was 
 the clothing. You can't where clothing under armor. Why can't you wear a damn shirt underneath 
 chainmail. I think anyone who would wear chainmail, or platemail on their body without clothing 
 underneath is in for a world of discomfort. Less customability.
  
  The bottom line is Oblivion looks better than Morrowind. It doesn't sound better, apart from the 
 striking in combat it doesn't really play better, and its overall lack of intrigue and mystique 
 make it seem like more than a few steps in the wrong direction. They had the tools, they had the 
 time, they opted for quantity. Jerks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filter234
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game looks great. However, it plays horrible. This is the first RPG that I have ever played 
 where they actually penalize you for leveling up. All of the monsters get stronger everytime you 
 level up. This would be ok if they got stronger at the same level that your character got stronger. 
 But they do not. The monsters get much stronger than you are. So when it takes you 4 hits to kill 
 something at level one it could take you 6 hits to kill the same thing at level 2. That makes sense...
 
  
  There aren't enough skills either. If you're a warrior you pick a weapon and level it up until 
 it's 100 and then that's it. You don't get any neat tricks or ability to dual wield, or even a 
 more damaging attack. It just does a little more damage each level and gets the ability to occasionally 
 knock someone down or disarm them (which they just pick the weapon up again...) . If you're a mage 
 you just pick some spells or make a comination of spells and use it for the rest of the game. Your 
 spells get a little stronger as the skill levels up but again the monsters get much stronger than 
 the little bit of added damage increase. It makes no sense.
  
  I like playing rpgs. They are my favorite genre. However, I do not like games where it makes more 
 sense to stay a level 1 and beat the game then advance to level 20 and beat the game. 2 thumbs 
 down from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koneko1991
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a successful predecessor of Morowind, but i must say Morowind was better. It's not 
 like much better, but a little bit.
  
  It has many strengths and some weakness's:
  
  #1. Open world and big country.
  #2. Many, many quests!!!!
  #3. Interesting story.
  #4. Many 
 different enemies.
  #5. Great bosses. (those powerful monsters)
  #6. And more.
  
  If you have played Oblivion you know what i mean, of course it's fun at the beginning, but later 
 in the game all areas start to look the same, every dungeon, every house you know.
  And whats up with that over shine effect it looks awful.
  But the game is great, not as interesting 
 as i thought it would be, but it's ok i guess!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Man, oh, man. What is it about the Elder Scrolls series that is just so doggone unremittingly addictive? 
 It all started with the hideously pixellated but vast and intricate (at the time) Arena back when 
 I was in college. That game held me in thrall day and night throughout an entire summer, to the 
 extent that I actually (to my eternal shame) turned down an afternoon tryst worthy of a Penthouse 
 Forum entry to lead my Khajiit Acrobat through the last two main quest dungeons (were it not for 
 the adventures in carnality Ive had since then, Id be too ashamed to confess to such inexcusable 
 nerdiness) . Daggerfall was a buggy also-ran copy of Arena, and I stopped playing after about a 
 month of falling through the floor and impossible quest deadlines, but there was still plenty of 
 poopsocking up until the point when I abandoned my Dark Elf Sorcerer in favor of software that 
 actually worked. I played most of Morrowind a few years ago with one hand on the mouse and my sleeping 
 infant son in the other, criss-crossing the blighted earth of Vvardenfell on any of a number of 
 noble assignments and meandering jaunts.
  
  So, I cleared my evening schedule for this entire summer and adventured outward from the Imperial 
 City in ever-widening circles. The above-ground landscape in Oblivion is, as advertised, breathtaking 
 even on my modest rig. I cut out most of the perks and gimcracks (like grass, tree shadows, and 
 that awful bloom effect that makes everything look like my character has pinkeye) in favor of a 
 decent framerate, but there were still plenty of moments when I would climb a hill, turn around 
 to an almost photo-realistic vista, and just sit and stare as the in-game sun slowly passed overhead. 
 Dungeon diving provided an entertaining break from running errands and -- as one especially talented 
 Internet comedy goon quipped -- watching dead animals roll downhill, as each ruin and cave contained 
 an amazing amount of variety in its layout and loads of delicious treasure.
  
  Much must be said for the ease at which additional content is added to the game. There is a kings 
 ransom worth of free user-created mods catalogued on various Internet sites, many of which really 
 spice up the game. Im thinking specifically of the Bag of Holding -- so useful I couldnt imagine 
 life without it -- and Martigans Monster Mod, which added a lot of much-needed variety to the 
 small bestiary provided in the original package. I also found plenty of neat-o swords, armor, clothing 
 (quoth my bemused wife during a particularly gleeful shopping spree: What the hell is this game, 
 Barbie Dress-up?) , torches, textures, glasses and eye-patches, quests, books, music, maps, and 
 on and on and on. If nothing else, a dedicated player can truly get a lot of mileage out of the 
 money spent on Oblivion. This is the world my friends and I all pictured while playing D&amp; D 
 in the olden days, all faithfully realized and expertly crafted.
  
  If I have any nits to pick, they have to do with the grating lack of variety in the voice actors 
 who cover an astonishing amount of dialogue for the games NPCs. I understand why Oblivions many 
 city guards and civilians all sound alike since they each repeat the same portion of the script, 
 but following the cavalcade of incredible talent showcased in Vampire: The Masquerade (which admittedly 
 comprised a smaller gameworld) , I am  for the lack of a better term  simply unimpressed with 
 the size of Bethesdas voiceover pool. Thats not to say that the actors themselves were inadequate; 
 most of them are wonderfully proficient regulars of the sound booth circuit. However, Id be willing 
 to set aside any number of gigabytes on my hard drive in lieu of the games aural monotony.
  
  Sadly, this little story doesnt end well. Two weeks ago, after three months of nightly excursions 
 across every province of Cyrodiil, emptying dozens of dungeons of their loot, building my Redguards 
 skills to superhuman heights, completing most of the miscellaneous and Fighters Guild quests, 
 with the main quest and an excursion to the Shivering Isles coming up next on my agenda, my machine 
 died. Its power supply wheezed its last in mid-boot, seizing my C: drive at the same time. My I/T 
 buddy at work applied his best voodoo remedies to resurrect my data  even, at one point, smacking 
 the drive against a desk to set the spindle spinning again  but to no avail. Even though Im quite 
 fastidious about protecting my financial documents, writing, and porn, I havent backed up such 
 frivolities as player data and saved games since the day before I installed Oblivion, natch. JoQualon 
 the Level 42 Warrior is no more. May he Rest in Peace.
  
  On a much brighter note (and if youll pardon the plug) , Newegg. com is the place to be for all 
 of the latest deals on Core Quad motherboards and Radeon 2600XT video cards. I happen to have just 
 enough cash on hand, so once my first DiY PC-building experience is done, I plan to return to Tamriel 
 with all of the bells and whistles pushed to the max (even bloom, if I can keep from rubbing my 
 eyes and applying Visine every few minutes) . Oblivion is Bethesdas latest gift to RPG players 
 everywhere, definitely worth a try and more than likely apt to hold your attention for weeks and 
 months on end. However, please take this old Arena fans advice: if your former roommates bodacious 
 ex-girlfriend and her Sapphic BFF show up at your door to invite you down to a semi-private beach 
 along the Altamaha River for margaritas and sunbathing, for the love of all that is good and holy, 
 SAY YES. The game can wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballasteve
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Where to start. This game is amazing. I have owned it for over a year now, and have easily logged 
 in 100 hours or more into my 3 characters. In Oblivion, you play through the game as a released 
 prisoner who rises to become the Champion of Cyrodill. The level of customization on the characters 
 is fantastic, with everything from hair color to distance between the eyebrows. Which brings us 
 to the graphics on this game. Put in one word, they are breathtaking. I remember the first time 
 i emerged from the sewers and was like holy sh*te because of the scale on which everything is. 
 You literally feel as if youre in another world. I want to keep this concise, but summing up this 
 game in a review is ridiculously difficult. Basically, if you want a game that lets you live almost 
 another life, buy oblivion, and you wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  This was the very first game I bought for the 360 and I do not regret my decision at all. I dont 
 get to play video games as much anymore with work and starting a family and all. But I can pick 
 this game up and get right back into it at anytime. Whether its the next day or a month later you 
 will always remember what is going on with how it keeps a log of the current missions that are 
 avaiable to you.
  
  No more watching around trying to rememeber what you were last doing and where to go. When you 
 select a mission it will give youa brief understanding of what was happening and it points out 
 to you on your map where you need to go. Its great... GREAT GAME.
  
  Not to mention the create creation is one of the best player creations in a RPG to date as well 
 as the weapons and spells and armor that is avaialbe to you within the game. Graphics amazing, 
 voice overs are well done and every person you run into in the game speaks which is really cool.
 
  
  Amazing game definitely give it a go!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MigGui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Why would I bother to write how great this game is, if 1502 people did it before me? Just for no 
 one to say I didn't mention, this is the greatest RPG I have ever seen. Lots of things to do, 100 
 portals to close, 4 guilds to master, around 15 gods to worship, around this very same number of 
 shrines to get special powers from, not to mention the many races and attributes to test and master. 
 And, of course, the highest turn-on: you do not level up your skills by clicking a button level-up 
 my bashing skill . You train them!
  
  But the game has flaws. All games have. And these are the flaws of the very one I am writing this 
 review about:
  
  - ALL spells look alike. That is pretty much disturbing. A 1-damage-fireball has the same shape 
 of a deadly 100-damage-fireball. Actually, there are only fireballs, ice balls, lightnings and 
 damage balls to choose from. Of course you may choose to reincarnate a skeleton instead of throwing 
 deadly balls of your hand, but even Diablo let you choose from a fireball and a meteor.
  
  - The ending is boring. You have a lot of things to do, 4 guilds to master, hundreds of places 
 to visit. But once you finish the 6 main stories (the arena, mages guild, fighters guild, thieves 
 guild, the guild of the murderers (which i forgot the name right now) and the too short main quest) , 
 there is actually nothing left to do. It turns to be pretty boring after all those portals you 
 left open suddenly closed by themselves and your subordinates just give you a few coins a week.
 
  
  - The number of enemies looks small after a while. You just keep killing guards, bandits, rats, 
 wolves, bears, creatures from the other plane and 4 or 5 kinds of magic creatures all the time, 
 with almost no minions or specially strong adversaries.
  
  - What the hell is all that useless stuff doing in the game? Bones, shovels, pickaxes, vases and 
 even some items that you are NOT ALLOWED to toss away (because once they were useful to the quest 
 where you got them) just keeps occupying space in your inventory (at least, quest items that can't 
 be tossed usually have no weight) .
  
  All in all, this is a truly great game, that will apraise anyone that discovers how to change difficulty 
 and dedicates half an hour reading the manual or testing everything that might be clickable and 
 will enter the hall of the classics (and best sellers) soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icdedwa666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  the elder scrolls 4: oblivion is an amazing game. it is defianatly one of the most complex games. 
 all the forests, villages, caves and more make you have an incredible time with the game. believe 
 me you should go out and buy the game right now. the only problem i have with it is that some of 
 the glitches get somewhat annoying and how after you play it for a long time it will sometimes 
 just close the game down. i know it has nothing to do with my computer because i have a new alienware. 
 but besides those small abundances the game is actually quite amazing and that's why i give this 
 great very origanal game a rating of 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game fascinated me... A beautiful world, a great character customisation, great interface, 
 more great engine, oh my god it's the best. I would suggest anybody who searches for a good offline 
 adventure campaign to buy Oblivion. You start in a jail and you don't know what happened before. 
 The Emperor goes to you, says there's something special about you, and frees you from jail, then 
 some time later, he's killed and it's your job to protect the amulet he gave you. You then chose 
 a sign, and go in the beautiful world of oblivion. There anything can happen. A beggar can ask 
 you to give him some money, or a bandit may threat you to give him money. You can chose many paths, 
 buy many weapons, and later enchant them. I think i got in this game more than 200 hours and it's 
 still interesting to me. The system requirements were crazy on the time it was released but now 
 i think that anyone can let himself to have a pc good and well equipped for oblivion. I first started 
 playing it on my GForce 6600GT Graphics card with 512MB RAM, and an average amd 32bit processor, 
 and it went good in low and medium quality. Overall, this game is the best way of entertainment. 
 Try it, your money will be worth, and you now that already... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cynxos
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV, presents a very interesting view for RPG's every where.
  The first person look, shall confuse every experienced RPG gamer out there, but it is a point of 
 view you get used to surprisingly very fast.
  It introduces the player to a world filled with action, brain busters, amazement and just clean 
 good old fun.
  The world Oblivion can be described in only one way: HUGE!
  It seems as if you'll find a new mountain just around the corner!
  But it doesn't end there, 
 there a huge variety of people, monsters and quests to see in its world.
  The spells just never end! It looks as if for the monster that you had ran out of possibilities, 
 but no!
  There a over hundreds of spells and weapons to choose from, not to speak about the customization 
 option which unlocks even more tools of destruction for the gamer to bash its opponent .
  And even to top all of this, the graphics are stunning!
  The landscape is superb, and the designs 
 for the npc's and people are just plain fantastic.
  To make it short, The Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion is a game that not only handles the expectations, 
 it passes them by a long shot!
  So what are you waiting for?
  Go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is why many pc gamers can be proud of their title. This is one of the best RPGs ever made. 
 This game has one of the most massive, immersive, worlds to date. The graphics are so beautiful, 
 that youll often stop just ot look at the scenery, both on 360 and pc. There is so much to do, 
 you wont need another game for months. The sounds are good. I do wish the music would be more fast 
 paced to match those fighting moments. The females in the game also look rather manish in appearence, 
 but for someone looking for some bang for their buck, Oblivion is the way to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deyyhayederaned
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an amazing game with absolutely ages of game world to visit unlock 
 and explore. I must have got this game about 5 months ago and it was absolutely brilliant, everything 
 in the world of Oblivion you would almost expect to find in a real world setting, save magic and 
 demons of course. However like they say nothing and no one is perfect and Oblivion is the same, 
 the first thing that got me was that when it said you got design your own characters appearance. 
 As you can imagine the opportunity of creating a character is great. Snag number 1 was if you were 
 ever to have a female character no matter how much effort you put in to the face, it would never 
 be the same once you started the game. The first character I created was a high elf female who 
 was quite ugly owing to my sheer incompitence, so I started again with an imperial female. I made 
 a fairly attractive face for this character, only when I started the game the face looked clammy 
 and thin. Owing to that I could never get a sexy female character, I created a really ugly and 
 remarkably scary male character with a distorted face. After this I thought as I'm supposed to 
 be a freaky scary person, I should look scary so my appearance wouldn't matter. For a while I became 
 a vampire but their were complications in that every time a became a level 4 vampire, my skills 
 and stats affected by the vampire skills would plunge back to very low levels after paling over 
 the skill limiter of 255. So after a rather long and painful array of quests i returned to normal. 
 This gave me the new and thrilling opportunity to expand my characters influence, as such I became 
 Arch-Mage at the Arcane University and Listener to the Dark Brotherhood. That however was after 
 I patched it because the door to the Cheydinhal sanctuary wouldn't work. I never saw interest in 
 establishing myself in the fighters guild and I'd fudged up joining the Thieves guild by venturing 
 to deep in to the Imperial Palace. Later on I acquired the Shivering Isles expansion from a friend 
 in a hope to give the game new life for my dying interest in it. This did indeed work for a short 
 spell only as before I fudged up the story by venturing somewhere I shouldn't have been able. Later 
 on I modded the game and made the Golden Saints playable, I created myself a new happy charcter 
 with which I could advance further in the story line and not accidently mess up as I had done before. 
 Then I found a new crash fix filled enjoyment of the game some 200 crashes and garbled insults 
 to it later, at last came the golden age. This was a fabulous new page of freedom and overall happiness 
 for me when I was playing, however again as they say nothing good ever lasts. So after months of 
 peace I decided to perform an overhall of the game by reinstalling it, but it didn't want to uninstall 
 and just poked my eyes out with the same error report. Sadly I'm not to good with uncooperative 
 programs so I deleted everything, and found that it wouldn't reinstall so I got annoyed with it 
 and left it on my shelf for about 2 months. After a while I had exhausted most options with my 
 other games and decided to back to Oblivion, however I had to give back the Shivering Isles to 
 my friend some weeks before. So I quite happily reinstalled it and for a while ut worked somewhat 
 fine and though there were few ingame bugs especially as I had kept the patch from before. The 
 game I remade was more successfull than my previous games all of which I had lost, so just about 
 everything was working again. Then I discovered the most cruel crash bug ever, I couldn't exit 
 without the game crashing. I still play the game now I still have the same crash bug and I have 
 never been able to get rid of it, so I do beleive this is a good game and it is very versatile 
 but it is cruel.
  
  THE LOWDOWN:
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an amazing game and as a game I doubt that it has an equal and 
 may not for a long time. The gameplay is good the graphics is good sound is good as a game it is 
 good value and I do think it is a good game but you may be running the risk of suffering a catastrophic 
 system crash that you may not be able to recover from. Just a warning but it is a game like no 
 other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey336
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  as I said its the most amazing I ever played the rich enviroment the immersing story and the complete 
 freedom make this game 10/10
  oblivions graphics for the pc are not as good as ps3 obviosly but man, with a couple of mods you 
 can make it amazing.
  the story of your oblivion is almost made by you , the many different questlines make your oblivion 
 uniqe and of corse the HUGE worls you have in which to play contains at at least 800 hours of exploring. 
 If you are looking for a new game ,I reccomend that oblivion is it, I had never played the elder 
 scrolls but when I played oblivion I loved it so much I went and got morrowind too, oblivion is 
 easyly one of if not THE best game i have ever played , a must have for anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantey1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  You know, it is bad when comes out a great game, but its makers said it would bee even better. 
 Oblivion is that game. It is very good-looking, time consuming, great sounding game, but the problem 
 is that Bethesda Softworks promised it would bee better.
  
  The game starts in a prison. You are a prisoner in this prison. The emperor and his guards are 
 running away from assassins who are trying to kill the emperor. And the only way to safety is trough 
 a secret passage witch entrance is in your sell. The emperor says that he has seen you in his dream 
 and that you are the one to save this world. Because of that, you will go to the safety with the 
 emperor and his guards. After few minutes, the emperor will be killed. Now it is up to you to find 
 his lost son and save the world. This firs level is a tutorial where you choose you race, birth 
 sign, class and skills.
  
  The game takes place in the imperial province of Cirodill. It is smaller the Morrowind, but it 
 has more content per square meter then Morrowind. Old ruins, forests, moutons, caves, mines, cities 
 and guilds, all await you in this big world. However, do not think that this game will show you 
 all of its secrets easily. It will take you a fair amount of time of exploring to revile only a 
 part of these secrets. And it is not because it is hard to find them, but it is because there are 
 lot of them. A very lot of them. For example, a book that looks like it has noting interesting 
 in it, can tell a small, but an interesting story. In addition, there is an enormous amount of 
 side quests. There are hundreds of them. And if you think, that this game pays the amount of these 
 quests with the quality of them, then you are wrong. Mostly every side quest is made on a very 
 good level. They are interesting, and can make you forget the main quest line. The only problem 
 that there are with quests, is that execution of them is very similar. There are many memories 
 in my mind, where I was going to another cave, to kill or find another someone or something. And 
 after time it can get very boring. In addition, this problem is in the main story line, in side 
 quests and in guild story lines. Nevertheless, the stories of these quests are good and this seems 
 a minor problem. So if you have one or two hundred hours free, this is where you can spend them.
 
  
  A lot of thing you can get to know is from speaking to people or listening to other people talking. 
 This is a part of NPC life simulation, that Bethesda made it for the game. Radiant AI controls 
 this life simulation. However, at simulating a real life world, Radiant AI fails. Although it makes 
 an illusion of a living world when you are passing by without digging in to. However, if you take 
 a closer look, then that illusion brakes. Simple scripts control all NPCs. Like eat, sleep or talk. 
 You may remember a video demo of Radiant AI, where a shopkeeper practiced at archery, paralyzed 
 her own dog, tried to sleep and then burned the dog with a fireball. Everyone was at shock. And 
 everyone was thinking that this kind of AI would bee in the game. However, it is not. A player 
 can find NPCs witch sleep at night and then stand all day outside waiting for someone to speak 
 with them. Not much of a good simulation. But the strong side of Radiant AI is combat. The enemies 
 will doge, block and run away from your attacks. In addition, they will try to surround you and 
 hit with many special attacks as possible. Because of this, you never get bored of combat.
  
  RPGs are known for a point in a game where a player gets so powerful, that he can kill practically 
 everyone without taking much damage. Bethesda tried to change that in Oblivion. Every NPC, creature 
 and enemy will have the same level as the player. So if you are, for example, level 25, then everyone 
 else is level 25. It is made so, so a player will not get bored of combat, because everyone is 
 weaker then him. But guess what? There is a problem. Sometimes they may get even stronger then 
 the player. For example, a player choose to be a thief. His first five levels he spends stealing 
 every ones goods and trading with traders. So after five levels he will probably upgrade his personality 
 and agility skills. Then he goes out in to the woods. He gets attacked by bandits and he gets killed. 
 Why, you ask. Because bandits dont need personality. They upgrade their strength and endurance. 
 If you are a bard, thief, trader or something like that, then the main story line, guild quests 
 (except thiefs guild) and most of side quests are not for you to handle. You will just get killed. 
 That just makes practically useless half of the classes and skills. Because they are not just important 
 as combat skills. From the graphical standpoint, the game looks great. Although, this review is 
 written more then a year after the games relies, and it isnt as amazing it was then, the graphics 
 still looks great. Aseptically the lighting. The change from day to night is breath taking. Some 
 words about the sound. It is great. Music, voice acting and sound effects. They all are great. 
 And the saddest part. Although, the game plays well, it looks great and it has an interesting storyline, 
 it just feels synthetic. It is hard to explain, but I will try. It has no soul. If a game can have 
 a soul. This is the case, where everything more or less is all right, but still something is missing. 
 It just doesnt feel like the makers would put their harts in this game.
  
  Nevertheless, Oblivion is a great game. It is time addictive and great playing game, that I would 
 recommend to everyone, who likes RPGs. Have fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheezy200
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  As some folks wrote in there on review who have low scores about probelms they think are really 
 big or they think is it a probelm, one topic i've come across way too many times is the level scaling, 
 from my prospective the level scaling is alot funner then other games, I've been sick and tired 
 of killing so many mobs depending on there level and xp to get a level (i can blame it on all the 
 MMORPGs i've played) , this opens up to increase skills, gaining new abilities, while increasing 
 your strength and health and other abilities, if you pick the right 7 skills you wont have a probelm 
 with leveling, also the scaling of monsters becoming harder is to keep players fighting for the 
 same amount of time or even longer then they did before as well as being decent at a low level 
 so your not being wasted in 1 or 2 hits by mobs, that would be lame and would piss me off around 
 the 5 or 6 time i died. most of the time its different monsters as u level up, if u get sick and 
 tired of hitting a monster so many times or being overrun or destroying monsters really fast no 
 matter how high level you are, lower or raise the diffculty, its as simple as that, if they didnt 
 do the level scaling then some bosses would be too easy and would only take a few secs to beat, 
 such as the Knights of the nine addon last boss, if he was easy, it wouldnt of been challenging, 
 if it wasnt challenging, it wouldnt of been fun but if he was too hard, and would have to hit him 
 1000 times or so to kill him, but get one shooted and that would suck, but u might say, go out 
 and level on easier mobs, but really, who wants to go around killing random mobs to level up, not 
 me, i would rather do the quest line and level up as i do it. As of people beating the game around 
 level 2, 1st they shoudlent of, the higher level you get the monsters take a lot longer to kill, 
 2nd when i started the main quest with the portals and everything, i killed every monster, sure 
 it might get boring after going in about 10 portals, but hey, why u take a break, and go do something 
 else either in the game, or outside, also most if u think its too easy then raise the diffculty, 
 do people not see that? Took me forever to clear one portal out cause i delt with 5 or 6 monsters 
 and was always around really low life cause it couldent kill them without attacked by all of them, 
 but i took them out over time, and it was fun, and it was on medium diffculty, if i made it the 
 lowest diffculty, i could of 1 or 2 shotted them. even though them grouped up can just about kill 
 me (if it wasnt for the ledge i jumped on too i would of died) , when im facing just one, it does 
 take a while to kill them, this gives my blade skill to level up, so that makes me level go up, 
 as of the mobs i was facing, i was fighting the spider women things, big croc looking guys and 
 the storm elemental guys, not good with names or spelling them, so i was left to explaining in 
 poor detail what they look like, also the blueish have naked guys with weapons that they swing 
 slow but hurt if u get hit.
  
  another topic is the voices, same voice for alot of the same races, u can look at it in 2 ways, 
 1 at least they put voices in the game, 2 u exspect them to have over 1000 people do different 
 voices in the game?
  
  dungeons are all a bit different, they look the same, might have some of the same things, but are 
 all different, they put alot of dungeons in this game, dont exspect them to put every tooth and 
 nail into each and everyone.
  
  There is a decent amount of armor and weapons in the game, with the x-pac and knights of the nine 
 addon, as well as mods u can adds tons more.
  
  melee combat, all clicks? yeah just about, but what game isnt? at least u can decide from the attacks 
 u can use, and spells, tons of spells, also u have to attack at the right time or your attack gets 
 blocked and u get hit a few times. as in completely quests, as ive seen a few say, only a good 
 way or a evil way, at least they give u a damn option, some games make u have to do the quest or 
 u cant move on. its either 1 way, another way, or not do it at all and go to another quest. As 
 in the quests being boring, i didnt find much quests that were boring, the main storyline was decent, 
 with a few fun things they threw at u like the battle of the great gate at bruma, fun grouping 
 up with all the people i gathered around Cyrodill and killing the demons that came out.
  
  as off a few things i didnt cover like, towns lacking people, and some people being ugly that u 
 want to beat the crap out of them because of it, you cant exspect towns to be so over crowed because 
 of the limtations they had when it comes to PC and xbox 360 and PS3, as of the people being ugly, 
 well maybe they did that on purpose, i find it quite funny, its mostly old people who are ugly 
 anyway in the game, but thats true in RL anyway.
  
  as of being rushed out, look at the timeline of when morrowind came out and this game, as while 
 as other games with series, this game took forever to come out.
  
  and sorry for such a long post, just was disappointed at the people who thought this game was bad. 
 As of people want to say there view, plz message me, as i am sure everyone is different in there 
 view, and what i wrote is my view of the probelms people thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game... Easily one of the best games I have EVER played in my entire life. I am very happy 
 I purchased this game, it was such a large game, I didn't know what to do with it half the time! 
 There is so much to do in this game that anyone who loves a first person experience, or just wants 
 to kill stuff, a must have... You will not be disappointed when getting this game because there 
 of the lengthy Main Quest, and Guild Quests that will easily bring 100+ hours of gameplay just 
 in that. Not including the hundreds of other side quests to do. You will never be bored with Oblivion, 
 until you have beaten everything. Mods in this game will easily keep this game more than what you 
 asked for. With mods, the game can look so much better that originally intended. The Bad: You definitely 
 need a good PC to run this game at it's fullest potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Work began on The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion in 2002, immediately after Morrowind's publication. 
 Oblivion focused on providing a tighter storyline; improved AI, courtesy of Bethesda's proprietary 
 Radiant AI; improved physics, courtesy of the Havok engine (used in Half-Life 2) ; and impressive 
 graphics. The game was released, following much press coverage, on the PC and Xbox 360 in early 
 2006, and the PS3 in early 2007. Bethesda released two expansion packs for Oblivion in late 2006 
 and early 2007: The Elder Scrolls IV: Knights of the Nine and The Elder Scrolls IV: Shivering Isles. 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion got a 9.5/10 on average out of many different gaming site's reviews, 
 with or without the expansions.
  
  The Elder Scrolls games can be safely categorised as role-playing games, although they do include 
 elements taken from action and adventure games. However, in contrast to other games of the genre, 
 The Elder Scrolls maintains a unique, skill-based approach to character advancement. A multitude 
 of skills can be raised through use, and once a character's skills have increased sufficiently, 
 their level increases in reflection of those skills. Because of this, players are allowed immense 
 flexibility and choice in character advancement. This is perceived as both a strength and a weakness 
 in the series by gamers, although the flexibility of the games' engines has facilitated the release 
 of game extensions (or mods) through The Elder Scrolls Construction Set that change the skill and 
 level mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a simply fantastic game made by Bethesda Softworks. The game 
 takes the classic Morrowind formula and overhauls it at least 20x over. Yeah. That much.
  
  The game starts out with you being in the Imperial Prison for an unknown crime. Then, the Emperor 
 of Tamriel, Uriel Septim VII. He says he needs your help for something, and as the story goes on 
 you'll find out that there are Oblivion gates - Portals to the demon world - Opening up all across 
 the land.
  
  When the game starts, you will be given the opportunity to create your character. You can edit 
 the face, race, class, birthsign, and so forth. This character creation system is very in-depth 
 and customizable, and that is one of the things that makes oblivion so great. Eventually you will 
 get out of the prison and you can start venturing on quests. All I can say is, be prepared for 
 hundreds of hours of gameplay, because there are so many characters, quests and things to explore, 
 and it's almost overwhelming. I've had this game for over a year and have been playing it frequently, 
 and I think I am only about 2-3% done with the game, maybe even less.
  
  If you're a fan of RPG's, or just fantasy games like The Legen of Zelda or Final Fantasy, get this 
 game. That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nailz109
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest game on PC since Morrowind. I built a new computer and spent over $1200 in 
 order to play this game! It is well worth it. The game itself is wonderful even if you don't go 
 along with the main quest at all. I have a game going where I never did any of the main quest at 
 all. The Oblivion gates have never opened. It is different an fun to play a stealthy character. 
 Anyhow you can do just about anything you want to in this game and it is by far my favorite possibly 
 until Fallout 3 comes out. Just get it if you have a bad enough system, or build a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_liland
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  Look , i've been playing role playing games since the late 80's (eye of the beholder etc.) so i 
 think i know what i'm talking about when i say that this game is just a bit childish. true, graphics 
 are amazing but is that everything?
  i just feel that the world in oblivion just isn't interesting enough to attract older players like 
 myself because that plot is too simple and feels like im being lead on . playing morrowind, i could 
 almost feel the stench of balmora and could really believe the game. but in oblivion i feel a bit 
 cheated. - the game's not open enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicaz70
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  well i've played this game like two times at friends houses and yea it was fun, but i just couldn't 
 get into it playing for only 30 mins on a already amazing character. so for my b-day i picked this 
 one up...
  
  graphics: well i'm just rating it by what it CAN be.. not what it will usually be for players [the 
 standard moniter is coming to be a 19' WE, so thats about 1440x1240 widescreen enabled... which 
 is what i have and it looks amazing just on that] so graphics are a 10/10 for me, everything looks 
 superb with HDR going and textures all maxed
  
  gameplay: great gameplay, you will be choosing for about 3/4ths of the game to run off of either 
 fighter, mage, or stealth.. then once you get to about a level 15-20 you'll get bored and start 
 working on the other two. the fighting is solid, its not to exciting but it works for such a massive 
 game.
  
  8/10
  
  value: well i'll just leave it at 10/10
  
  sound: meh, i mean it sounds great, very nice never to pushing orchestra. i'm a huge music guy 
 but music is never that big of an issue in a game unless this is like a prince of persia warrior 
 within problem. so i'll just say 8/10
  
  well now heres all the side notes : 1. since the game is so massive and open ended they did a level 
 balancing which is great for things like the arena and such, but for the main quest it felt wrong, 
 i mean there's never that feeling of getting your character maxed out and then you can just massacre 
 everything which is what made that extra 40 hours of grinding worth it like in a final fantasy 
 game. 2. DON'T BECOME A FREAKIN' VAMPIRE. unless you want to either spend an extra 5 hours getting 
 the ingredients or using the console which is technically cheating.. just god don't.
  
  3. for the two add-ons [which are not expansions officially] i really can't reccomend knights of 
 the nine which only adds so-so content for $20 but shivering isles is pretty much an expansion 
 pack and features a whole new [but smaller than cyrodill] world which all grays have been replaced 
 with grand shiny purples and such... kind of trippy lol but very cool.
  
  this game will wear you out, if you only have 2 hours or so to spare every day then this may be 
 the game for you, if you don't mind doing 1 or 2 quests a day and thats it, but you'll get sucked 
 in if this game if you can get past the annoying level balancing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has spent hours in the world of Vvardenfell from Morrowind, it will be easy to become 
 wrapped up in the game of Oblivion.
  
  Graphics - The world has been greatly touched up and is very bright and colorful. Alot of detail 
 in the cities and dugeons. Sound - The music fits very well in with the game. From the score in 
 the beginning to the light music playing out in the wilderness it adds a great feel to the game.
 
  
  Gameplay - Combat has added a bit since Morrowind in power attacks. Changes such as disarming, 
 Knocking an opponent down, or stunning an opponent. You may come across some glitches in the game 
 and loading times may take a while, however if you have the computer to run this game then it shouldnt 
 be too long. Value - For $50 you could spend easily 40 hours in this game. Definently worth the 
 money since i have paid the same amount for a game to be played for less than 10 hours before it 
 starts to collect dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game too much, and it's still AMAZING!!! I have XBOX360 version and the PC version. 
 Definitely prefer the PC version.
  
  Gameplay: Basically questing RPG quests are quite boring. But extra mini games and so many more 
 things you can do makes this game the most entertaining of 2006.
  
  Graphics: Amazing in and outdoot enviroments. Characters have amazing detail. No glitch found in 
 more then 200 hours of playing.
  
  Sound: Every character has their own voice and speech and they all sound amazing. Monsters even 
 sound good.
  
  Value: Keeps you entertained for at least 2 months definitely get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welay
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  From the time i put the dvd in and installed it i new this game was gonna be awsome!. when i started 
 the game there was an awsome character maker you can spen up to hours on just that. when you get 
 out of the sewers you see the beatiful enviorment all the mountains and trees to. there are over 
 1000 npcs! and the graphics are some of the best of any game ive played. the interratvity with 
 all the npcs and the fighting system are my fav part well and the graphics. so if your planing on 
 buying this this is an instint hit. plus you can play the gae for hours with out even doing the 
 main quest. My Fav Game Eva Well This And My HL2 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best (its better say best) RPG game that comes in these years. It satisfied 
 all RPG gamers. With its awesome graphic it observed all gamers and critics. With its story it 
 engaged all players sitting in front of computer for 10 or more hours every day and its great world 
 that no one can discover it all.
  Lets start from the beginning. In most RPG games you have a few choices for your appearance but 
 Oblivion solve this problem and give the player a variety of changes to make what him/her want, 
 to make a handsome hero, an ugly monster, a fearsome orc and etc. after that you have to choose 
 your race. There is many races in oblivion that all of them have their ability and it make the 
 selection very hard.
  Now we come to the story. You are in a prison. The emperor come and get in your cell. He want to 
 escape from your cell. There is a hidden way in the cell. He look at you and say that he saw you 
 in his dream that you will save Cyrodil. Its better not to waste your time. At the end emperor 
 give you a necklace that you should give it too his son. Then he will die. after that you get out 
 and from there the story begin. There are two kinds of story in the game, Main story and side story. 
 Main story is about emperor and side story is about the tasks that people give you. I think assassins 
 guild is the best side story. Oh I forgot. There are some abilities that you should choose for 
 your character and you should choose your sign of birth. It is very important what you choose because 
 they will become your main ability and you can not change them anymore . Dont be worry, you can 
 improve other abilities.
  Graphic in oblivion is at the end. If you have 1G RAM, Geforce 7500 and a two core CPU, you will 
 see an incredible world. Unfortunately my system is 512 RAM, Geforce 5500 and Intel Celeron D 2/4 
 CPU. I cant remember how I finished it.
  Its gameplay is very good. You have a map that allow you to fast travel to other places if there 
 is no enemy near you and you have been there before. The journal is at the best form. It have all 
 thing. You have a short brief of all stories. You can choose which to follow and always know what 
 you are going to do.
  I have just describe a small part of oblivion. It is much bigger, much greater 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuthbertbill05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I have to say this game is probbaly the best rpg i have ever played. the ai is very very smart. they 
 even have unscripted conversations although on some rare occasions you may hear some people having 
 a conversation that doesent make sense. on the whole i have never seen such an epic game it littraly 
 is like having a country in your computer! there is never a dull moment as to the fact that aswell 
 as story missions every town and almost every other person has a mission or job for you to do they 
 range from tracking a vampire or going into some ones dream to rescue them! the vairiety of these 
 missions is second to none and every time i play the game i find something new the map is huge 
 and very detailed. and the game runs very well on some lower machines to. all in all i would say 
 this game is probbaly a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Oblivion... Well what can you say about a superb piece of entertainment, that gives you a massive 
 amount of content and variety of ways to play the game, and visualy looks completely astounding. 
 I first bought this game about 10 months ago, and have continued to get the expansions at lightning 
 speed. All this due to how spectacular the story, voice (acting) and visual sharpness this game 
 holds. If you are an RPG fan thisq game is for you without a doubt. Some say that this game is 
 rubbish, well dont listen to them because probably over 95% of RPG fans will love this game down 
 to their very souls... i may sound a bit dramatic but this is how good the game is.
  As an RPG game this holds just over 200+ hours of innovating story discovering and action, the 
 main line of story seems to be about The king of Tamriel has been assasinated and you have been 
 assigned to find the only heir to the throne so he can relight hope into tamriel from the burning 
 oblivion creatures that await the innocent world. I would say the story is a very detailed and 
 entertaining mystery that would grip you for hours.
  Now i will rate the Attributes with words:
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very constructive and 
 easy to get the hang of, but me myself found the inventory menu's difficult to get hang of, but 
 thats just me, and it was a small price to pay seems the rest of the gameplay and controls were 
 so straight forward and simple, the good news is you wont need a manual to get hold of this.
  Graphics:
  The graphics were *FANTASTIC* but then this is also a bad thing due to performance 
 issues, but you can always scale it down. But if you have the right pc to run it, when playing 
 you will be looking at visually stunning views and people who you can really get a feel for... it 
 just adds to the immensity of the greatness of this game.
  Sound:
  The sound was one of the best features in this game, with actors such as sean bean and patrick 
 stewart playing roles in this epic adventure... Plus the music to this game associated with the 
 events currently being carried out which made gameplay more innovating and exciting.
  Value:
  With how amazing and creative this game is, the game is well worth its value and i would 
 recommend it to any gamer out there looking for something fresh and innovative to start tapping 
 your fingers on.
  Reviewers Tilt:
  In all i think this game was a godsend to us gamers and well worth the money and well spent time 
 playing on it... like ive already said... if you aint got it.... get it!
  
  I do hope that after Bethesdas upcoming feature fallout 3 i hope they go onto another elder scroll 
 which will gobsmack us as muxh as oblivion has done... this has completely raised the bar for upcoming 
 RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  It's easier to describe Oblivion's flaws than its strengths, and it's equally easy to say that 
 the game ends up as more than the sum of its parts. Like Grand Theft Auto, which serves up a fun 
 action/adventure game that falls to pieces when you analyze its individual components, Oblivion 
 can be deconstructed in much the same way. Doing so is necessary, since how tolerant you are of 
 its flaws is directly related to your enjoyment of the game.
  
  The core of Oblivion can be summed up as follows - you create a character of your own design and 
 explore a relatively large world at will, completing quests and killing monsters and building your 
 skills and acquiring new items. Sounds like pretty much every other RPG ever made? Yes, but Oblivion 
 earns the vague description, as what you get out of the game is also related to how much you put 
 in. Added to the flaws mentioned before, that's an awful lot of effort for the player to exert.
 
  
  On the presentation side, the graphics are quite nice outside of the occasional janky texture and 
 some truly ugly character faces (these can be alleviated somewhat with mods) and the sound effects 
 and music are all passable. It's certainly not a well optimized game by any measure, either, but 
 for the most part you aren't going to live or die by load times or the occasional framerate hiccup 
 so it ultimately doesn't matter a whole lot. Outside scenery is often beautiful to look at (again, 
 this is greatly enhanced with visual mods) , particularly during dusk and dawn.
  
  So where in the experience of playing Oblivion might you be driven nuts?
  
  The world is not 
 particularly interesting. Maybe it's unfair to make direct comparisons to Morrowind, but for an 
 older game with downright crude graphics by today's standards it manages to throw up a great deal 
 more variety in both locations and characters. Sure, Bruma has snow and Leyawind has sort of a 
 swampy look going on outside, but that's about it. No desert or badlands, no real plains, though 
 the world of Oblivion makes for a passable substitute for the volcano enclosed by the Ghost Gate. 
 Unfortunately, all of the cities are pretty dull. Architecture is different, but subtly so, and 
 while the capital is easier to navigate than Vivec ever was, it's far less visually interesting. 
 Everything reeks of your standard European medieval setting with no chances taken. Even the dungeons 
 are all variations of the same four setpiece themes - Ayleid ruins, cave, mine (basically a modified 
 cave) , and fort.
  
  Everything is scaled. In interviews the reason for this is to keep the game challenging, so that 
 the player doesn't go and outgrow everything. So what? You won't get any decent equipment until 
 you start hitting later levels, regardless of what remote location you explore. All of the loot 
 is randomized and scaled by level. About the only challenge you face is attempting to come out 
 on top of the still needlessly painful leveling system. Ten points in any major skills levels you 
 up, but you also receive bonuses if you've leveled a certain number of skills in a particular attribute. 
 Say you want to raise endurance, strength, and agility, and you've got five points in blade and 
 five points in heavy armor that will level you up the next time you sleep. That's 2 to strength, 
 2 to endurance. You could train an extra couple of points out of a minor skill from a trainer, 
 stand in one place and hop up and down for half an hour to build up your acrobatics for agility, 
 and maybe whack rats with a mace if you have blunt as a minor skill. You'll waste a remarkable 
 amount of time trying to get your three +5 stats each level. You don't have to, really, but you're 
 only crippling your character if you don't. This was broken in Morrowind and it's more broken now, 
 given the limitations they've placed on trainers.
  
  The quests suck. The main plotline is terrible, and both Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean manage to 
 sound bored out of their skulls. The sole redeeming questline is that of the Dark Brotherhood, 
 where you play as an assassin (some of the later Thieves' Guild quests aren't bad either) . All 
 the rest are fetch quests or 'go here and kill X monsters,' especially those found in the Fighters 
 Guild. Amusing still is the fact that you can become head of every single guild even if you have 
 absolutely no talent in that area. Want to slash your way to the top of the Mage's Guild? Go ahead 
 - it's absolutely nonsensical but you can do it, and it's easier than using magic as the game strongly 
 favours melee characters.
  
  It's impossible to create a character that doesn't look like a troll. So many facial settings and 
 they all result in varying degrees of ugly.
  
  Other than the named actors, three or four dudes voiced every single character in the game. Every 
 redguard in the game (good, bad, enemy, main plot character, whatever) has the same voice. Two 
 women voice every female character (though it may just be a single actress who speaks through cotton 
 balls to make the dark elves' voice) .
  
  They took out the Levitation spell. Not cool.
  
  The menus are also garbage, even when tweaked via mods to fit more than four items per page. 
 They're the most obvious parts of a joint PC/console development, although even when patched the 
 game does not work properly with an Xbox 360 controller, which would be an excellent fit with the 
 game. Go figure.
  
  And yet in the face of all that the game still manages to be fun. It's kind of neat wandering the 
 countryside looking at the scenery, even if it isn't all that varied. And while there's no lure 
 to discover remote dungeons for the sake of finding unique loot, it's nice to stumble across some 
 random fort in the corner of the map. Charging up a strong attack and sending smaller enemies flying 
 through the air is great fun. You can still do so much stuff in the world that it's amusing enough 
 just to wander around, even if each bit of the experience is flawed. For all of the things Bethesda 
 fixed from Morrowind, it's also served to dumb the game down somewhat in terms of its overall scope. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshua777777
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Everything you need to know about Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion in 1 sentence:
  It falls miles short of being as good as its predecessor, Morrowind .
  
  Why do I say this?
 
  
  1) The combat leveling system takes all of the fun out of leveling up. This game has a leveling 
 system where the enemy levels up as you do, or in other words, every time you level up, the game 
 gets 1 level harder. Whoever thought this would be a good idea must be new to the genre. LEVELING 
 UP IS NEARLY POINTLESS IN THIS GAME.
  
  2) The highly praised story is awful. THE FANTASY FICTION/ SCIENCE FICTION genres are full of bad 
 writing, full of shallow story lines, and full of pathetic attempts to be clever , attempts that 
 never leave the realm of bad cliche' . THIS game exemplifies the type of garbage that this fantasy 
 genre promotes. It falls far, far, far, FAR short of the great literary works that we call high 
 fantasy ; instances of high fantasy include Lord of the Rings , Chronicles of Narnia , Le Morte 
 D'Arthur , etc... This story looks and feels like the kind of crap that I used to write back in 
 the fifth grade -- although back in the fifth grade I was a little better at being creative than 
 the writers in this game were.
  
  3) The slightly deeper character AI only accentuates all of the short-comings of that same AI. 
 It is hard to watch characters that say and do things, things which we are not used to seeing in 
 previous games, and then see them walk into walls, not to mention their various other quirks. 4) 
 The story is shallow. I know I've already said it, but it is worth saying again.
  
  5) The fighting is tedious. Not much better than Morrowind's point and click style interface. In 
 this game they give you an extra button. OOOHHHH!!! Another button!!! Something can actually be 
 said in favor of morrowind's one button interface. In Morrowind, when you held down the single 
 button it meant that (if your shield was equipped) you would use it to block. When you released 
 the button it brought down the stroke of your sword. Hence, one button in Morrowind basically did 
 the work of two buttons in Oblivion. After several hours of tedious battle and exploration, you 
 might very possibly miss Morrowind's easier one-button interface; afterall, if something is going 
 to be repetitive and boring, it should as well be easy.
  
  6) The voice acting is terrible. The reason that they got the Star Trek guy to play the emperor 
 was because they needed a big-name actor to make us forget about all the other garbage voice work.
 
  
  7) The persuasion system is worse than in Morrowind, as is the bartering or trading system. The 
 only thing added by a change from the previous game's system was more tedium.
  
  8) The side quests are usually boring, and you don't get to kill things from on horseback. The 
 game makers said that they purposely didn't want to imbalance the game by allowing you to fight 
 on horseback, but in truth they probably just didn't want spend the time making it work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipercomplete
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  ok, i LOVED morrowid (previous elder scrolls) namely due to the facet it was BIG REALLY BIG! with 
 oblivion, not so much. mostly, the game was toned down to appease to less patient and, dare i say 
 it, idiotic, people. you see, now, you have the Blade skill, which detimines you skill with blades. 
 in morrowind, you had short and long sword skills, short determining your skill with a daggers 
 and short swords, and long dealing with longswords and claymors, as well as katanas and dai-katanas. 
 in oblivion you have heavy armor and light armor, and armor consists of cuirass, guantlets, boots, 
 helmet, and greaves. in morrowind, you had light, heavy, and medium armor, and you had to get left 
 and right pauldrons (the shoulder peices of armor, which were magically included with cuirass in 
 oblivion) , left and right guantlet, left and right boot, and then cuirass greaves and helmet. in 
 morrowind and oblivion you have marksmanship. only, in oblivion you only have bows and arrows. 
 However in morrowind, you get short bows long bows and even crossbows, you get arrows too, as well 
 as ninja stars and throwing knives. in oblivion, you have 8 cities, one which is only avalable 
 through an OPTIONAL quest! in morrowind you had...... i thnk 12 or so, all always avalable. in morrowind, 
 you actually used staffs as weapons, and had spears! in oblivion, you can only use staffs as enchanted 
 peices of crap, and spears dont exist. so, my main point is, if all you care about is graphics, 
 then go for oblivion, but if you care about size, value, and general gameplay, go fo morrowind 
 or some other large rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poclovis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Best RPG I have ever played in my 20 years of gaming. Even with the main quest, it is very open 
 ended. I loved becoming a master assasin, then a master theif, then a master mage, and finally 
 a warlord fighter. The ability to make changes to the game makes the long term of this game very 
 enjoyable. I even got my Father in law hooked on it. He has chronic knee problems and he says it 
 is a good way of getting his mind off his aching knees all the time. My 9 year old son even plays 
 some. The overall main quest is over his head, but he loves to use his bow and long range pick 
 off goblins all day long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderson_sini
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you think when playing the game is UOU, its amazing! . But with time the game gets 
 too boring.
  All dungeons are the same and the map itself is the same everywhere. The equipment don't change 
 often, and about 2 hours playing you will get the last weapon and armor. It's like flintstones 
 cartoon when they pass over the same place while walking.
  
  The good thing is that everything is touchable and many things may happen as you choose different 
 paths on guilds.
  
  I always do my review after I've played the game. The game is really good, but don't expect too 
 much from it, as it gets boring because it was badly build. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls was awarded game of the year, and for a very, very, very big reason. The gameplay 
 takes less of the final fantasy turn-based style but more of a hexen/Hexen II action RPG look to 
 it, in first-person (or 3rd if you prefer) . An important aspect of elder scrolls when you start 
 out that makes it unique is that you aren't as limited in what you can do compared to MMOs like 
 world of warcraft: although you can start out with more of an advantage in your starting abilities 
 of the 25 skills available, you can do just about anything you choose.
  
  Although I'd like to write down everything gameplay wise that's so damned enjoyable, it could take 
 several pages, so let's just leave it at unique and a must-play. The graphics are very good - It's 
 no Gears of war but it certainly doesn't make it any less intriguing and enjoyable. The audio is 
 absolutely fantastic, fitting for every single environment (quite a few of those) , with top-notch 
 voice acting to boot.
  
  This game will, well... let me break it down in pieces to say how long it could take you:
  
 
  Main quest: 8-10 hours
  Each of the guild quests: 8-10 hours
  Arena: 3 hours
  Optional quests: 10-15 hours
  Exploring and general running around for fun: 5+ hours.
  
  
 You may just make another character as well. Although I said you could pretty much do anything 
 and everything with one, it's a lot easier to do a specific race and sign (which you'll pick in 
 the beginning) for a certain class you're looking for.
  
  If you don't have this game, rush to gamestop or bestbuy or a hobo in the alley to get this game, 
 and be ready for the ride of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best thing to gaming ever.
  
  Good thing: The dungeons and city's are incredibly atmospheric with a live and creepy feeling where 
 it's wanted. This is backed up by the game's awesome graphics.
  
  Good thing: Oblivion sports beautiful graphics. Your armor and items look's and shines well. Character's 
 look realistic with the facing and expressions. I recommend going onto the highest points in Oblivion 
 then tuning up the graphics just too look at the breathtaking view of Cyrodiil.
  
  Good thing: The boring combat system from Morrowind is now dunked for the new dynamic system. Now 
 shadows do matter so you wont' stand in broad daylight and the enemy for some reason can't see 
 you. There's more of a reason to use stealth at night. Now you can block with the click of the 
 mouse. Special Power attacks help disarm and incapitate your opponents. Snuck up on him did ya? 
 Hold down your attack then let loose a critical hit which'll probably kill him instantly.
  
  Good thing: The new AI system really makes the game feel alive. It's not the same NPC in the 
 same spot for 2 weeks. NPC's eat, drink, read, work, talk, and pray. Oblivion feels like a seperate 
 world.
  
  Good thing: There's a very good reason why the game is so great and complex without being confusing. 
 It's got a great interface. The journal is updated and helps you keep track of where you want and 
 need to go with trackers and pointers.
  
  Good thing: The sound in the game is top notch. Voice acting is superb especially main characters 
 in the Main Quest. There's something unique from every NPC. Your sword clangs to the shield or 
 wall. Your footsteps change when you walk on stone tablets or forests.
  
  Good thing: Freeroam aspect is great. You can explore all of Cyrodiil without any quests or agenda 
 just to kill bandits animals and such or explore.
  
  Good thing: There's alot of classes and skills to learn. With higher skill levels bring new tactics 
 in combat. Wanna beat that tough boss easily? Buy ingridients then sport potions that ubersize 
 your stats.
  
  Good thing: The RPG newbie interface is friendly and accessible. It's easy for RPG newbies and 
 not annoying to RPG veterans.
  
  Good thing: There's a very creative list of monsters and all characters are dressed appropriately 
 for the occasion. Example: Sleeping guards are out of uniform armor and into normal clothing.
 
  
  Bad things: All good things come with faults. The graphics are great but they cut into performance 
 and increase load times. You need a beast of a PC to enjoy the game at max strength.
  
  Bad things: All freeroam games have flaws in AI. Sometimes the game's AI may just break. and stand 
 there taking your blows.
  
  Bad things: Some of the dungeons are reused and may feel the same with the bland textures and such. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a massive game. The amount of content included, the amount of missions 
 to do, caves and ruins to explore, and places to visit is truly outstanding. I have played this 
 game a LOT, yet, while writing this, I still haven't done a sizeable amount of the side-quests. 
 However, with all these missions, a lot of the missions might be very similar, and the gameplay 
 may have suffered from the amount of side-quests. This definitely can't be said about Oblivion.
 
  
  Gameplay: The main story revolves around a cult called the Mythic Dawn, a group of daedric (the 
 opposite of the gods, the Aedra) worshippers who wish to take Tamriel (the continent where the 
 series is set) for their Daedric Lord, Mehrunes Dagon. To do this, they needed to wipe out the 
 bloodline of the Septims (the royal family) so they could open Oblivion gates and enter Cyrodiil 
 (the part of Tamriel the game is set in) . To close the Oblivion gates, you need to follow the main 
 storyline to find Uriel Septim's (the current emperor) lost heir. While doing this, Oblivion gates 
 will pop up over Tamriel, which you need to enter and fight your way through to close.
  
  This is the main storyline. However, after completing a bit of the story, it will be well worth 
 it to ditch the main story for the time being, and do a lot of the rest of the game. There are 
 four main guilds: the Mages' Guild, the Fighter's Guild, the Thieves' Guild, and the Dark Brotherhood, 
 the assassination guild. The first two can just be signed up to, but the other two involve a bit 
 of crime to get in (go to prison to join the Thieves' Guild, kill a civilian/soldier to join the 
 Dark Brotherhood) . The four guilds are very good, with the Dark Brotherhood standing out as the 
 best storyline. Then, there a heaps of side-quests. A bit of asking around or exploring might lead 
 to a side-quest, characters might approach you to do a quest for them, and there are also the Daedric 
 side-quests, where you make an offering to the Daedric lord, do a mission for them, then get rewarded 
 with a Daedric artifact, many of which are very useful. The gameplay is excellent, and makes this 
 game so good.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent, with super views of the landscape, dark dungeons, and hellish 
 Oblivion planes. The characters also look excellent.
  
  Sound: This game comes with very good music, and excellent voice-acting. The music sets the tone 
 perfectly, and really goes.
  
  Value: The game is absolutely massive, and with so much content, is really worth your money.
 
  
  So, all in all, a massive game with excellent gameplay, graphics and sound. I won't this game a 
 10, because it is not perfect, and my interest had waned by the end (I left the game for a couple 
 of months, then came back just to complete the story) , but it is very close.
  
  Score:....9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1977
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game has it all, the graphics are superb and are almost life like and the attention to every 
 little detail makes this game come alive, it sort of makes you forget its a game somethimes and 
 more like a second life.
  The game feautures many quests, including a main story, various guild quests (Fighters, Mages, DarkBrother 
 Hood and Thieves guild) along with various random quests people ask you to do as you trek across 
 the land. The First person fighting style in oblivion is genius and works really well when firing 
 a bow or getting in close combat with a zombie.
  Your also able to interact with nearly every in game NPC in towns and villages.
  Many weapons 
 and spells to use in combat.
  
  The Voice actors did temselves proud in this game which also feauture the voices of Patrick Stewart 
 as Uriel Septim 2 and Sean Bean as Martin.
  The music is very boring, but hey if you want music why are you looking at a game.
  
  The value 
 for money of this game is brillient at just 27 euro at play. com (thats 17.99 sterling) you get 
 hours upon hours of gameplay, ive been playing it bout 60 hours and im still not bored of it. With 
 thousands of offical and unoffical mods available to download at many sites, most for free, you 
 can keep updating this game and get things like dragons to ride around on or a musket and various 
 other guilds and buildings, even new towns and quests.
  
  All in all it is probably the best RPG we've seen since the first RPG. If you don't have this game 
 already I strongly advise getting it.
  Bare in mind if you are getting it for PC the system requirements are extremly high so check first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK-the-Juggalo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is a new hype in the gaming of today. this is worth the playing all day. i have yet to 
 find a better game, one of the best things is you can download the TES and do what ever the hell 
 you want to the gameplay of tamriel. I would play the game 50 years from now (but hopefully they 
 would have alot better games :) ) but the point is i would never give this game a bad review because 
 this game is to good. I give it a 10 out of 10. hopefully everyone will agree with me that this 
 game is revolutionary in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigOne1
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I seriously don't understand the hype. This is no role playing game. It's a lousy first person 
 action adventure.
  
  It has some good ideas (especially the minigames for opening locks and gaining favor when talking 
 to people are just great) but basically it's not interesting. I'll use Gothic 2 (Gothic 3 sucked) 
 as a comparsion. The Gothic-feeling was basically, that at the beginning of the game everything 
 and everybody on the field could kill you. And only through carefull exploration could you manage 
 to survive, grow stronger and defeat you enemies. I remember strolling through a dark forrest (I 
 had no gold to buy a map so I got lost, yeah, no instant travel or auto-map) and jumping up in 
 my seat every time I heared a sound because I knew that I could not handle more then 1 wolf at 
 once and a pack of two meant I would not leave the forrest alive.
  That was fun. In Oblivion you can go right up to the final oponent on level one and beat him. And 
 it's not harder then on level 1'978'437'682'465. That's no RPG.
  
  Second, the big world that you can explore freely. Well, You have seen it all after you walked 
 500 meters. After that it gets repetitive. Every dungeon looks alike, the forrest and mountains 
 look alike but worst of all, it is unnecessarily big. You have a quick-travel system, so you don't 
 go through the patches between the cities. They just put something in there so it does not look 
 empty (Oblivion gates. Seen one, seen all) but it's not necessary for the plot or the game.
  
  I lost interest after 2 hours (and I costumized my character for 1 hour) but then people told 
 me how great this game was so I got to it again and tried for another 2 hours. Still, it's no fun. 
 The storyline and the dialogues do not captivate you. You do not feel for the characters so there 
 is absolutely no story line to drive you. No, I want to know how this ends and if the hero gets 
 the girl feeling (and even the oblivion fans agree on that point) . And since the leveling up is 
 kinda useless the Just 5 minutes more, I have to see what perks I can get at the next level feeling 
 is not there either.
  
  Another thing that got to me was how useless the weapons feel. In most games you feel the difference 
 when getting your hands on a new sword. The enemies fall easier. Not so here. And since we are 
 talking about useless new weapons, let's talk about the magic. You start of with a fireball that 
 does (I use the figuress to explain what I mean, they are not exactly from the game) 30 points 
 of damage and consumes 10 points of mana while you have 20 points of mana and your oponent has 
 60 live-points. Then 10 leves later you get the next firebased spell. It deals 60 points of damage 
 and consumes 20 points of mana. Your mana, in the meantime, has increased to 40 points and since 
 your oponents level with you, their live points have increased to 120 points. To summarize this, 
 in the beginning you had enough mana for two spells which allowed you to kill one oponent and after 
 10 levels you have enough mana for 2 spells which allows you to kill one oponent. And just to make 
 it a little more ridiciolous, the 2 spells look exactly alike. Because all fire based spells look 
 exactly the same. And all Ice and lightning based spells look exactly the same. There are 3 animations 
 for attack spells in the game, that's it.
  
  This game is so overrated, overrated is not the right word anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saint_spyro
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Oblivion definitely has nice graphics and nice background music to go with the improved gameplay. 
 Also, travelling around in the game is not longer as tedious as in Morrowind. However, one major 
 setback is that the map is shrink, meaning that there is now less place to explore as well as less 
 side quests to complete. This greatly discount the part on character grooming. Besides, all the 
 legendary weapons which were previously found in Morrowind is nowhere to be seen except for Umbra. 
 I guess they will be adding them soon in the later mods, or I hope so.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caboose33
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, the worth and time of the gameplay is worth every penny. Not only 
 is it a triple threat by itself, but it has many expansions that only boost its performance. The 
 graphics and everything about it would make the perfect game for any RPG lover or any gamer who 
 wants to have fun for 200+ hours. The only problem you might have is getting your computer to run 
 the game without problems. I would reccomend this to any person whether or not they like RPGs, 
 because once you play it, it will change your perspective forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhii
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  I have never experienced a game quite like Oblivion. It is perfect in all aspects. There is almost 
 limitless game play and the quests seamlessly blend into the overall game. Let me break it down.
 
  
  Guilds: There aren't 10+ guilds, but the ones that are there are amazing. You can become the master 
 at whatever you work for. The guild quests are exciting and they get harder at a reasonable rate. 
 You can play as a gladiator in the arena and help people in the Fighter's Guild... but turn evil 
 to complete the Thieve's Guild and Dark Brotherhood quests. Perfect.
  
  Quests: The main quest has two huge points that make it so much better than any other RPG. 1) You 
 can totally avoid it if you want to and it will ALWAYS be there for you in the future. 2) You can 
 finish it right away and CONTINUE to play the game afterwards. I don't know of any other RPGs that 
 did it so perfectly like Oblivion did.
  
  NPCs: The AI's are nearly flawless. The facial expressions are surreal. Although the same voice 
 is used over, it is an expressive voice and almost everything they say has a voice with it. The 
 NPCs just look good too. No blocky heads and fingerless hands... every character is so defined.
 
  
  PC: The player character becomes so customized its truly amazing. You can choose everything from 
 what stars you were born under to how big your nose is. There is too much to applaud with this 
 one so I'll let it rest.
  
  Movement/Combat: The movement is amazing and realistic and the combat is so immersive. You can 
 time your attacks, power attacks don't require any special key combos, and the blows aren't solely 
 determined by whether you hit the guy or not. Where you hit, how far away you were, your skill 
 and weapon, their armor, weakness spells they may have on, your attributes, what kind of power 
 attack you used, if you were sneaking or not... the combat is so dimensional.
  
  Graphics/Environment: The graphics are amazing. You have to have a good computer in order to play 
 this but it is so worth it to buy a kick butt computer if it is to only play this game. I have 
 difficulties with FPS but the loading is still quick with my crap computer and the lag is manageable. 
 After I upgraded my computer I noticed a huge change... but get this: the reason I get bad FPS 
 is because I have ALL of the settings on full and I refuse to set them lower because the graphics 
 are so amazing. I can set them 3/4 the way to get 0 lag but it's so worth it. =)
  
  The game has so many dynamics that make it amazing... lock picking and pick pocketing, speech craft, 
 the spells are amazing, poisons, diseases, guilds, houses, horses, summon able creatures... My 
 personal favorite: you can drop almost everything on the ground and move it! Maybe I'm a noob but 
 I could play with that for hours.
  
  Does anyone else here like to decorate their house and set the table? Lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xburlingtonw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  well where to start i woke up the day this game came out at 4am and went out with my best friend 
 to EB to camp for it.... thats how excited we were.. got it at 12pm that day and went back to my 
 place and gamed for 39hr straight! no sleep or anything. what can i say the game is awesome. then 
 u add all the expansions and such and u got a game worth 400+ hr of game play. Quality gameplay 
 at that. the only bad thing is the Travel system i wish they would of taken it out and made it 
 more like Morrowind.. other then that this game rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in Oblivion never gets old because you can choose to be a fearsome blood 
 thirsty warrior, a silent and deadly assassin, or a mysterious and powerfull mage. You can play 
 thru the game in a many of different ways as well by being a assassin for the Dark Brotherhood 
 or do acts of good in the Fighters Guild. There are a few more guilds and each take about fifteen 
 or so hours to complete all the quests if you rush thru them, how ever if you take you'r time and 
 talk to all the members, you can get quests that way as well. Infact just talking to random people 
 in general can get you quests. The game also features PLENTY of dungeons and caves to explore and 
 find new treasures that can help you in you'r journeys. The main quest how ever is fairly long 
 and should take a good seventeen to twentie two hours to complete depending on how you play. The 
 world in the game is just beutifull and very large, and should take months to find evey single 
 dungeon and cave in the game. There are thousands of quests ranging from getting items for someone 
 in town or killing a certain creature or human for someone. Overall the game has well over 150+ 
 hours in just the single DVD alone but mods and two expansion packs add well over another 150+ 
 hours. 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Oblivion are amazing. Even so amazing with the plenty of mods that make 
 it look even better. Sitting on a mountain staring at the distant forests and citys never looked 
 so pretty. The game also freatures Shader Model 3.0 high dynamic range support and up to 16x Anti 
 Aliasing for a even better visual quality. The charecter models are very impressive as well. The 
 facial movements are very realistic and react to how you talk to them. Insault them and they look 
 like they are mad at you. Help them and they will smile and greet you with a very hearty tone. 
 But you will need a current graphics card, a 7600 series or X1650 series will sufice well and play 
 the game very well at medium to high settings. 10
  
  Sound: The music in this game is very well orchistrated and sounds amazing on a surround sound 
 system or just a two speaker/headset system. The voice acting a brilliant too and sets the medevil 
 tone very well. Triple A voice acting and sound. 10
  
  Value: Overall the game has well over 150+ hours in just the single DVD alone but mods and two 
 expansion packs add well over another 150+ hours making this game a GREAT value at 50$ USD. Tilt: 
 Simply put, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one of the best games to come out, ever. And that 
 is hard to come by these days. 10
  
  Tips and Tricks: From my experiance, the Ebony armor set is the best next to Deadra and Glass. 
 To recharge enchanted weapons and items simply talk to people at the mages guild or find soul stones 
 in Ayelid ruins. Do not agree to get Vamprism when in the Dark Brotherhood, the quest to get rid 
 of it is very long and not fun, if you get it by sleeping in dungeons just revert a save. Have 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathcg
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I tried to enjoy this game. But it was just too boring after a few hours.
  
  The graphics are great and the sound is pretty good but after that the game falls apart.
  
 
  I found the GUI to be too bare and it didn't have the details on the main screen that I would 
 have liked. The fighting was fun for a few minutes and then I noticed how rigid the character moves 
 and how poorly a lot of the fighting seems to work.
  
  The real dagger in the heart of what would otherwise be a least a good game is the fact that there 
 is no hook to keep playing. Leveling is essentially useless because all your enemies level with 
 you. So the only real reason is that you get more spells or that you can do stuff a little better. 
 Furthermore, the story is really generic and I couldn't get interested in the characters and what 
 happened to them so I saw no reason to continue trying after going a ways down the main story line.
 
  
  The only reason I can see someone really loving this game, beyond the pretty graphics , is that 
 they really like open ended game play without anything but a generic story direction to guide them.
 
  
  You have been warned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amareen18
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Bethesda has overcome them self's in this wonderful game by the name of oblivion and i want to 
 thank them for this amazing game in this game you have an open beautiful world and when i say a 
 beautiful open world i mean that even the world itself can take your breath with its beautiful 
 sky and green grass (looks like a real grass) and many many trees thats only the world im talking 
 about i didn't mention the many characters in the game and very good graphics etc.... you just 
 can't say everything about the game its all you want action adventure game starting with the game 
 play you can go anywhere in the world you can even swim in the game you can interact with all the 
 characters you can find in the world and you can use the horses as your transportation through 
 the world the graphics are amazingly wonderful because in an open world game you don't think that 
 the graphics will be that great but they are the sounds are great the voices of the character mostly 
 are mostly the same but still great the is a great game you can't find any flaws and With the freedom 
 of the world surrounding it, the system becomes a contradiction to the games intentions. Everything 
 is great, the graphics, audio, combat ,the game is hard can't say it isn't but you manage to get 
 by in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis23345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Bethesda have created a game which treads into a realm of freedom, and that is something that few 
 games do these days. Oblivion doesn't dictate the experience to you, it allows you to dictate your 
 own experiences, and that is a very fine prospect indeed. Oblivion is also a technical masterpiece, 
 which adds immersion and realism to a very lively gaming world. However, ones immersion is lessened 
 by certain game mechanics which are unorthodox, but also clumsily executed in many cases. Hardcore 
 and purist RPG gamers in particular won't be particularly enthused by these puzzling designs which 
 contradict the main focus of the greater game, but the fact is that there is so much delicious 
 candy to be found in oblivion and most gamers won't really care about the questionable facets of 
 the game.
  
  Speaking of candy, oblivion provides plenty to the eyes. Oblivion is quite simply a stunning graphical 
 masterpiece, and one of the first glimpses of technological brilliance in the next generation, 
 which is in its infancy. Even the milder settings exhibit vivid scenery which few other games have 
 churned out. One of the first things you should do is stand atop the northern mountains and gasp 
 in awe at the beautiful view provided, its absolutely spectacular. The environment may be excellent 
 to look at, but the character models don't quite reach the same standard. Many characters don't 
 look aesthetically pleasing, and for some reason, you will struggle to find or create a visually 
 stunning character. Many of the NPCS express very angry facial expressions, sometimes regardless 
 of their feelings towards your own character, and gives the unintended impression that the game 
 simply doesn't like your character, at least at first anyway.
  
  Much has been spoken of the Radiant AI system which Bethesda have implemented into oblivion, unfortunately, 
 it doesn't live up to the hype created by Bethesda prior to release. In the past, games have become 
 victims of the unfulfillable ambitions of their designers (see: Fable as an example) . Great games 
 have become lacklusture simply because of the improbable contexts envisioned previously, and that 
 is exactly what the Radiant AI system falls victim to. Even with computing power at an unprecedented 
 high, it is still impossible to create a virtual world which socially imitates our own using raw 
 computing power, and there are a lot of optimistic and gullible people who thought this would of 
 been possible. However, the AI in oblivion is the closest any video game has come to achieving 
 this. If you murder an innocent civillian, other bystanders will feel obliged to kill you in return. 
 However, if all hell is breaking loose outside, the people inside their homes will still worry 
 about their own problems, rather than the greater problem developing and that is the limit. People 
 have their own daily ( and weekly and monthly) routines, which makes the world seem quite realistic, 
 but once again, even if a notorious assassin has completly killed the greater population of their 
 locality, they will still want to go the pub for a beer every sunday. When you walk into any major 
 city, you are likely to hear various conversations between the residents, and these conversations 
 can provide important clues for the various quests contained in Oblivion. But, of course, it won't 
 be long before you hear the exact same conversation again, even if two different people are involved.
 
  
  The world itself is quite a marvel to look at, but does it ooze with greatness? To a certain extent 
 it does, yes. You will spend your days exploring the continent of Tammriel, a large land crowded 
 with various Ruins, forts, mines etc. The dungeons of the game, of which there are many are exciting 
 to raid at first, but after 200 hours of gameplay, become a little bit bland, because while there 
 are hundreds of actual dungeons scattered throughout the game, they boil down to only 4 basic prototypes, 
 the cave, the fort, the ruin and the oblivion gates. The first three should be self explanatory, 
 but the Oblivion gates are a concept unique to this game and play an integral part throughout the 
 span of the game. Oblivion is a dimension of hell and the gates lead to the planes within it. At 
 first, these gates offer an innovative challenge, but once you become confronted by hordes of these, 
 they become one of those Urrgh... I can't be stuffed activities.
  
  However, the non-linear nature of Oblivion allows the player to embark on adventures which complement 
 the players mood. Whether you want to sit down and read a book about the history of the world, 
 or violently slaughter the monstrosities which inhabit the dungeons of the world, Oblivion caters 
 for all moods and tastes. That said, there are some aspects of oblivion that are very poorly implemented, 
 and many of the said aspects seem to have been constructed with little common sense. I speak of 
 the levelling system, the single largest flaw of Oblivion, and one which raises many questions? 
 I cannot figure out why Bethesda decided to implement scaled levelling, which makes levelling counter-productive, 
 and save for a few quest requirements, absolutely pointless. For those who don't know, the enemies 
 level up with you in Oblivion. Goblins will become uber, daedric wielding tanks if you are of high 
 level, and no, those guards will always be a few steps ahead of you. The method of levelling is 
 good in theory but once again poorly executed. When you create your character, you choose a magic, 
 stealth or melee specialisation and choose 7 major skills which if levelled, which start at the 
 Apprentice level, and become your overall levelling skills. The remainder become minor skills, 
 which can be still trained, but start at the Novice level. However, if you want the best of your 
 character, you must train minor skills; if you train majors only, your stat increases will be minimal. 
 To add to the problems, some skills are easy to train, such as athletics and acrobatics, which 
 simply involve running and jumping around. Other skills, such as alchemy and magic skills are much 
 harder to train. In a simular vain, some skills are made obsolete by other, more involved skills, 
 for instance, Alteration almost eliminates the need for the Security skill entirely. To sum it 
 all up, the levelling system in Oblivion is a cumbersome mess, but luckily, these flaws can be 
 repaired with various user-made mods.
  
  My only other complaint is the UI. Since this game was initally designed for the Xbox 360, the 
 interface feels like it was designed for it. For a start, the text in the journals is way too big 
 and that means unnecessary scrolling is required. Also, unless you switch the spell with the hotkeys, 
 there is only one button I can use to cast a spell, which is riciculous for a PC game. Why cant 
 I set a certain key to a certain key, ala World of Warcraft?
  
  The combat physics in Oblivion are excellent, and provide a real sense of immersion. If there is 
 one positive effect which the levelling system has, it's the fact that every battle feels like 
 an epic, which is mechanically questionable, but provides a greater sense of enjoyment overall. 
 Sword swings feel meaty, ranged combat feels precise and the various knock down effects make it 
 so much more realistic and satisfying. Unless you slide the difficulty bar to the extreme ends, 
 combat is immensely fun and it is the aspect which provides more delight than any other.
  
  Closing Comment:
  Think of Linearity as a political wing; with Linearity on one end and Non Linear 
 on the opposite end. Radical poilitical ideologies often believe in policies which simply don't 
 work, and thats what Bethesda have done wrong. By making the game as Non-Linear as possible, they 
 have implemented some mechanical features which just don't work, namedly the levelling system, 
 which is as successful as a former Communist regime. With the freedom of the world surrounding 
 it, the system becomes a contradiction to the games intentions. Everything else is cookies and 
 cream, the graphics, audio, combat and value, and damn nice cookies and cream at that.
  
  
  Graphics: A+
  This is the first truly stunning game of the next generation.
  
  Audio: 
 A-
  The quality of the audio and the voice acting is something to behold. However, both become bland 
 due to little variety.
  
  Lastability: A+
  This game is a behemoth. Contact me when you have done everything. Hope to hear from you in 2010.
 
  
  Gameplay: B
  Excellent combat physics and questing are in the shadow of the cumbersome levelling system. However, 
 this doesn't ruin the game at all. Besides, you could always download a mod.
  
  Atmosphere: A-
  Just so realistic. The people have daily routines, hold conversations and the 
 dungeons are an epic experience.. until you realise you have raided 200 different Alykid Ruins 
 already.
  
  Pros:
  -Combat Physics
  -Questing
  -Graphics
  -Audio
  
  Cons:
  -Levelling system -Lacklustre UI
  
  Overall: B+ If the levelling system was better, just a 
 little better, than Oblivion would be A grade. However, a B+ signals just how great the rest of 
 the game is. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game always received great ratings. I happen to like RPG games and adventure games. My favorite 
 game is the FPS on the PC. This game is too open ended for me. I like a narrower plot line. The 
 game is so huge that I forgot what I was doing for the most part. Do'nt get me wrong, the game 
 looks amazing and if you enjoy this huge environment then this is the game for you. But for me, 
 an RPG is about the mission and completing them. I get frustrated with countless side quests and 
 then getting lost trying to do those. Also this game is too long. I do not want to spend the rest 
 of my life playing it. That is why I never like the grand theft auto series. Games in my opinion 
 should not take 100 or more hours to complete. If you like the traditional RPG like final fantasy 
 or Jade Empire I do not think that this is the game for you. However if you like the sand box type 
 games or the MMO games then this is right up your alley. One last thing, I think the game is much 
 too complex. There are so many things you have to learn and juggle that it takes away from the 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CroCorwin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  OK, this game doesn't fulfill all expectations. There is a kind of stiffness in the characters, 
 and the graphics sometimes don't show their best side, but those things aside, this is a great 
 RPG-and RPGs aren't judged by graphics but by the story, gameplay and a sense you can actually 
 roleplay and not just follow the main quest. The world is incredibly big and you can spend hours 
 just going through old ruins and ancient cities. A nice touch to the game is the daedra quests 
 that add some unique items to the game. The character creation is also well done, because you can 
 adjust everything about your character, even the shape of his face. All in all, this game is good, 
 but it's incredible when using countless mods found on the internet and here on GameSpot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oils06mustang
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The only real issue that I have is after I found where the 4th volume of the Xarxes books is located, 
 the game forced me to go to the sewers and deal with that task. My character was only an apprentice 
 Thief. After dying multiple times I finally succeeded.
  Otherwise, the game allow free range, and a more real build up of the character.
  However, if 
 your not careful you could get into a quest that is levels above your present level.
  Making money is tough, I found that I can steal weapons but not get them repaired, if I don't have 
 a high enough skill level. Also, unless you join the thieves guild, you cannot fence stolen items. 
 (as far as I know) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aden331
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  i first played oblivion as soon as soon as it came out on a amazing graphics card, so i could crank 
 up the bloom and make everything look all so pritty. oh, and yes.. oblivion is a VERY pritty game! 
 since then that graphics card exploaded in a freak acciedent *sob* and i put oblivion on my custom 
 made pc with a 'HIS ATI radeon x1050 AGP graphics accelerator' and a fairly up to date graphics 
 card. i turnd v-sync OFF and turned bloom OFF aswell to see how it looked, it ran fine but it was 
 lacking that wonderful shine. now my card plays prey on high quality so i sorta figured i could 
 turn bloom on. when i did this i loaded up my save, stood on a hill and looked down and saw with 
 the bloom LOD and all water and tree stuff on full, i thought - oh c**** is that nice looking . 
 so long story short... it is realy realy realy nice looking game indeed. ok moving on to the story 
 *no spoilers here* with the wide range of side quest and guild and the main quest itself dishes 
 out a HUGE selection of ways to game. the missions are all indepth and long. You see now were that 
 4.7 GB go to, its amazing the posobilitys. BUT, and there is a but... Oblivion eats graphics cards 
 for breakfast and you need a good card just to PLAY it.. and that doesn't mean it will play GOOD. 
 so keep it in mind if your going to buy it. otherwise a next gen game and an apsolute MUST SEE!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleb_31
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is real fantasy game, which has no similars. TES3 was shocking in its times, but Oblivion 
 is much more progressive in the graphics in the story and the small details that creates that atmosphere 
 of the world full of adventures. When I started playing, first WOW was about details of character, 
 very realistic face, eyes, hair. Than the storyline really holds you in the game. The developers 
 actually created whole world in all parts of the game. The world with its names, cities, powers. 
 They are like Tolkien but only in game business. Basically it is what you often imagine in your 
 mind but now you can see right in front of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unr3al39
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Bethesda's fourth addition into the Elder Scrolls universe puts you in the middle of an immersive 
 fantasy world, where you forge your own path into the adventures that await you. It combines traditional 
 role-playing elements with a first-person perspective, and boasts breathtaking visuals. After first 
 playing this game, I can honestly say that I could not put it down for weeks. It was such an awe-inspiring 
 experience as a video game. The first thing you'll notice about the game is it's superior graphics 
 and realistic effects. From dark and gloomy underground caverns to snow-covered peaks to lush, 
 wooded forests, the atmosphere created by the game rates almost as high as a game can go. Once 
 you've explored the beautiful and richly-detailed world of Tamriel, you won't soon forget it. The 
 character models are also realistic and memorable. The game itself is really quite a feat from 
 a technological standpoint. The reflections coming from different objects in the game, such as 
 light hitting your sword, were especially well-done and realistic.
  
  The gameplay is everything you would expect if you have ever played The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, 
 although it's also been greatly improved upon. Whether you're underground exploring crypts and 
 tombs, or walking through a peaceful village in the afternoon, the game never fails to set the 
 mood for wherever you might be, and it really makes you feel like you're a part of the game in 
 every way. The perspective was done well, (and you can even change it to third-person with the 
 stroke of a key- if you prefer) and the combat system was done well. You basically click with the 
 first mouse button to attack with one of the game's many weapons, and hold the other mouse button 
 to block with a shield. Spells and items also play a large role in the game, and the cool thing 
 is that you can choose whatever kind of character you want to be. You can be a warrior, a thief, 
 an assassin, a mage, a merchant, anything you want. The possibilities are endless in Oblivion, 
 as you'll soon learn.
  
  The game world is epic, you can spend hours and hours exploring the world if you like. There's 
 a lot of extra content to be had besides what the main story offers, (which is over 20 hours alone- 
 and you don't even have do any of it at all!) You can join a guild if you like, which will range 
 from doing noble quests and adventures in the Warrior's Guild all the way to taking contracts from 
 the Dark Brotherhood, a band of trained assassins. There are lots of main cities, which are huge, 
 and also many small towns and villages, and people populate all of them. Interacting with all the 
 characters is as fun as you would expect in a massive game like Oblivion. Most of the enemies in 
 the game are levelled according to your own, and your skills will all rise depending on how much 
 you actually use each different skill or spell, which can range from jumping around to mixing potions, 
 so the difficulty in the game always manages to be just right.
  
  All the sound in the game was top-notch quality, with the music in the game coming from award-winning 
 composer Jeremy Soule (Guild Wars, Star Wars: KOTOR) . All of the music was memorable and beautifully 
 composed. The sounds coming from the different areas of the game were realistic and exciting, and 
 were all put in the right place. Little details like your swords slashing and hitting different 
 types of surfaces were there, and a lot of work went into everything, as you can tell if you play 
 the game.
  
  As stated before, the replay value of the game is great. Whether you take the path of good and 
 decide to help your fellow people and become their hero, or align yourself with evil and cause 
 chaos and destruction, you can easily lose yourself in the world of Tamriel for hundreds and hundreds 
 of hours, and still never run out of things to do. You don't even have to touch the main quest 
 if you don't want to, as there are easily more things you can put your time into. From the guilds 
 to all the exploration and character interaction, and fighting hordes of monsters and creatures, 
 you will never get bored with Oblivion. Heck, the fun doesn't even end there. In the PC version 
 of Oblivion, anyone can download the Elder Scrolls Construction Set and start making their very 
 own mods and additions to the game! You can make your own items, quests, dungeons, buildings, characters, 
 and just about anything you want to add into the game world, and you can even share your mods with 
 other players, effectively making the game never-ending.
  
  To conclude my review of this modern masterpiece, I would just like to say that no matter what 
 kind of gamer you are, whether you're a fan of traditional first-person shooters or role-playing 
 games, or just any kind of game in a medieval fantasy setting, that this game will definitely have 
 something for you. The graphics and sound are nice, and the gameplay is intuitive, but as I have 
 stated before, the one quality of the game that truly shines is the tremendous replay value. In 
 a game like Oblivion, this can be a great blessing indeed. So if you haven't played the game yet, 
 and you are into this kind of game, or any of the above mentioned genres, you should really check 
 it out. It might just prove to be one of the best games you've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duckers923
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the elder scrolls since Daggerfall and came Honestly say this is the best in 
 the series . the story is great and the npc life like . in my opinion it was worth putting down 
 $200 on a new graphics card although the main story can be completed within a few days there are 
 still millions of things to do. side quests and Faction quests are only the beginning . I truely 
 believe this is the best in the series and i'm sure many would believe me . the one and only problem 
 i have with this game is that the graphics were just to good
  so that caused a lot of problems but other than that flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blairstheman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Even though i just broke my wrist yesterday, im still writing because this game is worth it. The 
 scenery is unbelievable and makes you feel like your there. The gameplay is excellent, allowing 
 you to change everything that goes on around you. You kill a bar tender, there really dead. The 
 most impressive thing in this game has got to be how the AI have 24 hour schedules and figure things 
 out on there own. Also, the game isn't scripted making the possibilities endless. In this game 
 if you wander through the forest you may stumble upon a small house or farm, which usually supplies 
 you with a quest or two. There is so many quests you will never be bored by the game. Such detailed 
 and interactive quests make me wonder , how long did these guys work on this game. Overwhelming 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycasey94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is game to keep and hold dear. I started playing at my brothers house until I bought my 
 own. I just cant get over a game with such detail in the graphics. What I like about it is that 
 it uses bows and arrows and swords. I have always liked magic and now that can do wonders in the 
 time of need i love it. The music is awesome too. I have only heard a couple soundtracks that are 
 as good a soundtrack in a Oblivion. In this game it doesn' t repeat a lot so you don't get bored. 
 When you have high stats too you can lower the difficulty and beat up on people and be GOD. Its 
 fun cause u dont have to follow the story line u can just roam freely. This is my most beloved 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  When I first played The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind I instantly hated it; well, I didn't hate 
 it but I really didn't like it. I didn't understand how to fight and I died every time I had to 
 fight with a rat! It was horrible.
  Anyway, I decided to give Oblivion a try; I thought Bethesda would have corrected this mistakes 
 (including the long time it took to charge in Morrowind to charge when you opened a door) and I 
 was right. It's got great graphics and an interesting storyline.
  I'm really enjoying playing Oblivion; I joined the Mages Guild, the Dark Brotherhood and the Arena 
 (where I become Grand Champion Shadow Step ) and completely ignored the main quests. I bought, 
 also, for now, two house (one in the Imperial City and the other in Bravil) and a horse... I love 
 to be able to do what I want (which was also possible in Morrowind, but...) . It's a great game, 
 period.
  I'd like to remark that I'm not the kind of RPG player but RTS player. Nevertheless, I loved and 
 I'm loving this RPG in particular (RTS = Company of Heroes, RPG = Oblivion and KOTOR II) .
  Note: I played Morrowind on Xbox and Oblivion on the PC, so maybe there can be some difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisacone
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  i'm playing this game on a daily basis and enjoy the fact that it's non liniar. Leveling abilities 
 individually is also a plus. My only problem is my system is nearly 6 years old and runs the game 
 slowly even with most details turned to minimum. Of course, that is understandable. I look forward 
 to playing the expansions and hope they bring more of the same experiance.
  I have lots of oblivion gates still open and may or may not close them before i tackle the final 
 quest in the main quest line. This game is a large improvement from the origial game morrowind. 
 I think only thing bathesda should work on is story line for the next in the series. btw.. thank 
 god for fast travel mode :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXDeadraLordXX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Oblivion was one of the most largely hyped games I have ever personally followed. From what I've 
 heard from the horror stories, Fable was much worse, but I didn't personally follow that one. With 
 fanciful stories of RADIANT AI!!!! Bethesda led a campaign through the skies, ladies hurling fireballs 
 at dogs, unscripted conversations giving quests, and more. What happened to all of that? NPCs now 
 eat for three hours, walk around randomly for three hours, talk to strangers about mudcrabs in 
 terribly scripted conversations, and then sleep. Exciting. I give them credit, just running through 
 the city, it feels really alive. Unfortunately, I wanted to do more with the AI, and alas, I cannot.
 
  The combat is incredibly fun for a while, but the main thing is it's much better than Morrowind. 
 If that was your problem with Morrowind, give this a whirl. Simple, easy, and fun.
  The scope of the game is huge. No boundaries, no rules (except for ingame guards) and a nice little 
 compass, you can go wherever you want and do whatever you want. Unfortunately, there is no sense 
 of discovery in the game. Nothing feels hidden with the magic compass that points out to you every 
 nearby landmark. If you like twitch action, you'll like the compass. If you like exploration, mod 
 it out. The game is fairly easy at standard difficulty, so if you want it harder, turn it up. If 
 you turn it down, I'll hunt you down and slap you. Hard. Just kidding.
  
  And now the graphics. All I need to say is... joy. The sounds are impressive as well, but nothing 
 really stands out.
  
  This game is definitely worth playing. In my humble opinion, it pales in comparison to its predecessor, 
 Morrowind. While i have spent at least a hundred hours on this game, it offers less than the other 
 ES games. That sounds selfish, doesn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarry127
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This one of the best RPG of all times. I didn't played for longer than an hour since Baldurs Gate 
 time - this game made me do it. Great graphic, large land to explore, very attractive quests and 
 interesting plot. Instead of sitting in front of the TV and watching some stupid series, you can 
 spend this time in much more attractive way. Of course there are some cons of the game, like quite 
 high system recommendation - but on my quitte old Pentium IV 3.0 with Radeon X1950 it can run smoothly 
 in quite high resolution. I can higly recommend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Ever played a great game and just have those moments of anger of pure stress? Ever wanna turn it 
 off saying okay iv had enough. Time to do something else. Well with this game every moment is just 
 fun. Except when i hit level 51 then i just slowly phased this game out. Just sold my copy and 
 guide for 20$ to a guy in U. S but anyway i really enjoyed this game. It looks beautiful and its 
 hell of a lot of fun. It might be a bit challenging at first to build yourself up, but after a 
 while you will become so occupied with looking cool, finding gear, sneaking around, learning magic 
 getting horsed up and just enjoying the cool environment and great sound. Importing music is fun 
 too and don't forget getting mods is damn awesome There is alot of sites dedicated to all the creative 
 people making modifications to the look and feel of the game. Talking swords, new companions, fresh 
 changes to the cities and forests, whatever ittakes acouple minutes and yuo can stick it right 
 into the game. I got the conan theme into the battle, alot of slipknot and classical songs. Adds 
 tothe feel. Bored? Go on a rampage seeing how many guards you can knock out. Wanna make some money 
 instead of dungeoning? Go burglaries houses, assassinate people for money. Summon some undead, 
 and see the look on some of the villagers. Its like fable with a lot more depth, like baldur's 
 gate but better looking . Get this if you haven't already. Go borrow it, go buy it. the console 
 one is great to for relaxing if you got a nice tv set. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordevan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is certainly the best RPG out there to date, which is saying a lot.
  
  The Elder Scrolls series has always been hailed for its open-ended gameplay and lush, vibrant, 
 lore filled worlds, which are almost unparalleled in the gaming world. Oblivion holds true to that, 
 and while it doesnt take it any further, the gameplay makes a better overall game.
  
  Oblivion holds true to the Elder Scrolls lore, although it does not add huge amounts of history 
 and religion like Morrowind did, it adds enough to keep a lorebuff satisfied. There are hundreds 
 of books to read, including ones on the Daedra and the other gods of Tamriel.
  
  The sound in Oblivion is amazing. Like its predecessor Morrowind, Oblivion features a lovely music 
 score of slow exploration music, fast paced battle music, and an amazing title theme. It would 
 have been nice to have had a few music scores for the special occasions throughout quest lines 
 though.
  
  The gameplay in Oblivion improves upon Morrowinds by leaps and bounds. Although not the best in 
 the world, Oblivions battle system is solid and fun enough, espesally for an adventure RPG.
  
  Oblivion is a game that any RPG fan should have, and if their computer cant run it they should 
 try one of the earlier Elder Scrolls games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0rD_ShAde
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Once in a while an awesome game gets released when many games didnt come upto the gamer's expectations. 
 Oblivion is one of those games which is keeps you glued to the computer for months. The game allows 
 you to create your own character (kinda like sims 2 but better) and choose which category you like 
 in combat etc.. The game is like everything is put to suit your style. The game can be played from 
 a third person perspective or first person perspective. Even you can choose to be either stealthy 
 or assault type. Many games tried to capture this but did not come out as successful as this game. 
 The graphics is too good ,provided you have crossed its minimum requirements, and sometimes you 
 might be gazing at the huge landscape than continuing on your journey. The game has a huge map 
 to explore and a lot of quests to be completed. The spells in the game is also great and even you 
 can create spells. The main story is also great and challenging. The only flaw you would find in 
 this game is the bugs which occurs when least expected. The game suddenly quits to windows which 
 can be frustrating when you didnt save. But these problems can be overcome to a certain extent 
 if you have a good PC. Overall if you like or don't like games based on old ages and myths this 
 game will catch your attention. It is one of those games that can't be miss the attention of any 
 gamer and every gamer would have this game in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTumN3s
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  To make this quick i will just do the basics
  
  Gameplay: Just like Morrowind, this game delivers. With over hundreds of weapons to use, hundreds 
 of pre-made or CUSTOM MADE spells, this game keeps you on its toes. Thousands of monsters and dungeons 
 make this games 200 hours + worthwhile. Every corner of Tamriel has something to do, bandits to 
 kill, vampires to slay, trolls to squash, oblivion gates to close. This game is just brilliant. 
 The content is revolutionary, just like morrowind, and is more then fun to play. You can be a good 
 citizen and do deeds such as helping to fend of someones farm from attacking goblins, finding a 
 womens daughter, OR, you can join the Dark Brotherhood and get contracts to kill people and get 
 rewards for doing so, or the Theives guild which is a guild where you steal things and get money/ 
 rewards for doing so. ( Evil side is much fun, Dark Brotherhood FTW) Both sides of the deal are 
 adventorous and mind blowing. This game will keep you and your family/friends wanting more.!
  
  Performance : I have a NVidia 7950 w/ 2 gigs of ram and a fairly good and built PC. When playing 
 the game however, i will expeirience some sudden drops with performance lag. This can be aggrivating 
 when trying to scale a mountain or ride up or down a steep hill. Another issue, is that player 
 models ( faces in particular) will become blurred or colors will be combined to make the face look 
 distorted. This can be solved with a simple quit the game and go back in sort of jazz. On a scale, 
 i give Performance a 8/10.
  
  Graphix: My issue with the graphics are the long distance/far off terrain. In screenshots, they 
 dont show you this, but far off terrain (or even mid-way terrain) is distorted and blochy. The details 
 to the distant terrain will suddenly POP into place when you get near. This can be a major turn 
 off, and makes the game look eh. However, where this game gets its good graphics from, are the 
 close ups / mid way terrain. In citys and other areas of Tamriel, graphics make it seem like your 
 actually there, and alive in the world. The HDR lighting ads a whole new perspective to this game, 
 however surfaces with HDR will be scratchy and not smooth ( too bad it doesnt come with HDR + Anti 
 Aliasing ) When its rainy however, you get nastalgia from its predecessor Morrowind. Not saying 
 its a bad thing, but the games sometimes seem similar graphics wise. But overall, i give the games 
 Graphics a 8/5 - 9/ 10.
  
  Sound: Voice acting in this game for starters, is excellant. The dude who played 006 in Goldeneye ( 
 James Best Friend) plays a key roll and does the part well. Also some other dude, who i am not 
 familiar with off the top of my head voice acts in this. The voice acting is excellant on the side 
 note that aside from the major actors, theirs minors who fill in the voices for everyone else and 
 all the characters ( imperials persay) have the same voice with like 2 or 3 variations. But you 
 cant expect the whole world to have different voices, thats just too much. Voice Acting gets a 
 9.5/10. As far as other sounds go however, their brilliant. A little more extra sounds in the enviornment 
 wouldnt hurt, but the swords clashing ans such brings this game to a new par. Sound 9/10
  
  Value: This games just brilliant, 10/10.
  
  THE ONE THING THATS GREAT FOR GETTING OBLIVION 
 FOR THE PC IS THIS!!!!!! Modifications. Over time, i have found mods for houses, dragons to fly ( 
 look for akatosh mod) , sick armor mods, giant weapon mods, more monster mods, extra Sound Effects 
 mod, the possibilites are practically endless. The mods are another thing that bring the PC version 
 for life. If you havnt bought Oblivion for PC yet, and your thinking about it, AND YOU HAVE A GOOD 
 RIG, then i perfer you buy it. But for those who dont have good rigs, on a side note, you should 
 think of upgrading since games are getting into DX10 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_piggy1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is going to steal your life for a long, long time. This game is 
 so much fun! You just can't stop trying to do every quest and there are a lot of quests. It's so 
 much fun when the game doesn't make you do anything, you choose what you do next. You want to go 
 save a bunch of people from the monsters of Oblivion, or do you want to kill some old priest and 
 steal his money, you choose! The graphics will blow your mind if your computer can support it, 
 and if the graphics don't stratify you, why not mod it to make it prettier? There are a few issues 
 with sound sometimes but overall the sound is pretty good. On the PC there are a few stability 
 and bug issues. Some bugs will crash your game or make a quest impossible to complete. Some patches 
 can fix some of the bugs, but not all bugs are fixed so beware. Bugs and problems aside this game 
 is amazingly fun, you will be playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloox2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Absolutely love this game the graphics are amazing and gameplay is varied just enough to keep you 
 playing for hours on end. Main Quest is riverting and all the side missions and guild quest you 
 can do provide variation which is needed in such a largely scaled game. If a new one were to be 
 released i'd quite like to see it be more like World of Warcraft or Guild Wars for the multiplayer 
 components that could be intergrated. As i said above i have it on PS3 with HDMI enabled and the 
 graphics are unbelieveabley good especially the peoples faces and fire in the game very sharp and 
 looks very real
  Would recomend it to anyone on 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grodus5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This was my first try at an Elder Scrolls game, much less my first non JRPG besides Runescape. 
 I must say I am incredibly impressed.
  The combat is very fun. Even if it may just be clicking and preesing the C button, it is usally 
 very intense, even against a weak enemy.
  The magic is beyond fun. You can do almost anything with magic. From summoning to moving items, 
 its all fun. Not to mention 7 different schools of magic!
  The best part of the game though is the open endedness. Join guilds, save the world from Oblivion, 
 complete quest, or be plan evil. Heck, turn on god mode and go through the Imperial city destorying 
 everthing! There is nothing you can't do in this game.
  If you are a fan of RPGs or not, this game is a must buy. It is well worth the money considering 
 the replay value of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigl281
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series, the gameplay has been seriously upgraded since morrowind. Now you know the 
 difference in a knife and a longsword, you can actually hit from far away. The main storyline is 
 just awesome There is enough to it that it could easily be a 2 and a half hour long movie. You 
 could join different guilds for great side quests and with all the mods out there you could definately 
 replay this game for hours on end. The music is simply stunning very cinematic, Most of the game 
 is easy to learn, but some of the advanced takes a while, and loads of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds_radeon9200
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Oblivion... a fantastic game with a few minor flaws. The graphics are amazing and the entire game 
 beats that of its predecessor which was Morrowind. I have spent dozens of hours playing this game, 
 and during my gameplay, I was greatly satisfied. However, after giving much thought, there could 
 have been several changes to improve the gameplay. Personally, I thought there was just too much 
 free land and too little cities. I didn't even explore half of the continent not to mention even 
 exploring the dungeons and caves. I just didn't feel the right amount of numbers when it came to 
 fighting the enemies and having help from the guards. Another thing that annoyed me was the fact 
 that your characters level determines the difficulty of your enemies, so basically you can beat 
 the game at level one. And I think the main storyline was rather short. I completed the main storyline 
 and became the guild leader of all the guilds in less than 3 days time. Now I'm not saying 3 days 
 isnt enough but after I completed most of the achievements, I didn't have any reason to continue 
 playing the game. There just wasn't much to do afterwards. But nonetheless, Oblivion is a great 
 game that will entertain anyone who is interested in playing a RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  A really long, but good game.
  
  Oblivion starts out with a rather good customisation of your character, you get to choose how you 
 want him/her to look, to the small facial features, besides the race and dressing. A really neat 
 feature IMO, whether you want a really ugly ogre or a handsome elf it's really all up to you.
 
  
  As for the class of character you create, there is no one class which you are bound to, because 
 skill points are all up to you to allot, but choose your bonuses wisely.
  
  The game's open endedness goes deeper when it comes to what type of actions you want to take, be 
 it good or evil, furthermore the main quest doesn't neccesarily have to be completed immediately. 
 With many side quests that keeps you going on and on, Oblivion allows for many modes of play. If 
 you prefer to just complete the main quest and play other games, by all means. But if you prefer 
 to delve deeper and master all the skills and complete all the quests, it will take many hours. 
 However, the main quest of closing the Oblivion gates are more than enough to get you hooked onto 
 the game.
  
  Enemy A. I's accuracy when it comes to spells and ranged attacks are pretty accurate. Closed ranged 
 is also on par, so don't expect to breeze through this game easily.
  
  An interesting part of this game is the option to join guilds, from the elusive Thieves Guild to 
 the mysterious Dark Brotherhood, you get to advance in rank at the same time earn rewards for the 
 quests completed. But the catch is that you need to perform certain tasks to get recognition so 
 that you can join. My complain about this game would be the lack of a minimap when you are exploring 
 the area. And the various menus confused me when I first started this game, expect to spend awhile 
 figuring out what's what before you can fully experience the game.
  
  Overall with this much choice left into the players hands, Oblivion is a great game, with alot 
 of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regdun
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion can be incredibly fun; however, it sometimes feel stale because your character becomes 
 too powerful, with the ability to massacre any opponent. Although if you download mods, the playability 
 reappears and the game becomes enjoyable again. I personally believe that OOO, Oscuro's Oblivion 
 Overhaul, is the best mod with which to enhance your enjoyment of Oblivion. Oblivion is one of 
 the greatest games in recent history because of its open-ended story and character development. 
 Mods are necessary for maximum playability because the same monster types become old when you realize 
 that a sword is the most effective method of killing anything in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was a great game, I played it on both the Xbox 360 and PC, the fact is I believe it's 
 better on the PC. With mods, dev console, and better graphics, Oblivion on the PC barely pulls 
 ahead.
  
  Right when I started to play Oblivion I was surprised with the great graphics this game had. Right 
 when I exited the sewers I was in awe of the beautiful site that was in front of me. The only problem 
 was the distant objects were ugly, but that was easy to get over. The detail put into characters 
 was great, and the A. I. was good to match.
  
  People in the world of Oblivion felt alive, except some awkward moments where their speech ended 
 and started with you at the same time. There was some major glitches in the A. I. other than that 
 just stated, but it was easy to get over.
  
  The world of Oblivion just drew me in. Great side quests, good story line that made me feel apart 
 of this great world. The only problem is, the main storyline is too short. It ended right when 
 it was getting good. At times it seems they just added some quests that weren't even cared for. 
 Some like Destroy the Oblivion Gates in front of every city, and Destroy the Great gate were good 
 in concept, but seemed thrown in there. I wanted more of a war that would draw me in, not a fight 
 10 on 30. I wanted to defend Cloud Ruler Temple with the Knights. defending Martin as he did his 
 research.
  
  Despite the main storyline ended quickly, I did enjoy the side quests. The Dark Brotherhood made 
 me feel like a great assassin, which helped draw in the atmosphere of the game itself. Seeing others 
 interact with each other was another great thing, and them having their own things to do was great 
 also.
  
  All in all, Oblivion is great and a must buy on the PC. Xbox is great too, but PC has the mods 
 and extra content that make this a great, fun, lasting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt_Shavers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I found that the graphics in oblivion were amazing and i couldnt really sum up the breathtaking 
 views in any other word. The fighting was farely good however i wouldve preferred a better 3rd 
 person experience. The quest line was fun and the game had a variety of quests that kept me interested 
 throughout the game and in fact im still playing it! Something that saddened me was the fact that 
 there was no multiplayer. I loved the gameplay and then once i get into i start thinking that there 
 couldve been an excellent multiplayer even if it was only an assortment of arena matches of the 
 all out world of warcraft type of multiplayer. I think it's still an excellent game without though. 
 All in all i dont regret buying it and i never knew that a video game could be so awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraturkurati
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is my favourite RPG title at this time and it will remain on my top list forever! All 
 I will say is very short. Get money, buy game, and battle, aha thats right this game is so amazing 
 that no proof is required. So if you like RPG games very much you will get and stay married to 
 this game for months.
  
  Is there ever been a more perfect game out? Because I really dont know any. But of course now 
 Oblivion is that game and it will be for a very long time as all new games are a total disappointment 
 from the N00B programmers that cant put together the C++ puzzles. I know its not easy though but 
 its like having an operation by some student doctor that just finished practicing on dummies and 
 received that paper, known as diploma. Woops the students hand shakes and you wake up with no p
 
  
  I hope you get the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  After the unbelievably good Morrwind and its great expansions, I was really looking forward to 
 this title. I really wanted to like the game, but ultimately I couldn't.
  
  It's true that the game looks amazing and it's probably the first RPG with such good graphics, 
 however, they are not perfect. As good as environments are, they are very repetitive. The first 
 cave you enter makes you go wow, but what about the 79th SAME cave? Or the 115th? The same goes 
 to Oblivion gates. Outside areas also differ little. What's more, there is a really nasty pop-up 
 effect - even on highest settings, large objects like ruins appear from thin air a few meters away 
 from you. I have the power to run the game at its best, come on, let me see it's beauty! Why is 
 view range so limited? Gothic 2 was also very heavy at its time but it had an option to set such 
 a view distance that when standing on the hill above Khorinis, one could see all the way to Onar's 
 Farm at the other end of the world. On a clear night, it's still a breathtaking view even with 
 graphics from 2002. As for models, monsters are very good, but humans are just sooooooooo ugly!
 
  
  Sound stroke me with lack of epic music except the one from the intro. A game like that has a lot 
 of potential in terms of good music themes. It's good though that every character in the game speaks. 
 Other than that, there is nothing memorable to sound.
  
  Gameplay is probably the aspect where the game sucks most. Apart from being repetitive, as I already 
 said, the game is incredibly easy. Having played Morrowind, I knew how the leveling system works 
 and what skills should I pick. That means I had no useless skills my first time through the game 
 and I was leveling very fast. Before I was done circling the Imperial City and its surroundings, 
 I was strong enough to take heads on on any monster in the game up to the very end. And I was playing 
 a STEALTHY character!!! That way, the rest 110 hours I spent with the game were quite boring, because 
 enemies were just obstacles that slowed me down on my way from point A to point B instead of posing 
 any threat. The main storyline didn't help either, because it's actually very shallow and so cliche. 
 Exploration was bad, too, because of repetitiveness (third mention but that really IS a repetitive 
 game) and poor level balance. What I mean is you crawl through a dungeon killing daedra and you 
 finally arrive at a chest that contains 123 gold and a healing potion! That's your reward for going 
 down there. WTF!?!?
  
  I put value at a relatively high level, because, the game really is the first RPG with such good 
 graphics and more importantly, the leveling system and the way your character advances is unique 
 and very interesting. The game is also very polished. I never heard of any major bugs. If they 
 just have worked a bit more on the gameplay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuRe_CaNaDiaN_
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  In Oblivion you explore the province of Cyrodill while taking on a main quest, faction quests and 
 an assortment of side quests.
  
  The dungeon you begin in acts as a tutorial as well as an extended character creation process. 
 The controls are simple and intuitive enough that by the time you leave the starting dungeon you 
 should be comfortable with all but the most advanced techniques of controlling your character and 
 using the interface. If you're an avid PC gamer, you'll quickly notice that the interface is not 
 streamlined for the PC. The icons are huge and plenty of scrolling is required to find what you 
 need. The inventory quickly becomes cluttered with junk that you don't need to know is there, like 
 keys and scrolls and you have to scroll past them every time. Transferring mass amounts of items 
 in or out of crates is also much more time consuming than it should be. There are mods now available 
 that alleviate inventory gripes to some degree (although I personally didn't find one quite to 
 my taste) , but that is no excuse to not properly develop an interface for the PC.
  
  Other interface features include a compass, your standard stat meters and information on your current 
 spell and weapon. The compass combined with the hold your hand style of the quest logs (that pop 
 up on your screen everytime they update) makes Oblivion ridiculously easy. Gone are the days of 
 finding people and entrances, along with the satisfaction of actually locating them. Even locations 
 of interest that you're a fair distance away from show up on the compass. It should be noted that 
 I added mods that decreased the auto-show distance to about five metres and removed the quest pop 
 ups. The personal status interface items do their job, but the quest log and compass take a lot 
 of the challenge out of the game. Character creation is one of Oblivion's strongest points. You 
 can choose from any combination of race, birth sign and major skills. Just about any form of mage, 
 thief, fighter or smooth talker conveivable is possible to create. Not all of the styles are equally 
 supported throughout the quests in the game, but there is at least a questline for any character.
 
  
  Combat as any fighter style initially feels good. However, by the end of each dungeon where there 
 are many enemies with similar combat styles, fighting can be a chore. Fights often feel drawn out 
 as most enemies have large amounts of health or can heal themselves. So once you find the pattern 
 to damaging the enemy, it's just a matter of repeating it as you wittle the enemy's health down.
 
  
  There are other minor gameplay gripes, like silly mini-games, enemy levelling and 'all-or-nothing' 
 perks from skills, but I won't go into detail about those.
  
  The world of Nirn looks pretty thanks to some spectacular graphics. The exterior is well crafted 
 and you can see quite the distance. Unfortunatley frame rate hitches aren't uncommon in certain 
 areas and this causes outdoor fights to sometimes be frustrating as you try and line up spells. 
 On the other hand, interiors run without a hitch. This is to be suspected though, as the dungeons 
 appear bland and don't have much in the way of detail. The other form of interiors, buildings, 
 run smoothly, and are detailed with decorations. People, weapons, items and just about every form 
 of object look great. Everythign looks fantastic and the artists did a more than adequate job of 
 using the engine to make the world stylish.
  
  The general audio throughout the world is decent. It does enough to convey the sound you would 
 expect, but does nothing to truly stimulate your ears. You hear rain and you know it's raining, 
 but it doesn't convey a rainstorm. You hear a punch and it sounds like a punch, but it doesn't 
 sound gritty or painful. The real highlight of the sounds is the impressive amount of recorded 
 dialogue by the NPCs in the game. While all the race and gender combinations have the same actor, 
 the sheer amount of talking is astounding. Hearing, rather than the usual reading of dialogue makes 
 an amazing difference in how you experience interaction. The general audio does its job, but the 
 voice acting, despite its flaws, is the real shiner.
  
  Whle Oblivion does have a lot of things to do, there is not as much as there initially appears. 
 Most of the dungeons are fairly similar and once you have seen the different art styles of dungeons, 
 there is little point in exploring the rest of the dungeons. The occasional cave or ruin will be 
 unique, but it is a very rare occurence and usually only for the end of a major questline. There 
 are a handful of guilds to join, along with their corresponding questline to take up. Other than 
 the entry level quests, all of the tasks for a guild will be around that questline. This makes 
 your rising through the guild feel rather undeserving as you can go from the second lowest rank 
 to the top by just helping out with one overall problem. The quests in general, do vary, and with 
 a few exception aren't boring. However for an open ended role playing game, the quests have very 
 linear progression and leave little for the imagination or for moral options. Even if you do think 
 up another possibility of solving the problem, you will likely have to solve it one of the ways 
 the quest log informs you to. Quests also have the same outcome, no matter which of the options 
 you take to do it, and it's usually a happy fairy land kind of ending. In fact, you don't even 
 have the option of failing the quest, merely ignoring it is the closest to failure. While the quests 
 are varied, the linear 'accept quest', 'do quest', and 'collect reward' structure leaves something 
 to be desired.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a solid, beautiful and generally entertaining game. As a playground it shines, 
 but as a universe for role-playing it falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutonium666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is simply a perfect game, if you like role-playing games. The creators of The Elder Scrolls 
 have made a masterpeice, that has changed my view on role-playing games. Before this, I was rather 
 sceptical, but when I saw it, it bought Morrowind (the 3rd game in the series) as well as Oblivion. 
 Oblivion is the 4th game in this great line of games.
  
  I was/am only able to play this game in average graphics, and I was rather dissapointed, as I have 
 bad experiences with graphics below the best. But as the game started, I was truly impressed. The 
 game still offers great graphics. The sounds a brilliant, adding another dimension to the game. 
 So the visuals and the audio are simply stunning.
  
  The gamplay has been improved, so that you can feel a range-difference between attacking with a 
 longsword and a dagger. In morrowind, you had to be up-close to hit your opponent.
  
  The quests and the general storyline is also brilliant. The quests are imprissing, including one, 
 where you have to solve a crime, with multiple suspects. Also, the main-quest is having enough 
 quality to become a movie, at least in my oppinion. (but this is hard to discuss, so I won't go 
 in to details about it) .
  
  If you want to be more of a hunter, instead of a warrior, you could buy yourself a house or manor 
 or even a lousy shed in a city. Then, off you go hunting for wolves, bears or deer.
  
  You are also able to join various different guilds, including the arena (gladiator) , thief (theif 
 : P) or warrior (contracted problem-solver ) . This is simply smashing, as you can decide wether 
 to be a assasin, or a noble fighter for the help of those needing it.
  
  You could also speak to some of the many inhabitants of Cyrodiil, and find out that they have many 
 quests for you to do, and they are all exciting in one way or another. Of course some of them are 
 easier than others, and some are not appealing as much to you as others.
  
  So all in all, I find this game simply smashing, with various things to do, even if you don't want 
 to be playing the main-quests.
  
  P. s
  Sorry, if I have bad grammar, I'm from Denmark : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nagol726
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The elder scrolls series has alway been great and entertaining but lacking some important things. 
 the 4th one brings to like a fantasy world. there are over 1000 characters who are all very interesting 
 and have more to say than hi. the story line is great and entertaining and there is no shortage 
 of action. the thing i like most is how much free space you have to do anything you want. the weapons 
 and armor selections are just right and there are tons of spells to chose from. the thing i was 
 most amazed of were the incredible graphics, i have never seen anything this good. the only thing 
 that i wish they would of carried over from morrowind was some of the sound. this game is flat 
 out great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notyourraven
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a difficult game to explain. The graphics are absolutely stellar, and there is no denying 
 it. Just looking at the trees and mountains, even on medium settings looks amazing, and you can 
 just stare at the sunrise for a good amount of time. It is further improved with mods, and tweaking 
 can increase the often poor performance of this game by a lot.
  
  The gameplay is also flawed. The issue everyone complains about is the leveling system, which makes 
 no sense to me. The whole point of an RPG is to level your character and become stronger. In unmodded 
 Oblivion, you never become stronger. In fact, if you level too fast, you will become weaker due 
 to the more powerful creatures that appear.
  
  The number one gripe I have about this game is the quests. It is ridiculous how uninventive the 
 quests are. There are four guilds, a main quest, and an Arena. The Fighter's and Mage's guilds 
 are a joke, they are just a bunch of random dungeons strung together and labeled as a guild. The 
 Mage's Guild has a semi-plot, which leads up to an anti-climactic easy fight. I'm not even sure 
 what the plot of the Fighter's Guild is, as all you seem to do is go to a couple of caves and kill 
 monsters. The Thieves Guild, Main Quest, and Arena are all decent, but not great, and are very 
 easy to beat.
  
  Where this game truly shines is the Dark Brotherhood. It is, IMO, one of the most fun guilds in 
 any RPG. The quests are so creative, and it is one of the few times when the A. I actually works. 
 I won't provide any spoilers, but the plot is great, and you actually care about the characters 
 by the end.
  
  An aspect of this game that is completely unforgivable is the AI. It is ridiculous that this game 
 was supposed to have revolutionary radiant A. I. Actually, the A. I in this game is awful. Enemies 
 run in to walls and traps. The conversations the NPCs have are just random snippets of dialog strung 
 together. They go something like this:
  Greetings Nord! 
  Safe travels 
  *cough*
  Shut up 
  Hello 
  I saw a mudcrab the other day... 
  
  The lifelike NPCs do such things 
 as eat apples, read books, sleep, and sit in chairs. And that's it. Also, guards will kill NPCs 
 if they commit any crime, from murder to stealing a piece of bread (the video is on youtube) . Two 
 guards can always be seen near a certain city trying to kill each other over a piece of deer meat. 
 There were both set to gather meat in their schedule. In one quest, you speak to a man in a dungeon. 
 He tells you to follow him, then runs straight ahead, directly on to a trap. It smashes him against 
 the ceiling. If he lives, he remains on the trap, allowing himself to be continuously smashed until 
 he dies. It is ridiculous that such hyped A. I turned out to be terrible.
  
  Altogether, this game does not live up to the hype. It is good, but has little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Like all Elder Scrolls titles, Oblivion has a vast, open environment and a game world that places 
 very few limits on what the player can do, where he can go, and when. Want to take the top spot 
 in the Thieves Guild? If you know how to game the game and are patient, you can do it while still 
 being level 1. Of course, such openness and freedom has its downsides, which well delve into shortly.
 
  As an open-ended game, Oblivion starts the player out in the game world and places him in a position 
 to pursue the main storyline, but he doesnt have to. From that point forward, it is possible to 
 join any guilds you like, complete quests in whatever order, explore freely and enjoy  or get 
 lost in  the expansive game world.
  
  Oblivions setting is not actually that large; roughly 16 square miles if the Bethesda marketing 
 department is to be believed. This is almost certainly smaller than Morrowind and absolutely smaller 
 than the massive world of Daggerfall  where it literally did take the player days to cross between 
 towns. By way of comparison, on a medium-fast horse, it should take about half an hour to an hour 
 to get across Cyrodiil (the province where Oblivion is set) .
  Despite the smaller world size, the amount of content is more impressive. Daggerfall was known 
 for its huge world and empty wastes. While there was no shortage of dungeons in it, the probability 
 of finding one by random exploration was minimal. Morrowind also had a fairly large world, though 
 one where you could cross between towns on foot in reasonable time, but it too was rather empty. 
 Oblivion goes the completely opposite tack, it is almost impossible not to stumble upon some ancient 
 elven ruin, abandoned mine, mercenary hide-out or other dungeon, even after a mere five minutes 
 wandering in the open. Later on, Daedric cult circles and Oblivion gates appear, the latter in 
 fact popping up like the heads of a Hydra  take one down and two seem to appear elsewhere.
  Buy it, now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very very interesting story line (s) Mind blowing graphics Living World The Bad: Can be 
 very unstable Most quests seem the same (kill quests or collecting) You cant appreciate the graphics 
 on low end PCs The Ugly: No online play without the use of mods
  
  Note: I will be writing this review about all the Oblivion universe, that is with both of the expansion 
 packs installed.
  ------------------------------------------------------ If you havent heared of the Elder Scrolls 
 universe then i dont know where you have been for around 13 years, yes that is how long The Elder 
 Scrolls has been running! So with this new game, i will just call it oblivion from now on, it has 
 been greatly improved from the very dated Morrowind 2002. The big improvement is of course the 
 graphics, the graphics in Morrowind were very pixelated and just low quality, Oblivion is the opposite 
 completely, very pretty graphics to say the least.
  ----------------------------------------------------- So on with the main review.
  At the beginning 
 of the game you are thrown straight into the action by appearing in prison for some unknown reason 
 and then the Emperor followed by two guards setting you free through a secret passageway which 
 by some strike of luck is in your cell! For a while you follow them through the secret tunnels 
 below The Imperial City (The main city in Cyrodil) and fighting giant rats and zombies when they 
 leave you. You learn the basics of controls here and some of the actions you can do, lock picking 
 stuff like that. When you emerge from the sewers, after choosing your star sign and class which 
 you get a wide choice of, or just create your own. You get a choice, you can either follow the 
 main quest and Close shut the jaws of Oblivion or just run around and complete the many side quests 
 and joining the numerous factions. The game itself, along with the expansions can take a lot of 
 your time up, to date i have played more than 100 hours and i am sure there are still more quests 
 out there or more things to be discovered. However dont let the long time stop you from buying 
 this game it is a great game. Ok its an amazing game! As i said before the game offers many factions 
 and even more with The Shivering Isles expansion. The main ones are The Dark Brotherhood a type 
 of assisination guild who no one admits to knowing. The Fighters Guild as the name suggests is 
 a guild of fighters who complete contracts, such as protection and eradicating pests. The Mages 
 Guild again as the name suggests is a guild of mages, similar to The Fighters Guild in the sense 
 of contracts, but is on a much larger scale. The Knights of the Nine is a faction introduced in, 
 funnily enough The Knights of the Nine expansion pack. It is a faction which was broken down and 
 they used to worship the Gods of the Nine (i think!) and it is your job to become there master 
 and gather the relics to become the Leader of the Knights of the Nine and you must kill Umaril 
 (again i think!) you may think this is easy but it isnt! You have to first go on a pilgrimage to 
 each of the wayshrines of the Nine Divines and then you get accepted but if you kill someone for 
 no reason you lose the powerful relics you can aquire. With The Shivering Isles expansion you get 
 three new factions as such. The factions are the ones of Mania and Dementia and Sheogoraths Faction. 
 You can become the leader of two Mania or Dementia and Sheogorath, or you become Sheogorath should 
 i say. As this review is already getting very long! I will speed it up with the graphics. The game 
 offers a reccomended option when you first play it which sets the graphics to what will give better 
 performance for your machine, but on mine it decided to turn off the shadows so it looked ugly 
 but it does allow you to change it all if you want which is a plus. The graphics themselves as 
 you must have heared are amazing, almost life-like graphics and you will not be dissapointed! Next 
 the sounds. The sounds are great as you would expect, but still i think they would be better somehow. 
 The sounds of the fights are immersive especcialy the slashing noises of the swords! And the pummeling 
 noises of the maces and hammers! The spells sounds do seem a bit similar to each other which can 
 be a bit annoying at times. Speaking of weapons and spells the fighting is not very immersive however 
 it is just simple clicking and moving with the arrows to do different moves like disarming and 
 knocking down.
  --------------------------------------------- So i think thats all there is to say about this great 
 game. Except you should get it! Right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warboy2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played oblivion yet your missing out and if you have an you said its just fun or 
 a alright game that is a understatement. Oblivion is a amazingly made RPG. You start the game off 
 by customizing your character face, hair, gender. Then you are thrown straight into a immense world 
 where the humans, orcs, argonian and other races fighting against the forces evil which in this game 
 is the daedric and one of the main objectives or quest in the game is shutting down each oblivion 
 gate or portal open which leads to a daedric plane. Then there are alot side quests which involve 
 guilds or cults such as the Mages Guild, Fighter Guild, Dark BrotherHood (which is basically get 
 a contract find and kill the target) , Thieves Guild and completing the quests to move up in rank 
 eventually becoming leader. The graphics look amazing the gameplay is perfect for just your average 
 gamer to hardcore, everything has the right touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ygskills
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I just hate the leveling system here. There's no point in leveling up. It just gets harder and 
 annoying. I hate remembering what skills I leveled up just to make my character get 5 points. It's 
 pain-in-the-ass and I hate it. I remember when I had joy of leveling up characters in games like 
 Diablo or Neverwinter Nights or even Dungeon Siege and kill little monsters so easily. But what 
 now? There are no rewards for spending more time in the game and leveling up, but punishment! Disgusting.
 
  
  I really like everything else about the game. The graphics, sounds, and vast amount of things to 
 do are great. However, the core of RPG is leveling up and showing off the character's strength. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: an3lop3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  From reading most reviews it would seem that most people write them after only playing this game 
 for a few hours. And its understandable.. the first few hours of this game are as good as any game 
 I've ever played. But as you play more and more you start to realize that while it is a good game 
 it definetly has problems. Well actually its just one major problem but its a gamebreaking one. 
 The game discourages leveling. That is to say the game gets much, much harder as you get into the 
 high levels. Now this design works well for other games like an FPS for example but for an RPG 
 its absolutely terrible. In an RPG you want a sense of your character improving or getting stronger 
 as you level. Here the monsters scale at a higher level than you do. Bandits at high level have 
 the highest quality armor and weapons. Walk into the oblivion plains at level 20+ and its 10x harder 
 than it was at level 2. Thats just horrible game design. Still gave the game high marks because 
 of the great graphics and an amazing experience for the first few hours. But the badly implemented 
 level scaling system doesn't give it the long term value of many other RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SRUClaytonian
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest action-rpg ever made. This game will entirely destroy your social life. It 
 has awesome graphics, great sound design, superb gameplay, and they say it has 200 hours of gameplay, 
 but I don't know if I believe that. My friend has beaten almost every quest and he is still a few 
 hours under 150 I believe. But, with the add-ons (Shivering Isles and Knights of the Nine) you 
 will add on a few more hours. This game is amazing to say the least. Almost immediately, you are 
 plunged into action. You're in a prison and the Emporer and his body guards come to take him to 
 safety. You must go with them and you walk through the sewers and they are attacked. The Mythic 
 Dawn are the perpetrators and you must either beat them down with your fists or wait until one 
 of the body guards dies to take his katana. I'm not going to spoil the storyline anymore for anyone 
 who hasn't bought this game yet. But, this game may just be the offline equivalent of WoW. Buy 
 this game now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is such a great game! It's Graphics are damn near perfect, The whole sword Fighting thing 
 is great fun, The Story line is likely the best I have seen in any video game, and the open ended 
 game play is terrific. It is full of suspense, drama, the AI is good, The other characters are 
 very realistic and The Sheer size of the world is amazing. The graphics are by far the best thing 
 in this game. The trees and grass and flowers are all so realistic, the fact there are wild animals 
 roaming around is really cool and the different armour and weapons you can get is great. Another 
 very noticeable thing is how you can pick up nearly any item in the world. I found myself asking 
 Why would I want to carry a skull around with me? . Must have for any Video Gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrisBolton
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive is an understatement; I didnt put it down for over a month. When you really analyse 
 Oblivion it can be quite disappointing, but just to clarify, it is the best game Ive played  
 many people I know agree.
  
  Youll have a hard time trying to find a game with graphics that rival Oblivions. Hundreds of hours 
 of game play, hundreds of quests and there are two expansions available. Its great value for money; 
 &pound;17.99 (game disk) , the expansion packs add an entire new landmass to the game or a new quest 
 line (both including more weapons, characters, etc) .
  
  Also I must mention the mods. Oblivion is great out of the box, but with mods it is brilliant. 
 Enhanced graphics, new guilds, new buildings, houses etc.
  
  But under the games first impression of brilliance, as you really think about it, it does have 
 flaws. I would love to see more people walking around the roads and wilderness  instead of the 
 occasional Imperial Ranger and Black Horse Currier. The voices; there are less then 10 unique voices, 
 probably less, meaning eventually everyone sounds the same  and the voice can change while youre 
 listening to them. The most annoying fact may be that it does get boring after a while, with mods 
 etc you can delay it. But once youve become Champion of the Arena, The Grey Fox, and the Listener 
 for the Dark Brotherhood and all the other guild leaders etc it gets quite meaningless and boring. 
 (Warning: Dark Brotherhood plot exposed) For example: once youre the Listener of the Dark Brotherhood 
 youd expect a secret group of murders to get up to something, and that youd get in on the best 
 action. No, you collect weekly sums from a statue.
  
  Overall the graphics and the game play (nearer the start) made me give it the score I did. I still 
 recommend it, but lets hope the next expansion makes it more like a real world, and generally more 
 interesting and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Am I the only one who didn't like this game? Anyways here's a short list of things I did and didn't 
 like:
  
  Pros:
  - Great graphics, even though my computer can't handle them :D
  - Open free roaming world
  - The mods! There are thousands of good mods out there
  - Realtime 
 combat
  - Big world
  
  Cons:
  - The level scaling! Leveling up looses all meaning
  - Same voice actor for almost every damn NPC
  - The same dungeons over and over....
  - Very 
 few armor and weapon models
  - The melee combat sucked. Just click click click...
  - Only two ways to complete quests: Evil way and good way...
  
  I'm currently waiting for a 
 good total conversion mod, cause this game isn't good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: core5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  First off, Oblivion is gigantic. aside from the huge land mass, the other 50% of the game is inside 
 or underground. The main quest is pretty good by itself, but then you have hundreds of sidequests, 
 some of which get just as involved as the main plot.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal as well, and that's what I expect to get from any PC game I buy. If 
 I can't set it to bog down my computer, it needs more. Oblivion will bog down your computer, but 
 with that said it still looks good with the lowest settings if you're in that position. HDR is 
 a definite plus, and this is the first real game I played that did a good job with it. There are 
 a few flaw here and there (dead people getting stuck in the wall on occation; textures stretched 
 accross the world; etc.) but the game is cutting edge technology, so there are bound to be bugs, 
 though no graphical bugs have cause a crash for me yet.
  
  The sound is great as well, and I'm using onboard 2.1 driven sound, so I can only imagine what 
 EAX, surround, and all that would be like.
  
  The gameplay is top notch. Very few of the quests are boring or stupid, and you actually WANT to 
 complete them, even if the stated reward isn't super because you never know what you'll find in 
 the process. The enemy NPC levels are scaled to your own, so if you're level 42, most guys you're 
 fighting will be around lvl 39-45, so you don't just find yourself in auto-godmode after you've 
 been playing a while (unlike in Morrowind.) Of course, crabs and rats won't kick your arse if you're 
 flossin' a 30 grand set of armor and a sword the size of a Buick ;) . [SPOILER?] But even when 
 the main quest is done and you get the pimp armor (this was after 100hrs of playing for me) there's 
 still 30+ dungeons out there for you to find and plunder, plenty of side quests to keep you busy 
 and entertained, then if you still want to play, there the newer expansions that came out in the 
 last few months.
  
  Well, I bought it, but I have a few gripes that just kill the game for me. If that's the case, 
 there are several high quality mods that can tweak the game for you. They range from chain mail 
 underwear for the ladies to prettier long range graphics for your screenshots, and new quests to 
 burn your time. Bethesda was even kind enough to include an updates TES4 tool so you can make your 
 own mods.
  
  I gave the game a 10/10 and I truely think it's deserved considering the work that obviously went 
 into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg9000owner
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series is vast and prestigious, spanning for over a decade. So Bethesda had their 
 hands full in creating this next installment in such a beloved franchise. Did they pull it off? 
 In some ways, yes.
  
  The combat is great. In Morrowind, the idea was to constantly click, in hope of hitting your foe. 
 Sometimes you would miss, sometimes you would block. This was all generated at the roll of a dice, 
 Oblivion totally improves on its prequel. You block manually and every swing you take makes contact 
 almost every time. Which is a very welcome change.
  
  Stealth is improved too, with a meter showcasing your visibility. You will finding yourself using 
 stealth more than ever before in Oblivion with added sneak attack bonuses. The AI is improved to 
 a substantial degree aswell, NPC's actually have a role. As apposed to Morrowind, where NPC's never 
 really moved or interacted with their surroundings, whilst the AI could of been better in Oblivion, 
 its certainly better than Morrowinds, I say it could of been better as the NPC's don't purchase 
 goods in shops, the coversations are absurd. Merchants like blacksmiths never seem to make anything, 
 yet they always have a vast collection of goods to sell you (even though Gothic 2 in manged to 
 pull that off) . Plus, towns are never riddled with NPC's and are always quite oblivious to the 
 fact that Hell is taking over their homeland. The dungeons are certainly improved, Daggerfalls 
 were complex and sometimes took hours to beat. Morrowind tried to improve on this by making dungeons 
 as small and generic as possible, Oblivion is something in between. Which is what Morrowind should 
 of done.
  
  Oblivion is bigger than Morrowind, although you couldn't tell. Oblivion is huge, but the addition 
 of fast travel just makes it seem very small and dosen't enable you to appreciate the game world 
 as you should, which has always been a selling point for previous games in the series. Although 
 like other elder scroll games, you can potentially have a tally of 100 hours in your save file. 
 This is due to the huge variety of quests and factions. This brings me on to a point, the guilds 
 don't confict at all, there are no houses like there are in Morrowind, in Oblivions prequel you 
 could choose your loyalties as you to gain ranks in guilds and houses at some point you must face 
 opposing guilds, where you can choose your loyalties. The only choice in Oblivion is weather you 
 want to start the main quest or not, in all seriousness.
  
  Oblivions quests are interesting though, although some are more reremborable than others, but that's 
 to be expected.
  
  The sound is great, Morrowind's score wasn't as diverse but it was more reremborable, Oblivion's 
 music however is still amazing. There is also an option to add your own music, (on the PC version) 
 you could add mortal komat music whilst fighting need it be.
  
  The enviroment is traditional fantasy setting, uninspired and dissapointing, Morrowind did a far 
 better job. It's great at first, with the mountains and the trees and the realms of Oblivion (which 
 is too simular to Diablo 2 - Lord of destruction) but in comparision to the previous installment 
 it leaves a lot to be desired. Although the visuals are a sight to behold and makes the whole ordeal 
 a lot more bearable, every model looks detailed and every character has a glint in its eye. It's 
 probably the best part of the game.
  
  The story isn't very good, the fact that towns are oblivious to the the deadra taking over cryodil 
 tarnishes the credentials the invasion has. The characters are poorly developed, considering limted 
 speech (the voice overs is amazing but it comprimises the amount NPC's say) . Plus if I were to 
 kill one of these characters, they would amazingly come back to life and act like nothing happend, 
 overall the main charcters are not interesting and the plot is fairly generic.
  
  The scaled leveling almost takes all the challenge out of the game, this means I can finish the 
 main quest at level 3 or become arena grand champion at level 5. Levelled loot makes the game less 
 rewarding, and limted enchantment (compared to morrowind) makes it boring at later levels where 
 there are no new enemys to fight. Plus, bandits wear the best armour in the game when you reach 
 level 30, and the guards level up with you... never do you feel powerful in the game, only against 
 a mudcrab.
  
  Overall, Oblivion set out to put everything Morrowind done wrong, right. However, it does everything 
 morrowind did right, wrong. Although it's still a great game, it just dosen't feel like an elder 
 scrolls game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Bob69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game because i wanted an RPG that is open and allows you to do what you 
 want to and when you want, for example if you want to go and hunt deer then you can do that or 
 if you want to go goblin hunting than you go and do that. it also has a lot of quest to do and 
 many different styles to play as like your standard warrior to an mage with lots of skills to chose 
 from like blunt or blade or light armor or heavy armor.
  it also has a large modding community were people make mod through construction set.
  Its a great 
 game and if you havent played i recommend you go and play it its a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsimies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game is absolutely the greatest RPG ever. It's well worth the price, there are many reasons 
 to it. The gameplay is awesome, you can do lots and lots of things in the game. You do quests, 
 kill monsters, do some more quests, buy your own house... Well, try the game out yourself, ok? 
 :P And now graphics - they are just awesome. The game feels so realistic, and there are also a 
 few mods that make the game look EVEN BETTER. And then, sounds... The sounds are also good, they 
 sound real. You just have to buy this game. Everything in the game is almost perfect. But there 
 is only one bad thing about are the system requirements. But if you have a fast PC, then this isn't 
 a problem at all. I strongly recommend you to buy this game, and when you play it, you will feel 
 the same way I do. But watch out, this game is very addictive! Hmm, have I still written 100 words? 
 Oh well, see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calibah
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Oblivion, I was thrilled. Great graphics, huge world, nice voice acting 
 and lots of quests. But after completing the main storyline and a bunch of other quests, I felt... 
 meh . It's one of the shallowest RPGs I've ever played.
  
  Oblivion gets a lot of praise for it great storyline and fantastic setting, something I really 
 can't understand. The storyline is simple, and the world is your run-of-the-mill fantasy world 
 that's been invaded by demons. And there's really no atmosphere what so ever in the game.
  
  The NPCs are very generic and very few of them are memorable. The interaction with them is 
 even worse. You very rarely get dialogue options that will change the outcome of the conversation. 
 You're pretty much just pressing next all the time.
  The same goes for quests. One of the most important things in RPGs is having options, allowing 
 the player to complete quests in different ways. You can forget that in Oblivion. If the quest 
 object is to get rid of someone , you are going to have to kill that person. If you don't want 
 to do it.. Well, that quest is going to be stuck in your quest log forever. That's right, all quests 
 are automatically accepted, and you can't remove them from your quest log.
  
  What bothers me even more is all these Halo/CS/Quake fans calling this the best RPG ever . But 
 then again, Bethesda made this game for FPS fans and not RPG fans. The RPG elements are very simplified 
 and dumbed down compared to classic RPGs, and focus is on the battles, not on building your character 
 for the battles. One thing that makes this more evident is the level scaling. You can pretty much 
 complete every quest at level 1 (with the exception of some quests that have level requirements) , 
 because the NPCs adjust to your level. No need to play it as a roleplaying game at all, just treat 
 it like any other FPS.
  
  All in all, it's a decent FPS game, but a horrible RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaseballDude69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a revolutionary game. The storyline is amazing and it basically is whatever you make 
 of it and that is the best part. There are so many options of what you can be and how you can act 
 its almost mind-blowing! The fighting system is nice and the graphics truly amazong and big step 
 up from morrowind. I beat the game but i still havent beaten: it in a sense because there are so 
 many side quests and other things that can keep you entertained for as long as you need to be. 
 Starting out a prisoner and ending up a hero is classic but still fun and the pulled it off perfectly. 
 I would definitely add this to my collection if you havent already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  When ESIV: Oblivion first came out, the first thing that came to my mind was that its not a great 
 game. I tried playing morrowind (the previous game in the series) two years ago and I was confused 
 with the game. I did not play the game until three months ago because I didn't have a video card 
 that was powerful enough to run it, but, when I started playing Oblivion, I was not disappointed 
 at all! The game is immersive, the content of the game is so much that it really takes a long time 
 for you to get sick of it. The graphics are great and the musical score is great! A big plus for 
 the game because its rare to see a game with such a great amount of content, fine detail in graphics, 
 original music. The controls are easy because it is in the PC, you can customize the controls to 
 suit your taste. The save system in oblivion is very useful. The autosaving in the game is a great 
 help. There is nothing wrong in the game except for its seldom long loading times. Besides that, 
 the game stands for its title, Oblivion, it destroys the competition! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarelis999
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Wonderful graphics, good sound, interesting story, very good gameplay - it is all you need for 
 perfect RPG, and Oblivion has it all. It is the best RPG. You can play it for hours, and you won't 
 get bored. You can be or do almost anything in Oblivion. If you decide to roleplay, the game is 
 endless then. The mods are make it even better and official expansions are great. If you haven't 
 played it, you haven't played nothing. Now about the game itself. You start in jail, and you don't 
 know why you are there. It is better that you don't know because you can think by yourself. The 
 emperor comes into your cell, and explains that the empire is in great danger. He rushes through 
 hidden escape out of the city, which is in your cell. In the sewers the emperor is assassinated, 
 but he gives you his magical amulet and tells you to find his last son and shut the jaws of obivion. 
 When no one is wearing the amulet, the barrier that defend Tamriel is destroyed and Daedra Lord 
 Dagon can invade. But the amulet can be wore only by person, that has emperors blood. So your epic 
 quest begins. Emperors son is in city of Kvatch, which is destroyed by Lord Dagon forces, you have 
 to help the last city defenders to close the oblivion gate and overcome the city. i don't wan't 
 to spoil all Main quest, so you have to do it by yourself. There are 5 main factions that you can 
 join and fight for them. One of them is arena. There you will have to fight for your life with 
 other gladiators, and when you reach the rank of High Champion, you will fight with various best 
 from all over Tamriel. There are many side quests, and many interesting and different NPCs. You 
 can be whatever you want. You can be hunter, assassin, mage, warrior, evil character, or good character. 
 The game is really endless. So if you call yourself gamer or RPG fan, you have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain_Apocalypse
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is the pure definition of open ended gameplay. You've never been given such freedom in 
 how you go about playing a game, freedom that has vast bounds when you consider the scope and size 
 of this game.
  
  This game drops you into the middle of very large province, filled with about a thousand unscripted 
 and always active NPCs. In some ways, the world you're put in is a living and breathing one, such 
 as the fact that characters have their daily schedules; they eat, swim, chat, sleep, work, all 
 without scripting. On the other hand, it's easy to see through this veil, and recognize that it's 
 not a living breathing world. There are no functioning ecosystems, and when you get down to it, 
 NPCs act more like gears in a machine than they living people with real relationships and lives.
 
  
  While we're talking about NPCs, lets dicsuss the A. I. In combat, the A. I. is relentless, you really 
 have to stay on your toes when duking it out with most things in the game, it'll block and dodge 
 your attacks, and counter with its own when you leave yourself open. Where the A. I. falls short 
 is in the more monotonous things, where it can be quite see through. For example, there's a quest 
 in the game which requires you to kill all of the members of a certain guild. While in the guild 
 hall, you strike a guild member, have a brief fight with him, and eventually kill him. But during 
 your struggle you awoke acouple of the other guild members. Well they simply go back to sleep after 
 the fight, and during the next day, they don't change their behavior anyway towards you or just 
 in general, and they completely ignore the body of their fallen guildmate laying in the middle 
 of the floor. That kind of thing really ruins the immersive feel of the game. It's not that the 
 A. I. is glitchy, it could've just used alittle more attention.
  
  Gameplay doesn't change much throughout the game, placing emphasis on fighting, though even that 
 can be spiced up alittle depending on your specialties and what guilds you belong to, and just 
 how you choose to play in general.
  
  Some parts in the game can be overly difficult, especially for a beginnger. It's not uncommon for 
 the game to throw five or ten enemies at you, each one of which could alone kill you. Those kinds 
 of situations require you to find clever, less straightforward ways of dealing with your enemies. 
 My favorite being to find a place where they can't reach you, ontop of a cliff or behind a sturdy 
 set of bars, from which you can pelt your enemies to death with arrows and magic. Whatever you 
 do, don't bother trying to run through everything, because your foes will chase you to the ends 
 of the earth.
  
  The game doesn't put many restrictions on the player, and there really isn't much that you can't 
 do aside from maybe get married and live out a Sims like existence.... Or fish for that matter, 
 rivers and lakes are all empty of 'em. The game doesn't even require that you play the main storyline. 
 Should ever you want a break off from the grandious storyline, or should you ever get stuck in 
 any of those excessively difficult spots, you're perfectly free to go off and do your own thing; 
 the game provides the player with PLENTY of side quests to keep him or her busy for months.
  
  You're allowed to create your character however you like. Be a chivalrous good guy, or a thieving 
 bad guy, whatever floats your boat. Though whichever path you choose, there won't be any long term 
 consequences for your actions. Though be warned, if you choose a less noble path, you're going 
 to have to deal with the all knowing, all powerful, overly persistant police force in the game, 
 the gaurds; even if your crime was as trivial as picking up (not taking, just picking up) a fork 
 that doesn't belong to you, they will appear in mere seconds to arrest you, and they will persue 
 you aslong as need be to make you pay for that fork, which you didn't even take.
  
  When it comes to custimization, you can make specialize your character both in appearance and functionality, 
 however you like. Do you want him to be a fast moving, acrobatic runner? Go for it. Do you want 
 him to be a heavy built, walking tank that can't move over .3 mph? Sure thing. And in appearance, 
 you can custimize everything from the width of his cheekbones, to the kind of armor worn. The only 
 thing that you don't have any control over, is his/her body build.
  
  The atmosphere of the game is pretty well put together in terms of appearance and sound. You probably 
 won't feel creeped out in the fair number of places where the game tries to creep you out, unless 
 ofcourse you're as much a wuss as me. The game's sound is satisfying simply because of the voice 
 acting, every NPC has a voice, so you could potentially go through the entire game without reading 
 a single word. On the other hand, the voices are pretty recycled, i. e. NPC1 has the same voice 
 as NPC4. Another awkward downside to the voiceacting is that frankly, some of the characters sound 
 (not to mention look) like transvestites, which is more humorously disappealing than really annoying. 
 Still on the topic of sound, the music of the game is unmemorable but fitting nonetheless. When 
 it comes to graphics however, the game isn't really a system hog, but you will need a pretty good 
 PC if you want to run it at full power, but it's tolerable even on the lower settings.
  
  Overall, it's an expansive game with tons of quality content. It offers the player nearly complete 
 control, and definitely provides alot of bang for your buck. Here's hoping that future RPGs take 
 a lesson or two from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I'm a former D&amp; D player, got to level 11 high elf battlemage who specialized in thievery... 
 So here I am absorbed in this Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion game and I'm loving it! It's actually 
 better than the old role playing game I used to play. I wish another player could join me; if they 
 can, I haven't seen that option... but I'm so totally into my little game I can't tear myself away 
 from it to do anything.
  
  Graphics are superb! Sounds are great. The voices are limited though; I wish the characters had 
 more of a variety of voices. The music is good, although I wish there was more variety of that 
 as well... it's good, that's why I want more.
  
  Gameplay is smooth and fun. Controls are easy to get and I'm still amazed at how much I'm constantly 
 learning about the game. I like that. I like fine-tuning my character. I'm wondering where the 
 game's headed. I've completed a lot of quests but it seems that at just about every turn, there's 
 a new one waiting for me.
  
  I'm still playing and probably will be for a long time.
  
  I highly recommend this game! I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rage288
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best looking game in the pc market by now. Its huge landscapes and beautifully 
 rendered skies are very impressive. Of course game-play and story are also top notch. There are 
 so much things to do in Tamriel that u will never totally finish the hundreds of side quest... 
 this game will keep u entertained for more than 100 hours.
  
  The menus and UI may be a little odd for pc users because it`s intended for consoles, and thus, 
 gamepad controllers, but you can get used to it in a couple of hours of play.
  
  Simply one of the best RPG's I&acute; ve played. If you are into role playing alone, you should 
 definitely play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elektroboy127
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  When I first looked at TES: O, I did not really think that I would enjoy it simply because I am 
 one of those happy-go-lucky online gamers usually found in my natural habitat (either playing Call 
 of Duty: United Offensive, Anarchy Online, or something along those lines) . However, with all the 
 good reviews, I thought to myself What the heck? I just got a new graphics card; might as well 
 give it a test drive, eh? And man... that was one heck of a test drive.
  I saw screenshots of the game prior to me playing it; I like to research before I buy with the 
 increasing cost of games these days. When I loaded it up the first time, I did suffer a few issues 
 like it crashing due to an outdated XFire bug (which is now fixed) as well as the additional support 
 from the patches, so that is no longer an issue. Witnessing the lighting effects, facial details, 
 and every little texture that can be seen almost in the physical world we live in, I was amazed 
 by how far graphics have come, even on medium-level settings.
  The gameplay is quite interesting. It is easy to get used to, but it is either you like it or don't. 
 I do not know any other game that allows you to hack and slash the way the system is set up in 
 TES: O (Dark Messiah comes close, but it is a bit more... interactive, allowing the use of objects 
 like spiked walls and fire to your advantage while TES: O does not) . Of course, the ability for 
 the player to play the game in whatever fashion he/she so desires is always a plus. That and if 
 the game is not liked at all (i. e. official textures, lighting, content, et cetera) , there are 
 huge amounts of mods that fine-tune the game as well as two official expansions. But in all honesty, 
 the littler things like physics (way too exaggerated; if you shoot someone with an arrow, they 
 shouldn't do three sommersaults and continue flopping around as well as if a body falls.. it does 
 not move until it hits the ground.. like it was frozen, or something) and the clunky inventory 
 (it'd be helpful for a drag-and-drop diagram of where you are putting your equipment rather than 
 the highlighting interface) this game is extremely solid.
  Actually, if those and any other overlooked details are not overlooked in the future, I would not 
 be surprised if the next TES game would win the Best RPG of All Time Award.. if there is such a 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade110
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the best game that i have played, and the game i have played 
 for the longest and im still not bored of it!
  Oblivion offers a whole lot of experience for people bringing role playing and adventuring to the 
 limits. Everything about the game is brilliant.
  
  Oblivion offers very high detailed graphics, and to make the graphics even better there are mods 
 you can download for free to make the world of Tamriel a much more beautiful place to look at and 
 to stroll through.
  One let down on the graphics is that you do need a good high spec computer to be able to run everything 
 on full settings. My computer can only handle medium graphics but it's still a totally awesome 
 game. The lighting effects are superb on it as well, when your walking through the main city at 
 night and all the only light you can see is the one coming off the guards torch it just gives you 
 a more realistic feeling towards it. The best thing about the game is the exploring. Running through 
 acres and acres of forestry looking for food or even trouble is really fun in the game, especially 
 if you like to Role Play. Amongst the thousands of trees you can also find ruins, dungeons, camp 
 sights, castles and even Shrines to worship the Dedra Gods. The combat is also brilliants. Oblivion 
 offers both Melee and Magic to fight against your enemies. For melee weapons there are 1h &amp; 
 2h Swords to slash through your enemies with, Massive blunt weapons to bone crush and even your 
 fists if your more of the boxing type. Now the magic system offers a lot, and i mean a lot, you 
 can choose if you want to be able to call forward the dead to aid you in battle, or to blow your 
 enemies away with burning fire balls, and if your not as such the evil type of mage, you can of 
 course stick the the healing spells.
  
  Bringing all of the superbness of the graphics, exploring and combat together and then it's time 
 to start quests. Quests can be as simple as killing a few fish, to retrieving a antiques, battling 
 your way through powerful and dangerous enemies. There is also the satisfaction of receiving your 
 reward from helping these people, and if your not satisfied with what they do give you, well you 
 can always you know, steal all of their most valuable possessions, throw all the pots and books 
 on the floors, or go as low as you can go, and murder the person in cold blood.
  
  Overall Oblivion is indeed an excellent game, a definite MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is the best RPG game ever made.
  
  Graphics Sound/Audio And Level Design-
  From the very Start the game offers a huge range of character customization options which is good 
 considering The graphics in this game are incredible, everything from the trees and the grass to 
 the swords and character design is spectacular. the level design could not be any better from massive 
 open lands to cave and dungeons everything looks exactly how it should. you could be standing in 
 the furthest corner of the map and in the distance you can still see the main city (assuming that 
 the weather is clear) . The Audio in Oblivion is one of the games best features whether you are locking 
 swords in battle or kicking a skull along the ground everything sounds exactly like it should. 
 There is hundreds of interactive A. I in the game that all have their own personalities so talking 
 to characters never gets repetitive.
  
  Combat And Game play-
  The game offers a Huge variety of quests that will always offer something new to do. There is thousands 
 of interactive objects in the game included a massive variety of weapons and armor. The combat 
 in Oblivion is great, with a massive variety of weapon and spell their is always new and fun ways 
 of killing your enemies. although Oblivion's combat system is great the response time can often 
 become frustrating (the time it take to change between block and attack is far to long and often 
 makes combat a matter of attack.. block... wait for enemy to attack... then hit them again, rather 
 then quickly blocking when you see them attacking)
  
  This is one of the games that you should not miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a very thoroughly designed, well developed game, and I have never played a single player 
 game with so much replay value. In addition, the story line is good and makes sense. But rather 
 than harp on all Oblivion's good qualities, which you can read about everywhere else, I'll cut 
 right to the chase and list the qualms I had with the game.
  
  First of all, the voice acting is all very well done, with one exception: It sounds as if Bethesda 
 hired a very small group of people to cover all the characters in the game. Furthermore, these 
 actors did almost nothing to change the characteristics of their voice from character to character, 
 which leads to a grand total of maybe 10 distinct voices in the game to cover all the hundreds 
 and hundreds of NPC's. This can greatly detract from the game's atmosphere, especially when there 
 are two characters talking to one another who have the same voice, and at times the problem can 
 be downright disappointing.
  
  The main problem with Oblivion is that it lacks a distinct atmosphere, and much of the game reeks 
 with being generic. There appears to be little thematic content, and after a while I got tired 
 of all the go find my stolen item quests. Games like Thief and even KOTOR had a certain pizazz 
 that made them enjoyable and at times thought provoking, but Oblivion does not deliver in this 
 category. Also, the problems with voice acting contribute to this. Instead of giving the feeling 
 that it's game world is teeming with unique characters, Oblivion gives the impression that there 
 are five or six major characters and fifteen or twenty generic characters that are repeated.
  
  The one other weak spot in Oblivion is the combat system. Melee attacks are limited to a slash, 
 a strong slash, and, if you invest all your skill points in blade and/or blunt, a strong slash 
 with the chance of stun. Thus, many battles are boring, though a certain degree of timing is required 
 to swing the weapon at the right time. I cannot help but get the impression that Bethesda opted 
 for quantity over quality in this game. Though for what it's worth, it's very polished and well 
 done, those seeking a moody, artsy, or heavily atmospheric RPG should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlackbeard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is massive, whale of game. It's a free form RPG realized in absolute, breathtaking 3d. 
 By that I mean you can walk into a shop, jump on top of a counter, mess everything up and watch 
 all the apples and oranges move across the table in real time. You start off in a prison, blamed 
 for murder, but soon released because you're the only hope for the kingdom, blah blah blah (read 
 the other 1000 reviews for the storyline, i'll delve less talked about things) . You'll soon be 
 escaping through the sewer and fighting GIANT ENEMY CRABS for massive damage (honestly I am not 
 using this as a pun, this really happens literally!) . So, once you've slain all the crabs and the 
 gigantic rats (which will scare the crap out of you initially, well they scared me anyways...) 
 you have made it! Now you get to choose your race and you must choose wisely. Orcs are hideous 
 and muscular and therefore perfectly fit for hand to hand combat, etc. Once you exit the sewer, 
 you'll get too see the world of Cyrodiil in all it's glory firsthand. It's a real treat, something 
 literally out of Plato's Myth of the Cave!. Now you have some more choices. You can either join 
 a bunch of guilds, follow the main story line, or do tons of side quests (the latter accounts for 
 most of the game) . In this game it's hard to kill people and get away with it. So you might want 
 to join dark brother hood guild. Doing so will snatch you a really fast horse, shadowmere, and 
 all the while you'll be killing lots of poor folks. If you're big on stealing, you might want to 
 join the thieves guild, and so on. The main storyline will have you shutting close the jaws of 
 oblivion one by one, defeating powerful daedra, for example becoming the hero of kvatch (but you 
 will soon regret having saved that city because you'll be hearing those lines OVER AND OVER AGAIN) . 
 Side quests are basically what the name implies, like fetching potatoes for a villager (different 
 lengths, etc) . Sometimes these are tied in with other parts of the game. The Gray Prince will send 
 you off on a side quest and you have to find his origin, he knows he's half orc but he wants to 
 know his other half. Fast forward 50-70 some hours, now you're level XX, you're really powerful 
 (albeit the guards also grow with you) , and now you're ready to put this game down because you 
 haven't been to bed in 3 days!
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Pros: Incredible graphics, deep-as-it-gets gameplay, Patrick Stewart, extremely long game.
  
 
  Cons: Simplistic combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittek
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  TES Oblivion is the greatest RPG game ever made. You start in jail in the Imperial City. You can 
 select one of 10 races and plenty of birth-signs. Of course you can even select your own class. 
 When you get out of jail, you can do whatever you want and go anywhere. To earn some money you 
 can do join up with guild. There are 5 mayor guilds in the game. The assassins guild called Dark 
 Brotherhood, the thieves guild, Mages guild, Fighters guild and the Arena. When you complete all 
 the mission for them you are in charge of the guild and get special features. When you complete 
 the main quest you can still walk around the world and do quests. You can find a lot of quests 
 in cities, but you can run across some during your travels. The world is full of dungeons, caves 
 and settlements. There are also deadra shrines which gives you special quest. The reward is a special 
 item that can't be found anywhere in the game. You can also buy yourself a house and then furnish 
 it. You gain your fame or infamy points and get comments from NPCs when you meet them. The great 
 things about this game are mods. You can find mods at www. tessource. net and just turn them on when 
 you go playing. I would also recommend that you try out official mods, because they're better that 
 those made by fans. Anyone who likes freedom in games will like this game very much. Try it out 
 and fast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezco
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 30, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Some people say this game is better than Morrowind. People who have experienced the whole TES series 
 say not. The reason is because this is the sequel, and has next generation graphics, so its automatically 
 better apparently. I'm afraid not. I will compare everything with both Morrowind and Oblivion.
 
  
  Story:
  Morrowind - Very good, kept the game interesting.
  Oblivion - Not that great, its very repetitive and its pretty boring.
  
  Graphics:
  Morrowind 
 - Very good (especially for the time) . If you got the texture mods for Morrowind it would be even 
 better.
  Oblivion - Quite Good, but its pretty ugly if you look at it close up, everyone thinks its better 
 for some reason I do not know. (I don't have a crappy computer by the way.)
  
  Sound:
  Morrowind - Quite good, although there was no speech unless you approached someone, the overall 
 sound was good.
  Oblivion - Very good, probably the only thing that was better than Morrowind, people actually had 
 audio sound when speaking.
  
  Quests:
  Morrowind - Lodes of quests, some long and some short, but very good.
  Oblivion - Abysmal, apart 
 from the Dark Brotherhood quests (which were actually excellent) they were all crap.
  
  Extra Features:
  Morrowind - Very good, you could become a werewolf in two ways, either catch 
 the disease from a Werewolf or get the Ring of Hircine (or something like that) , you could also 
 become a vampire, but that wasn't really done much.
  Oblivion - They concentrated on the vampire this time, which was still pretty bad. You could catch 
 the disease (which was hard) or get bitten (optional) by the Dark Brotherhood vampire after completing 
 quests for him. Now... when you become a vampire, nothing happens, if you don't drink blood, you 
 become a stronger vampire, and go up to stage 4. But nothing actually changes because you're a 
 vampire, you just have fangs, look white and pale, and have the nuisance of having to suck blood 
 once a day. Which may seem cool, but gets very annoying after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 27, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Most fans of the originals were/are quite disappointed with this game. This game is so far from 
 what TES originally was that its almost not even worth reviewing just to give it a negative appearance.
 
  
  The biggest problem is Bethesda's desire to make a transition into mainstream gaming. The DVD shipped 
 with an insane amount of voice-overs that filled far more than half of the DVD. Considering that 
 and how the artists boasted in interviews previous to its release stating how they made every rock 
 tree leaf bush and blade of grass totally different from the rest of every rock tree leaf bush 
 or blade of grass. The result is a completely chaotic game.
  
  However those issues were all patched, as they always are, and the result was something that ran 
 a lot better for those meeting the requirements. This did not change the fact that there were too 
 many voice-overs and not enough space to fill with the content that this game is so very much lacking 
 in.
  
  Like its predecessors Oblivion boasts many different guilds to join such as the Thieves Guild and 
 the Fighters Guild. However there are no limitations on you joining any of these guilds; meaning 
 any character type can join as long as you have the stats for it. You can join every single guild 
 in the game if you want to. Its not really pick where you want to go but rather you can go everywhere 
 . I guess Im trying to say that it is less tactful and loses that certain something that it so 
 easily had in Morrowind.
  
  The dialog menu is absolutely disastrous and far worse than Morrowind's and it is the first thing 
 that will stand out as an eye-sore to the Morrowind fan. Personally it also seems like there is 
 less armor and stuff overall and instead it just seems like they put out more enchantments on the 
 same things instead.
  
  They added horses . While they are nice to have they dont really serve a purpose in this version 
 of the TES series since they have also added Fast Travel . Fast Travel is something on the map 
 screen of the menu allowing you to go to any place you previously visited. The map may look just 
 as big as any other on paper but in reality its much smaller. Most of these places aren't too far 
 away from each other so most of the time they send you all the way down to the very corner of the 
 map and then all the way up to the other side of it just to attempt to fool you into believing 
 its a huge world when its really not.
  
  The game is also very short. The whole thing can be completed by the average gamer in little under 
 or over 30 hours. If you are a console fanboy this may seem like a lot of hours, it would be otherwise, 
 but when compared to the year+ playing time of some other people when it comes to Morrowind this 
 game doesn't hold the faintest candle in comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvin950
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 27, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is simply the best RPG there is. The only only thing that can compare to it is possibly 
 Mass Effect or Knights of the old republic. Lets start with the graphics. The enviroment is awsome 
 and good. But the NPC animations and grahpics kinda suck. Slashing movments and blocking animations 
 get really repatiative. After you swung your sword for the 20th time, it gets old. But everything 
 else is very good. The trees and plants move with the wind. The sun sets are simply amazing. But 
 stuff from far away looks like a past. Oh well.... The water effects are crazy real. The only bad 
 thing about the graphics is that ur graphics card has to be very good. I am running a EVGA 7950 
 GX 2 and the game is sorta unstable ( might be because i downloaded over 10 mods) . The gameplay 
 is simple but fun. It is at its core a hack n slash type of game with a RPG leveling system. The 
 sound is very good. Everything sounds real and if you go to the coast, u can feel the salty water 
 and the are of the morning. :) The value is great. U can get 50 plus hours on it with side quest 
 and the main story line. Hey, u dont have to do the main quest and just do side quest. Mods and 
 other downloaded quest add almost 10 plus hours to it. : ) There are some flaws to it. Monsters 
 r the same level as u but u can get a mod to fix that, ( major overhaul, not good for the game) . 
 Some of the best armor in the game is unusable. The main quest consists of goals like go to point 
 A from point B. Other main story quest r VERY fun but others feel like fillers : (. Near the end 
 of the game, u experince some of the most memarable moments to the game. One of the maps feels 
 like the designer was on crack and hyphy juice. That level is very fun. The side quest are even 
 more enjoyable. The side quest put u in a imerisve plot like my fav one. It is a quest were u have 
 to assasinate these people locked in a mansion one by one without them knowing. the best feature 
 i think is the factions. U get to join cults, groups, and gladiators. all of them have quest. That 
 is all good but the biggest flaw is that after u beat the game, everything is F-ed up. all people 
 r talking about is the end and alot of people die and so on. I suggest u dont beat the game only 
 after u r done with everything else. One biggest thing in this game that is not a flaw but a good 
 feature is the Mod Friendly check box. U simply but the mod into the correct file, start the game, 
 check it off to activate it and there u go. Overall, this game is the best and most fun hack n 
 slash or RPG if u prefer to call it, out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micknator
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  i cant get enough of this game! when you think you have got all quests, there pops up a new one. 
 i especially like it that you can play in 1st person what make it more realistic and alot cooler 
 and easier with picking up things. i wish all RPG games were 1st person. alot of loading times 
 but its quite understandable with such a big game and it uses alot of RAM when you have view distance 
 maxed out, you really need a good graphics card otherwise your game will really lag when playing 
 with special lights and you need a fast and strong CPU for all the NPC's. but beside of that, its 
 one hell of a RPG game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ro_richard
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Playing this game it remembers me of an very old game (can remember the name) , you had a sword 
 or a bow and nothing more. I see a masterful complexity in all characters, weapons, maps, in the 
 interaction of the enemies. I only beginning to play this game but and I feel a little bad because 
 that I cannot see the game in the real splendor, and with all the astonishing effects (I saw the 
 review written by Greg Kasavan, Executive Editor of Game Spot) . It has that thing that you can 
 manipulate the type of character that you want; I like the bow and stealth, normally I play killing 
 spree but this time I&amp;#8217; ll try to see a good game from another point view.
  I believe that I shall play this game a lot of time.
  
  Nice piece of work guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karma_paintball
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Now, I got the game over a week ago and haven't been able to draw myself away from the constant 
 exhilaration of the elder scrolls ! I bought the game from my local store for the price of &pound;20.... 
 &pound;20! a steal! Got home and played it all day... the action never stops! amazing graphics 
 and gameplay that will rival any game to come.... well, until the next elder scrolls! the worst 
 about the game (minus the fact that it has to end sometime!) is infact the sound, overall i would 
 give it an 8/10.... 8! thats the worst thing! seriously!
  Please, any comments/criticism welcome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff_gong92
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  (This is a complete rewrite of my review now that my perspective on review scores and reviews in 
 general have allowed me to love games and still give them an 8.0 or an 8.5. Also writing skills 
 have improved over the years. I'll be doing this for all my reviews.)
  
  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a first person RPG set in the world of Tamriel, a mystical realms 
 that resembles our world except it's got magic, and monsters, and medieval themes.
  
  It's the fourth game in a series of RPG's that highlights different areas of this world. The third 
 game was in Morrowind, and this one takes place in Cyrodil, which is the capital province.
  
  You start off as a petty prisoner rotting in jail when the king suddenly approaches you. He 
 speaks of doom and dreams which have featured you as the hero leading the fight against the hordes 
 of the Oblivion realm.
  
  Before you do that though, you have the option to pick out which race, gender, appearance, astrology 
 sign, and type of adventurer you want to be. There are numerous sliders and a lot of depth can 
 be found here.
  
  The game takes place in the first person but it's not exclusive as you can play in the third but 
 that perspective is clunky and only useful in very specific instances.
  
  You run around with the king in the dungeon like prison using rusty medieval weaponry killing and 
 protecting the king from a mysterious cult. After the king dies which is outside your own control, 
 you are let out into the world and the game "begins".
  
  You have many options at this point. You can explore dungeons, explore the land, walk about the 
 various cities across Cyrodil, perform quests for people, or get enrolled in the numerous Guilds 
 to choose from. If you don't know what you're doing, it can seem pretty intimidating having this 
 vast and unexplained world open to you. As you play and learn, it all makes more sense and becomes 
 much more manageable. During my playthrough of the game, keeping a running log of the dungeons 
 I've completed and yet to complete helped me a lot so I recommend it.
  
  Most of the RPG elements of the game is found in your inventory and abilities. The inventory of 
 the game features items, magic spells, your character clad in which armor and weapons you've equipped 
 it with, a Cyrodil map, and map of the closer immediate area, abilities, skills, and quests. Basically 
 your stats. These stats reflect the various capabilities of your character in regards to stealth, 
 strength, spells, or how much people like you in conversation.
  
  Performing acts pertaining to skills and attributes is what increases them. Using swords often 
 increases your sword skill. Taking a lot of damage increases your armor skill. This is the major 
 way to progress through the game so get used to it as it seems a little daunting if you don't plan 
 ahead.
  
  In order to level up, you have to raise a certain amount of your major skills. Major skills are 
 the ones that level up. Minor skills are ones that don't. Picking ones major skills that you won't 
 be developing often in the game is key as it allows you to level up your character by choosing 
 to perform the acts to level up as opposed to leveling up doing things you have to or want to do 
 normally.
  
  The only reason this becomes an issue is that the game's enemies level up with you. Certain creatures 
 appear after certain levels but the previous creatures get tougher as you level up. This way you 
 may level up and your character's skills stink but the enemies may end up being much stronger and 
 you're basically screwed. 
  
  Some people have a problem with this because it feels as if you're not really progressing if the 
 enemies put up the same fight. However there is enough of a difference between you and the enemies 
 in general that your character with all skills and tactics in battle will determine who is the 
 victor. As long as you've planned ahead character wise, then you won't have a problem. If you don't 
 pay attention, you can be overwhelmed pretty quick and unfortunately contrasts with the more approachable 
 nature of the game compared to other Elder Scrolls games in the past.
  
  Combat is central to the way the game is played. You'll be swinging swords, shooting arrows, using 
 spells, summoning creatures, and stealing loot from the losers. The player can block, and perform 
 context sensitive attacks based on the directional button you're pressing when you attack.
  
  One flaw of the game that can be much at times is the repetitive nature of the game. The combat, 
 depending on how you play, is all up to how you make it. If you make it out to be a boring experience, 
 it will be a boring experience. This is usually an issue with expectations prior to the game that 
 may or may not have been influenced by playing past games in the series. However the dungeons and 
 environments can get pretty repetitive regardless of what you think of the game. The same old cave 
 texture gets a little old after the 100th dungeon.
  
  Sneaking is the final piece of the puzzle as your character can enter a sneak mode where he can 
 steal, pickpocket, and gain extra damage for a sneak attack. Depending on the character you've 
 chosen to make, your effectiveness as a stealth character may vary.
  
  Before I leave you I must mention the one thing that has made the game deeper, longer-lasting, 
 and overall better: mods. Now I know that mods shouldn't be factored in because it's the game that 
 you buy is what needs to be reviewed. As it stands the game is still a great experience without 
 mods and is a satisfying experience start to finish. Understandably there is room for improvement.
 
  
  Graphically the game can be improved a good amount but not a lot, it's mostly aesthetics. The meat 
 of this are mods that come in and downright improve and expand the game. One mod, Martigen's Monster 
 Mod, adds hundreds of new monsters all the while improving their AI, behavior, and truly makes 
 them persistent. Other mods add quests, weapons, armor, and improves the mechanics of the game. 
 The mod community's support of the game is a definite plus. After the mods installed, the game 
 is much more valuable (think "greater than sum of it's parts) and highlights and improves the original 
 experience by allowing you to better consume the content of the original game.
  
  Overall Oblivion is a deep, expansive, and multi-faceted experience that truly puts you in control 
 and subject to this fantasy world. There are flaws that can be had in All problems left behind 
 by Bethesda can be improved on through mods which can also allow the original game to be enjoyed. 
 Not to mention it can just add more content on top of that.
  
  Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkieDonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Well the story is very interesting but of course if you don't like the story you always can do 
 side mission like: become a vampire, become a thief mage etc...
  The game play is very interesting because of the great fighting system and the AMAZING weapons 
 they put in the game! The game is for over 100 hours (i ain't joking) and the graphics is just great 
 the shape the how sharpe the characters are. The world look amazing and the weapons is sharper 
 then any game i know (i mean the graphics) .
  The sounds is not the best in the game i saw much better but still the sounds are pretty well-done 
 but i think they could have done it better : /.
  I think every one should but this game because of the low price for the game (40$ for masterpiece!) 
 and because of the expansion packs for the game.
  Thank you for reading my review, DorkieDonkey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofnintendo
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 17, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  The appeal of video games comes in a number of different forms. Sometimes it's the simple satisfaction 
 of puzzle solving, sometimes it's the gorgeous graphics, sometimes it's the simplicity and fun 
 from a games' design. For role playing games however, the biggest appeal to gamers is the sheer 
 immersiveness of the game; when you completely lose track of time as the hours of gameplay pile 
 up. No game in the history of the industry is quite as immersive and memorable as The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion for PC.
  
  Oblivion is escapism at it's absolute best and worst, depending on circumstances. It's incredibly 
 easy to play for 8 straight hours without even noticing, and the game features 200 HOURS of gameplay. 
 That's a little more than 8 days of gameplay, more with the expansions, but what is truly remarkable 
 is how the game remains so fun even when the game time clock passes the 100 hour mark. The appeal 
 of Oblivion is on so many levels that it's almost mindblowing.
  
  For a game that has 200 hours of gameplay, there needs to be a lot of activities, fun activities 
 mind you, to keep you hooked and immersed in the gaming experience. Well, Oblivion handles this 
 with incredible ease. The sheer amount of activities that your character can participate is simply 
 mindblowing.
  
  The game features a main story that takes about 30 hours to complete and comes complete with a 
 fantastic story with a mildly disappointing ending, but along with that you can become a member 
 of four separate guilds with their own questlines, each of which can take around 10 hours of gametime 
 to complete. The rest of the time is filled by exploring the insane number of dungeons, towers 
 and caves scattered around the world of Oblivion, completing the insane number of fun and distracting 
 side quests and training up your character.
  
  One of the most fun features of Oblivion is the sheer depth of options you can use to construct 
 your character. There are 10 different races to choose from, and there are 21 skills that can be 
 levelled over time, some of which can be chosen as your major skills and as they increase your 
 level increases, which boosts your character stats and let's you carry more equipment, run faster 
 and inceases your health.
  
  Once you have finished the 30 minute+ opening chapter, and after you have finished defining your 
 character, you will be let free upon the world of Cyrodiil, the fantasy world in which the Oblivion 
 game is held and a section of the nation of Tamriel, within which all previous Elder Scrolls games 
 such as Morrowind were based. Cyrodiil features eight major cities (nine originally but one gets 
 destroyed before you arrive) full of interesting characters, all of whom are incredibly well defined 
 and constructed, stores and quests that will add to your enjoyment of the game.
  
  The first thing you will notice when you leave the sewers and enter Cyrodiil is that the environment 
 looks simply stunning; everything from trees to the mountains in the distance to the swaying grass 
 adds to the atmosphere and beautiful look of the game.
  
  The sound in the game is outstanding; the voice acting is well above average, mainly thanks to 
 a strong cast headlined by Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean, the music is sensational and the combat 
 sounds are realistic and add an incredible amount of atmospheres to the combat.
  
  The gameplay is constructed around three main styles of play; combat, magic and stealth. The combat 
 is very simple look-and-click-mouse-button based, using the left click to strike and the right 
 to block. The simplicity of the combat adds to it's appeal, and never becomes boring. Magic is 
 a lot of fun mainly due to the sheer amount of options you are granted; you can cast fireballs 
 and lightning to cast down foes, you can temporarily stop your opponent from using magic and can 
 make yourself invisible. Stealth is also fun and breaking into houses and sneaking up on characters 
 is one of the most fun dimensions of the gaming experience. These three styles mesh together to 
 form one phenomenal gameplay engine which remains fresh and enjoyable after 100+ hours of gameplay, 
 and the best thing is the more you use your skills the better you become at them and the more options 
 and skills become available to you (you can use higher level spells the higher your magic skills 
 are etc.) .
  
  The main storyline is constructed around invading creatures from a hell-like realm known as the 
 Plain of Oblivion. You will frequently enter Oblivion through Oblivion Gates, which have to be 
 closed to keep the minions of hell at bay. The plain of Oblivion itself looks incredible and is 
 so atmospheric and deep that you may find yourself just looking on in awe at the sheer scale and 
 beauty of your surrounding. Between Cyrodiil and Oblivion, the scope of the land that is available 
 to you to explore is incredible.
  
  With such a large and high tech game, you can expect a few performance issues. When you leave one 
 section of the gaming world and enter another (such as leaving a town and stepping out into the 
 main land or entering a house) , you will experience a loading screen, which can range from 1 second 
 to 30 seconds in length. This is mildly irritating and can slow down your gaming experience, and 
 sometimes is a fairly major blow to the atmosphere of the game, but with the sheer size of the 
 gaming environment and the amount of stuff there is to do, this minor irritation is utterly forgivable.
 
  
  Between the amount of activity in the game and the gorgeous graphics and sound quality of the game, 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is simply put a masterpiece. The Bethesda Softworks Studios deserve 
 all the credit in the world for creating the best RPG ever made. Any game that had 200 hours of 
 gameplay and remains fun throughout deserves all the credit in the world, and you'll find that 
 Oblivion is the most fun game you'll ever play. At it's peak, you could find yourself spending 
 8 hours straight every day for 2 weeks completely immersed in the gaming experience, and with the 
 expansions that were recently released for the game, there is almost an endless amount of activity 
 in this game.
  
  The depth of the character creation, the 200 hours of insanely fun gameplay, stunning graphics, 
 beautiful sound and good stories combine to make The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion the greatest RPG 
 ever made. Period. 200 THUMBS UP (one for every hour of fun i spent playing this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbysandrosa
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has truly revolutionary graphics and AI. Not to mention the massive story line and sub 
 story lines. This game lets you do what ever you feel like, when ever you feel like it. It is going 
 to be hard to top this game, ever. The game is simple to control and doesn't have those level 50 
 boss areas, so your not limited to where you can go. You will not be disappointed with this game. 
 It's pretty much like the best game there is on the planet. The realism and detail of the world 
 is amazing.
  
  The only minor downfall is the music. The music is great that they have, but after hours and hours 
 of playing the game you get tired of the limited music. But I'm not complaining. The game is phenomenal! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popmini
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fun game where you get daily adventures, you can choose your character's future, 
 and that's why it's the greatest game I've played, honestly, my favorite game was world of warcraft, 
 but this is a masterpiece that everyone should be playing, it is also the game with the best graphics, 
 but the bad thing about it is that it takes a great amount of memory and crashes once in a while, 
 you'll want to wake up playing the game! I'm so lucky I bought the game, and you should too! My 
 cousins come to my house especially to play the game, you have to buy it.
  I like the PC version better because it looks so real, but if you are planning to buy it for the 
 PC check the can you run it thing, if you can-t run it it is also available in the PS3 and Xbox 
 360. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fafnir34
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't enough you can say about this game except Wow.... The graphical experience is 
 amazing as well as the gameplay, you might suffer on the PC if you do not have a high end model... 
 but it tends to come together, and the Mod capabilities allow for infinite expansion... Once that 
 hooks you there is not much to do except keep playing with rich storylines in every direction allowing 
 you to Adventure however you want. Its only short coming is that you will realize that even though 
 there is so much you can do..... there is much much more you want to see from it. Not as expansive 
 as previous games like Elder Scrolls: III Morrowind... but still rates in RPG Hall of Fame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Oblivion set the bar when it was released. The graphical capabilities of this RPG and its near 
 unbelievable environments can challenging even the best of the systems on the market, especially 
 with such an incredibly active add-on/mod community. The beauty of Oblivion is its amazing appeal 
 across various desktops. With the extremely active mod community and options internal unto the 
 game those with not quite a power-house of a machine can manage to enjoy all that is Oblivion. 
 Believe it or not, I wasnt ever a big Morrowind fan. I tried in earnest with and without expansions 
 several times but, never quite got into the game-play or mechanics. Oblivion had its hook in my 
 cheek within the first few hours. The initial portion of the game, aimed at familiarizing you with 
 the mechanics of the game and setting up what will become an amazing story, could be viewed as 
 a slow transition. After this initial training phase, so to say, your right into the world and 
 free to do as you wish. The games story progresses as you progress. You could play hundreds of 
 hours in theory without touching the story-line!
  
  The game play is excellent, the interface is just right and controls are unique yet work quite 
 well! The textures, especially with the community-created add-ons, are simply stunning. The environment 
 is stunning, just stunning! If you havent played it, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 9, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the visuals are impressive. It looks great. but thats all its got going for it. Ill Get to 
 the point. I like how when you use weapons ect you get exp on those stats but they lost it when 
 your character does not really level up. after awhile theres a bar that fills and when its full 
 you go to sleep then you level. Problem with that is you really wont see too many levels. i hear 
 you can beat the game on level 2. so if your looking for the traditional RPG games where you level 
 up ect this is not for you. but if you like to explore then there might be something here for you.
 
  
  Another big problem with this game is theres no reward for doing quests. at best you walk away 
 with some stuff to sell. Almost but not quite. For now im going to put this back on the shelf. 
 when i can change my idea of what i want in this game for game play ill play it and enjoy it. for 
 now ill be back on battlefield 2142 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  We don't have to write a review for this game. Our stamp of approval really means nothing to this 
 game. It's a great game. It's been out for a while already, just never got around to getting it 
 until now. Others that have reviewed this game and gave it 10/10 said all that needed to be said. 
 This review is more or less for someone on the fence about getting the game.
  
  Having a good computer to run it on makes a world of difference. We have friends who have pretty 
 solid systems, but simply can't run the game.
  
  It's worth getting if you can.
  
  Praising the game is the easy part, finding flaws is a little more difficult.
  
  On the downside... 
 It's a big game. Plenty of replay value for a while. It's one of those games where you'll probably 
 play through only half way, but a dozen times because you want to "fix" your character and by that 
 point you'll want to do it from scratch.
  
  There are a few surprises, but overall the game isn't very dynamic. The main story and side quests 
 are pretty linar. Occassionally you'll get a choice to finish the quest the A way or the B way, 
 but typically that doesn't make too much difference.
  
  We did knock down the score based on sound. The sound is wonderful and all, great orchestra scores, 
 startling sound effects, solid quality... it's just the whole of Cyrodiil, with a population in 
 the hundreds, were noticeably voiced by like four voice actors. That kills us. At least the NPC's 
 don't all look identical though...
  
  We're really not into the dungeon dragon middle earth warcraft lawn gnome-fest, but it grows on 
 you. The argonians suck though. Stupid lizard people.
  
  That's about it. This game will keep the casual gamer busy for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psydrone
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  The prime advantage over the Xbox 360 version that this game has is, obviously, mods. They add 
 immense replayability and fix nearly all the flaws that I have mentioned here, however one cannot 
 judge a game created by the community- so I have reviewed here still the vanilla version with kudos 
 for the ability to mod- as it really does change the game.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an interesting game, one that was massively anticipated by many 
 fans, including myself. An avid Player of Morrowind, the previous installment, I was expecting 
 alot from this game, and for the most part, was not dissapointed. The first concept of Oblivion 
 that will hit the player like a mack truck is the sheer size of the game. It is, in a word, impressive. 
 Thousands of items, characters, quests, areas, and spells, all at your disposal. The physics in 
 the game are excellent, one of the most addicting parts in my opinion- how fun is grabbing an axe 
 off the wall and sending that annoying wood elf's dinner flying across his living room straight 
 off his table, or dragging a corpse behind a rock to conceal it? Very fun. Even more well done 
 is the way the physics are integrated into the combat- shields realistically work this time around, 
 and swords sometimes clash in mid swing. Spells and ranged weaponry works very much like a generic 
 FPS, which is a good thing- it's very fun to use. Everything for the most part reacts realistically 
 and intelligently, thanks to a revamped AI engine. The skill system works very nicely, with the 
 perks at certain intervals giving a real feeling of advancement, despite the constant loom of enemies 
 that never really sink below your character thanks to a scaling system- which is, arguably, very 
 annoying. Playing a single player RPG for three months should yield a little bit more than just 
 being able to *do* different moves, you should feel as though you can crack anyone's skull in Tamriel. 
 But alas, you simply progress for the sake of progressing, really. You'll never get to that point 
 where you feel like a God in Oblivion, which to some may not matter, and to others may very much 
 so.
  
  For all its greatness and grandeur, however, I felt as though Oblivion was missing something, nothing 
 tangible, but something that gave Morrowind such an incredible luster. Maybe it was the fact that 
 you could go for a walk in that public park downtown and really see no difference in it from Oblivion's 
 forests? That is a feat, in its own right- a testament to the game's realism. But some part of 
 me wants something fresh and unique when I play a fantasy RPG, not a generic medieval world that 
 looks exactly like Middle Earth. For all its greatness, why do we have to fight *bears* and *wolves* 
 instead of giant dragons or horrid creatures that dwell in the canopies of the forests? I just 
 feel as though, creatively, the game could have made itself more attractive and unique, but instead 
 it settles for run of the mill. I have alot to say about Oblivion, but I don't have infinite time, 
 so I'll sum it up as best as I can: This game is fun, plain and simple. It is interesting, and 
 very next-gen, but in my opinion it lacks a real allure, it lacks something that really only belongs 
 to it, unlike Morrowind which successfully created its own completely alien and beautiful universe. 
 And lastly, there really doesn't feel like there's an incentive to get all powerful- mostly because 
 within the context of the game- you never do. You'll never be able to take on a city full of guards, 
 really. But if you're up for using your own imagination to supplement the games lack of it, then 
 you'll find a very endearing RPG experience here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 7, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  I was always a fan of RPGs; GW, WoW, Neverwinter Nights, Baldur's Gate you name it, I've played 
 them. Then I saw Oblivion and the masses of hype and awards it received and made it my priority 
 to buy a copy for myself. I wasn't too impressed by the final result:
  
  Gameplay (2/10) : Ok, we start with the gameplay. Terrible I found, the main storyline was boring 
 and didn't motivate me whatsoever. Infact, I completed the main quest in 3 days flat at level 2. 
 Combat is just too easy, even on medium it still poses no challenge, just hack and slash with a 
 melee weapon or release a barrage of arrows or cheap spells. For goodness sake, I was constantly 
 warned by npcs of monster's powers or opponent combatants in the Arena, when I discovered they 
 die in 2 sword slashes. The levelling-up system is done in the strangest way I've ever seen. You 
 basically sleep to level up, unheard of! Screw the conventional combat experience method. I never 
 got round to sleeping much in the game anyway, (which is probably why I finished it at such a low 
 level) . The idea of making your own spells is nice, but by the time you've accumulated all the 
 ingredients and are actually in the Mage's Guild, you'd probably think it wasn't worth it. Quests 
 such as The Mage's Guild, The Fighter's Guild, The Arena, The Dark Brotherhood seemed boring and 
 unrewarding. If only the main storyline was more fleshed out, better designed and longer...
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Um... why are all the characters in the game so ugly? Ah never mind, the scenery 
 is possibly the best I've seen, all looks so real, especially inside the towns. Could have been 
 10 for graphics if all the characters didn't have faces you just wanted to punch.
  
  Sound (10/10) : Like with graphics, sound is all kosher. Sword slashes fire spell explosions etc. 
 But it's the game play that counts the most...
  
  Value (3/10) : I didn't get much value out of this game, considering I hated it with passion. Although 
 there's a big world to explore towns are already discovered for you, which kinda takes out the 
 originality feel about it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (3/10) : The game is really not for fast-paced RPG players, but if you quite fancy 
 the idea of being forced to play 30+ hours to become even moderately good, then knock yourself 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Elder Scrolls, the acclaimed series that has been beloved from RPG fans from the 
 start. And the latest and 4th installment in the series, Oblivion, takes open-ended sandbox game 
 play, beyond what GTA San Andreas could have ever hoped to do.
  
  After you spend forever on the incredibly Sims 2 like character creation thingy, you get thrown 
 in prison. YAY! And then, Emperor Uriel Septim (voiced by Patrick Stewert) believes that you are 
 the one who will save the province of Cyrodill from the evil moster infested horrors of the Oblivion 
 realm. From there you have to find his son, close oblivion gates and wow... this game looks really 
 nice... Hey look! Maybe I can go explore that ruin! And dang, look at all these quests bustling 
 up in my journal. What I'm saying is, is that you can go for HOURS with out even thinking about 
 the main quest! The game has over 200 side quests, each very long and providing some fun story 
 lines and gameplay. You could go join a guild, or 2 or maybe even 3! And those guilds even have 
 quests for you to do! Go slay zombies, pick the land of various fauna, or even just stop by the 
 inn and have a drink. Wanna buy a house? Then buy a house! Wanna go kill some monsters hidden in 
 that ruin south of town? The go do that! The game is huge, and once you get over the amazing graphics, 
 you are gonna want to forget about the main quest, and you could even attempt the main quest and 
 then do all of the other quests, because even after you beat the main quest, you can keep playing!
 
  
  So, before I yammer on about this game untill you heads rot, i'll finish up.
  
  TESIV Oblivion is perfect for anyone who just wants a solid and fun RPG, instead of a Japanese 
 cookie cutter that winds up sucking. One note though, never buy this game if you have a girl/boyfriend. 
 You'll forget they exist, and that tends to piss of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMB565
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is endless amounts of fun, there are no bounds to what you can do. With its amazing combat 
 system, endless gameplay, and dense storyline I can't get enough of this game. This game is a must 
 play for anybody who is interested in RPGs.
  
  The Story line (which should hold you for atleaste 20 hours) is almost as grabbing and exciting 
 as a movie, but at some points very predictable.
  
  The voice acting is very well done, but at some point, players who play the game often will notice 
 multiple NPCs in the game having the same voices. Also, the coordination with movement of lips 
 and facial expressions is very well laid out with the voices.
  
  The combat is a very new system for me but it is very fun. It almost combines FPS with swordfighting 
 and adds an edge to combat making you feel like you are holding the sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broedie
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 1, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This is the most overrated game I've ever played. I really don't understand what all these people 
 see in Oblivion.
  
  First off, the graphics and sounds are dazzling. Simply amazing. The towns and scenery are beautiful. 
 But that's it.
  
  The gameplay is mind-numbingly boring. It's not even remotely challenging, and it's not interesting 
 at all. Even ignoring the boredom, the lack of realism was terrible. You could go to painstaking 
 lengths to commit a crime in a dark corner with no witnesses anywhere nearby, but the law will 
 immediately be alerted to your actions and come running. The storyline was meh - I wasn't especially 
 motivated by it, and I'm a big storyline buff. Combat was so boring and easy - I barely even needed 
 to look at my monitor.
  
  All in all, I can't find anything redeeming about this game. As a screen saver, it'd be fantastic 
 - tons of fantastic scenery to look at. But gameplay? Pretty much non-existent. I'm truly baffled 
 as to what all these people experienced to make them rate this game a 10. One of the worst, most 
 boring games I've ever played. I wish I had spent my $50 somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm updating my review of this game because hindsight is clearer!
  
  The game has some shortcomings, but there are 3 factors which really make it great.
  
  1. The 
 game world is incredible. Immersive. It's really fun to wander around in this environment. You 
 have a great sense of having a whole world to explore and play in. I never got tired of the depictions 
 of the great outdoors, the excellent graphics and the freedom to wander through it all. 
  
  
  2. The story is also incredible. It's not so much the story itself, which is well-told and 
 interesting throughout for the most part, but its the way the story unfolds in this world. You 
 can pursue the main quest -- or not pursue it. There's plenty to do in this world either way. It 
 reminds me of that old game Wasteland, which was one of my favorites, because of the ability you 
 have to explore the world and pursue the story in a way that seems open and free. It's the way 
 a story in a game like this SHOULD unfold (but so rarely does) . At the same time you don't ever 
 reach a place of feeling lost or like you can't progress to the next step. It's a great balance. 
 The story is involving but not linear, and therefore a real triumph.
  
  3. The mods. The way Bethesda has opened this game up to modding has been a huge success. There 
 are thousands of mods out there, and more all the time. I've never quite seen anything like it 
 before. Most problems with the game are fixed by some mod or other, rendering the game's shortcomings 
 relatively insignificant. And it's like you're buying multiple games in one!
  
  Well, as I mentioned the mods largely overcome the games weaknesses, but the weaknesses are probably 
 worth noting as follows:
  
  1. Strictly as an RPG, this game is a failure. I was content to play, the first time through, as 
 a blade-wielding, heavy-armor wearing warrior. That was fine. But I found out afterwards that, 
 without some good mods to change it, you really can't play this game successfully any other way. 
 If you want to be an archer/thief, for example, forget it. You get to about level 7 and you're 
 getting killed left and right by every stinking rat (literally!) .
  
  What causes this failure is the terrible leveling, which penalizes you for building up the very 
 skills you selected when you designed the nature of your character. If you create a mage and spend 
 your time doing magic, you are lost. The same with a thief, an archer, an acrobat, a monk, or whatever. 
 You'll have to go back to your sword and your heavy armor, but by then you probably need to start 
 over.
  
  And all the creatures and characters in the game level up with you. Instead of you getting more 
 powerful, you end up playing a game of keep-up: keep up with the other creatures or you'll get 
 creamed. Thankfully there are a number of mods which address this, and practically all of them 
 are better than the original method.
  
  2. The game suffers from its own longevity. The sounds, especially the voices, are excellent, but 
 begin to become repetitive. There isn't enough variety in them for 100+ hours of play. Yet I can 
 hardly fault it much for being so successful a game that I'm willing to play for over 100 hours. 
 Graphics suffer from the same problem. They are beautiful and technically superb, but after a while 
 everything starts to look alike. I never got tired of the great outdoors in this game, but I did 
 get tired of the interiors and the characters and creatures.
  
  3. The interface suffers from XBox compatiblity syndrome. This interface for the PC should have 
 been way better, but it was obviously designed for the console. Seems like such a waste, especially 
 when a few modders came up with a much better interface in their spare time, putting the game designers 
 to shame. Hope Bethesda does better on their next cross-platform game.
  
  There are other shortcomings, but those are the main ones. Thankfully, there are mods in abundance. 
 I highly recommend this game, but expect to spend quite a lot of time playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Wow i havent written a review in a while thanks to this game.
  
  No shotgun, but swords, lots of swords, and giant skullcrushing hammers, dont forget the giant 
 double-bladed axes, wheeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
  
  The enemies are kinda stupid sometimes, it depends. Being a vampire pisses me off, which is why 
 i made over 6 accounts. Stupid vampires......
  
  Oblivion gates are fun to close cause of the lava and hellfire and burning corpses that sometimes 
 have 2 gold for you if you search them, oh and dont forget about the fleshy pods, theyre cool. 
 The scamps are fun but it depends on what level you are, like im a 12 and burning things keep burning 
 me. The dark brotherhood is awesome cause u get to murder people with no consequence, unless your 
 a retard and do it right in front of a guard, unless the dude youre murdering attacks you first. 
 Thieves guild is cool cause you can sell stolen items. People are really rude and i cut them to 
 piecies cause they make me mad when they say stop talking! really evily. Oh do the arena thingy 
 if you get it cause you can kill people and get money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Quite possibly the best RPG game to date. This game is detailed 
 to even the smallest extent. The main quest of the game will take you about 10-20 hours depending 
 on how much you play. However, there are hundreds of hours of side quests. The more important thing 
 is the skill system. There are many different skills. When you choose a class (or you can even 
 create one but ill get to that later) the class has 8 major skills you must improve these skill 
 to level up, simple as that. The class that you choose also has 2 favored attributes for example 
 a knight class may have strength and endurance as favored attributes, and so he will start with 
 those attributes being higher than the others. There is also a custom class system where you create 
 and name your own class. This obviously, will be the best road to take because it makes the game 
 alot more interesting. Now, the world, the world is Tamriel (it takes place in the specific province 
 of cyrodil) . You can steal, murder and plunder all around the world. You can break into peoples houses 
 by picking their locks and you can steal their possessions and sell them to the thieves guild. 
 You can go into the arena and battle for gold and to earn the title of grand champion. The possibilities 
 in this game are pretty much endless leaving the player with hours upon hours of play. If you are 
 not rushing to the store to get this game now, then you're missing out on one of the greatest RPGs 
 i have played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1funny1x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this game is AMAZING, although its REALLY long including all the side quests to do, 
 its worth playing through all that stuff. The 4th installment of the Elder Scrolls series, and 
 probably the best.
  
  Graphics : Probably the best point of the game, if you have a REALLY good computers with a really 
 up-to-date graphics card, you can REALLY see how amazing the visuals are. From trees with leaf 
 to leaf, and the lakes and rivers showing incredible quality, this game is literally the best PC 
 RPG graphically. Although, the frame rate can skip a bit, but that doesn't hurt.
  
  And, for the 360, if you have a really nice TV screen, with nice sound, and things like that, your 
 gonna have a blast. 10 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay in this game is incredibly fun. From giant warhammers to the littlest daggers, 
 this game is great from the gameplay view. Its not exactly one of those 'Hack'n'Slash', because 
 it includes magic staffs, spells, and pretty much everything a regular RPG would have. You could 
 enchant your weapon with a soul gem, or any other soul items. The gameplay can really be deep. 
 10 out of 10.
  
  Sound : Wow. Just wow. The music is great, and enjoyable, while the sounds of swords being drawn 
 from their holsters are extremely realistic. And the spells outrageous booms, the sound is a positive 
 thing from this game, but it can get a little choppy at times. 9 out of 10.
  
  Value : The price is a mere $50, which most games retail for. I would sell a copy for $100, maybe 
 even MORE, because of this games incredible gameplay, sound and graphic parts.
  
  This game of course gets a 10 out of 10. Even if game players don't like RPGs because they have 
 terrible combat, or are just plain terrible, you RPG-haters will also have a blast with The Elder 
 Scrolls IV : Oblivion.
  
  *NOTE* : The difficulty can depend on your choosing, from insanely easy gameplay to INCREDIBLY 
 HARD, this game can be chosen easily with difficulty settings.
  
  I pretty much give this rating a 9.8 SUPERB score. This is also my first review. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I could write an essay on this game (but I'm not a sack) but it is hard to resist sharing the greatness 
 of this game with every1. U can actually do anything humanly possible and set in that time period 
 (so u can't shoot laser guns while flying on a magical mushroom through space while being probed 
 by aliens and save a planet of fluffy mutants from destruction on another planet) . U can't take 
 a toilet and there r no toilets in the first place but then u don't pay &pound;20 to see some1 
 take a dump do u now? There r some limits but they r beyond reason to add to an RPG game. For example 
 being able to open ur own shop wouldn't be an RPG game it would be a simulator. Publishing books 
 and writing letters to ppl is also impossible cause no1 spends money so they can write stuff. Oblivion 
 may be called a life simulator but it isn't. It is a RPG with tons and tons of stuff to do but 
 nowhere along the lines of The Sims. Which is actually good because The Sims is hard to start with 
 so u wouldn't want ur character half way fighting a monster to die of starvation cause u forgot 
 to feed him would u?? But the logical and functionaly possibilities r endless. Low on money??? 
 just steal the keys of a shop owner and go in at night to take ur loot. Not enough space to put 
 all ur items (stolen and found) then buy a house and keep items for later. Add furniture (which 
 isn't very good cause the furniture is set so u don't choose where to move them but they r usefull) . 
 For the first time u can sit down on chairs and stuff which was impossible with Morrowind. The 
 AI is just fantastic as well. For example Hey look there's the blacksmith in the inn talking with 
 people, his shop must be closed and he is just relaxing now but it does have some screwups. Example 
 u have broken into someones house when they wake up and find u in their house. U r thinking to 
 yourself that u r dead but suprisingly they start to have a nice chat with u Stuff like that does 
 happen but I'm sure patches will fix that. There r 4 guilds to join and a main quest so u won't 
 be finishing the game soon if it is possible to finish the game. I mean can u say u have been to 
 all 200 dungeons, explored every kilometer of Oblivion and helped every stranger in every settlement 
 and city while completing a dozen quests for Fighters, Dark Brotherhood (assassins) , Mage and THieves 
 guild and don't forget the main quest. Also u have to try pickpocketing and exploring every inch 
 of the city to see what kind of secrets the ciity hides and fighting every monster in the wilderness 
 and drinking blood from those sleeping as a vampire. This is a game which grabs u buy the arm and 
 pulls u into the game, that is how immersive it is. The start of the game is a great tutorial as 
 instead of listen to someone boring ordering u around u get the hang of the game by yourself as 
 u experiment with the basics. Ever wondered how in games where the world is about to end that it 
 is only U stopping chaos and pure evil?? well in this game soldiers and gaurd fight alongside u 
 in the quests and try to stop the demons which looks extremly cool. Every city the gaurds have 
 their own armor and u can enchant stuff and the spells r fun to cast. The graphics r mind blowing 
 and if u think about r quiet low on system requirements. No RPG can compare to Oblivion. Let me 
 summrise what u can do in it. Ride horses, hunt animals, eat food, sleep, drink, buy houses, trade, 
 pickpocket, break locks (minigame extremly fun) , side quests, join 4 guilds, fight as a gladiator, 
 watch a gladiator fight, bet, assassinate, steal, do quests, fight alongside soldiers, take on 
 te gaurds, sneak into restricted areas , go onto boats that end up being hijacked by pirates (extremly 
 fun) , fight a HUGE varitey of monsters from skeleton warriors to things unimmaginable creatures, 
 simply explore, become a vampire and drink blood and don't forget the huge world u can explore 
 packed with NPCs!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svitas
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  this game is a great rpg witch has a excelent graphics and the land is hige sometime to huge if 
 you have to find something. Bu I am dispaonted in the gameplay it just isn't that god I hope that 
 in the next there The Elder Scrolls will have better gameplay. But this game is great for every 
 one it has both wiev first person or third person . The lengt of main mission is to shor obout 
 25-30h but if you go the side missions the are pleanty I am playing this game and is to hard to 
 complete all missions. I recomend that you play it becouse it is a superb RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainkash
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  In the middle of 2002 i played a game called Morrowind, it was amazing, a totally new way of playing 
 RPG'S, an entire living world waiting to be discover, it was pretty close to be the Dreamed RPG, 
 but just that, close. Well Bethesda Software keep working to make that dream comes true, and they 
 make Oblivion, on an era of MMORPG, they made a Off line RPG that can kick almost every other RPG 
 game ass. We can take a look on Oblivion's world and we are gonna get stunned,
  
  Graphs:
  
  The graphs are amazing, it cost a high amount of memory and hardware, and i think 
 that is the only problem of this game, the optimization is bad. You need to have a Top Market PC 
 if you want to experience the full power of oblivion. The Weather is very close to reality, so 
 the textures and the modeling of the scenarios
  
  The physics is powered by a supreme version of HAVOC, you will notice this when you first kill 
 a wolf in the ground and see how it falls and shatter some plants and make some dust fly. The Music 
 &amp; Sound:
  
  The Music and sounds are great too, it makes you actually live the story and the battles. The environment 
 is good, the cities are outstanding. Music has been composed by Jeremy Soule, who also worked on 
 Morrowind. But there's a problem with the voices and is that there are like 3 types of voices in 
 all the game. In Conclusion Oblivion has opened a gate for all RPG games in the future, his problems 
 will be solved and we will face a new era of RPG'S! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is seriously the greatest PC Game out there.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of the game are highly sophisticated, and look awesome. The textures and details and 
 just the whole atmosphere in the game are so realistic!
  
  Sound:
  The music and sounds in Oblivion are great but I liked the music much more in Morrowind. Voice 
 acting occurs in EVERY CHARACTER in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ok, the big part. What can you do in Oblivion? First, you pick your race. From Imperials (Humans) 
 to Orcs, all the way to Argonians (Lizard like creatures) Well you can go on with the story line 
 which is just a great story and will take about 30 hours to complete. After that? Join guilds, 
 hunt, become a thief master, or anything else YOU CAN IMAGINE! What makes the PC version better 
 than the Xbox 360 and PS3, is that you can download mods for free that can add many hours to the 
 game. Value:
  If you are looking for a RPG game that you will love, then TESIV: Oblivion is the perfect choice!!! 
 I have already spent about 200 hours and still have a lot to do!!!!
  
  The two only major concerns I have about Oblivion is that it has many glitches here and there. 
 There are patches so don't worry too much though. The other concern (Not for me, but for other gamers) 
 is that Oblivion requires a good computer. If you have the same or better sys req than this, then 
 you will have no problems running Oblivion. Here's what I use:
  AMD Athlon +3800 Dual Core
  Nvidia GeForce 6800 256MB Video Ram
  2GB RAM
  Hard Drive at least 4.7GB space
  DVD Drive
 
  Motherboard at 2GHz Bus Speed
  
  GET THIS GAME IT IS WORTH IT!!!
  
  Note: This will probably stop any MMO Addiction you currently have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacaron
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is just perfect! What is better than live an other life in a game the way you want. You 
 can't ask more of Bethesda Softworks. They have made a perfect game and even now, it is still in 
 the top games after more than one year on the shelves. The graphics are just awesome.... the problem 
 is who can really run this game at full capacity... i don't know but it's surely not me!! I think 
 it's the best RPG to buy even if you never liked playing this category of games because it IS the 
 best game. It is way much better than Morowind and it let you do really what you want. You can 
 pas days hunting if you want or visit dungeons or even fight in an arena you can do almost anything.... The 
 only thing that they forgot to do is putting an utility to the plates, the tables, the food.... you 
 do not have to eat food to live... the time you need to sleep... you won't die if you are not sleeping 
 enough... ect.
  
  Buy this game before somebody gets it before you... you don't want to wait more to play this game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  I put learning curve to be 4 hours or more because of everything you can do in oblivion, by the 
 time you figure it all out, 3-6 hours will have passed. You don't notice though, because as in 
 any other game like a shooter where this would be bad, this game gives you the opportunity to start 
 over after a few hours knowing all you do and it really immerses you into the whole experience 
 like nothing else in the gaming universe.
  
  Just the sheer scope and detail of the game is incredible, for instance, you can choose to do something 
 as big and epic as take on the main quest, and fight off endless waves of evil monsters as they 
 threaten to take over the world as you know it, or you can do something as small and inane as steal 
 a small wooden fork off of some random citizens table. That is the amazing diversity of the game, 
 letting you do anything you want any time. Want to beat the game in a record time? Too bad. It 
 never ends; but want to beat the main quest in record time? Go right ahead. Want to never have 
 to embark on the quest and just do what you want, whether it be an assassin, a thief, a hero of 
 the people, or just plain explore the world for countless hours on end? Go right ahead. Want to 
 buy a house, find a normal job, and just live like a normal person? Well good luck finding a normal 
 job, but go right ahead. There are jobs you can find, and you can buy houses, so if you wanted 
 to just live out a normal life, making your living whatever way you can (gambling on fights? selling 
 item's you have found in caves?) its fine with the game. That's why I say, There is no other better 
 game, or anything for that matter, that better suits simulating an alternate life, and one that 
 I can assure you will make you hate your own haha. After all, where in this real world can you 
 enter the gladiator tournament and become a hero of the people? I don't know...
  
  The Gameplay is excellent, especially the combat system, which is much better than normal RPG games, 
 which always seem like RTS games in the way you attack. This makes you feel like YOUR the one attacking 
 the enemy, not your right mouse button.
  
  Graphics- Just look at screen shots and you'll have an idea. Objects do tend to pop in a little 
 late sometimes, though, and when you get far away from a place, the ground looks muddy and gross, 
 but other than that graphics beat most other games.
  
  Sound- repetitive, but good none the less.
  
  Value- You can play months on end, so why would 
 value not be 10? If you could live a life as someone way cooler than anyone in this world could 
 ever be for just $50, wouldn't you give that a 10 too?
  
  Overall, if you have the computer (or 360 or PS3) and need a good adventure game, or even are just 
 sick of your life, get this game. And if you know someone who is depressed, well this is the perfect 
 cure haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doughnut_300
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: In Oblivion, the graphics are phenominal! From forests to cities, they looked very realistic. 
 It is one of those few games you are able to just stare at the environment around you. The weapons 
 and NPCs look almost real. Bethesoft did a great job of making the world of Oblivion pure eye candy.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was very immersive. Being able to join guilds such as the Fighters Guild 
 or Mage Guild for example is very cool! You can do so much in the game that it would take litteraly 
 hours to do such as quests or just kill stuff :) Even if you complete the main story line, it is 
 just the beginning of what you can do. Sound: The sound in Oblivion is great. There was great voice 
 acting, there is even Patrick Stewart as one of the characters! Being able to hear the birds and 
 trees is very realistic and enjoyable experience that is often excluded from some video games.
 
  
  Value: To sum it all up, Oblivion is one of the greatest games ever made. there are some many excellant 
 modifications to use if want to expand your gameplay. You can always play this game over and over 
 again :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten1012
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Obliven is the heart of what a definse RPG. Amazing grafic masterpice no RPG Gamer can ignore. 
 This game will suck you in and never let go and is far frome dull. It has an aspected of Fantisy 
 without beining too Fake to like it this game is not only a Gloryes game for RPG gamers It has 
 some thing for the Fighters and the sthelf gamers. It never leves you bord becouse of the hundredes 
 of quest. even if you some how finish all the game has to offer modes are easy to find and make 
 and the expansitions of the game make beinning bord even hard to do. I still play it when I got 
 this game the day it was out and far from bord of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_scrolls
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a game that will take your breath away. With its beautiful graphics 
 interesting storyline and realism, what else could you want? This game will have you hooked on 
 it, you might as well throw away all your other games, cuz this is the game is for you whoever 
 you are. You start in a prison in the province of Cyrodiil and you are led out through a secret 
 chamber that is by conincidence in your cell by the emperor. While escaping through that chamber 
 there is a tutorial where you learn the basics in oblivion. After you escape from the jail chambers 
 you enter the beautiful world of oblivion. You can follow the quests and be a good loyal citizen 
 of Cyrodiil or be a decieving asassin that kills people! So basically you can follow your own path 
 in oblivion and do what you want in oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I was about as dissapointed with this game as i was impressed with Stalker SOC. The NPC's look 
 almost comical - most of the armour you wear makes you look like some kind of battle-jester - my 
 character does anyway , and the realatively few monsters that are in the game lvl up with you!!??? 
 Yes - the world is huge but what's in it - the dungeons don't seem to vary much - there are large 
 expanses of beautiful but empty landscape and the towns and cities all seem partially deserted 
 and lacking in atmoshpere. I'll take the harsh realistic every-bullet-matters environment that 
 Stalker has to offer over this anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a very long game, with many, many things to do, and many enemies to fight. This is 
 a game many will enjoy. Either you love, or you hate this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Many things to do (sidequests, leveling, killing enemies, robbing or protecting people 
 from robbery...) Many times you'll be wandering around cyrodiil, doing whatever you want to, or 
 following a sidequest, that'll make you rich, or stuff like that. Even so, many times you'll get 
 lost, of angry because you cant go somewhere. There is also the sensation that your character's 
 stuck to the floor, since when you begin the game, you don't jump that high up. Even so, quite 
 complete. 10 out of 10.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Lately, many games for the PS3 and Xbox 360 are coming out, with impressive graphics. This game, 
 has a lot of graphic potential (my computer can't run the highest graphic options) but even so, 
 it can't manage to keep your mouth open in amazement for that long. Nine out of ten.
  
  SOUND: The music in the game is fantastic. It fits perfectly, and the voices on the characters 
 are very well done. The main menu song is the best, but the songs in the game become quite repetitive. 
 Even so, 10 out of 10.
  
  VALUE:
  It'll keep you in front of the computer, I'd risk saying, for months. Well worth its money. 9 out 
 of 10.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  To be honest, this game impressed me, and I played for months and months. Until I reached a moment 
 in which I got bored of it. A few months later, I played it again, and liked it again. Which means, 
 playing this is an experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dograw75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I am not much of an RPG guy, but I fell into this game immediately. It is very forgiving for those 
 not familiar with the Elder Scrolls universe but still manages to hold a little challenge for those 
 who are more adept. The real clencher for me though was how easy it was to get swept up in the 
 story lines and charcters. It is entirely open and free like the grand theft auto of rpgs.
  
  The only downside is that it is very time consuming to build a character and advance through 
 the game, which is characteristic of an rpg, I generally prefer shooters where the action is steady. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  As RPG's go this has to be a real ground breaker. This has some of the best graphics ever seen 
 on an RPG, the outside is rich in flora, much of it you can interact with. The people are very 
 diverse, and incredibly ugly, even the pretty ones - unheard of in other RPG's!!
  
  Everything is voice acted and it also comes with a very atmospheric score that hasn't got tiresome 
 in the several hours of play i've clocked up on it. The style of leveling is based on the skills 
 you use which is an interesting concept and works very well. It really gives the sense of realisitic 
 levelling. Combat runs more like an FPS than an RPG which adds a lot more action to it compared 
 to other RPG's There are plenty of quests, unfortunately most are very straight foward with very 
 little puzzle elements to the game, but I imagine expansions may resolve this, if not user created 
 content. The diversity of monsters is limited. I resolved this with the martigens monster module 
 which added plenty of monsters and added a whole lot more playabilty to the game. IMO it improved 
 upon the game 10 fold, and bethsda should seriously consider recruiting the creator to make a more 
 stable version for an official pack, as this is the only let down to it. Bugs with the game like 
 overzealous guards and no creatures leveling with you have been resolved by user added content, 
 and it is the community that has added more to the game to make it a much more enjoyable experience 
 than bethseda made it. This is thanks to them releasing the SDK to allow users to make stuff for 
 the game, which a number of games publishers have released for games and those games have had great 
 success because of this.
  
  In conclusion, Excellent game in all aspects and a real milestone for gaming. This has been made 
 even more appealing by the communtiy that is continually adding to the game, making it hugely replayable. 
 Would have had a full ten/ten had it not been for the lack of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d4588
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is total immersion. You can spend countless hours playing this game and run across some 
 new location that you have never seen before. This is one of the best games ever made for people 
 who want to RPG without being hard-core RPG'ers. The graphics on this game will no doubt tax your 
 system and this can be the game breaker. Without the system horsepower to run this game with decent 
 graphics the game loses a lot of its 'mojo'. And you'll soon think you're back in the Ashlands 
 in Morrowind from having to turn most of the eye candy down. Most will tell you that graphics don't 
 make the game and I'll usually tend to agree. But this game is the exception and the graphics are 
 used to immerse the player into the story and depth of this title therefor I feel they are required. 
 I won't go as far to say this game is better than Morrowind but it does address several problems 
 from Morrowind such as the combat system and having to read all the text for the lazy. This game 
 has voice acting for all dialogs but you may soon find yourself skipping parts as some of the towns 
 people become repetitive. Also there is no typical 'place to avoid' in Oblivion such as Ghostgate 
 in Morrowind, no house affiliations and no real reason to venture into the water for sunken treasures 
 as there a few but not many treasures underwater.
  
  Game play as usual finds you questing for townspeople while attempting to follow along with main 
 quest as well. There is so much to do in Oblivion that it's almost impossible to stay focused on 
 the main quest entirely. Some of the drawbacks in my opinion are the repetitive design of the Oblivion 
 gates and factions like the thieves Guild and Mages Guild don't seem as fun as in Morrowind. Overall 
 this game is about as near perfect as you can get and those considering upgrading their PC for 
 this title should. There should have been a little better scaling for hardware in my opinion but 
 overall this game will keep you busy for months if you desire. And the mods will greatly extend 
 this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otharmasta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game for those, who have never played RPGs, and for the role-playing veterans. 
 It gives almost everything you would want; good graphics (though it requires alot from the computer) , 
 good user interface, and good character creation (the face customisation is a little bit too hard 
 to use to make a decent looking character, and it lacks in that you cannot get a real beard) , and 
 character development. The only thing that left a bad taste in mouth was the artificial intelligence, 
 which really infuriates me when I have to fight with other NPCs on my side. The other problem was 
 the lack of unique weapons, but that can be fixed with mods. That is actually one of the two best 
 things in oblivion. The game basically never ends, thanks to the excellent mods created by the 
 modding community. The other really good thing, is that you can do everything in your own way. 
 You can end all of the quests, for example, in your own way. You can be a noble knight, a pickpocketing 
 thief, a murdering assassin, or fire ball throwing mage. The quests are really well made. But the 
 main quest could have been longer. I remember when I spent months, just in trying to finish the 
 main quest of Morrowind.
  
  The voice-acting is really good, and the NPCs do different thing, depending the time of day. I 
 think that adds a lot of realism. When it's night, they go to sleep, and at day time, they do things 
 like painting, eating, and so on. They even start a conversation with other NPCs by themselves! 
 It's really fun sometimes to just listen what the NPCs say to each other. You might get even new 
 topics for conversations just by listening to them.
  
  Over all, Oblivion is just a great game, and is one of my favorite games, though I some times miss 
 the old Morrowind atmosphere . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gavin2232
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has some of the best graphics I have seen in any game to date. The view distance is incredible 
 and the interiors are detailed. However this comes at the cost of high system requirements which 
 can be a problem on older systems. The game play is solid with the player having a wide range of 
 strategies ranging from magic to marksmanship. There is a high level of customisability which allows 
 players to make their own spells, potions and enchant weapons. Oblivion is massive and will satisfy 
 any gamers needs for content. It revolves around a main quest but allows the player complete freedom 
 to explore and complete side quests should he/she choose. The main quest itself is interesting 
 but the most of the hours will be spent completing the side quests and exploring new dungeons. 
 There is a vast array of weapons, armour, items and magic to give choice to the player and this 
 adds another level to the game. This game is complex and it will take new players a while to understand 
 all aspects of it but is highly addictive once mastered. The A. I. is impressive as you watch npcs 
 live out their own lives by sleeping, working, eating ect. They will also defend themselves when 
 attacked and the town guards are generally good at keeping peace. Oblivion's one flaw is that there 
 is so much to do that you get bored before you have seen it all. It begins to get repetitive after 
 a while of playing with the same dungeon textures again and again. However you should get your 
 moneys' worth from this game. A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I first played this on the X360 and thought it was pretty boring, then later on decided to check 
 it out on PC.
  
  On the PC this game looks GREAT!, and sounds good also. For the first week I thought this game 
 was excellant, before I found out that all enemies level up at the same time as my character.
 
  
  I know this has been brought up before, but this instantly killed the game for me. I mean, wants 
 the point? why even bother fighting guys in the Arena to get more experiance when you dont need 
 it. I am a big fan of RPG's and half the fun is leveling up and making your character kick ass. 
 You should have to work up to the tougher missions and goals, and feel like you have done a lot 
 of work to make you character good enough to taggle them. Seeing your character wipe the floor 
 with, what was once a 'tough guy' is also a lot of fun.
  
  I only play this game when have absolutely nothing else to do now, because although it looks &amp; 
 sounds great, and the gameplay is awesome, there is no insentive when I know I can finish the game 
 with a level 1 character. What a shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion takes you deep down to the fantasy world of Tamriel where you are truly 
 surrounded by the beautiful landscape: The lush forests, the water, the grass and nature itself 
 looks like it has come to life. The amazing graphics in Oblivion is a memorable one. The game play 
 is fun where you can be stuck in the game for 200 hours and more. Oblivion offers players freedom 
 in RPG, the ability to do what they want and the way the wanted. It is truly a remarkable and will 
 be on the list of legendary games. I see myself playing this game over and over without stopping. 
 I am looking forward to more expansions and sequels. A round of applause to Bethesda they have 
 done a remarkable job since Morrowind which was one of my favourite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzaher
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  see no matter how many reviews you read about this game, you won't be able to understand how amazing 
 it is until you try it. when the game first started i thought it is just another role playing game, 
 I was kind of disappointed because I thought it is kind of difficult, and just not worth it. 3 
 hours later when I got out of the prison area, I was shocked to see the most amazing graphics in 
 history. HUGE map, HUGE HUGE. I thought that GTA San Andreas has a huge map, well GTA's map is 
 nothing compared to Oblivion. the game is FULL of missions, secrets, mini-games. I did not play 
 Oblivion to be honest, i LIVED it. if you do not have it yet, please do not call your self a gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick_Mike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  I've never enjoyed spending as much or more time leveling up as just getting in a game with a good 
 story and shooting my way to the end. This changes it all. I loved it for the same guilty-pleasure-reason 
 I loved the Myst games: exploration. There's plenty to do outside the main story line. In fact, 
 I found it almost difficult to stay with the story when it seemed like I was helping every person 
 on the street who had a problem that needed solving.
  
  The graphics were amazing. The combat system was refined and easy to pick up. One problem, Oblivion 
 was very glitchy. It froze a lot on me, and sometimes quests wouldn't finish because events wouldn't 
 trigger. Besides that, I loved the mod community and all the were doing. I'm sad to say I don't 
 have time to play the expansion packs. Too addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Henry1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  It is so open with decision and adventure. It has amazing graphics and an amazing new way for dialogue. 
 The main quest is huge and awesome. It puts you in a world where everything is possible. You can 
 decide if you want to be a hero or a bad guy. It has an excellent combat system. The forestry and 
 landscapes are an amazing site to see. Especially the sunsets over Anvil. You can explore man cities 
 and excel in all of the guilds. It has lots of game-play for you in store. It also has radiant 
 A. I., the greatest A. I. technology yet. And you can explore a vast land filled with hundreds of 
 quests. It is just simply amazing. The best game. Bethesda did an excellent job. A huge break-through 
 in the gaming world. Nothing has gone this far yet. I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hopkins1004
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is just very good. game were you can do what ever you want but after a while you want 
 all these good items so you start using cheats then you cant stop using cheats but if you dont 
 after while its becomes very fun. the graphics are very good if you have a good video card. sound 
 is good i just love oblivion music. value you can be many differnt characters like warrior or mage 
 or thief, or in bettween. so if you like this game then you probly be playing for months. difficutly 
 can be just right or hard it depends. if you havent played the 3rd one then might take some time 
 getting use too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: changbang412
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best games i have ever played. The way it combines a Lord of The Rings environment 
 and first person shooter techniques is amazing. When I played this game for the first time, i was 
 like, WOW!!! The scenery and details blew me away. The facials on people, the cut scenes were all 
 fantastic. This is one of the hardest games I have ever played. It is recommended for the kind 
 of people who want to play a game that is long but has no real goal. A game that lets you do whatever 
 you wish. You can be good and fulfill all the quests that do good, or join the dark brotherhood 
 and rid people of their souls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Oblivion offers a huge and beautiful world to explore, many dungeons to loot, plenty of (linear) 
 side missions to undertake, all this in addition to the main quest to youll never guess  save 
 the world.
  
  Oblivion is a first-person RPG, where you play as a prisoner, and when the emperor is attacked 
 by mysterious assassins, he is fleeing through a secret passage that happens to be your cell. And 
 this is how our story begins. The first thing you will be doing in the game is creating your character. 
 The cosmetical customization, i. e. the look of your character, is the most detailed Ive ever seen 
 in any game to date. Not only you can choose your skin color, your hair style and basic features 
 like those, you can also do some crazy stuff like setting the distance between his eyes, the size 
 of his nose, and much more. However, after playing with those options for a few minutes, you realize 
 that setting you characters eye size has no importance whatsoever. After choosing your main and 
 secondary skills, and a birth sign (which gives you some bonuses and some weaknesses) you are ready 
 to start the game.
  
  The game is a RPG which mainly relies on action, and therefore doesnt have very deep and complicated 
 dialogue trees, and there are only few replies in every situation. However, the little dialogue 
 that is present is well written and well voice acted for the most part, albeit many of the NPCs 
 are voiced by the same person  which is forgivable given that there are hundreds of NPCs in the 
 game. The action in the game is rather good, although gets too repetitive after a while because 
 of the limited amount of attacks and special moves. The main story is linear, but if you are looking 
 for something else to do  there is plenty: You can join guilds (fighters, mage, etc) , do side 
 quests (unfortunately most of them are kill monsters and fetch items) or explore the huge world 
 for better equipment. At first glance, it seems itll be fun to explore every nook and cranny in 
 the map, but after visiting a few dungeons, you realize that most of them are exactly the same, 
 and if you explored 4-5 of them  you have seen them all. But nevertheless there is much more to 
 do than in most games.
  
  Another controversial aspect of the game is the leveling system. In Oblivion, as you gain levels 
 and get stronger, enemies and monsters get tougher as well, and using better equipment. This is 
 both a blessing and a curse: On one hand, the game is never too hard or too easy, and you find 
 new weapons / armor at a steady rate, never having to play with the same sword for weeks or finding 
 some uber good armor at the beginning, spoiling the fun of finding other armors. On the other hand, 
 It somehow diminishes the RPG feel, and it can get rather frustrating to get killed at level 25, 
 clad in the best armor, by a murderous rat.
  
  Bottomline: Oblivion is a beautiful and fast-paced RPG, featuring a small amount of dialogue, just 
 enough to give you the idea of the main quest, as well as a large amount of solid action, not to 
 mention the ability to explore a huge world. Very recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsDemon2k1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I got oblvion for PC the day it came out and I was amazed by the graphics and how great the game 
 looks. The music is fantastic and there are many missions and side quests. you can join guilds 
 like the fighters guild or the dark brotherhood. there are many classes of characters that you 
 can choose to play with. You start the game in prison and the whole story plot goes from there.
 
  There are many different enemies but you have a lot of weapons to kill them with :)
  the weapons vary from swords to daggers to bows to magic spells. the spells are great. you can 
 conjure beasts to help you fight the enemies. In oblivion you can also be a vampire which I do 
 not recommend. You cannot be out in daylight or you will die, you have to feed on asleep people 
 and you will be feared by others.
  In over all I give the game 9.7/10. Great game, Great graphics and Great music. I would recommend 
 this game to every single Elder scrolls fan out there :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sligzz76543
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  From the moment i started playing this game i was addicted. I stayed up for two nights straight 
 just playing this game, i could not stop. There is just so much to do in this game and it just 
 sucks you in. I found myself playing this game for countless weeks and not even putting a dent 
 in the endless list of quests and missions to complete. The physics in the game is something that 
 i enjoyed best about the game. Almost anything could be interacted with. Also, the graphics in 
 this game blew me away. I have only played Morrowind for the xbox, but i enjoyed this game a whole 
 lot better. This is a game that every pc gamer should have in their collection, it is an outstanding 
 game, one of my all time favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game to me is one of my favorite. I first saw it on my friend's 360. I played it and thought 
 it was soooo much fun. Having a whole country you run around in with no boundaries at all was the 
 thing that got me to buy it. Now I bought it for my pc but I having a crazy Japanese games computer 
 so it worked fine and every thing was exactly the same as the 360 version. I now am very good at 
 it and I would recommend it for others.
  
  p. s. dont start using cheats for this game they will get addicting and youll run your whole game 
 on cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_x50
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Game Play
  The Main Story line Behind Elders Scroll Oblivion is well basically about the murder of the Kings 
 son's and so the King is fleeing for safety with is trusty guards known as The Blades. The secret 
 passage to escape is apperntly in the Prisons . So as the game goes by luck that door is in the 
 cell where we or in other words the character has been placed . After some time when going throught 
 this secret passge with him while being attacked by the kings enemies who wish to kill him we finally 
 arive at a dead end in which he says this is where our ways part and hands over to us the amulet 
 of the kings which he tells us to give it to his other son whom the enemies of the king does not 
 know about. So the main objective is to find this heir to the throne and to relight the Dragon 
 Flies. So during the main quest you will come across many side quests you can do if you like . 
 Then there are the Guilds namely the fighters guild , Mages guild , the thieves guild and many 
 more guilds that you will discover on your way. There are many different benifits and missions 
 that you can get from the guilds . The interactions in the game is quite amazing. It is quite difficult 
 to find any flaws considering the gameplay .
  
  Graphics
  The Graphics in the game is what makes it quite amazing from the level of detail to the lighting 
 in the game it's quite realistic though you will need a good VGA to play it in high quality. There 
 are a few glitches concerning the graphics that will come up but they are quite unnoticable.
  
  Sound
  Talking about the sound there a little too many glitches that can be seen such as 
 when casting spells usually it makes some noise aftersome time it stops making it when the spell 
 is cast a few times . This is a disapointment considering the sound.
  
  Value
  Though there are some faults in the graphics and the sound ES 4 oblivion is still worth for what 
 you pay for it
  
  Summarry
  Elders Scroll 4 Oblivion is quite a remacable game . Considering the graphics in the game it's 
 superb there are a few glitches in the sound but still thats not so noticable cause this is one 
 addictive and intresting game . The graphics are almost flawless in ES 4 . When playing this game 
 for a prolonged period of time you can really feel that you are in the world of Tamriel it' s quite 
 realistic the way the story line being based is also quite supperb. Due to there being side quests 
 throughout the game its quite intresting. This is one game you will not get bored of playing . 
 With the addition of the 2 expansion packs - Shivering Isles and The Knights of The Nine added 
 into the game it just adds more fun into the game. Elders Scroll 4 is definitely a game worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anaris117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the greatest thing to hit my desk, ever. Im not so sure about yours, but if, or when, 
 it will, you will be wowed, but not WoW wowed.
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay is immersive. Just like living a second life, which this series is somewhat 
 known for. Combat is somewhat streamlined, and magic is different in this game from all the other 
 RPGs. You do not chant or speak or use a spellbook for the spells. You just USE it. Thats why its 
 so streamlined. Replayability is at an all-time high with the player made mods that pump out each 
 day. Its like a mini-factory of fun.
  
  Graphics - Oblivion being on the X360 explains how graphically superior it is. Though it may run 
 a bit slower on the PC, it still stands out nonetheless. The view distance and HDR in the game 
 make it look spectacular, and recent mods have made it look even better or performance friendly.
 
  
  Sound - The voice-acting in this game is great, but the only thing wrong is that some of the races 
 sound EXACTLY ALIKE. Races are supposed to be diverse, not the same.
  
  Value - This game is going to be the best investment you have ever made. Even if you get bored 
 of it later, you will come back to it for all the mods its has. I personally have over 50 mods 
 on my system, and only recently has my play halted for other reasons.
  
  Overall, this game is the best. Cyrodiil has never looked better, and the gameplay and NPCs are 
 over-the-top. The voice acting is somewhat repetitive, but you get used to it. The sandbox environment 
 and no ending is what keeps people in, but the real deal is that you can live your own virtual 
 life in game. This game may not be your thing , but just give it try, and you'll see how great 
 an RPG is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar044
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Where to start, first off for those that are fans of rpg's and fantasy worlds will find that this 
 game has much to offer, never has a game had so much content, so much to explore, from books to 
 spells, armour to weapons, alchamy to herb collection, every door is open to you, I cannot write 
 everything here for it is to much and would take me very long time, and the fun of the game is 
 well to explore the world on your own.
  
  Graphics: First rate, the world comes alive with the colours of the empire, from the trees to the 
 stone work everything has a medevil feel to them, with the artwork more of roman empire look then 
 anything else, lighting is well done, and caves look like caves, torches glow in the dark and the 
 area around it reflects that. blood and other effects like arrows are well detailed and homes of 
 NPC are very well done with paintings and fire places, to frozen north, or maybe into oblivion 
 where hell really looks like hell with its shades on doom, red to black, outdoors are well done 
 and the trees and grass looks its best on high end machines, at far away views textures do look 
 a bit muggy and washed out but not to much and other then that everything looks in its rigtht place. 
 On a side not those that look into the sky at night will see the stars and lore that go with it, 
 so you will see the tower or the mage if you look right.
  
  Sound: first rate, everything fits in the right place, caves sound like caves, to the fireplaces, 
 to well the horses and the world itself, the music is well done and fits the parts of the game, 
 from the scary mind of dungeons to the pleasant city music, the soundtrack blends well with the 
 game. The acting is well done and some famous actors like Patrick Stewart make there voice heard 
 in the game, and most of the races sound great. Some NPC sound the same, but with a large world, 
 you can blame them for having to use the same voice actors, on that note every npc and character 
 is voiced so you won't have to read much text if you don't want to.
  
  Gameplay: How can I review gameplay when there is a so much to write about, you can play any class 
 you want, from theif to mage, fighter to barbarian, anything is open to you, 100 of side quests 
 are in the game and so much to explore, its a huge sandbox world with lore and quests to keep you 
 busy for hour and hours, so much so that oblivion online could happen since the world is there. 
 The main quest is well done, and many of the clan or faction quests are very fun to play. You don't 
 have to limit to one faction also, so you be in fighters and theives guild at the same time, there 
 are may spells and stuff to collect and with the many expansions coming out more detail and strange 
 new worlds to explore, you will continue to love this game even more.
  
  Oblivion is one of the rare games that fall in the genre of deus ex so on, its a one of a kind, 
 and is worth getting for your collection at all cost! if you have not played the game yet, go buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex__13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  The most addictive game ever since Zelda: Ocarina of Time
  Great Gameplay even better graphics (best gfx seen in a game at the time of its release back in 
 2006) and a huge world to explore with more than 100 hours of gameplay. Simply put, you cant get 
 a better value for money than this. Probably the best game of 2006. If you havent discovered this 
 game yet, make your selves a favor and get it as soon as possible.
  The Extra content from Knights of the Nine and Shivering Isles is another plus that will most probably 
 make everyone think that now its even more impossible to complete this game 100%. But I believe 
 thats the greatest thing about this game. These simply isnt any other game that can make you think 
 you cant complete it. PC users will get another plus, that is the mods available on the Internet, 
 that can be from just simple weapons and armor, down to impressive texture revamps/stunning weather 
 improvements that add atmosphere to the game and even more quests to complete. Be careful thought! 
 This game is simply too big, and once you get started you really cant play it for less than 100hours. 
 And trust me, it will take a lot more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erboi796
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  this game is a masterpiece becuse of its stunning graphics and its great the only problem with 
 are you will run into frequent loading screens and more than likely issues with performance but 
 this is by far the most butifulist game i have ever seen... and its like the elder scrolls III marrowind 
 only excpit better grapics and it has more  name it but if your 
 computer cant run it (which is more than likly going to happen) then get it on Xbox 360 if you 
 have one, if you then your out of luck
  
  OVERALL I WOULD RECEMEND THIS GAME ONLY IF YOUR COMPUTER CAN RUN IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simazza
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is an good game. Period. When I first left the sewers at the begining of the game, my 
 jaw just dropped!
  
  But looks can sometimes be deceiving. Yeah Oblivion has great looks, and the interface isn't half 
 bad. But what about the depth?
  
  Oblivion brought the level scaling system from Morrowind to a whole new level. A big level you 
 could say. The world practicaly evolves around YOU, the player.
  
  For example. If I go to a bandit camp when my character is level 1, the bandits will be wearing 
 fur armor, which is one of the weakest light armors in the game. And will probably be weilding 
 either an iron sword or an iron bow. Which is also quite weak.
  
  Now if I went to the EXACT same location when my character is level 50, the bandits will be wearing 
 full Daedric armor, which is the most rarest armor ever. And will also be weilding daedric weapons.
 
  
  This leveling systems destroys the feeling of character progression and the feeling of your character 
 becoming stronger. Now when I go to that bandit camp thinking that these bandits will attack me 
 and I will destroy them because I have trained so long and so hard, what I get is a bunch of frikken 
 daedric weilding warriors, that will kick my ass. Another bad thing is that you never feel the 
 sense of achieving something. Lets say that there is a cave, that is rumoured to have great treasure 
 inside, and only someone with great skill and strength could survive. And you would probably have 
 to train your character until he is strong enough to go in there, and be rewarded with the treasure.
 
  
  Well that does not happen in Oblivion.
  
  I remember when I used to play Morrowind, and I was level 5 and everytime I loaded my save and 
 came accross this one bandit, he would kill me everytime. I tried over and over and he killed me 
 everytime I tried. Eventualy I said to myself You just wait! I'll be back when I am stronger and 
 I will kill you 
  
  Well I did :)
  
  The game comes with the Construction set, which lets you and other players to edit the game however 
 they like. Personally, I like the OOO mod. This mod makes the leveling system much less extreme, 
 and makes the game more balanced like morrowind. I recommend this mod to anybody playing Oblivion.
 
  
  And thats all I have to say about Oblivion. I know this wasn't really a review at all. But this 
 was my opinion on something very big in Oblivion. Maybe next time I will talk about more of the 
 good stuff. Seeya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garybuse
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  There are not a lot of flaws here. Wonderful graphics, sounds, freedom to run around and be whatever 
 you want to be.
  
  BUT there is a fatal flaw. It took me many hours of play to figure it out, but once I saw it, I 
 could barely play on. I am sure this has been talked about before, but here goes again: the problem 
 is that the dificulty of monsters grows along with your growth. This makes all fights throughout 
 the game pretty much the same. They way it should work is that at the start of the game you are 
 weak, and if you travel too far, you are easily killed, but it doesn't work that way. You could 
 start the game and go right into the hard areas and do OK. And also later in the game, when you 
 have been working so hard to make your character as bad-ass as possible, when you return to the 
 start areas, you are now fighting the same monsters but they are tougher. I know there is some 
 range here and sometimes it; s not so clear, but on the whole this makes the game boring. I want 
 to NEED to stay up all night playing, but this flaw ruins that for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastermon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It's expansive free roaming world with cutting edge realism and in depth, game play, anyone who 
 enjoys developing a character from dilettante to master, this is a must have for you collection. 
 I ran this game with all the graphics settings set to the max and the details brought to life are 
 just breathtaking. The musical score is subtle enough to sustain hours of continuous play with 
 out wearing on ones nerves and with hundreds of quests ranging from helping a local find his necklace 
 to saving all of the people of Cyrodiil, Oblivion packs the stuff to keep this game alive month 
 after month. Every bug and flaw I found was easily remedied with the applying of an update. From, 
 the game play and graphics to the epic storyline and realism, this game pushes every level an RPG 
 enthusiast could ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snugglecakes13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Elder Scrolls, how I love you. This is a great series and this installment does not dissapoint. 
 The world is huge. The graphics are abosolutely STUNNING! The combat is Uber cool. Anyone who likes 
 RPG's owes it to themselves to get this game. But beware, it is a system hog! To run it on full 
 settings you need a great video card. I run it on mostly medium and the graphics are great. Next 
 gen it looks like. With so many quests and replayability, it is a must GO OUT AND BUY IT! It is 
 one of the best PC RPG's EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsef64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Ok, ok, ok! This game is incredible. There, I said it. I decided to play through the game again 
 recently. This time round I was playing it on my new PC, and it made all the difference in the 
 world. I downloaded various mods that improved the graphics (as I had done before, though not to 
 the same extent) . I then loaded up the game and BAM - epic.
  The graphics, with the various tweaks, just become incredible. Playing it on a decent rig that 
 can handle the game with everything, and I mean everything on full and still receive no lag and 
 only hint at loading a new cell...... suddenly the game becomes unique and immersive and gloriously 
 rich.
  However... the same nags cropped up again (though with such beautiful visuals shrouding them, I 
 didn't mind half as much) . The voice acting was at best questionable. The diversity of people in 
 the world and only what? 10 voice actors playing them - the lack of variation was noticable. But 
 like I say, I forgave it this time.
  Also, the facial textures themselves still annoyed me. Look around in the graphics are stunning 
 - come across the people in dialogue.... in comparison, just terrible. (but! There are mods that 
 fix this to an extent...)
  The third person avatar is painful to watch walk around and side step and just generally manouver 
 - but becuase you can go first person... I'll forigve that too.
  
  Overall the game just blew me away. I had played it before on a decent computer, but the experience 
 was ruined by the various nags - all of which went or were hidden when playing on an epic machine 
 with a heavily modded environment to play in.
  
  9.5 isn't accurate though - I'd actually like to give 9.7 - but the new rating system (still confusing 
 to me as to why they changed it) won't let me.
  
  Yours looking forward to number 5 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  The fact that Oblivion goes above and beyond its predecessor Morrowind is an achievement in itself. 
 Not only is the main quest a 30-40+ hour affair. All the secondary quests and available dungeons 
 can make this game into a 100-150+ hour game, which definitely makes this game well worth your 
 money.
  
  The open-ended nature of this game is basically like Medieval Sims, you can do the main quest or 
 not at all and can tailor your character in almost every conceivable way. The statistics system 
 is definitely indepth and gives the game a lot of credibility and customization.
  
  In addition to the lengthy campaign and subquests, the ideas of factions and various guilds and 
 job types makes for a much more believable RPG than say WoW, where you are pretty much restricted 
 to the class you set out to be. You can be a fighter, mage, and master thief all at the same time. 
 This in addition to the ability to be a vampire and other minor factions truly brings the world 
 of Tamriel to life.
  
  The music and sound is awe inspiring and well worth releasing an OST all on itself. It is glamourous 
 and truly befits the game's amazing setting.
  
  Oblivion is definitely one of the best games of 2006. The only wish I have is that they have an 
 MMORPG version of this ==&gt; definitely will be the greatest game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Over a year after its initial release I decided to give Oblivion a shot. This is my first foray 
 into the elder scrolls universe and so far I'm pretty impressed. This game is absolutely huge, 
 I can't imagine the time it would take to complete every last quest and explore every last dungeon, 
 certainly one of the deepest single player games available. Graphically, the game is very impressive, 
 and I'm sure it was even more so upon its initial 2006 release. While distant textures do tend 
 to get a little blurry it doesn't necessarily detract from the overall experience, and given the 
 game's incredible scope it's permissible.
  
  Gameplay is good overall, but definitely far from perfect. On the plus side there is an incredible 
 amount of material worth exploring, and the gameworld is huge indeed. Mission structure is unfortunately 
 usually pretty tedious and uninteresting, aside from the main storyline, and the dungeons get pretty 
 repetitive. Bethesda has done an outstanding job at recreating a virtual world, down to the smallest 
 minutia, and the attention given in this regard really makes the whole experience all the more 
 immersive. That aside, hiking across the countryside can be just as boring as it would be in real 
 life, so thankfully a quick transport option is available for the major towns.
  
  That said it's time to talk bugs, as this game is certainly full of them, the gamespot reviewer 
 wasn't wrong about glitched invisible enemies, they certainly are a there, in addition to some 
 really erratic AI behavior out in the countryside such as some psycho imperial guards located in 
 the hinterlands, that attack everything on sight. Oblivion also seems to be pretty fond of CTDs, 
 a minor nuisance sure, but they can erase hours of work if you've forgotten to save.
  
  A few qualifiers: My gaming time is typically spent with multiplayer shooters, which means I find 
 oblivion at times to be painstakingly slow. The RPG aficionado on the other hand might disagree. 
 If you like RPGs and have already beaten KOTOR a half-a-dozen times and are looking for something 
 new (like I was) , you owe it to yourself to give Oblivion a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  One of the most immersive beautiful games in history. I'm not a fan of the game type but man was 
 it fun to play.
  
  On the downside I got bored after 150 hours or so :)
  
  You will like it if you like RPG and FPS games.
  
  With all the add ons free and pay, this 
 game can play well over 400 hours IMO.
  
  Its really really really nuts to see how big this game is.
  
  Can chug at times though due 
 to the incredible detail.
  
  One day I may pick it up again and try to beat the main quest. I recommend everyone to play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolterror
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  i can't say its a perfect game and that it deserves full marks but its not far from the target.
 
  Wow... I mean that in a good way. You see, Elder Scrolls Oblivion is one of the best games i have 
 ever played... Everything is good about it. The NPCs are one of my favorite parts. THey talk to 
 you and they have schedules. Not like in some games where the npcs all look alike and dont do anything. 
 Also you can do lots of stuff like assassinating people or stealing from people. THe character 
 customization is pretty good and there are 10 different races. Personally, i favor the mages in 
 Elder Scrolls because they can heal, summon minions, make barriers, summon weapons, use buffs, 
 and use fire, wind, etc. Warriors can only attack with their brute strength. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maedhros925
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  There are so many things to like about Oblivion, and unless this is the very first review you've 
 read, then I'm sure you know what you're getting yourself into. The game is completely open-ended, 
 giving you an entire world to explore in stunning graphical detail. There are countless quests 
 that will have you spending hours just tracking them all down, let alone completing them all. But 
 despite all that, I can never seem to truly immerse myself in this game.
  
  As much as I played Morrowind, I couldn't help comparing the two games. In Oblivion's favor, combat 
 is much improved. No longer are you just hacking and slashing, now you have to time your blocks 
 and attacks. The new journal is also much easier to use. You can go immediately to your list of 
 quests, and selecting any event takes you immediately to a list of all events in that quest's storyline. 
 The behavior of NPCs is also far more realistic, as they will engage in activities such as reading 
 books, mixing potions, or even just chatting with each other. Shops are open only for business 
 hours, and NPCs will sleep in their beds during the evening.
  
  These are all improvements that Oblivion managed to get right. Unfortunately, Oblivion also makes 
 just enough changes for the worse that I find myself going back to Morrowind more and more. The 
 most glaring frustration is the decision to base so much of the game on your character level. Stronger 
 items won't even spawn until you've spent a good many hours building your level up. Of course, 
 stronger monsters spawn as you level up as well, so the best that you can ever do is tread water. 
 You never get the thrill of powering up and then being able to then wade through enemies that used 
 to give you fits. Instead, if you gain a few levels and come back to that wolf in the forest, you'll 
 find he's turned into an ogre, and has become even harder to kill. Sure, you'll have better equipment, 
 but so will the enemies you face. In fact, part of the strategy of creating your character is choosing 
 skills that won't cause you to level up to quickly. You'll want to include in your major skills 
 at least a few skills that you never plan to use, just to make sure that the enemies you face don't 
 become ridiculously strong, before you have a chance to increase the stats you'll actually need.
 
  
  The only incentive for leveling up is that you won't see the best items, such as Daedric Armor, 
 until you've done so a number of times. Of course, once a new armor does start appearing, everyone 
 has it. Even the most common bandit you'll find in any fort will be arrayed in a set of Glass Armor. 
 There's no longer need to go hunting for great items, just level up enough and you'll find them 
 all around you. The very best items are still given out only as quest rewards, but there's no longer 
 any reason to forage, or just wander the countryside to see what you can find. Reach the appropriate 
 level, and these items are basically handed to you.
  
  The thrill of Morrowind was in the detail. In that game you were dropped in a world where every 
 hill was unique. Every town had its own style, and you could tell immediately if you were in Balmora, 
 Ald-Ruhn, or Sadrith Mora. Every terrain was unique, from the swamps of the Bitter Coast, to the 
 wastelands around Red Mountain, to the open prairie of the Grazelands. Oblivion lacks the character 
 of Morrowind. While you'll find snowy mountains around Bruma, 90% of the world is the same grasslands 
 and forests. Every building is done in the same Imperial style, and even every dungeon looks exactly 
 the same as others of its type. Given a screenshot of Morriwind, and I could likely tell you exactly 
 where in that world you are. Given a screenshot of Oblivion, you could be anywhere at all, from 
 the west coast to the south. Also in Morrowind, every human you fought - even in dungeons - was 
 an individual, who had just one life for you to take and stats that stayed constant. Every item 
 available was already placed in the world. Although level and Luck did effect the items that spawned 
 in containers like chests and barrels, you could get Ebony swords or rings with powerful constant 
 effects if you knew where to look. The effect was to create a world in which you were just one 
 part, a world that already existed in stunning detail before you ever arrived on a prison boat. 
 In Oblivion, the world changes as you do. There are no items to find by scouring, and entire types 
 of items and monsters never exist until your character causes them to appear. You are not just 
 a part of the world, as you were in Morrowind. You are the world, it revolves around you. This 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing, Oblivion is still a tremendous game, filled with hours of gameplay. 
 But for me, as much a fan of Morrowind as I was, Oblivion fails to provide the same immersive experience. 
 Ultimately I find it disappointing. This should have been a solid improvement on Morrowind, the 
 next generation, but without the detail that went into creating that unique world, Oblivion simply 
 can't create the same thrill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jooj
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  I played this game all the way through and what can I say, I'm disappointed. The most laughable 
 scene was when, in the midst of a battle at the end of the game I clicked on the Sean Bean character 
 by mistake and instead of saying something like 'not now I'm fighting', the battle stopped, he 
 turned round and we had a nice little chat for a couple of minutes.
  
  Game play has been simplified from Morrowind for the console which needn't be a bad thing but here 
 I think they took it a stage too far.
  
  On For example, we all know many RPG missions involve going somewhere, killing something and returning 
 with an item but Oblivion reduces this to the level where you even have a pointed telling you where 
 the mobs for your current quest are. Most of the game play consists of following the arrow, killing 
 stuff etc ... in fact pretty much all of it. Brain dead.
  
  Like many other reviewers I wasn't a big fan of the monster scaling either.
  
  Yeah, very pretty 
 and big name actors, kinda the PC game equivalent of an 80's action blockbuster (without so much 
 action) but not my sort of thing at all.
  
  Game play hasn't really moved on since Daggerfall (the first game in the series I played) . In fact, 
 because of the console specific simplifications, many of the small advances that were made with 
 Morrowind have gone. Daggerfall was great for its time but I kinda hoped things might have moved 
 on. On a personal note, I was somewhat disappointed that they didn't give you the ability to say 
 you weren't interested in talking to anyone so that every NPC and its mother doesn't turn round 
 and say what can I do for you stranger? in ultra annoyingly polite self righteous tones. That started 
 to get on my nerves about half way through Morrowind and continued to grate increasingly through 
 out this.
  
  If you want the ultimate RPG experience try the free 10 day trial of WoW, http://teaser. wow-europe. com/.
 
  
  Much better than this tosh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY RATINGS -------------------------
  Difficulty: Just Right
  Time Spent: 100+ Hours
  Learning Curve: 30 to 60 Minutes
  
  Gameplay: 10 / 10
  Graphics: 
 10 / 10
  Sound: 8 / 10
  Value: 10 / 10
  My Tilt: 10 / 10
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay: It is very 
 hard to describe the gameplay of this game other than a wow. You start out as a prisoner and somehow 
 the dying emperor has to use your jail cell to reach a secret area where he reaches his death. 
 Before he dies, he gives you an amulet and tells you to go find the last heir to his throne, as 
 the rest have already been murdered off by this secret group called the Mythic Dawn. Between that 
 very first mission to deliver that amulet to the very last of that storyline, you are free to explore 
 the entire country of Cyrodiil on your own. While freeroaming in such a sandbox environment, you 
 are free to accept any quests given by any town folks and join any factions you like, provided 
 you fulfill their requirements. There's just so much to do in this game it's hard to describe in 
 a review. And this is one of the few games where the majority of the players are spending over 
 100, or in my case, 200 hours on this game throughout. In Oblivion you can choose between race, 
 birthsigns, and classes. You can play as a warrior-type character, or a stealthy thief, a mage, 
 or even a combination of the three. The battle action is far from boring as there's countless ways 
 you can deal with the enemies in a combat.
  
  Graphics: If you have a high-end graphics card, you will NOT be disappointed by the graphics of 
 this game. To imagine the graphics, just picture a San Andreas kind of huge environment with FPS 
 quality environment throughout the entire map. The game feels so real that my friend thought I 
 was watching a movie when I was playing the game. I use a GF7900GT and I can pretty much run everything 
 to their max setting. If you use anything lower than the GF6500 I wouldn't recommend playing this 
 game at all, for it may lag a bit even with lower settings.
  
  Sound: The sound would have recieved a perfect score if and only if there are more voice casts 
 to this game. Besides the emperor who dies off in the first 15 minutes of the game and his heir, 
 the rest of the countless characters have the same six voices over and over. The realism of the 
 graphics and the repeating voices create a huge contrast in this game. Sometimes a character's 
 voice actually changes in front of you when you're talking to him. It's a shame to have such a 
 minor flaw to such a flawless game.
  
  Value, Tilt: There's just so much you can do in this game that it can keep you entertained for 
 over a couple weeks or even months of game play. Again, it's hard to describe the game to you and 
 you just have to play it to feel it. Buy... or no Buy? - The game is one of the few games in the 
 market that can remain the at same price for over a year as it has first came out on day one. For 
 $50USD this may seem a bit pricy, but with this game you don't have to buy another for another 
 month or so to keep yourself entertained. The Knights of Nine expansion ($20USD) and the official 
 guide ($13 on amazon. com) make your experience a bit more satisfying. The guide offers pages of 
 important stats and magic info that come in pretty handy when you're in the game, as you cannot 
 alt-tab back and forth while playing Oblivion. The Game, Expansion, and the Guide are must buys 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  yes, oblivion involves a great territory, stunning graphics, strong interactivity, thousands of 
 items, interesting quests, you would say everything that an rpg needs... .
  
  I would say no. What makes a game strong, is the basic. what is the basic of ALL rpgs? killing, 
 destroying, annihilating, exterminating, Monsters, ennemies, foes, bad guys.
  
  Is it fun in Obliviyon. no.
  
  Since Blade of Darkness , the world didnt see more realistic, 
 sensational, combat sequences, and atmosphere.
  
  Focus on that.
  
  if the meat is not tasty, hundred of sauce won't help it. But you're luck that only a few will 
 not be fooled.
  
  (note: even daggerfall had a better gameplay.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  What draws you to gaming: Immersive gameplay? Detailed Graphics? Gripping Story? Depth and the 
 ability to reply again and again and have a different experience?
  
  If you answered yes to any or all of the above then Elder Scrolls IV is frankly the best use of 
 your hard earned (/borrowed/begged for) money that you can get on a PC.
  
  From the moment you start the game, choose your race and choose one of the many professions, each 
 with their own primary skills, or even if you choose to create your own profession with different 
 skills to any of the vast array of pre designed ones, the game's scope becomes apparent.
  
  Complete ability to customize your character, and so many options to choose from, allied with the 
 bonuses bestowed upon your character by his/her birth sign, makes this one of the most complete 
 character creation processes you will ever see.
  
  That's all well and good, but what does that level of customization actually mean? Well 1st up 
 it means you feel a degree of satisfaction in your creation, it is exactly how YOU want to be, 
 and that enables you to connect to the game in a way not often seen. Also it adds an almost infinite 
 set of challenges if/when you choose to replay the game.
  
  Add to that the story which grips you from the moment the Emperor bursts into your cell at the 
 start (it's not much of a spoiler, honest) , and you have a hugely immersive and replayable game.
 
  
  Ok so what of the depth, you can spend an hour or 2 creating an avatar but what good does that 
 do if the gamepay sucks? As soon as you are through the intro sewers and out into the big bad world 
 you have the greatest of things.... choice.
  
  Not just the good/bad guy choice, REAL choice of what to do. Do you think it's best to let the 
 nation stew for a bit while you become a master assassin? How about the sound of Arch-Mage in from 
 of your name? Sound good? Thought so. You can choose to do all the quests at your own pace, and 
 in your own style, be that ranged magic, in your face melee, stealthy killing or any combo of the 
 above.
  
  And the game is smart too, contract vampirism and you can't stay out in the sun light for example. 
 The guards will come running if they hear trouble, but have no godly powers to known what happened 
 if they didn't see it. The whole world feels alive from the moment you stop to look around, to 
 when you explore to the back end of any of the small towns and meet a poor homeless person.
  
  Allied to that is a very definitive style, in terms of architecture, geography, dress sense 
 and wildlife/beasts. You really can feel like you are part of the world in which you fight, and 
 the world will reward you for looking around accordingly.
  
  I won't go on any more as it would take from the time you could be playing the game, and you really 
 SHOULD be playing it. There's no reason not to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Not enough can be said about the visuals of Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Not a single shadow, grain 
 of dirt, or cloud is overlooked. This tremendously large lavishly detailed world is full of action 
 and adventure.
  
  Diving more in depth of the action, there is alot of well-made and entertaining aspects in this 
 game. Fighting mechanics like stealth, combat and magic are entertaining and very well designed. 
 With that comes another one of the games unbelievable strong points; the sound. There are hundreds 
 of believable characters, complete with full and excellent voice acting, and accurate-enough hacking 
 and slashing audio. And the soundstrack is simply fantastic. The campaign has hours of fun and 
 along with being many choices for character classes, races, and specifications there is a great 
 replay value.
  
  Even the most triumphant video game accomplishment will have a few shortcomings. There are very 
 frequent, though fairly brief loading times. Navagation can also be a pain, having to rely on a 
 compass to make your way around, as having an on-screen Mini-map would be a tad more useful. However 
 these 'shortcomings' if you would call them that are not the big issue. The only REAL issue is 
 within its visuals; With this games phenominal graphics comes its curse; to run this game at a 
 good rate you need a damn good computer with a graphic card that packs a punch.
  
  However, the few inevitable shortcomings that come with the package are only belmishes on a trully 
 amazing gaming experience; Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is a gaming experienced that deserves not to 
 be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anithon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best RPGS out there. Not only is it easy to pick up for someone who 
 really isnt into the genre, but for hardcore fans it offers a fun and not overly difficult experience. 
 The only problem I can really see for it is if you have a PC like I do to enjoy it at its best 
 you have to have a fairly high end computer. However other than that I can think of no other RPG 
 that allows you to interact with NPCS so well. The actual story keeps you interested with many 
 hours of game play and even when you complete it there is still much to do. The guild quests are 
 immersive and the ranges of characters good to evil in this game are impressive. How you use your 
 character by doing good deeds or acting violently will have an affect on who you can talk to and 
 what information theyll give you. As far as character creation you can make your character however 
 you want it. There is hardly any limit on what kind of character you can make. From a spell casting 
 Swordsman to an illusionist archer the character creation is another attribute that makes this 
 game amazing. All in all this game is an awesome RPG and well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Excelent graphics off course, everyone knows that, nice characters, nice artistic design, nice 
 reflections and so on...
  The environments are beautifull in Oblivion, but they can get even more beautifull with the make 
 it pretty patch, the low detail textures of the distant lands are really poor but fortunatly make 
 it pretty can more or less correct this.
  But when a game its released we can't count on others to finish a job that was supposed to be done, 
 If the problem was performance than why not make a able/disable option? and what about the self 
 shadowing? it looks really bad without a patch.
  The game as lots of caves, crypts and stuff like that but nothing will give you a true desire to 
 explore every cave and ruin because they are too much and they are all the same, no ruin or cave 
 has a unique thing and the prize for getting to the end of this places its not worth the time you 
 spent there, the would itself is big but will not give you the desire to explore everything as 
 well, the world its to linear with some unique places, you will only feel atracted by this unique 
 places.
  Anyway the game graphics are really good and you won't get dissapointed.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very simple and familiar gameplay. It can get tedious just to swing your weapon 
 with the left mouse button.
  you can perform simple atacks, strong atacks, block with shield, shoot with your bow and of couse... 
 use magic.
  The Level scaling its a dissapointing feature since you can finish the main quest with LVL 1... 
 really dumb thing, you lvl up to lvl 60 and wolfs just get extint and you now see minotaurs, where 
 are the wolfs? they are gone because you leveled up.
  All this actions are simple and bring nothing new to the rpg genre, so there is nothing bad in 
 Oblivion gameplay but nothing new or revolutionary.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Soundtrack its awsome and unique, the voice acting its just nice but the NPC animations don't 
 help the good voice acting.
  The general sound from swords, ambient, bows, spells and that kind of stuff its nice too.
  So 
 the soundtrack its really positive, since the rest of the sound its good and fits nice in the game.
 
  
  Lifetime:
  
  Like The Elder Scrolls III - Morrowind, this Elder Scrolls IV is a long lasting game with hundreds 
 of side-quests and a nice main-quest. The game will take more than 200 hours of your life so prepare 
 to get in front of your PC for a long, long time. Some people say that it is almost impossible 
 to perform all the quests in the game.
  Some quests are unique like entering a paint and rescue a man that was made prisioner of his own 
 painting.
  Sometimes you have a deep feeling that only a few games can offer, when you steal a Elder Scroll 
 from the Elder Scrolls imperial city library you will feel great for being in such place.
  
  Performance:
  
  The game runs smooth with good constant framerate in max details, of course 
 you will need a top-end PC for the max details, If you have minimum specs for example an ATI Radeon 
 9600 with a pentium IV 3.0 and 1 gig of ram, the game can run nice in low details and some medium 
 details.
  The HDR feature can low your performance but for a PC with medium specs the Bloom feature can make 
 it.
  The Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion has nothing bad to point at its performance but if you want to 
 play this game like it was meant to be played, you'll need to have a good PC.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  I expected more from Oblivion at least from the world design, I think the 
 world design its too linear and repetitive with only a few really unique places to explore.
  The general experience its very satisfying, but the Level scaling really sucks a lot, fans from 
 other Elder Scrolls titles will not get dissapointed, the game its really worth playing and should 
 be played by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyrock
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought Oblivion a long time ago, I created my character, I was awed how gorgeous the game looked, 
 I rode my horse up the Jerral Mountains and took in the massive view. I completed the mainquest 
 and completed the thievs guild quests. Then I set the game aside and did not play with it for while. 
 Now... It is the only game I play. Hmm wonder why, Moding is why. This game as good as it is is 
 nothing without the modding community. It breaths new life into an already impressive game. Don't 
 believe gamespot, this game is best on a PC, solely because of modding. There are thousands of 
 great mods and I'd say at least a dozen new ones appear every week. From better looking textures, 
 new quests, new armors and clothing, new races better inventory and hud display's and yes of course 
 there are nudity mods if that is to your choosing. Anything that you can imagine adding to the 
 game probably has been created, and if it doesn't exist. Hey you could create and impress the whole 
 modding community. If you have a decent computer GET IT, and see what all the fuss is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33tdaedalus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The combat of Oblivion is better than Morrowind's by leaps and bounds. Mindlessly attacking 
 your enemy with the same power-swing over and over won't work here like it did in Morrowind. There 
 is a more visceral feel this time around as well, as your screen shakes from being hit and you 
 have to compensate as a result. Additionally, you can use magic to aid your quest, or sneak your 
 way through and sneak-attack enemies for extra damage, so don't get the impression that your only 
 way to make it through the game is through brute force.
  
  There are also a number of other skills that you can utilize in the game that enchance the experience. 
 You can craft potions, for instance, to grant you temporary bonuses to your attributes or new abilities.
 
  
  Finally, there is a huge amount of content to explore in Oblivion, and it takes a free-roam approach 
 to it all. This sandbox approach to the game is a great benefit. While it doesn't make the game 
 any less linear, at least you don't always have to take the same path from quest objective A to 
 quest objective B.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of Oblivion are indeed beautiful. Forests look serene, dungeons look dark, 
 dank, and gloomy, and the weapons and armor are simply gorgeous. If you have a system up to the 
 task of running the game, Oblivion will most certainly reward you with a fantastic visual show.
 
  
  Sound: Most of Oblivion's music consists of a mellow soundtrack that doesn't particularly stand 
 out, but the sound of weapons hitting armor, flesh, and shields helps to bring you into the combat. 
 The sound effects in general are well done, but the voice acting is a story on its own.
  
  Every single line of dialog in Oblivion is voice-acted, and while that may sound like a great idea, 
 there are a couple of drawbacks. For instance, the NPCs really don't have all that much to say, 
 and you will frequently hear them repeat their lines over and over (I saw a mudcrab the other day...) . 
 Additionally, the quality of the voice acting runs the gamut from good to stale to exagerrated, 
 depending on who you talk to.
  
  Value: Oblivion is jam-packed with dungeons to dive into and lands to explore, but after a while, 
 they all start to feel the same. You'll never really run across a dungeon you can't beat (see the 
 level-scaling issues below) , so you'll never be sent packing from a dungeon that is way too much 
 for you, only to experience the satisfaction of kicking monster tail and emerging triumphant once 
 you've gained some new abilities and better armor. Thankfully, the game comes with a construction 
 set, so if you tire of the vanilla version of Oblivion, there will be a mod or two out there that 
 will extend your play time.
  
  Tilt: While getting lost in a first-person shooter may mean boring, irksome backtracking, getting 
 lost in Oblivion may lead to new adventure opportunities, and being rewarded in such a way for 
 going off the beaten path can be great. However, it is typically difficult to be surprised in such 
 a manner as all dungeons, quest objectives, and unique areas are highlighted on your quest-compass, 
 which feels like a blatant hand-holding tool. Not only that, but you can skip the getting lost 
 process altogether by simply fast-travelling to a location somebody marks on your map. While the 
 fast-travel system definitely saves more than a few headaches, it would have made more sense to 
 only be able to fast-travel to places you have visited.
  
  That said, the biggest disappointment has to be the level-scaling system that Oblivion uses, which 
 is quite awful. At times, the scaling destroys any sense of immersion you might get. For instance, 
 at the beginning of the game, bandits will accost you wearing simple leather armor and using mediocre 
 or poor weapons, which makes sense given that their primary income source is demanding gold for 
 a person's immediate physical health. However, once you gain enough levels, bandits will be running 
 around in obscenely expensive armor like glass or daedric and wielding magical weaponry. If the 
 bandits have access to such powerful, valuable armor, do they really need to hit me up for a paltry 
 sum of gold?
  
  The scaling system leads to other issues, which, while not usually outright problems, definitely 
 feel out of place. For instance, it is possible to beat the game as a level 2 character. You can 
 save all of Tamriel, become the champion of the arena, and be the head of all guilds at the game... 
 at level two. If anything, levelling up only makes the game more challenging. If you walk into 
 Kvatch at level 1, the guards and you will easily break the seige without breaking a sweat. However, 
 walk in at level 13, and your guard allies will get stomped in ten seconds flat leaving you outnumbered 
 and flanked by a bunch of nasty demons.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a beautiful game with a large amount of content to explore and enjoy, but 
 the game itself doesn't feel particularly deep or compelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarcFire221
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  if you are a Elder scroll fan then you will love this game. BUt there are some down sides like 
 there is no crossbow for you cross lovers but you have more freedoms and to me its more fun than 
 before so now GO BUY AND PLAY IT. and if you have any Q's that needs A's hit me up. AND if you 
 want one kind of arrow go in to console and type TGM and then shoot as much arrows you want then 
 go back in to console and re type TGM. And that is one of the cheats i learned from messing with 
 the console. And if you are a real game lover there and different mods for this they are kick ass 
 to. And if you need to know the mods for it look it up on www. chacha. com and that is all i have 
 to say about this. It could be better if it had online play but hey thats just me right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyborg-21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Gameplay mechanics of Oblivion are superb. The first person view is intutive, and easily 
 playable. The combat is also very easy to master, and remains fun and enjoyable especially as you 
 increase in levels.
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphics are simply stunning, but you will need a very high end PC to run Oblivion with 
 HDR. I would recommend a G80 or X1900 series card, as they have the power to do FSAA+HDR easily. 
 The game does offer options to scale back the graphics, and it's quite playable even on older cards.
 
  
  SOUND: The music is excellent, and this is backed up by excellent sounds and noises in battle as 
 well as ambient noise. Difficult to fault.
  
  VALUE: Oblvion is immense, and you could practically play on it forever and ever without even getting 
 bored. All the side-quests are excellent, and complement the excellent main quest. Note that there 
 is NO multi-player.
  
  OVERALL: Even if you are not a fan of Role Playing Games, give Oblivion a try, you will not regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulbreakerx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  From my opinion, everything is beautiful in this game, from the environment to the NPCs, items 
 and others. But you can't see the beauty of the game if you are running on low-end system making 
 your gameplay much more boring with everything on less detail and system lagging sometimes. Everything 
 only becomes beautiful when you are running on a high-end system.
  
  I'd say the game is plain beautiful because the gameplay is not that interesting as the graphics. 
 This game is into more action, less role-playing. I fell like playing more likely to a First Person 
 Shooter and GTA like. I don't quite feel the RPG in the game but the game is still great to be 
 played and to be explored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said by any other people reviewing it it is a huge game 
 with hundreds of hour of gameplay with so many things to see, collect, buy sell ,do the list of 
 things is huge.
  
  You have heard from the gamespot review telling you that you start in The main city's prison where 
 you are introduced to all the controls and some of the main characters.
  
  After you are done in the introduction stage you get access to the full greatness of the world 
 with heaps of weapons and armor spell and so on which help you to get respect with guilds and other 
 thing that make this game great
  
  This game at its time had some of the most advanced graphics Pc had available so you might not 
 get Al that you would expect in games these day but the look never really gets old.
  
  If you're looking for an advance RPG this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yusijiro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion, despite the hype, isn't as great as the critics claim. Yes, it has some good things going 
 for it, a considerable amount of good things, and a multitude of bad things as well. First, the 
 system requirements aren't for the faint of heart. Even my CPU, an IntelCore2Duo E6700 couldn't 
 play smoothly in outdoor environments in 1240x768 resolution. Also, the LOD display (distant lands 
 and terrain) simply SUCKS. You can remedy this problem by downloading shaja's LOD texture repair 
 mod, but it's a shame that the creators just HAD to stick with 1240x1240 LOD textures, which looks 
 like a brew of toxic waste mixed in with a little brown stuff. Yes, the landscape in the distance 
 will look like this. Also, there is a lot of pop-up trees and grass, which is kind of annoying. 
 The game also doesn't get exciting until you start the multiple quests in the game, which are scattered 
 around the MASSIVE land of Cryodill. To activate a quest, you're gonna have to talk to EVERYONE. 
 Other than clearing out dungeons (which are in the middle of nowhere) this is the only way to have 
 fun with this game. I also must say that traveling in the wilderness is BORING. There are almost 
 NO monsters to fight except lowly wolves and imps, depending on your level. Then again, there are 
 plenty of mods that boost the respawning rate of creatures in the wilderness. Francesco's leveled 
 monsters and items mod is great. So is the Wilderness Monster mod and Mart's Monsters mod, but 
 it would have been cool if the creators enabled a function to toggle respawn rates. The music, 
 from time to time, gets kind of annoying and repetitive, so expect to turn your volume down once 
 in a while. Also, the blood in this game is not used to its full potential and doesn't fully serve 
 its purpose as a hit indicator. The blood that comes out of a body when you strike it looks like 
 a itty-bitty stream of red mist. It has no depth, and it looks like paper... red, 2D paper. The 
 blood on the wall and the splatters serve it's purpose, but it may seem weird to some gamers when 
 you hit something and you suddenly see this red splotch-thing on the wall. I may seem to be quite 
 a picky person when it comes to video games, but the problems I am bringing up are sure to affect 
 your enjoyment of this game some way or another. The slicing sound of the sword is also extremely 
 annoying, but that might not be the case for some people... *SHING* *SHING* NOW FOR THE GOOD POINTS!!! 
 1.) great up-close graphics 2.) Top-notch voice acting 3.) original, nicely fitting music (for the 
 circumstance) 4.) Good replay value (when you have a quest or you are clearing a dungeon. 5.) HIGHLY 
 MODABLE... so the possibilities are quite endless. If you choose to buy this game, that's great! 
 Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sut-typhon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I am not a regular player of RPG's, but this one from the first auto-save I was hooked. If you 
 lose your interests quickly with all the extra manuals, online guides, and tedium of starting to 
 play a RPG, this is for you. I can't stand trying to figure out crap, reading volumes of stuff 
 and cannot enjoy myself because of the crap that I have to do prior to playing is a too much of 
 a drag. This is a overall a great gaming experience for those FPS folks like me who are looking 
 for a change of pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacksonS20
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off very intresting wich is great because it really draws you in with great voices 
 and wonderful graphics. Then when you walk into this huge world where you can pretty much do anything 
 you want. The only problem I can see is that later in the game things become kind of dry. Its hard 
 for me to put my finger on it but Im sure it has to do with how open ended the game is. Much like 
 real life but with no real lasthing reationships you actually feel. If anyone in the game dies 
 you dont feel much attachment to them. Thats a problem for me because if I dont care about them 
 at all then it dosnt matter to me and takes some flavor from the game. The most important part 
 though is this is an overall great game and anyone should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFD
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 4- Oblivion
  
  There is no need me telling you wwhats good about this game. Its posted everywhere. Amazing AI, 
 good visuals, and fun combat system. I have been playing on Oblivion for 3 months now, and have 
 to say that this game is boring. Once you get over the ultra realistic graphics, it is a game that 
 does not even come close to morrowind in recreating a fantasy culture. If you want to buy an Elder 
 Scrolls game, go with morrowind.
  
  However, i am not saying Oblivion is a bad game. If you, like myself, are a fan of the Elder Scrolls 
 series than it is a game you should consider. I have given the GAMEPLAY rating 4/ 10, this is in 
 comparison with morrowind. Oblivion is better than most games, but not the 'best in the series'
 
  
  N-F-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iCEE_Taffer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I have upgraded my system rig from a Pentium 166MHZ MMX to a Pentium 4 3,02 GHz (Overclocked to 
 4,51GHz)
  Sound Maxx Digital Audio, Kingston 1GB Ram (upgrading soon ;) )
  Nvidia 7800 GS Extreme Edition (AGP ^_^ ^ ^_^) Maxtor 160GB HDD (very fast very .... good)
  
 
  just to play Oblivion and I must tell you, tis well worth the wait so to speak.
  Oblivion runs real life like, wich makes me twirl in excitement I am going back to play, katana 
 Rules, the engine is rulah-like (even though I think this might be a XBOX-Port, not sure though) .
 
  
  I would reccomend the same to you, save up a few dollahs and buy yourself a game monster magnet 
 like (XBOX 360 de-greeze) .
  
  Sorry for my bad language I don't have much time to write a full greezel review but surely, you 
 could read (or watch) Gamespot review (I love Gamesopt and I hope they stay open till the end of 
 time) . Well then be off to dream land, see you soon (like) .
  
  Sentinent Hyper Optimised Data Access Network (upgrading language/s lol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckcsox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  When I was told this was the best RPG game ever by one of my friends I had to try it out my self. 
 After playing it for the past week I find myself coming to the same conclusion I have never played 
 an RPG that gave so much free reign over the world but at the same time has a very enjoyable central 
 story that moves down a specific path. While Morrowind allowed you to do what ever you wanted it 
 lacked structure. Oblivion allows you the freedom of an MMORPG with the structure and story line 
 of a Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBusta
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  First time i heard of this game i thought it was one of those boring games with a crappy story. 
 But then i tried the game over at one of my buddies. I realized that the game was a masterpiece. 
 The great thing about the game is that you can choose exactly who you want to be, and what you 
 want to do.
  You wanna save the world? Do it! Or maybe you want to murder the Count of some city? Why don't 
 do that to? Great idea! In this game you can do anything! Buy yourself a crappy house by the waterfront, 
 or a big manor in the city. Be a famous gladiator in the arena, or simple thief. Maybe you want 
 a job? Join the fighters guild! (or even better, the assassins guild!) My point is: this game's 
 got everything. It's a great story, and the graphics are perfect.
  You can walk around in a gigantic world and choose your own way of life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterboy56
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played lots of rpgs over the years and i can easily say this is the best RPG ever, loads 
 to do, awsome graphics, great sounds, fantastic gameplay anyone who says this game sucks should be 
 put in a mental institute for life, its impossible not to like this game even non rpg players should 
 buy it.
  
  Theres not really much more to say except BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY  
 know where you live so you better buy it trust me you wont be dissapointed even if you dont like 
 it it makes very good fire wood, well plastic
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abousamir2002
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  The world is really really huge, and it's very detailed, impressive artificial intelligence and 
 Tons of unique characters that you can interact with.
  The actions that you can make in the world are countless, the possibilities for customization seems 
 limitless. You have different types gameplay, and all of them (action, stealth, adventure) are 
 well designed and deeply satisfying. Let's talk about the Bad (GAMESPOT review) , reviewers say 
 there are Frequent though fairly brief loading times, I can't consider this as a bad, because the 
 world is huge, the graphics are great, so small not very frequent loading time is much better, 
 then less frequent, but long loading times. and about the technical issues with performance, I've 
 been playing the game nearly 40 hours, i didn't face major bugs, fatal errors, or graphics problems.
 
  
  enjoy playing, this game is a MUST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  Oblivion starts off with a nice tutorial which is teh start of the main quest, it is quite a nice 
 way to the start the game but personally i'm not to keen on the main quests storyline. Still one 
 amazing thing about oblivion is the world, although it may be lacking some of the small details 
 morrowind had its crammed full of interesting new strange dungeons each with unique individual 
 layouts! A lot of good reuses of the same models as well might i add. No need to worry where your 
 heading you can just wander around completely and find creatures around your level either fairly 
 easy or in some cases quite challenging =D.
  
  Overall the only things i don't like about the game is the fact there are no fix spears, nothing 
 a few good mods can't fix though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtiscurtis06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I dont even know where to begin. Oblivion is a masterpiece. Stellar graphics and an outstandingly 
 massive world to interact with almost everything. The ability to pick up almost everything is amazing, 
 and to be able to stand in one spot and capture the beauty this game has to offer is rewarding. 
 The facial features need to worked on, and some flaws were worked out: just some minor things that 
 do not even set you back. The amount of NPCs and how they interact with the world is stupefying. 
 Overall this is a great game and worth the time and money to get to play at its fullest. A revolutionary 
 game that will be talked about for years and years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV:
  OBLIVION
  
  Games, games, after games We are not seeing anymore interesting games. Until until the day Bethesda 
 Softworks&reg; Decided to release a game, an amazing game. Called OBLIVION! If you like RPG, or 
 Adventure, arcade, puzzle You should try oblivion! It's the game of the year. I dont know how 
 people don't own it yet?! The game is amazing. Its graphics, the intensive level of detail, But 
 you ought to download the Make It pretty Pack to improve and tweak the graphics. The you could 
 actually live in Nature, WOW, the amazingly high level of graphics will shock you, as you walk 
 you will see motion in grass, which (the grass) is all over the place, maybe rocks and pebbles 
 that are 3D! Trees are also 3D, there are trees everywhere! Maybe flowers too? Maybe a lake? Maybe 
 a hill? The way the sun rises and the way twilight appears in dusk. The reflection of light on 
 your sword, armor, The sky at night, WOW, really, you could see a planet and it's moons, their 
 good! The numerous stars, twinkling.
  The sounds are astonishing too, they are great! I've got a 5.1 surround sound and the sounds are 
 just amazing, you could here people whispering behind you, and then look back, there are actually 
 people. The music score is just AGREABLE (in French) Bam baraboom barabom bara lara boom  It's 
 amazing!!!!
  What about the gameplay? You'll never get bored. Kicking ass, hunting, selling, buying, exploring 
 the horizons, treasure hunting, drinking, casting spells, curses, or unlocking mysterious puzzles, 
 preparing potions, poisons, as an alchemist, collection flowers, seed, plants, or just join the 
 dark brotherhood and kill people you dislike, the story goes on over 300hours of PLAY!!!
  Then you'll see a gate which leads to the lands of oblivion, a totally different world, as for 
 me, I like to wander there, collect plants, kill enemies and take their super super strong weapons, 
 the go after the Sigil Stones which are the way these gates are open, you will find a sigil stone 
 in each oblivion gate, you gotta climb a tower, find a way to the top, then take the sigil stone 
 from a line of fire from the earth to the sky.
  You can capture souls, create spells, the game is ought to be bought! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izod91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely compelling and has a very in-depth story line. Even when the story line 
 becomes boring (which it will) or it ends, there are endless possiblities outside the main quest. 
 Everything from killing mountain lions to assassinating someone through an organization called 
 The Dark Brotherhood keeps you on the edge of your seat. I highly reccomend to anyone who even 
 remotely likes role-playing games.
  
  The side quests include things like helping people in despair, or even causing despair. There are 
 many different guilds: the Fighters Guild, the Mages Guild, the Thieves Guild, the Dark Brotherhood, 
 and others. I think this is what makes oblivion so cool... an endless possibilities for different 
 types of characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. No doubt in taht, one of the best RPG games I ever play. But I wish that 
 game must have some multiple endings, which is a MUST (4 me) in a RPG game. But in here I am the 
 good guy and main quest ends in a same manner, no different endings, no critical choices to make. 
 So it's some kind of boring thing for a RPG game.
  
  Apart from that the game is great with graphics, sound etc ( You need to have a high performance 
 PC if you want to enable high graphics) . Also there is a special option in game play that can do 
 the fast traveling from one location to another, which is a good thing ( for me) because some RPG 
 games doesn't support that option so you have to walk all the way (In most cases by foot) and I 
 hate to do that (walking is good when you want to wonder of the world, other than that its a waste 
 of time) .
  
  After all this is a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulzfo
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was expecting great things. After months of hype and ogling at absolutely beautiful screenshots, 
 as well as an entertaining first person perspective (different = good, right?) , I was definitely 
 looking foward to Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. My friend had played Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, 
 and he had nothing but good things to say about the series. Once I got the DVD disc and put it 
 in my drive, though, it all changed. The game is definitely very pretty; the sound is fantastic; 
 and this is a long, long, LONG, game. BUT WHERE'S THE GAMEPLAY?
  
  I didn't buy Oblivion to ogle at the beauty of 3D worlds; I came to play an RPG with a story, direction, 
 and things that happen. Instead, I get a mediorce first person shooter without guns (which is what 
 makes it entertaining in the first place) .
  
  I tried my best to like it; I really did. Seeing that bright yellow glow of Editor's Choice Award 
 from Gamespot gave me high hopes. To wit, I may as well go about the many positive aspects of this 
 game. Truely, those graphics are absolutely marvelous; crank those settings up if you have a high 
 end graphics card, and watch your jaw drop to the floor in the wonder of highly detailed and carefully 
 crafted environments. People have wrinkles on their face, sheep look wooly, and even the zombies 
 look absolutely disgustine. Light shines into rooms and off building in the most realistic way 
 possible. The outside world can be seen from quite a distance, and it look REAL, which can't be 
 said for many RPGs of any type. It is just like they threw magical elements into the real Medieval 
 times, and the whole presentation is just superb.
  
  The sound is also quite good. Every thwack, bow string, and flowing stream is full audio splendor. 
 The orchestrated score adds alot of character, and never overwhelms the on screen action too much. 
 There's some ambient stuff as well, which make the dungeons all the more creepy. Each character 
 you meet up with is fully voiced (and it's good voice acting, not the drivel gamers usually have 
 to put up with) . They are real people; they go about their daily business and do what they please. 
 and look great while doing it. Really, the graphics and sound combine to make this one of the best 
 looking games that has every been released, bar none.
  
  As well, this is extremely long (to admit, I didn't get very far; 20 hours or so was enough) game, 
 for those who enjoy it, it sure is a fantastic values. There are lots of sidequests to enjoy, as 
 well as the various caverns, castles, and abandoned places where loot can be found. That's more 
 than $50 can buy you nowadays, and the recent expansion pack only adds to this aspect.
  
  Of course, then we hit a speed bump that forces us to stop and think for a second. How does it 
 play? you might ask, hoping that the glorious visual automatically translate to great game. Well... not 
 exactly. You see, somewhere along the line someone thought this game should be played in the first 
 person perspective. I realize that Elder Scrolls games have always been in first person for an 
 immersive experience . Hey, YOU get to be the character, you're immersed in the game. Cool beans. 
 So, how's character development? Well, you just sorta pick what you want to do during the long 
 beginning sequence (in the sewers) . Lovely. Personally, I never felt attached; if anything, the 
 random screens that pop up to make you choose your path felt a little jarring to the experience. 
 You develop your skills by learning them; but why ever choose magic? Melee weapons are KING in 
 Oblivion; magic is there for healing and nothing more. And then, how do you hit stuff? Well, there's 
 a block, and a attack button, and a charge foward move - and that's it. Any stats? NO. You never 
 know how many hits points an enemy has left, nor how much you're taking out. For goodness sake, 
 this is an RPG; people buy these to LOOK at the numbers and determine how effective we are. Indeed, 
 I felt like I was playing Rune all over again; only instead of a viking, I can look really weird. 
 And don't zoom the camera angle out to see your character; it's an awkward experience to be sure. 
 The people are interesting to talk to, but I couldn't kill anyone; for being such a free form game, 
 I can whack a person with a sledge hammer 50,000 times, and get the message so and so is unconscious 
 . And stealth is completely useless; no matter how much you build your skill, enemies just suddenly 
 run up to you and attack. Bow and arrows are just as useless as magic because they take way too 
 long to repair. And the default walking speed is horrendous. Someone may want to call this realistic 
 - and in response, I call it a video game . I want it to be fun. If it was supposed to be realistic, 
 one shot from my hammer should down most enemies (and they me) , and this game would be really hard 
 core then, and it wouldn't have such high ratings.
  
  This lead into my next point: the world is free to explore... perhaps a bit too much so. For example, 
 as soon as the intro sequence is done, BAM. Where do I go? What do I do? No, Oblivion feels fit 
 to throw you into its world and then not explain what's going on. A red arrow on the compass leads 
 to your next destination. That's fine and dandy, but when it takes me a while to get there (an 
 hour, maybe?) I don't see the fun in it. Sure, I can use the map to teleport there, and there we 
 have defeated the purpose of exploration. Sure, you might be able to find a new item after a long 
 search, but why bother when the actually exploring is SO DULL? And it really is, and those items 
 just are not worth the trouble. What does exploring amount to? Whack Enemy A, Whack Enemy B, etx... 
 There's never a pervading sense of danger to the realm or anything, like the world is going to 
 end; take your time, life is apparently very long, or time doesn't exist, in Tamriel. In addition, 
 the whole leveling up thing has been thrown out the window in favor of dynamic enemies - which 
 in turn promotes this feeling of no progress at all. It doesn't matter what kind of enemy you face, 
 as they will always be as powerful as you (hence the very easy choice I assigned to the game) .
 
  
  So, to recap: Whack enemy, whack next enemy, get item, talk to person, etc... Except this game 
 isn't roleplaying; it's your common life with swords and magic. Which is to say, not so exciting. 
 The combat is just like a clunky FPS game, and this permeates the entire experience, really detracting 
 from everything else. This is the perfect example of graphics over gameplay. Advertised as an RPG, 
 it's really for people who like to kill things in a big world in a leisurely way. 10 hours in, 
 I just couldn't stand the non direction (and the aformentioned whacking of things) and went and 
 played Metal Slug. That should tell you enough. If you like grinding, I guess, go ahead and dive 
 into this one. If you want something more like a pure RPG or pure FPS game, look elsewhere; Oblivion 
 is not the answer.
  
  It not neccesarily that I don't like to explore a big open world; it's the fact it isn't worth 
 exploring. Sadly, this is the case of Oblivion - a game with lots of promise, but a dissapointin 
 experience unless you like to whack things with a big weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I dont understand those people who says this game is not enough for them. I can understand if they 
 dont like RPG genre, but if they dont, they are in a big mistake, because this game is incredibly 
 satisfying.
  Graphics are just like dream, the world has an amazing look and quests are quite fun. I have spent 
 at least 150 hours by playing it, and I think I will spend more... It has tons of mods too. That 
 makes the make more playable even after hundreds of hours playing time. So, although you like rpg 
 genre, you dont really like this game, something is really wrong with you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamzerian
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  I had a very clear idea of what i expected from oblivion before i bought it. I wanted a bigger 
 version of Morrowind with better graphics and maybe a few little extra gimmicks to amuse me while 
 i delved into the world and its story. I find myself rather disappointed. Admittedly the actual 
 gameplay isnt particularly different to morrowind spells are a little different but that isnt a 
 particularly bad thing and i can now block when i chose so all in all thumbs up for the gameplay 
 though the new menu system is very annoying on the pc.
  
  My particular irk with oblivion isnt so much the gamesply or the graphics both of which i think 
 are excellent, though i felt the horses could do with some more realistic or at least more flowing 
 animation. Its with the story and the level of depth in the game along with the whole leveled monsters 
 thing. Oblivion despite being 10 times larger than Morrowind doesnt seem to have the same level 
 of content as morrowind and the ability to travel almost anywhere instantly while useful doesnt 
 really do much to take away from the lack of content. The back story isnt anywhere close to as 
 engrossing as morrowinds and the whole thing just left me feeling as if the quests were just superficial 
 addendum's to an already existent world rather than difficulties resulting from the worlds travails 
 as i felt morrowinds quests were. Also I found oblivion much to easy particularly when it comes 
 to gaining cash. admittedly this wasnt that hard in morrowind either but at least there i felt 
 i had to try and search out obscure dungeons. In Oblivion i just level up and whack the nearest 
 bandit and 100k materialises. Another hang up i have with oblivion is the lack of content compared 
 to the world side morrowind seemed crammed full of interesting things with interesting characters 
 and always someone lurking in the wilderness with a quest resulting in the impression that i could 
 play morrowinf for years and still not find or do everything. With Obllivion i had everything done 
 bar the main quest which i tend to ignore most of the time (even in morrowind) within a week if 
 not less. Most depressing. Uninstallation folllowed and back came morrowind
  
  Not that im saying this isnt a good game it is. It shows a lot of promise i just feel it lacks 
 the depth of content and world interaction present in morrowind.
  
  there are very good bits to oblivion too but listing them would be no fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeabz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I have owned it since it was released and i still play it every now and then 
 as new mods and content comes out. Every time i step out of the beginning sewers it is as if I 
 am transported to another world entirely. Little butterflies fly around, the reflection of the 
 sun can be seen on the lake in front of me. Mountains can be seen in the far distance, it is breath 
 taking.
  
  The music is also a big part I think. It has a nice Celtic ring to it and helps the game flow real 
 smoothly. The plot is also really enjoyable though i have played my current game for around 40 
 hours and i have yet even star the main quest. There are so many side quests to do.
  
  I would say it is easily one of the best RPGs ever made, and will probably stay on the list indefinitely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The Music and Graphics make screenshots and videos look great however when you get deeper into 
 the game past the tutorial scripted story then you see disappointed throughout.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  At first i thought the game was breath taking but after all of that i thought 
 the combat was dull and boring, the melee side of it was no way near as good as DMM&amp; M, i know 
 they're different games however for a FPS/RPG i expected more. The magic side of it again was dull 
 and overall i found combat to be boring.
  
  Also another pointless feature i found is why have levels if everythings going to scale in the 
 game? Seems abit pointless to me but oh well just makes it tooo easy.
  
  I also found the games main storyline was wayyyyyyy toooo short and i completed it withing about 
 6 hours at lvl 3........ normally main storys in RPG games should last 20-40 hours + but no this 
 game lasted less time for me than a average FPS.
  
  Anyways overall i just found the game to take a step back in the genre rather than forward.
  
 
  Graphics:
  
  They're really nice and eveything but some points get on my nerves....
  
  - Dull boring lifeless world where all you see is grass and hill, it's not diverse enough for 
 me like Morrowind or KOTOR etc etc...
  - The character models look ugly and specially their faces and animations.
  - The art is boring 
 and generic
  - houses do not have seethru windows....... Last time i saw this was years back lol.
  
  Sound:
 
  
  Music is great can't complain about the sound too altho the character speech and dialog was really 
 pants.
  
  Value:
  
  It's about &pound;20 now which is ok for a RPG and lots of modded content.
  
  Overall it's 
 nothing amazing but it's not the worst game in the world tooo, above average for me altho as a 
 RPG it's not as good as others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhiannon-e
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  The game is truly amazing. The graphics, story lines, the sheer amount of quests and the variety 
 of ways you can play it is fantastic. And, of course, if one doesn't like something about it the 
 modding versatility for this game is so far unsurpassed. Create your own weapons, clothes, armour, 
 quests, a new town if you so wish... The modding community provides plenty of variety that is probably 
 needed when replaying the game. Although, even playing it through once will take a good few hours.
 
  
  I've played many games but I always come back to Oblivion! It&amp;#8217; s predecessor &amp;#8211; 
 Morrowind &amp;#8211; was great, but Oblivion is perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisFHu66
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  A Warning: For those thinking of purchasing this game like I did, you may want to re-consider. 
 I purchased Oblivion based on the glowing recommendations provided here on Gamespot. I had already 
 purchased Fable, which I found to be a good fantasy role playing game, but fatally flawed by the 
 lack of dimension, (you only get to play one character) . So I picked up Oblivion, despite the fact 
 that my system is not quite where it should be to really get the most out of this game. I found 
 the game to be way too difficult to be satisfying. Granted, I have struggled through most video 
 games, Generally, however, I have enjoyed them enough to stay interested. I'm a casual gamer, not 
 one of those guys who majored in DnD throughout college. I liked that Oblivion allows you to customize 
 your character. And I like the fact that you are not forced to play online with the kind of people 
 who DID spend more time playing video games and DnD then working a job. And most of the graphics 
 are pretty nice. Now the downside. The interaction with the NPC's is horribly flat. Most of the 
 time they just stand there looking at you like nimrods, and say the same things over and over. 
 I know that there were fewer voice over actors in Fable, yet they somehow seemed more convincing 
 then the actors in Oblivion. The voice acting is pretty much 2nd rate, and I have always imagined 
 Orcs having SOME kind of accent, be it a gravelly, raspy or sinister voice. Fable had a somewhat 
 inventive way of interacting with NPCs which included various threats, cajoles, pleasantries, and 
 even flirting. In Oblivion you're either buying/selling or pissing the NPCs off with the lame conversation 
 outcome generator that is more about luck than you or your character's social skills. While the 
 graphics are impressive, the close ups during interactions are fairly awful. The game is difficult 
 and the balance does not make sense. As a 2nd or 3rd level character, you are expected literally 
 to combat demons in hell. While the townsfolk around own weapons, spells and artifacts that would 
 make them up to the task of taking on Lucifer and his minions, your 3rd level character is expected 
 to save the world from the dark plane. I guess the NPCs are too busy screwing you on the unfavorable 
 exchange rate to save the world them selves. You can bring a daemon's heart, literally straight 
 from hell itself, and it won't buy you a single stinking heal potion. And that's the only thing 
 that you will be bringing back, because after taking on lesser demons hurling fire, and greater 
 daemon's casting lightning and busting you up in fierce hand to hand combat, you leave hades with 
 enough treasure to purchase a meal and stay at one of the local inns for a night. Seriously, this 
 game was severely over-rated. Perhaps fantasy grognards enjoy this game. I feel as cheated for 
 shelling out $50 as my player character must feel when he gets screwed over by one of the local 
 merchants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mar_24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game i didnt think it was that great but i came to learn that it is one 
 of the best RPG's I have every played.
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay in this game is great, you can do almost everything you want and just have 
 fun with it. I wish that it was abit more things to do like Fable. It is abit to much combat and 
 not enough freedom to it. You can do hundreds of things and the quests will keep you busy for months. 
 There is almost 600 quests that you can do and most of them are well thought out and take quite 
 a long time. The Guilds that you can join are great and a good way to upgrade skill, but a bit 
 more would have been better. Graphics: The graphics in this game are just perfect, they look amazing 
 and there is hardly a bad piece of land that looks bad and the World is huge, good thing they put 
 the warping ability. All the weapons look fantastic. Sound: The sound is almost perfect. It has 
 a great selection of music and pretty good voice acting. The voice acting is okay because they 
 use a lot of the same voices (i dont blame them there is like over 1000 people with names) but 
 i have noticed some flaws in them. For example i was talking to a hobo and i started talking to 
 her and in the middle of talking to her, her voice changed completely, and i was confused but that 
 was the only time that it has happend to me.
  
  Value: This game is great and it you like these types of games it doesnt get better than this. 
 I think the price will go down soon/ if it hasnt already. But this game is a total gem and I dont 
 think it will get boring anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the last Elder Scrolls game Morrowind I was looking forward to Oblivion and expecting 
 the more of the same with Morrowinds shortcomings put right, what I ended up with was a huge disappointment.
 
  
  Oblivion feels like it's been designed by a focus group, anything that may upset any player seems 
 to have been removed and what's left is a rather dull affair that looks very pretty. The skills 
 system has been dumbed down from the earlier games and the spells and enchantments have been simplified. 
 In fact just about everything has been dumbed down to the point where it's more like a FPS with 
 swords and barely an RPG at all. A quick look over at the Elder Scrolls forums will tell you how 
 annoyed some long term fans of the series are.
  
  At some point someone at Bethesda decided gamers are stupid and needed their hands held through 
 quests and a nice arrow to show them exactly were to go, making the player think for himself is 
 bad... right? Messages stating the obvious appear with monotonous regularity throughout all the 
 quests just in case the player is too stupid to work things out for himself. If a quest involves 
 going into a certain cave do I really need to be told I should go in when I arrive at that cave? 
 In a further attempt to avoid challenging the player everything in Oblivion is leveled to your 
 level, this means you'll never come across anything you can't beat. It also means you won't find 
 or be able to buy anything above your level and this makes exploring pointless as everything for 
 your level in the gameworld can be found locally.
  
  The much trumpeted Radiant A. I is nothing like the developers said it would be, at some point they 
 had to dumb it down but didn't bother to tell the wider world. NPCs talk nonsense to each other 
 before going off to stare at a wall for hours, the video demo for the radiant A. I is so misleading 
 they should be ashamed of themselves. The combat A. I is no better as NPCs just rush at the player 
 even it means running into a pool of lava and dying.
  
  Graphically its looks very nice if your hardware is up to running the game, the distant land however 
 looks like pea soup without mods. I run it at 1440x900 with 2xAA on a P4 2800/2GB ram/X800XT PE 
 256MB and its more than playable. With the right mods the game will look awesome. The animations 
 spoil things slightly though and do take away from the thing as a whole.
  
  The games music is excellent and apart from the abrupt change from explore to combat music is perfect. 
 On the subject of sound it's worth giving the voice acting a mention, on the whole it is poorly 
 acted and written and even Patrick Stewart seems to sleepwalk his way through his short part in 
 the game.
  
  Overall Oblivion is a good game but there are too many shortcomings for it to be considered great. 
 The constant hand holding, linear quests and poor acting/writing drag it down.
  
  Good game, poor RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrel01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a beautiful game, especially with some enhancement mods installed. 
 The gameplay is very fun and the story is pretty interesting. The fighting has improved somewhat 
 since Morrowind, however, not as much as it could have. The detailed scenery made up of lush forests 
 and wonderfully textured cities is, to me, the heart of this game. Unfortunately, it is lacking 
 in a few other areas. For one, there is not nearly the same variety in armor as there was in Morrowind. 
 Not only are there a lot fewer types, but there aren't many new types. There's still the same daedric, 
 steel, etc. One thing I loved about Morrowind was finding unique and well-hidden pieces of armor 
 throughout the world, but this game doesn't really have that feature. Also, the quests are very 
 limited in number as well. There's the main quest, the mages guild, fighters guild, a couple more. 
 Unlike Morrowind, which had numerous factions to join and quests to complete. One last thing that 
 bothered me was how ugly the people are in this game. I had to download a mod to make my own character 
 look good, but the rest of the population is pretty hideous. In conclusion, this game is definitely 
 a few steps up from Morrowind, but Bethesda has a lot to work on for Elder Scrolls V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaanus147
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is just a great game. You can do so much stuff in this game. You 
 could go of to the main quest or go explore the world of the empire. The game has so many content. 
 The graphics are just beautiful if you have a good PC to run it. The main characters are just great. 
 The sound in the game is superb. The voice cast is superb. The main quest is designed pretty good. 
 Put there are some points where the story just drags. Like when you have to shut down all the Oblivion 
 gates. That is really boring because all the Oblivion realms have the similar design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tntnavid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is a good Action RPG game with GREAT WORLD ( name of it is Cyrodill) . it has good Story lines 
 ( the main story is one of them) and lots of things we can do in this game for example we can be 
 a good guy and do Good things and get Fame or we can be a bad guy (I be a bad guy or good guy has 
 some Special thing for you ) .
  or we can help people that we see around us or be in an Assasin's guild . This game is just a real 
 world ( I can't describe it ) with every thing in it. Graphic:
  It's realy amazing especially when you walk in Cyrodill and watch the mountains in other side of 
 the map and Towns, Jungels, and .... and it has a real realistic Forests and trees and Animals.....
 
  
  At the END: I suggest this game to every one who have a good PC and like to play a game more than 
 100 Hours.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  I love big games and Oblivion is a really big game. I&acute; ve already spent somewhere around 600 
 hrs in the game with a couple of different characters and I&acute; ve never been remotely close 
 to actually finishing all the quests available. My current character has soon reached 200 hrs and 
 the Main quest still remains untouched.
  In my mind this game is almost too big, it&acute; s both a blessing and a curse. The curse part 
 being that when I play with a certain character for a while I seem to get bored with it and then 
 I want to make a new one. The blessing of the game is that you get a really, REALLY good amount 
 of gameplay for the money and almost all the time it&acute; s very enjoyable to play.
  It&acute; s a fantastic game with what feels like an infinite amount of things to do, but there 
 is one part of the game that really annoys me and that is that the enemies in the game level up 
 alongside with your character, which means that you&acute; ll never meet an enemy that is challenging, 
 but the good thing is that you can mod the game with Oscuro&acute; s Oblivion Overhaul, this is 
 a fantastic mod that takes care of this problem so that enemies will be deadly at lower levels 
 and as you progress and get more powerful you will realise that enemies that where impossible now 
 are managable and you will also receive great loot from harder enemies.
  The graphics in the game are beautiful, especially considering what an enormous game this, running 
 on a high-end PC makes the game look absolutely stunning. The game is amazing in almost every way 
 and it deserves a 9.0, but I recommend everyone who is playing it on PC to mod it with OOO, because 
 that mod makes it into a true masterpice, a 10.0 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calwilliamson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  if you've ever played morrowind then you know that it gets quite repetitive, such as the npc's 
 almost all of the people are the same like the guards are the same, but in oblivion EVERYONE is 
 different if ' ve played oblivion and completed it and never met someone who is an exact copy of 
 someone else. (not even the guards)
  
  Also i personally think that the multitude of different weapons, armour and ingredients throughout 
 the game there are so many different types of armour such as leather, fur, iron, steel, mithril, 
 black wood, glass, ebony, elven and daedric (some of these apply to weapons except from blackwood, 
 mithril, fur and leather)
  
  CHEAT: infinite arrows (you have to be able to fight in the arena for this to work, if not speak 
 to the guy with iron armour on)
  
  go to the arena in the imperial city and go to the blood works there is a dark elf with a steel 
 bow and infinite iron arrows he is firing them at a hay ball with a bullseye on it when he has 
 finished firing the arrows pick them up (you will not be reported to the guards) and wait for him 
 to fire more and repeat until you have enough.
  
  CHEAT: guards attack each other
  
  first enter the console via the button above TAB click on one guard and type setcrimebounty 2000 
 without the inverted comma's then click on another guard and do the same thing, then come out of 
 the console and they should fight to the death.
  then you should be able to steal there stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmyle
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  After a great success with The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, Bethesdda Softworks does it again 
 with the fourth title in the series so far, Oblivion.
  
  To play oblivion, you gotta make sure you have at least an hour before you have to do something. 
 The game is likely to make you forget all time, and you can sit for hours whitout even noticing. 
 I've had the game for a few days, but I've played 55 hours. With such a huge world, you'll never 
 go tired of just traveling around, killing wolves and other creatures, doing quests, stealing things, 
 running away from guards, or just work as a merchant, or maybe have a fight in the arena. Although 
 Oblivion is made by Bethesda Softworks, it would never be the game it is without playermade mods. 
 As with any games of this scale there are lots of bugs. From annoying doors to falling through 
 the ground. Oblivion is single-player only, and will probably stay that way, at least for a good 
 while. When you can customize your character this much, and with the heavy graphics in the game, 
 it'd be hard to make servers for these. The Oblivion is set in another world in the medieval time. 
 You start out as a prisoner. In these times, the king is threatened with his life. The Blades, 
 the protectors of the king, are here to protect him, and they will remove him from the castle unnoticed. 
 The escape route goes through your cell, and it turns out the king has had dreams about you. This 
 is where your adventure starts. After the death of the king, you get the task of delivering the 
 most important medallion to the kings secret son. The quest line following is incredibly long, 
 and awesome.
  
  In addition there are many individual quests, and also guild quests. There are four guilds in Oblivion. 
 Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves Guild and The Dark Brotherhood. They all come with quest lines, 
 everything from picking herbs to fake a killing. You can also download lots of quest lines. The 
 game is never over. Even if you've done all the quests, there are hundreds of levels to advance, 
 and you can always fight in the arena. The graphics are stunning. Of course, there are bugs, but 
 that is, as I said, normal to these graphics intense games, and there are mods that solve these 
 as well. Lip-syncing is often a problem, but that is not something to worry about in Oblivion. 
 The voice acting is awesome, even though there are sometimes when a person may change voice from 
 poor little beggar to the same voice as the guards.
  
  This is revolutionary for RPG games like these. The expansion packs are deffinately something to 
 look forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiftfallout
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  According to Todd Howard, Elder Scrolls programmer, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind is 0.01% the 
 size of Daggerfall. Vvardenfell, the explorable part of the province of Morrowind in the third 
 game has 6 square miles. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has approximately 16 square miles to explore.
 
  
  Rewind back to the history of the Elder scrolls.... It was created by a group of dedicated pen 
 and pencil rpg (referring to the GENRE and not the literal meaning) players who wished to recreate 
 the pen and pencil experience digitally without the need of a Dungeon Master.
  
  Skip over to The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. Here we have a game that has been marketed as the ultimate 
 rpgers fantasy come true. Where they advertise a large alive world with RAI. Thats what they call 
 radiant artificial intellegence . The npcs are supposed to be coded to think for themselves, making 
 the game world alive and unpredictable.
  
  One dev commented on how he had a blast watching a hungry npc try to steal food and get caught, 
 and how another jacked a horse and was chased down by gaurds, and where another npc wandered into 
 a pack of undead, in which the player was suprised to see the tides turning when the undead picked 
 up anothers weapon and chased him down with it. They mentioned how you could sneak into a house 
 and steal food, and that the npc would go hungry and if they did not have enough money, would become 
 desperate and act accordingly to survive. Where each npc had personalities that effected their 
 actions and behavior. How it was allll sooo random. Also how npcs could interact with eachother. 
 One video showed a woman and her dog, how she could feed the dog and give it energy. They said 
 you could visit this woman in the game, yet her dog is not even flagged to sniff out food, like 
 they said. They spoke of the possibilties of the game, yet possibilities they NEVER even implimented, 
 rather made it seem that it was going to be there. A clever marketing ploy. As a long time fan 
 of the Elder Scrolls, I am completely and utterly sick of Oblivion. I have preordered the game, 
 played it for many hours seeking something worthy of its name sake. I have even created mods for 
 it, and even a total conversion (untill i realized how Bethesda created the toolset and lets just 
 say, they didnt want anyone creating something better than their mods) . My final judgement was 
 that the game is total crap. Here me out. Some people may like this style of gameplay, for me, 
 I dont. I do not appreciate false and tricky marketing tactics, nor games clearly made for a console 
 instead of a PC (which is where the ES started) . The gameplay was created with the idea of slacking 
 out on any time and effort in creating the game. Bethesda created a generator, and generated the 
 entire game. It is the SAME where ever you go. You are thrust into a world in which you can go 
 anywhere at any time. Become the champion of the arena at level 3 or face off any sort of monster.
 
  
  Why does this happen? because Bethesda created a game that revolves around your character. Meaning, 
 at level 1, all enemies in the world will be scaled to your level. Their loot will be scaled to 
 your level. Exploration, the keystone and foundation of the elderscroll series has been completely 
 eliminated. There is NO reward for exploration. No reason to do it. At later levels enemies will 
 all be equipped with the supposed rarest pieces of armor in the game. Even at later levels, the 
 same bandit flagged npc, covered in super rare and expensive gear, is waylaying you and demanding 
 you give him mere chump change. Not even 1% of the armor he or you is wearing.
  
  There is no reason to do anything in the game, at all. It all comes to you as you level. This takes 
 out challenge, exploration, purpose. Its a glorified hack and slash. A hack and slash is not an 
 rpg (again GENRE, not literal meaning [literal meaning is irrelevant unfortunately due to its defining 
 based on actually game play mechanics and challenges, not words and character playing] ) .
  
  This game fails to deliver on any intellectual gameplay. It was randomly made, it includes nearly 
 NONE of the great features they sold everyone with, everything has been watered down and dumbed 
 down from the stories of the original developers. The game was made for the XBOX 360, and adapted 
 for the PC. The only good thing the game has going for it is the graphics and system requirements 
 used to run them, and the moddability of the game. Unfortunately, many of the smaller things like 
 mount armor cost extra money to get (even though it was purposefully left out of the game in order 
 to sell it at a later time as a mod in which you have to purchase) . The moddability of the game 
 can be a joke as well, as modders actually had to hack parts of the tools to actually make NEW 
 content rather than resuse what bethesda put in. Im sorry but as someone to has worked in game 
 design, Oblivion is a let down to old fans and to game designers everywhere (in my opinion) . The 
 gameplay was designed or rushed with the intent on making looping gameplay and a no hands on approach 
 to planned gameplay and direction. The best way to explain oblivion, is well Oblivious. The game 
 world revolves around YOU and not YOU revolving around the game world. KInd of defeats the purpose 
 of a sandbox RPG and its immersion factor. Its like Beth cleaned an apartment and instead of doing 
 it right, just shoved everything into the closet. It looks nice on the outside, but once you open 
 the closet, let some gay people out, and take a look at all the dirt and junk shoved in there, 
 you realize what you were just sold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanGoomba
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure there's a single thing I could say about this game that hasn't already been said ad 
 nauseum, so I'll try to keep this brief. Oblivion is the best RPG to come out for the PC since 
 Morrowind, and the fact that it's a bit more console-y doesn't mean its been dumbed-down at all. 
 The game begins as a very by-the-book dungeon crawl, not much to speak of, but once you emerge 
 from the underground into the outside world, the whole game opens up. The character creation process 
 is much easier to use this time around than in Morrowind, the skills are much more even now, and 
 you really can create whatever type of character you want, rather than finding a few hours later 
 that your character is a piece of crap, as happened to me often in Morrowind. Also a magical character 
 is MUCH easier to use now that magicka levels restore themselves automiatically. You can choose 
 either the fighting, sleath, or magic characters, or pick a couple individual skills from each 
 and make a hybrid. And you can always reform your character in game, my guy started with no alchemy 
 skill whatsoever and 70 hours in its my highest skill. The best way to describe this game is that 
 you can do WHATEVER you want. You can completely ignore the main quest (it's ok but you wouldn't 
 miss out that much) , you don't even have to do any quests at all (though you'd really be missing 
 out there, the guild quests tend to be the most involved, with surprising twists and turns) or 
 you can just roam around exploring and picking flowers. You can even own your own houses (I loved 
 having a base of operations to display all the cool stuff I couldnt haul around with me all the 
 time) . Combat is a major part of the game, and it doesnt dissapoint. It's very engaging, and each 
 type of character does it a totally different way. Combat players will go in and break heads, magical 
 characters will throw fireballs and paralyze their enemies (I love killing an enemy with a fireball 
 and watching their flaming body fly backwards) , and thief characters can silently kill using bows 
 or knives. The graphics are amazing. The draw distance is practially unlimited, and there's nothing 
 like standing on a hill and literally being able to see for miles (its a massive world to explore) . 
 I have only two real problems with the game. The first is the fact that on PC you need a really 
 top-of-the-line rig to run it, and while I do, I hate that trend in PC gaming. Two, lots of bugs. 
 I've had several crashes to desktop, plus a weird bug that makes my character float along the world 
 without any input from me (which requires exiting the game and restarting it) , and three crashes 
 so severe my computer turned itself off. Point is, save often. Despite that, Oblivion is the best 
 looking, best playing, most deep game I've played this year. No matter how long you play (70 hours 
 for me) there's still surprises lurking around every corner, there's ALWAYS something to do, I 
 never felt bored while playing this game, and that's about the best praise I can give any game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Man50
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I played this game for 18 hours one day. first if you buy this game kiss your social life good 
 buy. This game is only good if you have a computer that can run all of the setings. Make sure to 
 activate alll of the distance setings to far so the game looks like a game and not a island in 
 the middle of the ocean.
  This game is great there are are four guilds that are all excilent. The main Quest is good but 
 I think there is to much of Oblivion (a hellish place)
  And it all looks the same. Outside oblivion The game is beautiful.
  I'm normaly a fps player 
 like Halo, Doom 3, or Call Of duty 2. But I still like this game is great even through it is an 
 rpg. The aren't as many stats in this game as most rpgs it is based more around the action and 
 combat. There are many ways you can play this game. You can play as a mage, knight, theif, or assassin 
 so you pick the way you play. BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sun-Fac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  the game is brillant and an great example for all freerome RPG great but a few downsides such as 
 the many things that u cannot do such as many items r not in use and r only useful if for selling 
 but for a tiny price of 1g and with a little online play, more and better guilds, some other ablites 
 and overall alot more exploration could just make it a bet for the top. the many mods could take 
 forever to make it a good game but if 1 more addon that inculded everything goodjob bethseta but 
 keep tryin for oblvion got a long way to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  If you are not a RPG player, and you enjoy action and console games, you will certainly love this 
 game. But please, don't misunderstand Oblivion for a real Role-Playing game. I have read comments 
 like greatest RPG ever . And I say, no! You can't mean such a thing, it's completely untrue. It's 
 possible you find Oblivion the greatest game ever (and in this case I encourage you to try some 
 other games less flashy, but with more depth. Your opinion about Obl. may change soon) . But Oblivion 
 is certainly very weak in many areas, and doesn't stand to the same level as Morrowind.
  
  IMPORTANT: The level scaling, meaning that the whole world levels up with you, is a terrible blow 
 on the head of the Elder Scrolls series. It dumbs down the game, removes all excitement and purpose 
 from the game-play, and pushes Oblivion away from the Role-Playing class.
  It's clear that this game has been made with a sole purpose in mind : to reach an audience larger 
 than the Role-Playing community. I guess it is a success for the company, finding so few reviews 
 from RPGists, mostly angry and stunned with disappointment. Rare bad scores lost among a crowd 
 of praising reviews from less demanding gamers, easily dazed by the flashy but weak and boring 
 Oblivion. Personally, during the many hours I invested in this game, I spent most of my time time 
 trying to figure out why I was feeling so bored, rather than enjoying it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I really don't understand why Oblivion has a such high score! I's so boring and the story is too 
 slow! The map it's huge maybe too huge that you can lost yourself.
  I have played some hours and i get bored but i continued playing because i told myself to give 
 more chances to this game but without results -- &gt; still boring.
  
  The graphics are excellent and also the sound but whats the matter in a game that at all is not 
 so great like told??!!
  
  Maybe i am wrong and i haven't understood the really power of this game!
  
  If you have another 
 opinion pm! I will be glad to talk and discuss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duneMAX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  TES Obilivon - the best of TES series. The gameplay and the graphic is outstanding, and thanks 
 for fans whom creating so many mods to make the game even better!!!
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV is nothing but a step forward towards perfection in this very open-ended experience. 
 In development since Morrowind's release and beyond, Oblivion delivered nothing short of what was 
 expected. When I purchased my copy, I was worried of how the game would run on my system but it 
 wasn't so bad. In fact, I can play the game on high settings at a reasonable 1024x768 resolution.
 
  
  Something that must of caught your attention in the first pics of Oblivion was the horses. Yes, 
 you can ride horses as in WOW online but the sad thing is that you can't fight while riding but 
 that's just a small detail. Be carefull, you must purchase your horse because it doesn't take long 
 to get caught stealing one, although, you will be given a horse near the beginning, just make sure 
 it doesn't die. Speaking of purchasing, you can also get yourself a house! You can store your beloved 
 items there because you'll get overweight very often.
  
  Just like in The Elder Scrolls III, the armors are split in three classes; Light, Medium and Heavy. 
 Although most of them have the same names like Ebony, Glass, Orcish and Leather, they don't look 
 the same.. well maybe it's just the superior graphics that make the difference. Who knows?. Anyway, 
 they've added new ones to the collection which makes it more diverse. Same goes for the weapons 
 and the other items. You can enchant them with soul gems gotten for dungeons, ruins, etc.
  
  Overall, Oblivion and Morrowind aren't very different except for a new environment and pretty 
 much new everything thing in terms of look, the gameplay remains the same but that's not a bad 
 thing, I mean, don't fix what isn't broken. What adds to the fun is the physics engine which is 
 realistic because it isn't fully ragdoll as if Deus Ex: Invisible War, Chaos Theory and Rainbow 
 Six 3 . They seem to have bones which keep them from twisting in odd directions. Other than that, 
 the blood is there and you'll notice that when you're attacked, you can bleed to.
  
  If you did not playing any of TES series before, u must give this a try!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Wow! This game is by far for me the best int he series. The story behind it is not that great but 
 very immersive. Role play is not complex but rather pulls you more into the character of the game. 
 The visuals are very nice, assuming you system are higher than average. As this game requires a 
 hefty horsepower from the pc to run it smooth. So if you don't have mid to high end graphics card 
 don't even try. Unless you can withstand having low quality visuals, but that environment at eye 
 candy settings are so beautiful that it adds more to the goodness of the story. If your'e using 
 single core and 6600 card equivalent and below, I suggest you get some research on how the performance 
 with this game. Like I said before the visuals are very hardware demanding. Back to the story, 
 I find it more appealing doing the little missions and just going around the place to find if there's 
 secrets and other hidden areas. I didn't finish the game for a long time, since it was so immersive 
 I just kept on playing and collecting items and buying house and making some money. The replay 
 value of this game is very outstanding as I still find very enjoying to play after I had finished 
 it. So for those who likes this kind of games and ones who love adventure, this game would be a 
 must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Ive played both Morrowind and Oblivion and must say that although it not my first choice of a 
 genre they both have something that makes them great games. Every game has its own certain flavor; 
 an indefinable feeling, almost like an overall look at reality. In Oblivion it is a true sense 
 of wonder that one feels when reading and hearing about myths and fairy-tails that take place in 
 medieval days. The city is build up like a weird medieval castle with strange races that talk like 
 humans but add a sense of alienation when meeting the characters during the game. Adding to this 
 is the fast amount of land to explore and places to visit, all with a specific touch and a specific 
 atmosphere. This was great in Morrowind and the makers managed to get it right in Oblivion again. 
 That must be a hard thing to do I imagine. In order to get the feeling of places just right to 
 give them a fairy-tale like but not immediately over the top silliness over them. Its the balance 
 between reality and mythology that makes the world appealing while not rejecting it for obvious 
 far fetched imaginations. The long roads you can walk or go by horse were really (once again as 
 in morrowind) a great feature in the game. You really get the feeling you go somewhere in this 
 virtual world, and the cities and people are actually apart from each other like in reality; because 
 they and you need to travel to interact with each other. That, I think is the most important part 
 of the game; the traveling and the distance between separated and cultural differentiated parts 
 of the world, makes you actions have a meaning. The more diversity in the game the more differentiated 
 your actions and character becomes. This is the best part of the game. Surely it has downsides 
 and I can sum them up quickly:
  The fighting doesnt feel realistic; there is too much swinging of swords without real time physical 
 effects. The oblivion planes are too much alike to me (but one could explain that they are like 
 a nightmare which repeats itself over and over again.)
  Its strength is also its weakness; because of the fast amount of places and side-quests to go to, 
 one could become distracted from the story so easily. Actually one can walk for hours in woods 
 and fighting animals and monsters without engaging in any way in the story of the game. But this 
 is at the same time the main reason why this game has its unique flavor and appeal to it. What 
 did I miss in this game? The thing I missed was something I miss in most games (except for the 
 beginning of Half-Life2 maybe) an acknowledgement of the complexity of realism of the world. The 
 beginning of Oblivion is typical. You find yourself in a prison and suddenly the king comes and 
 tells you that he had a dream of some sort, of a savior and there happens to be a secret passage 
 in your cell that goes to the secret dungeonsetc. Come on people! Coincidences occur but not on 
 this kind of messianic scale, not even in fairy tales. But anyway, a good game; I enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartalozy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  I don't usually write many reviews but this game is simply amazing. I haven't played the other 
 games in the series so i'm a newbie to the elder scrolls series but ive been hooked.
  
  There's just so much to do and discover, i couldn't stop playing. The fact that even after i finished 
 the main quest, i still had around 15 more minor quests to do just says it all. The gameplay is 
 great by mixing magic with standard old fashion combat. It gives you limitless ways to kill your 
 opponent. It does have a few bugs, but overall you can overlook these mild glitches.
  
  One of the most significant pluses for me was the quick loading times. i don't know about other 
 people but usually it takes about 3-4 seconds to travel from one part of the map to the other. 
 Otherwise i would have easily stopped playing it within the first 15 minutes.
  
  Can't wait for the expansion.
  
  Brilliant!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: witneyeldest
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has already served up 3 massive games, each distinctive and different, 
 but all massively enjoyable. Oblivion, the 4th installment provides a new view on the world of 
 Tamriel, and what a view it is. The graphics are the first thing that hits you about this game, 
 in the video sequence prior to starting, and even in the enclosures of your starting cell you can 
 tell it is going to be a beautifully put together game. It doesn't fail to deliver either, Massive 
 rolling countrysides of Cyrodiil and the hellish red and black landscapes of Oblivion are both 
 overawing and wonderful. NPCs have more than half-decent lip syncing, and varied, individual faces. 
 This variance is passed on to the player too, the interface allowing for any possible avatar to 
 be created, any dimension manipulated on your character. The dialog is well written and the voice 
 acting superb. Other sounds are fantastic too, from the difference in footsteps on stone and wood, 
 to the roar or cry of beasts or characters in battle. Quests too are well set out, and although 
 the journal may be a little overly helpful at times, pointing out facts that should seem obvious, 
 its organization wipes away memories of leafing through hundreds of pages of the Morrowind journal 
 trying to find that one vital entry you were looking for. These quests vary from the simple go 
 here find this to the massively complex and detailed, requiring a little nous, or involving decisions 
 that decide the players relationships within the game, and future options may open up or close 
 in accordance.
  The interface is simple to use, and while the controls and menus may seem overwhelming at first, 
 they soon become second nature, and you will find your fingers daring instinctively to controls 
 without you even thinking.
  Whilst mentioning overwhelming, for many new players the sheer size of the world is overwhelming, 
 massive compared to the isle of Vvardenfell. This is not such a worry however, as the option to 
 fast travel between known locations is available, cutting out the gorgeous scenery, but allowing 
 you to continue the game more quickly.
  The downside of this game for PC users is that unless you just bought a custom built gaming rig 
 you'll have to lose a few of the looks for a few frames per second performance. One tip would be 
 to turn off grass entirely. The way grass is drawn even on full distance is in a circle around 
 the player, looking slightly creepy and very unrealistic, and turning the grass off loses some 
 ground detail but looks better overall and provides a better than expected rise in frame rates, 
 especially when in the wilderness.
  For those of you who love to see your domination of the world and rewards as you gain levels and 
 experience, as I do, the idea of the game leveling with you is somewhat disheartening, but PC users 
 can rectify this if they wish by finding a free download of Oscuro's Oblivion Overhaul , a mod 
 which provides a non-leveled gaming experience, and massive additions to the vanilla version of 
 the game. It's a must download in my opinion, but you are free to find your own combinations of 
 Mods.
  Either way Oblivion is already on its way to becoming a classic, and it is no wonder with the massive 
 scope already available to players, and the promise of an expansion pack to come soon it just keeps 
 growing, with The Shivering Isles promising to expand the world by 25%, a massive area representing 
 several months hard work by Bethesda Softworks, and allowing players Cyrodiil nearing completion 
 (only a few determined and devoted souls I feel) a new playground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatFarm99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The only thing bad about this game is trying to get into the fighting but once you get the curve 
 of that it just seems to be a lot smoother and very fun. The story is fun and exciting and once 
 you get put on a path in the game its hard to get off the story or a main quest. The caves and 
 dungeons are very well done but after you play the game a lot you notice the caves just start repeating 
 themselves. Once you start this game you won't want to play any other for a while until you've 
 finally sucked out every single minute of the game. The graphics are astounding in both the characters 
 and the actual world of the game. The game it self is amazingly over 100 hours if you try to do 
 every thing. Besides the main quest there are many side quests and things to do. This is easily 
 one of the best games i have ever played and give it a 9.1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgold47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a bit of an RPG fan, but time has always been an issue: quite simply I always 
 seem to be too busy to give such a game the time that it deserves. Oblivion was a game that got 
 me to spend the time (too much time to be honest) . The story line is a strong one and lets the 
 player work as they want. The game also allows for a variety of different play styles. If (like 
 me) you prefer to take action instead of stealth you can build your character to do just that, 
 or you can work with magic and alchemy, or a mixture of all of them.
  
  From a technical standpoint the game is quite impressive. Almost all of the dialogue is voice-acted 
 and the graphics and other sound effects are top-notch. Add to the mix an editor which allows for 
 mod development and there is a great game here.
  
  That said I did have a few minor issues with the game. I found that sometimes enemies became too 
 easy at higher levels. Also I ran into occasinal problems figuring out where certain places were 
 (this happened very rarely though and tended not to be a problem) .
  
  Overall, Oblivion is an excellent RPG that builds nicely on the previous Elder Scrolls games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerDooz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  TES4: Oblivion is just a great game.
  I've been playing for 50 hours now i am not even half trough the main quest and have no intention 
 of stopping after finishing it.
  There are just so many quest, dungeons and of course different characters and classes to check.
 
  Also the learning curve is way better than in Morrowind, you get everything explained in your 
 journal and in the Imperial sub-terrain you can try every class and skill before even picking one (what 
 works great) .
  You can buy houses and join guildes, and as we speak the modding comunity is making great addons 
 like more houses, quests ect.
  Also Bethesda Softworks has released a number of small mods ( horse armor, orrery) and the fun knights 
 of the nine.
  And with the upcoming expantion Shivering Isles the fun is loooonnnnggg from over (about 30 hours 
 :P ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirdza
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  I honestly could not spend more than 2-3 hours in this game because of it's high level of boredom. 
 The story is boring. The environment is huge, but generic, all dungeons look the same. Level scaling 
 is something I've never seen in an RPG, so I've been wondering wtf were they thinking? In an RPG, 
 you get xp to get stronger, so you can beat stronger opponents. That's the whole meaning of leveling. 
 You can finish this game much easier as a lvl 1 char. Graphics are nice, but that's it. I'll rather 
 replay Morrowind for the 6th time than waste my time on this piece of s**t. I state my concern 
 about Fallout 3, it will be crap. I honestly don't know how Oblivion got such high ranking on Gamespot 
 and other numerous websites, but looking at the recent Bethesda's escapade with Star Trek: Legacy 
 and Star Trek Gamers website I can only imagine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  pros : its really highly addictive , with really breathtaking graphics , easy to follow quests 
 , fun game play especially the sword fights Cons : 1) The vampire thing that might drive you away 
 from the game.. it happened to me in an early level ( you can only walk in the night) it limits 
 the playability) and to get the cure you have to do some really hard quests which was impossible 
 without cheats)
  2) some quest bugs .. characters disappearing 3rd) its a system hog , on my computer 4200+ 2.2 X2 
 , 2 gig of ram , 7900 G T O sometimes it lags
  4) you cant fight while riding your horse ( if it did it would have been awesome)
  5) lots of 
 caves and dungeons look the same
  
  in short .. its an impressive game , really addictive and worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When the game first came out I really didn't want it. I heard it was kinda buggy and had no visual 
 mods to help it along like with Morrowind. But then about 2 months ago I was like Hey maybe I should 
 try this game out and it so turns out I bought it pretty cheap (about $20 bucks US) and I got to 
 installin' it right away. My computer handled it pretty well, no lag whatsoever on medium settings. 
 Upon entering the game I really got a feel of what gamers reviewd about the game being great. The 
 game was seemless, the graphics great and the gameplay had no limits as most Elder Scrolls playters 
 know. The game was pretty easy to get done but the side-quests and mods made the game last for 
 hours upon hours. I think this game is one for the history books and all should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsprague1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! The graphics are good, the quests are fun, you get to own homes, ride horses 
 and go on any quest that you choose to go on. You do not have to do the main quest, if you don't 
 want to. There are a lot of ruins to explore, new towns, new characters and temples. If you don't 
 have a super fast computer, that's ok. I have an HP Laptop with 1 Ghz memory and an 80 gig hd. 
 I originally turned most of the high graphics off, and have added them one by one. I have now been 
 able to turn on: grass distance, building distance, land distance. That makes a great deal of difference. 
 I was very glad to hear that the designers are not looking to make this a multiple player game. 
 There are a few multiple player games that I enjoy, once in a while (AOE III) . For the most part, 
 though, I like to play when I want to play and not to someone else's rules or standards.
  
  Overall, I really like this game. It is a single role-playing game, with a large map and a LOT 
 of things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I've never been a Elder Scolls fan and to be honest before I got this game for xmas I never even 
 knew it existed! But to put it mildly this is simply one of the greatest games ever made it has 
 hundreds upon hundreds of hours/days/years of gameplay! You will never get bored bored of its exellence. (well 
 you might, when you accidentally starve yourself because you've played it too long) From what I've 
 heard I have only completed the tip of the iceberg and i cant possibly do an accurate review so 
 from ive played so far I'll give it 10/10. Oblivion is a must have for all PC/360 and PS3 owners 
 and it delivers what it promises-This game is destined to be mind blowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPARTAN328
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game many, many hours. It never gets boring to me, I am very happy with this 
 game, and apparently by its score many other people are to, so I am not alone. The world of Cyrodiil 
 is massive, and filled with all kinds of monsters and side-quests to distract you from the main 
 quest. There are guilds much like Morrowind's and their quests alone can take hours and hours. 
 The main quest can take days, and I havent really counted how long all the side-quests can take. 
 The Knights of the Nine exansion added new quests, items, and places to hang out. Oh and there 
 are hundreds of mods out there, and many good ones that add hours to the fun. How can you not love 
 this game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jor_gamer8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Everything about it makes this game absolutely awesome. The graphics are great and it runs very 
 smooth (if u have a powerful video card) and the world of Oblivion is simply HUGE. In this game, 
 you can literally become ANYONE you want and do ANYTHING you want. The enemies are pretty fun to 
 kill and heck, you can even change the difficulty level just by simply toggling the difficulty 
 bar. Oh and the music,-wow. It's like being there. You get that Lord of the Rings feel as you traverse 
 through the wilderness on your trusty horse. Say, when you get on top of a mountain, you can actually 
 see everything below including the Imperial City in the distance. I strongly recommend getting 
 this game!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is excellent action / rpg game. Its story is superb and is set in pure old mythical periods. You 
 can customise your self character well ( you can create your own characters) in the game with details 
 and attributes. You get to play in first person mode to third person mode. You get horses to ride 
 too. You get varietys of weapons from swords , axes , knifes to sheilds Etc. You get lots of cool 
 magical powers to defeat your enemies. You get main Quests besides lots of side quests to fullfill. You 
 get a vast unkown yet beautiful world to explore. It has great replay value and takes long to finish. You 
 get to sleep , eat and buy stuffs even steal them. The Arena action in Imperial city is cool. The 
 NPC'S , characters , AI in the game rocks. Get ready to kill loads of demons , monsters , undead 
 etc. you get lots of action in the game. Plus you get special quest to cure yourself of vampirism 
 when u get bitten by one. The game has good soundquality too. You get lots of mods to make the game 
 more beautiful and include special features. One of the main attraction of oblivion is its awesome 
 graphics and visuals .Throw in shadows with high quality graphics and you get extremely beautiful 
 detailed environment. I highly recommend this game to everyone. The game has excellent soundquality 
 plus music. Plus its Expansion 'Shivering Isles' is coming soon too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adhamhany
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  You wouldn't forget this game easily cuz the story, the amazing graphics and everything is Fantastic 
 in this game and i really had a wonderful time playing Oblivion and there is the Soundtrack that 
 join the game it's Awesome and amazing to listen while playing or when u listened to it by Hearing 
 the soundtracks
  and the Graphics we can't say anything about except it ;ike the real life
  and the quests in the game is good too some are amazing some are good and not good but in general 
 it's a great game to play and it worth all the time playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRAKES504
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Caution this paragraph tells you about stuff u should read after you compleated darkbrotherhood 
 and the whole main quest.
  
  On top of it benig good for graphics and game play, the way that the characters are positioned 
 in scripts is amazing. When you first enter a guild you expect a nice warm welcome, take the dark 
 brotherhood for example, ocheeva talks to, and informs you about what to do and so on. after many 
 missions they begin to become like family, which makes it hard to kill tenneva and ocheeva and 
 the rest. You feel kinda like there real pple even though graphics are all they are. the end of 
 the main quest is a lil sad but Ackatosh is cool to finaly see a dragon in a mideval that ur in. 
 They should put dragons in there though. i give it a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan72
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  As in its predecessor this game is 'open-ended', the quests aren't linear or forced on you, you 
 do them in your own sweet time or when you hit a specific trigger point. I first played the game 
 through about 7 months ago as a brute tough Breton... SpellSword was the Class. I did all I could (quest 
 &amp; faction wise) , but did it pretty roughly, you know, Heavy Armor Destruction tough guy. Now 
 I'm 'replaying' it slow with an emphasis on using all the skills I avoided. So now I'm Light Armor 
 RedGaurd specializing more in IIlusion and Mysticism. I also in the 1st 'game' was all Sword, now 
 I'm Blunt and Marksman. Main point is there were ALOT of spells and specialized moves you don't 
 really appreciate till you get to apply them fully, and you just don't get Charm for instance at 
 the beginning when you can choose Immolation (I mean setting 'things' ablaze is just fun) , but my 
 point is you don't have to 'destroy' everything in sight to accomplish this game, in fact playing 
 it smart is tougher IMHO than hacking and slashing of which there is still plenty. Also the game 
 was not patched to 1.5 when I last played and its smoother now and of course Nights of the 9 and 
 the upcoming Shivering Isles make this game even more of a Time Killer... and I say that with all 
 due respect. Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0adam0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI 
 like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :DI like very nice :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjelko1308
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has been praised sky high, and I wanna take i down where it belongs. The game starts 
 of very thrilling and easy to get a hang on, and will get you addictive for some while but it lacks 
 so much in the gameplay of a true RPG. After you have gained a couple og levels you will soon realise 
 that its not worth it, because the enemies will be matched your level. In other words a wolf or 
 a huge troll its the same difficulty defeating it no matter what level you are. It all come down 
 to your gear. By my opinion your enemies should have a preset+- level/strength and not match your 
 skills. By all means it is an enjoyable game but has been praised in the sky without seeing the 
 whole picture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  At first, this game has some splendid graphics, and this is quite notable when riding a horse around 
 the beautiful world it presents. Some parts of the world makes me feel inside the Middle Earth, 
 as and authentic adventurer of a Tolkien story. And the games to the oblivion dimensions makes 
 me remember the Diablo's entrances to the hell.
  
  About game-play, this is the most notorious quality for me, as it mix some of the best characteristics 
 I have saw in some classic games. The combat system for melee attacks is some kind of improved 
 version of the Rune combat system, and the first person view provides an impressive and challenging 
 battle with a sword and shield.
  The role-play system is simple and complete, giving the chance to follow all the basic classes, 
 and even mixing then. The stealth action elements in the game are well implemented, such as lock-picking 
 and the hide-in-shadows mode.
  
  And finally, about the story, it's a great and solid story, that makes me feel in an epic era, 
 and my choices really affects my future, like when contracting vampire's disease, or even when 
 decide to get the cure for it or not.
  
  Resuming, the best mix of role-play and action I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zek-foo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Oblivion came out about 3 months ago. The creators are rich because of this perfect game they made. 
 They wanted the game to be perfect and it is (almost) . The first good thing in it is that you can 
 choose your race nad edit your face how ever you want. You can even change eye, skin and hair color. 
 Really beautiful graphics will do really nice with all the face features you can use.
  
  Oblivion has exciting quests nad lots of land to conquer. you can do almost whatever you want. You 
 can break in the houses kill people or be a nice guy. Whatever you do, skills that you choose to 
 be primal will rise. You can join dozens of guilds like dark brotherhood and fighters guild, buy 
 houses in the cities and even buy or steal a horse. If these things doesnt please you, then just 
 download some great mods and im pretty sure they will.
  Morrowind was a great, gothic 2 is a great game but oblivion is the best! If you havent played 
 the game yet, than try it! I guarantee you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBart2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  This was my first Elder Scrolls game so I can't compare it to any of the previous. All I can say 
 is that this is a great game. It's beautiful all around, the world is huge and it has plenty of 
 quests to occupy your time. My only complaint is that towards the end of the main quest it seems 
 to get repetitive and I think it would have been easy to avoid that. I don't want to reveal too 
 much but instead of getting the same quest for each city the writers could have gotten a little 
 more creative.
  
  While I'm more a fan of turn based combat, Oblivion's more action oriented combat never really 
 got stale. It also didn't bother me that the enemies leveled up with me. It kept the game challenging. 
 I would have liked for my actions to affect my world more and would have liked to see more dialogue 
 options so that I could act like a prick if my heart so desired but overall it was just a great 
 game that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiper24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing the game for what its worth.. The arena, the physics, and of course the graphics 
 are amazing new editions to the series.. There are many parts of the game that needed fleshed out 
 or fixed. The leveling system gave me an agonizing time until mods that fixed this issue arrived. 
 My biggest complaints are the lack of mystery and surprise. Theres really no extremely interesting 
 areas or dungeons in this game. Some of the quests are written horribly. The later levels of the 
 mages guild happen too fast and all you endup doing is going to cave after cave filled with necromancers 
 and disposing of them. Many people did not like the computer versions interface, but it did not 
 hinder me at all.. I believe the computer version to be the best of the two.. for the the simple 
 reason of Modding I would give his game a flat 8.0 without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gothdemon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Pros: Epic story; Vast realistic world; Fun but challenging combat; One of the most beautiful games 
 ever made; Terrific voice acting for every character; Mesmerizing musical score.
  
  Cons: A few tiny graphical glitches here and there.
  
  Conclusion: The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion 
 is the best single RPG I have ever played. From a graphical, audio and gameplay standpoint it pulls 
 you in a world that is almost real. The combat is fun, smooth and is one of the few times I didn't 
 miss the turn-based systems of long ago. The scope of the game is endless but there are plenty 
 of ways to keep on quests without getting confused. The story is brilliant and sets another level 
 of immersion. There were very few instances when there might have been a graphical glitch but that 
 is just nitpicking. The bottom line... if you are a fan of RPG's you MUST play this game!
  
  Special mention must go to two of the voice actors. First Patrick Stewart who does a wonderful 
 job once again. Second though, and most impressive to me, was the job done by Sean Bean as Martin 
 Septim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gore11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Even though this is one of the best games I have ever played it just isn't as good as morrowind 
 (by a very tiny bit) . this game is highly immersive and drew me in in the first ten minutes and 
 i couldn't stop playing. word to the wise tell your family and friends your going away for a nice 
 trip for a long time before you start playing. games story line is great and theres so much to 
 do. Also the modding community for this game is superb. all in all you should get this game but 
 dont expect it to be as good as morrowind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to follow an act like The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind -- or maybe it's not. Morrowind, 
 while fantastic, had it's fair share of flaws, and Bethesda Softworks has created a massive source 
 of lore to draw on. Add to that new engines for physics, AI, graphics, combat, and magic, and you've 
 got the potential for one heck of a game.
  
  And Oblivion deliver. Oh, does it deliver. This is not only the best RPG of all time, but of the 
 of the best games ever, period. The shear scale of the game can be mind boggling, which makes reviewing 
 it something of a challenge, but I'll do my best. The best place to begin is probably the beginning. 
 You start the game by being given the option to customize your character however you want. Other 
 reviewers have said they you can play with this system for hours, and they weren't kidding. Nine 
 different races and hundreds of customization options let you go truly in depth with character 
 creation -- or you can just use the defaults. It's up to you.
  
  The story kicks off right away, as you become involved in a plan to get the Emperor out of the 
 Imperial City before a group of assassins can take his life. Long time Elder Scrolls fans will 
 relish the sight of some faces we've heard about but no seen until now, but new players will be 
 quickly drawn in the expressive facial animation and excellent voice work. The following tutorial 
 gives you plenty of opportunities to experiment with swords, clubs, bows, and magic, as well as 
 the alchemy, lock picking, and stealth systems (yeah, there's a *lot* to do in this game) . And 
 after the tutorial's bloody conclusion, you're released into the wide world (all sixteen square 
 miles of it) , where you can... do anything, really.
  
  That's the beauty of this game. It doesn't force you into anything, but lets you make your own 
 choices, and ensures that you have a fantastic time doing so. Just walking through the wilderness 
 can be rewarding, thanks to the beautiful graphic and the haunting, impressive musical score. Or 
 head into a city, where the residents will talk to you (and each other) using totally unique dialog. 
 The locations are well designed and fun to explore, from the palace prison to the ruined Alyeid 
 castles littering the countryside (they aren't quite a awesome as the Dwemer ruins of Morrowind, 
 but they're still cool, thanks in large part to some physics based traps. Like a section of floor 
 that impales you on spikes in the ceiling. Or a spiked ball that smashes you in the face if you 
 have the arrogance to sit on the throne of a goblin warlord) .
  
  Combat has vastly improved since Morrowind, with sword blows connecting realistically (arrows, 
 too, strike targets realistically and are still visible after they do so, although damage isn't 
 area specific) . Magic has been improved too, and you can now cast it with your weapon drawn, leading 
 to much more intense fights) . Other additions include an excellent speechcraft minigame, horses, 
 and improved stealth system, and more.
  
  There is a main quest, but you don't need to finish it if you don't want to (after nine months, 
 I still haven't) . Then there are the four factions (Fighters, Mages, Thieve, and the Dark Brotherhood) , 
 which provide excellent story lines and superb characters (I should probably mention that the games 
 many characters are it's strong point, since they're amazingly well done) . But the real strength 
 of the game is it's ability to create a story whatever's happening -- that is, too make you truly 
 feel like your living in a real world. Notes, letter, and books are used to great affect in accomplishing 
 this -- reading a lecture on different aspects of magic and watching students discuss the latest 
 magical discoveries is an incredible experience. As is seeing a note that one maid has left to 
 another. As is finding a bit of bawdy reading material in the house of an upstanding citizen. As 
 is speaking to a bitter prisoner who's angry about the loss of his house, then going to his house 
 and seeing that the town guards have taken it over. The examples are virtually endless.
  
  The quest design is also superb. Imagine being on a boat that's been hijacked, and trying to recover 
 it. Or entering a painting and killing off some painted trolls. Or going inside someone else's 
 dream. Or killing someone by dropping a stuffed minotaur head on them. Again, I could keep typing 
 for hours.
  
  No game is perfect, and Oblivion does have a few minor faults, even if these are necessarily the 
 fault of the developers. Compared to Vvardenfell, the setting of Morrowind, Cyrodill, the setting 
 of Oblvion, is a politically, socially, and architecturally unified place. This means that we don't 
 see any of the political tensions that made Morrowind so memorable. And creatures of Oblivion, 
 while they look good, are much more typical of fantasy games than Morrowind's bizzare beasts. Finally, 
 Oblivion only has four main factions, as opposed to Morrowind's ten (although the quest design 
 has improved by leaps and bounds) . I could go on about the fantastic new AI system, or detail the 
 main storyline, or say any one of a thousand more things, but this review has gone on long enough. 
 In conclusion, I'll just say that Oblivion is the standard by which all other RPGs will be judged 
 for years to come, and if you haven't played it yet, you're missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  RPG's have come a long way. Blizzard made the genre popular with its Diablo franchise, but Bethesda 
 wanted to one-up them and crafted one of the most beloved RPG's series' of today. Elder Scrolls 
 IV Oblivion continues that tradition and the game is just hands-down simply better then Morrowind. 
 FIrst off, the interface is more user friendly, with quest locations clearly marked on your map, 
 so you don't have to wonder around using hard to understand directions. Graphics are simply gorgeous; 
 the water is so real you could drink it, along with the way the wind causes the trees to sway adds 
 a new level of realism. People on the street are now fully-voiced when you engage in conversation 
 with them (in Morrowind, conversations took place in a dialog box with you selecting topics) . People 
 also randomly engage in conversation with others and like in real-life, close down shop at night 
 and go home to have dinner and sleep, but you'll notice there are no bathrooms. I guess the people 
 in Tamriel don't have to pee. Sound is also great, especially the opening menu score, and the story, 
 though not original, keeps you engaged in what's happening. There is simply nothing wrong with 
 this game. I love everything about it, the gameplay (combat is now more realistic then in Morrowind, 
 which consisted whacking) , the many side plots and side quests, the variety of spells and items; 
 overall, this represents the best in video gaming in the history of gaming and everyone, even casual 
 gamers should play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSystemLord1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  When the Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind was released, many had mixed emotions. It was without a doubt 
 the most ambitious project in awhile, but some areas of the game lacked the necessary polish to 
 help it reach vast audiences. The graphics were nothing spectacular and the game suffered many 
 glitches that left it unplayable for some. Well, the Elder Scrolls series is back for another try, 
 this time with technology capable of rendering the dreams of the great minds over at Bethesda, 
 and this time it hits just the right note.
  
  Gameplay: Much improved over the 3rd game in the series, the gameplay in Oblivion feels much more 
 polished. Each weapon has its own various rankings and abilities. Most of them feel similar but 
 that's because they should be. Steel weapons will be mostly the same low damage, as will iron, 
 but they are abundant. The real treats lie in the special weapons, the Daedric, glass, elven, and 
 named weaponry that covers the gameworld. There are even references to Morrowind's universe. Without 
 spoiling anything, somehow a mystical sword once help proudly by a battle-weary orc in the mountains 
 behind Suran has traveled all the way to Tamriel, and it is just as powerful as before. Most of 
 the abilities in Morrowind have been removed from the game. Things such as enchantment and spear 
 have been removed, but not entirely. You may still enchant items as you did in Morrowind, but at 
 special alters only. My best guess is that the developers thought that item customization got to 
 such an insane level with players figuring out loopholes and such, that they decided to limit it 
 extremely. The missing skills do not detract from the game though, as combat is a blast to play. 
 The quests are also pretty varied, though there are nowhere near the amount that were in Morrowind, 
 only diehard fans will notice any difference.
  
  Graphics: This game was touted for its graphics and believe me, it delivers. Quite possibly one 
 of the most beautiful games ever to grace my computer. People with low-end systems need not apply 
 here. Oblivion is a smorgasbord of sprawling hills and mountains leading to snowy mountain tops. 
 Quaint little towns dot the countryside while the Imperial City is visable from almost any point 
 on the map. Inside the main city, the architecture gleams in the sunlight, birds fly in between 
 buildings and NPC's go about their daily lives. There are no odd looking things here, except the 
 occasional woman with manly features. No, Bethesda did quite a good job rendering this fantasy 
 world. Even the flora and fauna benefit nicely from the graphical upgrades. The entire game makes 
 wonderful use of FACEGEN technology, as well as HAVOK physics. Kick a bandit off of a mountain 
 and laugh as he plummets all the way down, bouncing and bending in ways thought possible only in 
 real life. The real awsomeness of this game lies in its various planes of Oblivion the word in 
 Tamriel for Hell. The scorched landscapes and dark creepy dungeons all look great. The enemies 
 are beautiful and the art is outstanding. The only part of the game that beats Oblivion is the 
 garden in the final stages of the main quest. Truly a beautiful spin on the main world's art. One 
 more thing, for a true treat for the eyes, find a quest where you must rescue a painter from inside 
 his painting... I spent 1 hour on this 10 minute quest just simply taking it all in. Find it, you 
 will understand what I mean. Oblivion delivers upon all hype with its graphics.
  
  Sound: Another low point of Morrowind was the sound. It seemed like every weapon sounded and felt 
 the same. The atmospheric noise was great but the personal sounds were pretty average overall. 
 I am more than happy to announce that Oblivion fixes this problem. One swing of a claymore will 
 have you fearing it (As much as you can fear a virtual sword) . The NPC's all recieved voice acting 
 and it sounds great. There are some parts that will make you groan, such as when Martin is leading 
 you through Bruma and you are greeted by a VERY ugly crowd noise. These instances are few and far 
 between thank god. The atmospheric noise was taken to a whole other level in Oblivion. The environment 
 could literally put you to sleep were it not for the fantastic orchaestral score. Birds chirping, 
 people talking to each other, bustling in the bigger towns, the sounds of farming in the smaller 
 ones. Oblivion's sound effects draw you in almost as much as its graphics do. If it weren't for 
 some of the voice acting being just completely off, the sound would be among the best I've heard.
 
  
  Value: Oblivion has finally given us a true representative of Western-style role playing games. 
 We can proudly bring it up in conversation when comparing our styles and likes, to Japan's styles 
 and likes and compete evenly. Bethesda Softworks have completely outdone themselves this time and 
 I absolutely love it. With over 200 hours of gameplay EASY if you decide to finish every quest, 
 and even more if you close every Oblivion gate and search the entire map, the game is one of the 
 biggest I've ever played as well. I do miss some of the skills from Morrowind. I miss the faction 
 war too. In Tamriel it is quite possible to do EVERY single quest, that takes away from the immersion 
 from those of us who know what it means to have decisions truly effect your game world. That is 
 only a minor point though, with mods, construction sets, and plenty of expansions headed out way, 
 Oblivion is a crowning achievement of American gaming, and one of the most important titles in 
 years.
  
  Tilt: In case you decided not to read my review, I love this game. I love it very much. I've logged 
 easily over 260 hours into it with plenty of game left for me to do. The leveling is easier than 
 the first, but you can't go as high either. That disappoints me as I never want to hit the level 
 cap in an RPG like this. However I can see why Bethesda made it this way, as I dominate everything 
 on the map. All problems aside, this game is yet another classic I've added to my library and strongly 
 feel that you should do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsfreak14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are unbelievable! A big improvement from MORROWIND! There is a countless ways to play 
 this game! You will never get bored of this RPG! So much to do in so little time (lol) . Alot of 
 ways you can make your character from KNIGHT all the way to SILENT ASSASSIN! The sound is great. 
 A enormous map to explore!!! so this is a must have to any PC gamer or an RPG  
 and it was well worth the wait for it! I had to wait a couple of months to even play it because 
 my pc was out of date and too slow to even run it!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadegh-yaghoobi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Writing about oblivion is not an easy thing. The game has such a wide ange of gamers make the writing 
 difficult. The games graphic is superb but its not the best one in theese days. but you can be assured 
 that the gameplay is one of the best in whole history. Sounds and music are so. one other thing that 
 make the game valuable is its addictive story. I think Saving tamriel from Oblivion treat is entertainig 
 enough to ensure you to play the game. Although you can travel in anywhere in tamriel .The jungles, NPCs, beautiful 
 Cities and ... will addict anyone to itself. Whether you Are an Rpg fan or not Play TES IV: Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danm_999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Classical Elder Scrolls mixed in with a degree of more accessible RPG content. In some areas it 
 does tend to dissapoint but on the whole a hugely playable and immersive world. The main quest 
 and guilds are fulfilling endeavours, as are the many side quests dotted throughout. Renovated 
 combat, stealth and magic systems are superior to their predecessors, while the level system, despite 
 criticism, works to keep the game challenging.
  
  A visual treat. With an excellent PC and mod augmentation, Oblivion is one of the most sublime 
 looking games available today, with excellent environments, textures and models. Once again, great 
 music, sound effects and extensive voice acting. Nice variation on the different races voices, 
 and everything as spoken text is a nice change from Morrowind.
  
  Superior value. The game itself is just huge, warranting a replay of several times to experience 
 different methods of gameplay and guilds. The vibrant mod community also extends it's worth exponentially. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  In my 20 years of gaming i've played many fantastic games, some really good games, quite a few 
 average games and a lot of poor games. None of these has ever immersed me and entertained me like 
 Oblivion has. I spent 302 hours completing the game and when I say completing I mean it. I've done 
 every quest, side quest, shrine, cave, cavern and ruin. The game just seems to grab you and not 
 let you go. The graphics are very good, the sound is excellent but the game play is awesome! Words 
 simply can't do this game justice so just go and buy it!
  
  Game play is king and many developers/publishers are still to work this out, even after 20 years! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first real RPG experience I had on my PC.
  
  ULTIMA 7 was the name of the most interactive rpg ever.
  
  But when I bought The elder scrolls: 
 Oblivion (and, of course, a new powerful ATI GPU) , I had to almost forget the ULTIMA myth.
  
  well, you can't grab a fork and use it as a weapon, like you could do with ULTIMA 7, but you 
 can grab a fork and keep it...
  
  This is the main difference between them.
  
  Now, if you're looking for a First Person Shooter, with RPG elements and in an amazing virtual 
 universe where you can interact with npcs, buy houses, horses, weapons, cast spells, advance levels, 
 and even walk on water with some magical itens, then PLAY THIS NOW!
  
  This is ART!!!
  
  PAY WATHEVER IT COSTS, IT REALLY WORTH IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabire
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  great game. i don't know much about the other elder scrolls games. apparently morrowind was good, 
 but then again i don't know. Oblivion is amazing, gaphics, gameplay, and the inanimate objects 
 that have no significant use. that's pretty cool. all the books in the selfs you can actually read. 
 that means they have to write the damn things. that's **** brilliant. i like the citys and stuff 
 and the elvin ruins can scare the **** outta me cos of those damn three eyed monster things. *shiver* 
 the only thing that they left out was the toilets. yeah yeah i know, how childish. but really, 
 the put in all these things and yet no one has to go to the bathroom. and for that matter, bathe. 
 it's still a kick ass game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azodir
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  I've played nothing else (hell, I've almost done nothing else!) and the disc has not left my drive. 
 I was pretty clued up on what to expect and I was maintaining a high level of expectation whilst 
 not setting my sights too high. To hell with that, it's been fantastic so far. I'm about twenty-five 
 hours into this beast with the end still nowhere in sight. It began with an underground journey 
 (one that was perhaps a smidgen too long) that acted as a delightful showcase for the game. However 
 emerging into the light unleashed all my exploration instincts and I spent the next fifteen hours 
 (not in a row!) exploring the countryside around the Imperial City and investigating the large 
 city itself. I cured an invisible village, hunted down some fish for a crippled man looking to 
 retire, shopped a corrupt city guard, established the source of some disturbingly cheap goods and 
 generally chatted, walked, bought, sold and fought. Quick travel? Not a chance.
  
  It was only after those first fifteen hours that I decided to engage in the first part of the main 
 quest, not least because I'd read you get a free horse. That was excellent, a very well put to 
 together sequence I won't spoil at the moment. After death, destruction and ultimately victory 
 I guided my charge back across miles of countryside to what should have been his safety, only to 
 leave their with a third traveller as we all trotted off (everyone on horseback) up deep into the 
 snowy mountains. Since that long journey I've returned to my own exploration, visiting towns and 
 sacking dungeons and ruins for treasure. I'm back in the Imperial City now, with my own shack to 
 store non-essential clutter and my eyes on the Arena for my next challenge. Combat is weighty and 
 enjoyable, the scenery is magnificent under the eyes of HDR lighting and the game has completely 
 captured me. I cannot stop chronicling it through screenshots or reading about the damn thing at 
 work. More, more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Shock
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Addiction, adventure, entertainment, diversion, That is that I get when I play OBLIVION. the only 
 problem that I can see is the performance of this game. I get much crashs. I think that they should 
 optimize the game. The game will immerse you in a great story. I've a decent PC, so I shouldn't 
 get those problems of performance when I'm playing, The Graphics rocks, the story is addictive. 
 But really they've to fix some bug because I get frustrated when I'm talking with someone and then 
 suddenly I'm in my desktop. (Bingo you got a crash) If you are a fan of RPG you'll enjoy it for 
 sure. I hope that they fix some bug though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magalhaes19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game is very good. The graphics are the best thing in the game. You can see the cities and 
 its surroundings with an impressive detail!!! The sound is very good as well. The quests are imense 
 and some of them pretty difficult. Another thing that is amazing is that you can nearly have your 
 own life there. You can join numerous factions, buy horses, houses and all sorts of equipment. 
 There are also lots of ruins and temples in the outdoors, where you can fight numerous creatures 
 and find amazing items.
  The only problem with this game is that you need a good computer and sometimes the dialogs are 
 repetitive.
  I recommend everyone to buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I found it quite boring at the beginning, and hard to get 
 into. It took me a long time to find all the other things you can do besides the main quests. Once 
 I got past all that beginning struggle, The game really flowed nicely. I had a lot of fun playing 
 around, and doing what I could to get my char.'s skills, attributes, and fame up. But as time goes 
 on, you kinda hit a wall. In a snap, you have nothing left to do, and dont find it appealing to 
 do it make another character, and do it over again. So to me, Oblivion is a great over-the-summer 
 addiction. It'll come and go in a snap, and you will enjoy it very much while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shagga
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Great game although can get very repetitive after playing for a long time, you will find that alot 
 of the quests are very similiar but in saying that most of them are good fun. The main quest i 
 felt was a major let-down because the main boss was really easy to kill and it was way too short. 
 Other than that Bethesda have done a great job with Oblivion. The gameplay is the best i have ever 
 seen, before this game i was'nt really a big fan of RPG games but after playing this for a long 
 time I have come around to RPG games. The graphics on Oblivion are the best I have seen, when I 
 played Morrowind i thought those graphics were good but then playing Oblivion they are no contest. 
 I offer to everyone out there who likes RPG games to buy Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxico81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Good: stunning graphics, large world, good storyline, non-linear.
  Bad: levelling-system.
  
  Truly an amazing game where your options seem endless. The story gets to you and it kinda gives 
 you the feeling as if you're in a movie. Another great feature is the absolute freedom you have 
 in the game to do whatever you want. You're an exploring type? The world is so large and full of 
 places to discover that it will fill your appetite. However, large portions of the map are a bit 
 empty. You wanna finish the main storyline only? That's possible as well.
  
  The main problem I have with this game is the levelling-system. Both enemies and loot level up 
 with you. This takes away part of the feeling that you're accomplishing something. Levelled loot 
 doesnt encourage you to look for uberitems once you've passed lvl 45. I completed the main storyline 
 at lvl 17, should'nt be possible IMO.
  
  But appart from that, the game remains challenging, especially if you like to explore and complete 
 all the sidequests this game has a longlasting value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmandude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are breathtaking, which is what many others have said. My friend has a $1500 rig and 
 he runs the game with everything at max decal and it looks extremely realistic. I on the other 
 hand have a very outdated PC that could sell on Ebay for $300 and have to run everything at minimum 
 detail and the game looks better than most games do when they have max detail. I would say the 
 only games that look better than it when you have a crappy PC is Half-life 2. The only problem 
 is that if you run character details low enough their hair looks more like logs and less like hair, 
 but that is bad PC related and not game related. You can see for a long distance and there is no 
 fog like other games with open areas. Your details effects whether distant things look like land 
 and objects, or cardboard-like. The weapons are incredibly detailed and you can actually shoot 
 an arrow into someones head and it sticks there. And the same for when you fight archers that 
 hit you. If you go into the console or mod armor and make it so you jump very very high when you 
 are in a city, you can jump high enough to see over, or jump over a wall of a city and you get 
 into a gray area with no landscape, just ground, but that is because of the limit to what they 
 can render. The background music sounds excellent. You can hear the gentle (or loud) Whoosh of 
 your weapon or bow and arrow when you attack. The enemies all have their own sounds for when they 
 think that someone is near, find someone and attack them, die, get hurt, and many other instances. 
 There is full voice acting for the entire game and every nap says it in a voice that fits the character. 
 There are so many beggars and bandits, that they had to use only a few tracks of sound that they 
 put on characters that where generic. Thus most of the beggars are human-like and not Argonians 
 or Orcs. And npcs approach each other and talk on there own and you can hear what they say clearly. 
 The game lasts at least 50 hours if you do the main quest and some side quests. It can last over 
 100-200 hours if you explore the world and take in the beauty of Cyrodill and also help some drunk 
 dumb ass who lost something and important and wants you to find it for him. You define your own 
 style of play. Stealth and thievery, smash and bash, hack and slash, silent assassin, Mage, battle 
 Mage, archer, hand to hand or any combination of those just to name few. The AI is very realistic. 
 If you get in a fight with a citizen and decide to not hurt them, you can yield and then their 
 disposition towards you is evaluated and then the situation so you could make amends with them. 
 You could find some guy who is rude to you and decide to kill him and a guard that is nearby could 
 hear his screams for help. Then a guard comes by and you have to face the consequences. There are 
 dozens, maybe even hundreds of areas that you can explore like dungeons, caves, burned down forts, 
 and more. The quests are fun and in depth, but sometimes simple. Some quests involve saving the 
 world (duh) , finding a missing or kidnapped child, retrieve the intestine of some creature, kill 
 all the enemies in a town, and occasionally the choice to spare or kill some guy who is insane/thief/evil. 
 There are 3 guilds, a secret organization, and a few other groups that you can join. The guilds 
 and organization have about 10-25 quests each, and the smaller groups have 1 or 2 quests, except 
 the groups which you can join after you beat the main quest which are merely just titles. Awesome 
 Rpg. Different classes. 21 skills. Over 100 quests. Good and evil. Need I say more? Get out of 
 your chair and go to the nearest electronics store and but this game! Unless you want to buy it 
 on the Internet. Then wait 1-7 business days and then play Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game must be the best of 2006 FOR most people. The first 25 hours has you playing with your 
 jaw dropped and you enjoy every minute of it, the graphics are simply stunning, defiantly the best 
 out of any game in 2006. Just for that reason you need to buy this game.
  
  pros- first 25 hours is amazing, graphics are worth buying for, sound is pretty good, The imperial 
 city arena is pretty cool and all that open ended stuff.
  
  cons- after the first 25-30 hours you will be dead bored, closing 100 oblivion gates that are exactly 
 the same made me quit after like 8. the fast travel option killed the game. AI can be kinda dumb. 
 IT GETS EXTREMELY BORING AFTER THE FIRST 25 HOURS BEWARE.
  
  it is worth buying the game for $40 just for the first 25 hours, but honestly not many people can 
 play beyond that, some can and thats great but its get highly repetitive and i cant stand that 
 sadly. Maybe the game will be better when the expansion comes out, I think ill give it a try but 
 for now this is only a GOOD game not a perfect game. Hopefully ESV will be the best experiance 
 for an RPG ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Its easily the best RPG from the FPS perspective that Ive played. Graphics top-notch. Load times 
 minimal. Large world to explore with lots of side quests. Plenty of countryside to roam. The player 
 development is unique. Instead of gaining XP from each monster you kill or quest you complete, 
 you earn skill points when you use a skill. Once you have advanced any of your primary skills by 
 a combined total of 10 points, you gain a level. This is great because you dont have to ever complete 
 a quest to gain levels. You can mug passerbys on a road, break into homes, collect herbs for alchemy, 
 and explore caves to gain levels! Questing is still amajor part of them game however, but there 
 are alot to choose from in each town and each of the various guilds you can join. Its also nice 
 to be able to not be forced into rigid, pre-defined character classes. An assassin can cast spells 
 or use heavy armor if you so choose. The game isnt perfect, so i must point out the negatives. 
 First, the number of weapon types are limited. There are swords, daggers, axes, hammers, maces, 
 bows, but no crossbows, slings, throwing axes, clubs, or spears. And the types of each weapon class 
 is limited as well. Shields are all round. Secondly, the voice overs get abit repetitive.
  Otherwise, this would be a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Reaper007
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has become a massively popular RPG today due the the complexity, diversity, and the beautiful 
 graphics it possesses. But the game doesn't quite live up to its name in the end.
  
  Oblivions gameplay is quite simple and easy to learn as a traditional action RPG. the game has 
 an average storyline that can keep many RPG fans impressed. For old-skool RPG fans this game might 
 feel a bit awkward at first but will quickly adapt to the game. The whole interface seems like 
 it was built for a console (XBOX 360) , but if used with the 360 game controller the experience 
 may become more enjoyable.
  
  The graphics in this game are breathtaking if you require the recommended hardware to play this 
 game. If you can only meet the minimum or play the OldOblivion path the game seems bland and the 
 graphics don't seem to stand out as anything important. The textures are beautiful as well as the 
 landscape designs, and this is the strongest part of the game.
  
  The game features a good array of sounds to make the game feel like a realistic experience. The 
 game features great amount of voice acting and environmental sounds but not enough to be near perfect.
 
  
  The value of the game is poor mostly due to the fact that is still costs a great deal of money 
 for a game that might not interest all RPG gamers. I recommend this game to all RPG or action gamers 
 because of its interesting game style, this game may not grab everyone but is worth playing, or 
 just giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have just completed the addon knights of the Nine recently after having not played oblivion for 
 several months. I also am doing alot of the side quests I had never finished like the fighters 
 guild and various others. I have also been trying out alot of the modifications made by players 
 to the game and most are very good out of the ones ive tried. I must say that Oblivion may be one 
 of the best roleplaying games ever made maybe even one of the best games. The amount of depth and 
 beauty to this game is amazing. There are histories and stories in most towns and small villages 
 and mythology about the gods and demons of the world of Tamriel. There are books you can find in 
 the game about the plants growing around the world to help create potions for alchemy. The gameplay 
 is very addictive and easy to get into and i find myself having trouble stopping because there 
 is so much to do in the game. The AI in the game does have its problems like if you have someone 
 following you they can get stuck at certain areas on the map. The graphics on this game are so good 
 at sometimes it is awesome, you can go to the beaches on the western edge of the map and watch 
 the sun go down as as its setting the sky turns a firey orange. (this maybe one of the modifications) 
 The sound effects and music are all very good and the voice acting is great with very well written 
 dialouge for most of the characters. One problem is though that the same voice actors did the voices 
 for many of the characters but it doesnt detract too much. I hope they can make more games like 
 this with realistic character behavior and AI and a open world to go through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakmaldesilva
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  finished the game yesterday. cant believe it men. a real stunner. this is the first time time that 
 i played a role playing game and i t became the best game that i have ever played. graphics sounds 
 gameplay everthing in the game has been outstanding. there is nothing wrong in that game. played 
 it by enabling almost all the options in my 6600gt card. cannot turn on shadows on grass coz it 
 slows down a bit. if there is anybody saying that this game is boring or a waste of tim men i dont 
 except that. expecting another version of elder scrolls soon n hope that i can enable all the options 
 that i enable in oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_bad_byron
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Oblivion features an decently-vast open-end world, where you can dither from the main quest as 
 far as you'd like.
  
  People have raved about the A. I. in this game. I don't know what game they were playing, but, it 
 was not Oblivion.
  The A. I. is so smart in this game, I saw one particular NPC digging the concrete paths around the 
 city with a shovel. Yeah, real smart A. I. Can't even tell dirt from concrete.
  
  The World may be quite large, but, it's a pretty empty and lonely place.
  
  Yes, there are 
 lots of NPC's. But, you'll probably not care for a single one of them...
  
  Many peoples PC's will run into many issues while playing this game.
  
  Gameplay: A. I. is very 
 stupid. Varied gameplay, simple stealth/combat/magic mechanics. It would seem even current-gen 
 games are running into the same problems games on past generation systems had i. e: enemy running 
 constantly into walls.
  
  Graphics: Impressive to an extent, but, only if you can actually get it to run smoothly on an High-End 
 PC... On a low-to-mid-end PC, you can expect the game to look very lifeless indeed, with performance 
 issues...
  
  Sound: Plentiful Voice Acted dialogue, with some big-names lending a helping larynx.
  Decent 
 sound samples for most everything.
  Issues with characters repeating the same lines over and over again (but, this will probably always 
 be an issue with games with voice acting) .
  
  Value: You'll spend a lot of time with this game. But, are you playing it because it's good, or 
 just merely because it's there ?....
  
  Tilt: I want to like games like this, and give them good scores.
  Mabye if they'd condensed all 
 the content into a much smaller world, it would have made for a more cohesive and interesting world.
 
  
  It was an ambitious game, which failed on many many fronts.
  
  A disappointment in the highest regard.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion ---- 6.2 fair ---- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I have one word to sum up the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. INCREDIBLE. This game is superbly crafted 
 in every shape and form possible. Non-playable characters live life as real as it gets. Every response 
 is almost unique and never heard off before. Voice acting for every non-playable character you 
 talk to is also a very high achievement. Character customization is also very in depth. When I 
 inserted the game I was almost angry at the fact that I could spend hours working on desgining 
 my character. I actually got upset and compromised on many details. In the main quest you are rescued 
 from the king of Tamriel the world you come from and have to find the last heir to the throne. 
 The main quest is actually quite short and I personally was expecting more from Bethesda. I easily 
 beat in the game in about 20 or 30 hours. But I believe this was to draw in a bigger crowd as Morrowind 
 was very dull at times which often turned me down from playing it. But aside from the Main quest 
 are hundreds of other side-quests which can easily be as rewardable. User-created mods are also 
 easily downloadable and easily turned on and off using the Oblivion data option. Combat in the 
 game has improved from Morrowind and is a lot more interesting... and fun. The Sound in this game 
 is by far one of the greatest aspects of it. The Music by Jeremy Soule has made buy a surround 
 sound system just to experience how immersive the world in game can be. Graphics in game are amazing 
 but unfortunately the high system requirements will turn many casual gamers down. In the near future 
 this game will be considered outdated when it comes to graphics and I hope others will soon be 
 able to enjoy the amazing world created by Bethesda. Although the World of Tamriel is beautiful 
 I found myself mostly playing dungeons and caves which may make the graphics hard to recognize. 
 Gameplay is interesting and combat in game is great as I stated earlier but after a couple hours 
 it may become repetitive without the eventual use of spells. The Combat in this game is quite more 
 involved. In everyway I can think of, Bethesday has turned their own Elder Scrolls franchise into 
 an RPG/Action game. Oblivion is a great game and a great RPG. I love action in my games as well 
 and Bethesda puts them together well, creating a plesant experience. Fans of the Action Genre should 
 consider picking this up, while Role-Players should consider this as well but with caution. Action 
 is a big part of this game. Gameplay twists such as Vampirism are a pain but provide a unique twist 
 to the game. This game is not to be missed. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one of the greatests 
 RPG's of all time and if you meet the system requirements it is definately worth checking out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfrog52
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant RPG masterpiece. It has everything a RPG needs, long time, playability 
 after main quest, guilds, and a ton of weapons.
  gameplay: This games combat system is great. Stealth system and magic too.
  
  graphics: Truefully, 
 dissapointing. It doesnt look nearly as good on game as in screenshots, but still looks great nonetheless.
 
  
  sound: nothing special.
  
  value; This game will have you playing for hours. multiple guilds, weapons to collect, and a LOOOT 
 of side quests.
  
  tilt: With hours of gameplay, a deep combat system, and great visuals, this rpg is a must buy for 
 360 owners and pc owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Being a novice in the role-playing adventure genre I have to say I was blown away by the stunnig 
 graphics, crisp gameplay, and the extreme depth of this game. Wow! The amount of dialect and attention 
 to detail with the interaction with NPCs is amazing. The amount of objects you can interact with 
 in this game is staggering. Oblivion has raised the bar for future role-playing games that wiil 
 be very difficult to attain. The only down-side I can see to this game is that it will tax low-end 
 PC systems. Consider an upgrade before buying this game. My new rig manhandle the graphics with 
 minor hiccups that were relatively unoticeable during gameplay. Buy this game.
  
  Core 2 Duo 6400...2 GB 5300 DDR3...250 GB Sata....2 BFG OC 7600 GS 256 MB in SLI Config... on EVGA 
 Nvidia 680i MB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapnCrunch777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game Iv ever played.
  I wont go into all the great things very much there are just to many to list.
  
  1. graphics 
 WOW talk about a world coming alive....... Amazingly beautiful!!
  
  2. HUGE and I mean HUGE world.... so much to do.
  
  3. NPC's great the only down side was I 
 wish there were kids?? Where are the kids??
  
  4. Sound A+ again Amazing! Birds chirping rain falling wind blowing creaky spooky stuff in the dungeons. 
 Plus a great sound track. I bought it from direct song I liked it so much... wow. Same guy did the 
 guild wars music.
  
  5. Value= OH my Lord! If this game was $150 bucks it would still be worth it.
  Iv been playing 
 this game form the second day after it's release and I'm still having a blast every time I play 
 with lots more to do. Hundreds and I mean hundreds of hours of game play ....... Talk about value!!
 
  
  The only thing Oblivion is really lacking is a little on the combat side it can get a little boring......... Other 
 than that this is the best game Iv ever played!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graygibbo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Let me just explain the grows on you first, the problem in this game is there is so much to get 
 used to and the first tutorial like bit doesn't exactly show you how to do it all. You can spend 
 a few hours before you get fully used to all the controls and features in the game which can almost 
 feel like the game isn't that fun at first. Stick at playing it and get used to it and chances 
 are you will end up loving it.
  
  Also don't let gamespots best on Xbox 360 fool you, it most certainly is NOT. If you have a really 
 top of the line PC this game will look a lot better the Xbox 360 version, have faster loading times, 
 less stutter when entering new areas AND most importantly you get the hundreds if not thousands 
 of FREE excellent mods of which the Xbox 360 does not have access too.
  
  Gameplay: 9: The gameplay is great but like many reviewers say your not sure how the combat could 
 be improved exactly but there is definate room for improvement in that area, because it just doesn't 
 feel 'right'. Also AI could be better.
  
  Graphics: 9 - Some of the best graphics you will see but the only reason it doesn't get a 10 is 
 the ugly distant landscapes at stock game (without mods)
  
  Sound: 9 - The sound quality is excellent in the game but the constant re-used voice actors can 
 be somewhat annoying when you are speaking to different people and they sound the same. BUT! It 
 has to be said there must be hundreds of characters or more that all have great voice acting (no 
 just text, everyone has a voice) So the quality is excellent. Just could have done with a bit more 
 variation in actors.
  
  Value: 10 - Although there is room for improvement and little niggles in the game which would suggest 
 it isn't worthy of a 10; chances are you will find what you are looking for from one of the many 
 great mods around from the almost profesional like modders. Also some mods add new quests, equipment, 
 gameplay, areas etc and this new FREE content isn't going to slow down soon, so chances are when 
 your finished playing you will have some new things to download to add to the game.
  
  Tilt: 10 - It's an amazing game with countless things to do and different styles of play for all. 
 Also like I said simply put... the game of the year need I say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion IV is a game that will keep you at your computer screen for hours on end.
  
  Gameplay : The Gameplay in this game is great. There are lots of sidequests to do, as well as a 
 deep main quest. You can also join factions (basicly guilds) such as the Mages or Thieves guilds. 
 You can choose to be a warrior, archer, mage, and everything inbetween. The only thing I do not 
 like about the gameplay, is that after a while the fighting can get somewhat boring. Key word there 
 is somewhat.
  
  Graphics : The Graphics in this game are simply amazing. Incredible character and world designs 
 make you feel like you're in the game.
  
  Sound : The sound in this game is overall very good. The weapons you use sound like they would 
 actually sound like, and the music during the main cinamatic is fantastic.
  
  Value : Buy this game.
  
  Tilt : I really liked this game.
  
  This is definatly a game 
 one should consider, no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the other Elder Scrolls games, but this one is very good. The graphics 
 and sound are awesome, and sets a new standard. Even on my crappy graphics card and on low setting, 
 everything looked awesome. Games, nowadays, should look and sound like that. The gameplay, in my 
 opinion, was somewhat ruined by how much walking there was to be done (walking meaning running, 
 riding horses, etc...) . From one place to another took very long and there wasn't enough action 
 in the middle of it. I guess im just too used to quick and fast FPS' and RTS'. This game, I've 
 heard, is very long. I've only played 11 hours and I don't think I'm even &frac14; done.
  
  Overall, I think this is a must have for all RPG and adventure lovers. Very long, awesome graphics 
 and sound. I'm not a RPG and adventure game fan (I picked it up for $20 because of all the hype) , 
 but I still think it is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodlez_87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Bored? Real life becomming the same thing every single day? Want more excitment only knowing if 
 you did something crazy like jumping of a churching in your great grans knickers you would likely 
 be arrested? Well i welcome you to the world of oblvion where you can do what you want when you 
 want (minus your grannys knickers, I'd give them back if I were you) .
  
  Yes oblivion one of THE must own games I wotn bore you with the what this game is about you can 
 read that in other reviews, nor will i bother with classes, armor blah blah blah because theres 
 thousands of reviews and loads of guides all on the interweb. So heres the dumb down version-
 
  
  DOnt waorry about who you want to be , make a character choose attributes if you find levelling 
 hard because youu dont use markmenship, blunt or conjouration alot then make a new guy with some 
 experience in how you paly you'll eventually have a character that was made for you by you (If 
 your wondering im one of those sneaky sorts who likes to smack you hard from behind...... ahem 
 moving on) .
  
  Spell casting- a blast ahahaha... ha
  
  close combat- simple easy can be fun but a little awrkward at times
  
  shooting- load sof fun 
 you'll be shooting arrows up a rats bum from a mile away in no time.
  
  soul trapping- love the idea read into it and keep it in mind for later.
  
  immersive world- 
 yep pretty much oh sometimes loading can distrupt the gameplay.
  
  charcters/missions- by the bucketload. Lots to keep you busy for a long long time. the main quest 
 can get irritating at some points *spoilers* I ended up pretty much running every main oblivion 
 gate and rushing the main quest just so no more would ever pop up and get in the way*spoilers*
 
  
  beautiful world- if you got the rig then use it, and for those with older rigs dont you think its 
 time to upgrade?
  
  A couple of hiccups-
  The world levels with you eg you-Oh WOW just got glass helm im getting all the good gear soon i'll 
 be unstoppable MWAHAHAHA..... oh theres a bandit wearing full glass gear.... kinda blew that out 
 the window
  
  Glass armor makes you look like a teenage mutant hero turtle
  
  After completing the main quest theres a sense of an anti climax and a bigger fuss should be made 
 of what you accomplished
  
  Game can crash now and then
  
  However there is a remedy, patches and mods help alot (check out the OOO mod)
  
  All in all 
 this game is AMAZING and if you played morrowind I reckon you will soon be trying to combine the 
 great bits from both games claiming that this would make the next one perfect. Ah well heres to 
 my quiet wish of the elder scrolls oblivion: morrowind, think about it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  its been awhile since ive played a really good game, probably been since re4. this game is very 
 entertaining and is packed full of stuff to do. the story is ok but the daedra are very annoying 
 and being in teh plain of oblivion is kinda tedius but that doesnt matter since you dont have to 
 ever bother with the story if you dont want to :D the character creation is pretty good, but at 
 high lvls it really doesnt matter what class you are which is quite lame. the races are prett diverse 
 in talents all except for the kajiit because they are so weak they can only be used for stealing 
 and using a bow, who wants to shoot a bow with a cat chick? :O uh anyways this iss a very half 
 arsed review, just the way you liek it :) the end :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashface
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  The world in this game is beautiful. The lighting is dream-like. The main quest is deep and the 
 game is as non-linear as Morrowind. The graphics , arena combat and fighting are really the only 
 improvements that come to mind. I prefer Morrowind because it doesn't hold your hand like Oblivion 
 does. Now you have convenient map markers to guide you to the next location for your quest. This 
 makes things a bit simple. I extremely dislike the persuaion mini game. This isn't a realistic 
 portrayal of swaying someone. Even after these flaws, Oblivion is still a great game and worth 
 the buy, but compared to Morrowind, it's a bit watered down. The enemy scaling is also a negative. 
 Some enemies could scale, but not all. This eliminates the possibility of taking something down 
 that's much stronger than you and looting something very powerful and/ or valuable. This is a wonderful 
 thing in the RPG world and universal scaling kills this possibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls games have long been known as some of the best RPG's out there, mainly because 
 of it's crazy amount of freedom in what you do. You can easily spend weeks playing without ever 
 doing the main quest (I've done it =D) . So when Oblivion was announced, people went crazy waiting 
 for it. With all the hype, it's surprising that the game lived up to people's expectations. But 
 it did, and surpased them in almost every way.
  
  Gameplay: One of the failing factors of Morrowind was the boring fighting system. You don't really 
 do anything other than cast spells at the right time and mash your mouse button to attack. Shield 
 is automatic, very few different moves (most of which are pretty pointless anyway, and even that 
 could be taken away simply by clicking the always best attack option. Oblivion tries very hard 
 to amend this mistake. Not saying that they failed, far from it. But it still could have been better. 
 Basically, the differences are that you now control your shield/blocking which is extremely important 
 in most battles. Also, when you get to a higher rank in your weapon skill (explained later) you 
 get new power moves . The skill system is what has been given the biggest overhaul. The skills 
 have been blended together/cut from the game to make only 21 skills. Daggers, swords have been 
 thrown into the category of blade, Axes, hammers are now blunt, etc etc. Also you only get 7 major 
 skills that effect your level up whereas in morrowind you had 5 majors and 5 minors. This would 
 make leveling up slower if not for the fact that you now increase skill levels much faster. Stealth 
 players rejoice! It is now much, MUCH easier to increase your sneak skill. Finally, the magic system 
 has been highly improved. Maybe it was just me, but in Morrowind, magic was incredibly hard to 
 use in combat because of it's unreliability if you have a low skill level. Thats gone, spells always 
 work in this game but they tend to be weaker. It's a good balance in my opinion. The one place 
 that Oblivion lacks is that there are far less factions to choose from. In Morrowind you could 
 do Fighters, Mages, thieves guild but also choose from Imperial legion, Temple people (forgot what 
 they were called) , one of the three great houses, and a bunch more that i can't remember right 
 now. Instead of that, they decided to have less factions and more random quests from completely 
 unimportant people. I personally liked the faction quests a lot more. This doesn't mean that the 
 random quests are bad though, some are very in depth and detailed, making you choose which way 
 to complete the quest, having twists and turns in their miniature storylines, it's really very 
 well done. It's just that it doesn't feel as rewarding to beat the quest when you know that all 
 that will happen is you get a little gold.
  
  Graphics: Wow... really wow... they're demanding but if you have a good enough computer, the graphics 
 are absolutely amazing. They have the best character models i think that i have ever seen. The 
 only thing I don't like is that my favorite race (argonians) look way stupider than they did in 
 morrowind. I got over it.
  
  Sound: I literally will wait through the whole opening scene simply because I love listening to 
 the music. It's really well done and always fits the mood perfectly. It also will actually help 
 you in game since the music changes when enemies detect you. So even if you can't see the enemy, 
 you know it's close by. Value: Are you kidding? It's Elder Scrolls! Easily 100-200 hours without 
 even getting any of the thousands of player mods out there! You won't be putting this one down 
 for a LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONG time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Stunning in scope and breadth. 122 hours of play and I'm only about 50% through all there is to 
 see and explore.
  
  Started to get a bit weary kicking @.. everywhere so went and finished the main story line. Still 
 have 1/5 of the supporting guild quests to do as well as about 50% of the locations yet to be discovered.
 
  
  The only negative (some flakiness further on in the game that corrupts your quick saved game) is 
 that the actor delivering the dialog can change in the middle of a conversation depending on what 
 line the NPC is delivering.
  
  The depth of the game will also have you learning the basics pretty quick but then discovering 
 many many complexities as you go along and gain experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertgough
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game may not be as good as Morrowind story length wise but makes up for it with stunning graphics, 
 a good storyline, good voice-over and a great soundtrack .
  
  When I first played this I was stunned by the graphics but I started comparing it to Morrowind 
 and I thought it was rubbish, the towns and cities were not as populated and crowded as Morrowind 
 was and took a bit of the realism away from the game. I guess it was because they would have needed 
 more power for both the population and the graphics.
  
  However what it lacks in people it makes up for with great, compelling stories, and a soundtrack 
 to match.
  
  The game kicks off in the traditional Elder Scrolls style... that's right your in jail. However 
 lucky for you some stupid guard puts you in a cell he shouldn't have, which just happens to have 
 a secret exit for Emperor Septim Voiced by the great Patrick Stewart, who just happens to need 
 to use the said exit and there's your escape route. Apparently our dear emperor has seen you in 
 his dreams and that your the saviour of his kingdom. Not to give to much away but some stuff happens 
 people die and you need to find the leader of the Blades, not Cassius Cossades for you morrowind 
 fans., but some guy name Jauffre, who asks you find the emperor's last son to light the dagonfires 
 to stop the forces of Oblivion comming and taking over. Unfortunatly when you get to location of 
 the son the forces of oblivion are there and the story really begins.
  
  In terms of difficulty the games enemies level-up with you so all those who used a level-up cheat 
 in morrowind to kicks everybody's asses will fail because the stronger and more powerful you get, 
 so do they. If you have the PC version though you can get mods that make the bad guys stronger 
 or weaker than you to the point where running away may be the only option for your survival. In 
 terms of side quest the Mages guild and Dark Brotherhood quest are some of the better ones in Elder 
 Scrolls games, with great stories and rewards at the end. For example the mages guild has quest 
 where you have to go to the leaders of every guild and get a recommendation from them to allow 
 you to enter the Arcane Univercity and advance to the higher levels in the Guild. Once you get 
 there it's a full out story to stop some Necromancers, and for all the people who played Elder 
 Scrolls II a reunion with an old friend.
  
  Visually the game is one of the best out there weather your playing the 360 version or the PC version, 
 with stunning scenery, landscapes, buildings, foliage, lights, clothing etc. They have to be seen 
 to be believed.
  
  The sound is one of the best ever featured in a game. The composer who did morrowind returns and 
 really catches the feel and emotion of the game, and even though the music is good if you turn 
 the volume on it down and just play with the sound effects it really adds to the realism of the 
 game.
  
  In terms of re-playability it's great, for example the 1st time I played I went straight into the 
 main story and finished it easily. then I stopped playing it for a while and when I started a new 
 game I did things differently and did a load of side quest building my character up to level 47 
 before starting the main quest and heading to find the son and I encounted creatures in that game 
 that I never encountered when I was a level 2 or 3 for example in the seige of kvatch at the beginning 
 of the game I encounted Spider Dadrea that i had never encountered before which is really cool 
 becuse you never know what your going to fight next.
  
  So aside from my personal opinions comparing it to Morrowind it is still one of the best RPG's 
 I've played and Highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brecht165
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  I love oblivion and have spent more than 120 hours playing so far. For me it's the best game of 
 2006 and given the time I played it - and I am still enjoying it - it's the best game for me. Firstly, 
 you get to create a character to your wishes; the level of customization is amazing - also the 
 creatures and people will be different, detailed, with their own race and features.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Then you are tossed into the world of Oblivion; it appealed directly to my esthetic sense. I enjoy 
 just wandering around, to see the sun come up and the light change in a beautiful scenery. It is 
 absolutely stunning and it is amazing how free you are. You can just relax and visit the gold coast, 
 pick a few plants along the way - and some fights too of course. The cities are nicely designed 
 and they all have different architectural styles - this is an example of the depth and variety 
 in the game. When you visit the Ayleid structures that are scattered around or when I went to the 
 planes of Oblivion, I was startled by the great detail and how everything is just right, has the 
 right texture and mood, even on lower graphic settings. And on your travels, you are accompanied 
 by the most beautiful music (award winning soundtrack) . ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Of course, beauty in itself is nothing, if the story is weak. But in Oblivion there are plenty 
 of dungeons, castles, temples, to ramsack and kill everything inside and run away with the treasure 
 - or you could sneak around, break into houses. You can become an assassin or a member of the mages 
 guild, as you see fit for your character.
  Late in the game I turned into a vampire, with my own special skills and abilities. It gives depth 
 to it all. (BTW I have recovered from it) . ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The quests are challenging enough and there is plenty of information in the journal to fall back 
 on, as well as on the map. I particularly liked the quest with the rats and mountain lions, as 
 it had so many twists in it - one of a great number of quests. You are free to complete the ones 
 you want or just head for a cave and pick a fight with a necromancer. I'm more the type to explore, 
 kill and loot and I am happy. Oblivion has just enough but not too much dialogue. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Hours I have spent, and I probably will spend more time in Oblivion after I post this review. 
 Oblivion never ceases to amaze - I recently started over as a tourist of Ayleid ruins.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  After what seems like an eternity of waiting, its finally here. PCs have been upgraded and consoles 
 have been bought. Oblivion is a fantastic game, and unless you dislike awesome things, just go 
 and buy it right now. I assume a few of you wont take my word for it just like that, so read on 
 if you need further convincing.
  
  Oblivion is the fourth game in the Elder Scrolls series by Bethesda Softworks. In each of these 
 titles, you tend to play as the unlikely hero; a chosen one who begins in jail but eventually learns 
 that there are evil doers giving non-evil beings a hard time. You have to find its source, and 
 smash it. This might not sound overly clever or innovative, but the game world is both big and 
 fascinating and its got enough of a background story to satisfy most bookworms. You see, the daedric 
 lord Mehrunes Dagon wishes to invade Cyradiil, the province in which the game takes place, by opening 
 big oblivion gates where his evil minions can come and go as they please. To prevent this from 
 happening, a certain ritual has to take place, one thats going to take quite some effort
  
  In Oblivion, you once again start off by defining the appearance of your character. Just about 
 every facet can be adjusted using levers, such as the size, shape, and even the position of the 
 nose. You can choose between tons of hairstyles, grow the facial hair you always wanted, and of 
 course, choose things such as race. There are more means of customization than in most MMORPGs 
 to date.
  
  The game begins in jail, where after walking into chains to see them respond realistically, youre 
 visited by Uriel Septim, the emperor of Cyradiil (voiced by the excellent Patrick Stewart) , and 
 his guards. He informs you that assassins are out to get him, and that youre destined for great 
 things. During the next 30 minutes or so, you follow the party through a dungeon, leading not only 
 outside, but also to the place where Uril would be content to die in. On the way, he asks you a 
 few questions, which define your class and birth sign, which awards you with bonuses of various 
 kinds. I ended up with a wood-elf (for speed and archery prowess) named Garrett  thief by class 
 and birth sign. Fast forward a little, and youre helping the new emperor, saving the world, and 
 probably doing a whole lot of other things on the side in the meantime.
  
  Your character can be one of very many classes, but typically, some flavor of fighter, mage, or 
 thief. Custom classes can also be quickly and easily created.
  
  Once youre outside of the dungeon, youre presented with a wealth of options. Even though youre 
 only a level 1 newbie you can choose to follow the main quest line, explore the countryside, 
 or maybe even join a guild. The central story itself should take you around twenty hours or so 
 to complete, which isnt a whole lot, but unless youre incredibly determined, youll find yourself 
 playing through countless side quests, as they tend to just hop right onto your path.
  
  Tamriel, the part of Cyradiil where Oblivion takes place, consists of quite a few towns and cities. 
 The most important one being the Imperial City, where many of the governing bodies live. Outside 
 of there, you have quite a number of diverse areas, with one major town, lots of NPCs, gorgeous 
 scenery, and plenty of dungeons and camps to raid.
  
  Every NPC in Oblivion has his or her own personality. Humans are no longer just instances of human 
 male, wood-elf female, and so on. Someone living in the imperial city may work in the fields 
 during the daytime, go to the pub in the evening, and head home when its time to sleep. There 
 arent any pre-defined paths either, so characters are simply given goals that they have to fulfill 
 at some time, and theyll figure out the right way of doing it on their own. This may very well 
 involve just chatting with people on the street, and its quite funny to hear the sometimes peculiar 
 conversations that arise. NPCs also remember your behavior, and will usually respond accordingly 
 as you pass them on the street. In developing the Radiant AI, Bethesda looked to Gothic 2 for inspiration, 
 another superb open-ended game that, well, everyone should play. The Imperial City, in particular, 
 couldve benefited from additional citizens, and it wouldve been nice if kids had been included 
 for diversitys sake, but its understandable why there arent any present though.
  
  Not everyone will start off neutral towards you, but fortunately, you can use your speechcraft 
 skills to improve your relationships. If that doesnt work, theres also a bribe button that never 
 fails.
  
  Thats one example of changes seen compared in comparison to Morrowind. This time, there are so 
 many fewer things to be annoyed by. There arent any cliff racers, and some of the more hardcore 
 mechanics have been replaced to satisfy newer players.
  
  Direction is another important keyword. This time around, you wont be wondering what it is youre 
 supposed to be doing while on a quest; the journal has improved quite a bit, and you get markers 
 on your map thatll should you almost exactly where youre supposed to go. Most locations can be 
 traveled to almost instantly, and when you dont feel like cheating theres also the option of 
 buying a horse.
  
  The quests in Oblivion are probably the best in any RPG to date. Due to the huge environment and 
 the excellent AI, the quests can finally involve a lot more than Go to the swamp. Kill 20 lizards, 
 and bring me their hides. One quest may involve stalking people to eavesdrop on important conversations, 
 or stealing items from heavily guarded buildings, defending buildings from attacks, and an unimaginable 
 number of other tasks. The nice thing about the game is that if youre playing as a thief, youre 
 very likely to play through it again as another class, because theres an immense amount of content 
 you probably missed out on, like in the mages guild, the fighters guild, and so on. When youre 
 done with the main quest, youll still find a ridiculous amount of dungeons to raid and locations 
 to explore. Most people will have a lot of oh, Ive never seen that before moments after the 
 storyline is done, and thats excellent in my book.
  
  I wouldve liked to see some things done differently in many of the dungeons though. While theyre 
 essentially more interesting than every other RPG except perhaps World of Warcraft, more named 
 monsters; basically bosses and mini-bosses wouldnt have hurt. As a thief especially, you can take 
 down most of the larger monsters without them even knowing of your presence. Combat certainly changes 
 if youre a fighter; the fights are a lot more visceral than last time. You really feel the weight 
 of attacks this time around, and your body literally shakes as you block the immense Orc with the 
 warhammer thats half your size. The moves you can do are diverse and interesting, and you wont 
 bring people down by mashing the attack button. However, the combat mechanics arent radically 
 different, so dont expect to have to spend very long learning it. Next up is the graphics, another 
 area where Oblivion is ahead of, well, everyone. Bethesda designed a new 3D engine, and theres 
 a lot to say about it. The rendering distance is colossal and the trees look extremely lifelike. 
 HDR (High Dynamic Range lighting) is used, but, thankfully, not overused. The water refracts light, 
 reflects scenery, and makes you wish you could stay and have a picnic. Characters are exquisitely 
 detailed. Some people dislike the facial expressions, but thats a matter of taste. The armor is 
 even more detailed and is prettier than what youve seen in any game, ever. The individual pieces 
 move and interact, as they should.
  
  Things like arrows are actual game objects that can be fired, picked up, and fired once more. About 
 half to two thirds of the arrows you fire at monsters can be looted, so you wont have to break 
 the bank at the vendor. And as previously mentioned, the physics are generally great.
  
  Oblivions graphics are excellent, not just from a technical standpoint, but also thanks to the 
 amount of content and the supremely high attention to detail. There are so many moments when youll 
 just stop and go Ooooooooooh, pretty, like when youve just looted a fancy new weapon and you 
 see the sunset reflecting on the blade and its many carvings. The biggest annoyance, however, is 
 how geometry thats reasonably far away from the player has a very low level of detail, even at 
 the highest draw distance setting. This is particularly noticeable when youre going downhill, 
 in which case it wouldve been nice if the engine drew things accordingly. Additionally, the mouse 
 speed is very slow when youre navigating the menus, and theres no way of changing it. Navigating 
 the map is especially annoying, but it helps when you know where the various towns are located. 
 I was actually surprised that theres no way of zooming out, and I find it shocking that they didnt 
 change it by the time of the release. Either way, the two issues should be fixable, and Im sure 
 well see them fixed in an upcoming patch.
  
  Doom 3 and Quake 4 have better in-door lighting, but then again, theyre optimized for that. Even 
 so, from now on well probably say things like but its no Oblivion in future reviews. In fact, 
 looking at many of the recent titles, it is clear whats next-gen and whats not. Of course, all 
 of this comes at a cost. Oblivion requires a beefy system, but it pays back every investment in 
 spades. People didnt know what I was thinking when I ordered my ATI Radeon X1900XTX, but now its 
 the reason why I can play the prettiest game ever at 1600x1200 with maximum detail. Fortunately, 
 the game still looks great on a much lower resolution and detail setting. There is of course of 
 the Xbox 360 version as well.
  
  Oblivions audio department is almost as good as its graphics. Every NPC is voiced, which is extremely 
 impressive, considering the huge number of characters in the game. If I were to nitpick, it would 
 be that some of the voices change greatly in pitch from one line to the next; especially the introductory 
 line and the various dialog you can choose between. In addition, while its inevitable that youll 
 recognize the various vocal talents, it wouldve been nice if they avoided using the same person 
 for as many as three out of four characters in a room.
  
  Jeremy Soule composed and produced the music, and it does not disappoint. You can hear the similarities 
 to the Morrowind theme, but the big difference is that the score is much less dramatic and pronounced 
 this time. Its clearly to avoid people getting sick of the theme, and in that regard, theyve 
 succeeded. Personally, I still enjoy the Morrowind score, so I wouldve liked to hear something 
 similar, even if it was only rarely played.
  
  Sean Bean (of LOTR) , Lynda Carter (of The Dukes of Hazard) , Terence Stamp (of Star Wars and Smallville) , 
 and Patrick Stewart (of the USS Enterprise) are the games four famous voice actors. They all did 
 very well, although Sean Bean and Patrick Stewart stand out in particular, as they voiced the more 
 emotional characters.
  
  The sound effects are plentiful, dynamic, and powerful. Basically, it has everything youd expect, 
 and melee combat, in particular, gets even better because of it. This game alone warrants the purchase 
 of a surround-sound setup, and a hugely expensive 3D card for that matter.
  
  Conclusion:
  Theres so much I could say about the game. I could go on and on about a whole lot, 
 but I have to stop at some point. Oblivion is far from a perfect game, but I can think of very 
 few titles that come as close. Its among the very best in terms of gameplay, audio, and graphics. 
 It doesnt have multiplayer, but neither have any of the previous Elder Scrolls games. Personally, 
 I think its a joy to finally have a huge, offline RPG where you wont run into kids asking you 
 to give them gold, people leaving a quest because of dinner, and unstable, laggy servers where 
 you have to wait for 30 minutes or more just to play, only to be back in line when the connection 
 dies.
  
  Its not a game for everyone, and it does start off slow, but boy does it grow if you invest a 
 few hours.
  
  Theres also the quickly growing mod community, which has already released many rather small, but 
 useful and interesting modifications. Many of the minor annoyances will probably be solved this 
 way, and yes, there is a nude patch already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsunset327
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best games I have ever played. It is a beautiful immersive world where you 
 have so much freedom it can be overwhelming. There is never a lack of things to do whether it be 
 exploring, gathering, hunting, fighting or learning new spells. You can be good or evil or pretty 
 much anything you want. Even a Vampire! There are many mods for the PC version that make this great 
 game even better. With the new patches and official plug ins that keep coming out, you are looking 
 at well over 100 hours of gameplay if you mess around as much as I do. I can get a character to 
 level 5 and not do barely any real quests and put in 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  After Many years for fans of The Elder scrolls having to wait for a new title in the Elder scrolls 
 universe Bethesda software has finally released it's long awaited title Elder Scrolls 4 : Oblivion, 
 was it worth the hype ? Of course it was . Not only does Oblivion completely take apart any other 
 western rpg released in recent years, but it's one of the most expansive and ambitious titles ever 
 created . Wether it draws you in by the vast land of grass it offers, it's pretty graphics, it's 
 exellent sountrack, or its life-like setting oblivion nails what most rpg's fail to do, and that 
 is to create a world where you acctually feel that your in that world . The game starts you off 
 with the god like customization of your character . Trust me you can make just about anyone with 
 it , while not perfectly the game can resemble a real life person better than any other game .
 
  
  The Elder Scrolls 4 gameplay starts of with the emperor of the world Oblivion takes place in, as 
 he is running for his life . He has the amulet of kings which a cult wants . You will quickly be 
 shown how to play the game, and also a taste at the physics engine which is really neat, although 
 a bit unrealistic . Once you get your oblivion game going, the king is murder so now you, yes you 
 are the one entrusted in closing the oblivion gate . The story is unique in some ways, although 
 it really never seems to develop or enrich itself . Neitherless compared to Japanese rpg's Oblivions 
 strory feels like a great smell of garden flower, unlike the overcrowding of Japanese rpg's story 
 which alwayse seem to start of with the same Anrogeny plotline . One of the obvious improvments 
 in oblivion over Morrowind is the combat, the combat feels much fresher and with more depth than 
 other Elder scrolls titles before it . Its satisfying as well as deep, it's one of the things that 
 will keep you playing for hours at end, thats not to say it's perfect . The leveling up system 
 in oblivion is flawed, and broken, the combat can also get repetitive much later in the game as 
 the spell don't really look cool, or feel right . Even though the usage of spells is well balanced 
 .
  
  Oblivion is a game that will take you a massive amount to finish with all the sidequest's done 
 . The main story will take you around 40 hours, but oblivions side quests really top any other 
 rpg with up to 60 hours in total . Theres a number of guilds you can get into including the warriors 
 guild, mage and thieves, tons of cities to explore and even houses ! Why not become a theif and 
 rob thats what I say ! To this there is a problem as it will feel as if everyone wants you to resolve 
 their problems, but then again isn't that an old videogame cliche . Although you will be doing 
 alot of backtracking which will drive your patience, you can alwayse fast travel, seeing as how 
 most of the oblivion world is well kinda empty . There is so much to do in oblivion that how you 
 can find time to do all of it is clearly beyond me . Its length really puts just about any other 
 game to shame . It's no science that oblivion looks incredible, although it has some some frame 
 rate drops here and there, and does require the biggest of pc's to run, oblivion simply looks stunning 
 . Character models are almost lifelike, although the lip synching might not be . Trees, armor, 
 ground, rock, brick you name it simply looks incredible, but not as incredible as the fact that 
 bethesda pulled off the huge world setting perfectly . Audio wise oblivion is flawless . The sound 
 of footsteps, water dropping from the top of the ceiling of a cave, the death of a wolf everything 
 sound like it should . Voice acting is where the game shines, especially the voice of the emperor 
 which is done by Patrick Stewert and sound awsome . My only tiny complaint is that although it's 
 increadible the fact that each character in the world of oblivion talks, they kind of don't feel 
 original due to the fact that it is highly noticible that alot of the characters voices where done 
 by the same person . Even so it's just a little complaint . By far the biggest highpoint of oblivion 
 is the epic sountrack done by Jeremy Soule which is his best work yet . Overall : Oblivion does 
 what alot of rpg's fail to do, and that is deliver on doing actually something new that hasn't 
 been overdone time and time again . It has some flaws that keep it down from being the best in 
 it's genre, but even so anyone looking for something new in there games shouldn't hesitate to pick 
 up oblivion, you shouldn't . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbussey1967
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is Like Crack 22Hrs. In The First 2 Day's ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  I love this game great voice acting solid game play best graphic's.
  The longer I play it the 
 more I like it.
  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @@ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lew_yates
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I have just completed Morrowind so now I have bought this one. I can tell you this game is 10 times 
 better that Morrowind. The graphics is the best bit that is if you have a strong computer. My computer 
 could runs it perfectly with a geforce 8800gtx. This game is a very good sequel with its improved 
 graphics and game play. Thing that has not been improved is the combat. You have the same boring 
 moves and swordfighting is just not interesting. However the game is very challenging with the 
 great AI. It also has great dialouge.
  
  In conclusion I reccomend this game to Role playing fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingyoto
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  to be honest this is the best game i have ever played. ok i spent 30 minutes just on the character 
 creation. this game is so immersing game ever. you travel the world. you can chose from a huge 
 array of armor and weapons. you can purchase a steed and ride across the countryside doing good 
 or evil. the side missions alone could take hours apon hours of fun. this game is for anyone who 
 wants a quality action RPG. don't waste your time with other games this is for you. this game is 
 what you need when you are alone on a friday night because your girlfriend left you for the pizza 
 boy because he has a job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdavenport
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best first person role playing game made to date. The graphics are top notch 
 if you have the computer to run it. Great voice acting with all dialog having recorded dialog. 
 Gameplay/Combat is loads better than morrowind. There are tons of quests in the game not all are 
 great but some are very interesting. You will always have something to do. Open endedness is the 
 name of the game. After the begining of the game you can go off and do anything your little heart 
 desires. And with the charecter creation system you can create any kind of character you can imagine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game, sucked out many hours of my life I could've used for useful things. Now, to a parent 
 this may seem like a bad thing, but this game was damn good. It's a masterpiece to finish it off 
 with one word. There are so many things to do in it, I couldn't find the time to do it all in one 
 day of course. Hours, you need to put into this game to do everything. The story line is the main 
 thing that caught my eye.
  
  It will make you want to continue going on with it. The missions, and quests are fun to do in this 
 game. A very large variety of different weapons and armor to your disposal. Horses have become 
 available for riding, very helpful, and fun indeed. And the world, is not only beautifully.. but 
 lively. You may wander through the lush woods, and be attacked by two or three big ferocious bears 
 while bearing your katana on your steed. Or find a large minotaur on the mountain peaks, guarding 
 away at his forest. Trampling through the grounds just to get to you, and crush you like a bug. 
 Perhaps a god will ask you to do a quest, and reward you greatly. A major, vast beautiful world 
 awaits you, to journey, and conquer it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobokobo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST ELDER SCROLLS GAME I EVER PLAYED.
  
  If u have a good video card, this game is fantastic with quality. It is a WIDE OPEN game for u 
 to play. This is a game that I would pay 200 $ to get it! You first start in a cell like every 
 elder scrolls game and when u get out of it, the world of Tamriel is wide opened to you. You can 
 buy ur own houses armours, weapons, ect. Theres a lot, BUT A LOT quests you can do in this game. 
 This is one game that should be GAME OF THE YEAR 3 TIMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I havent played any of the elder scroll games but after playing this one im wondering how i didnt 
 even consider playing the previous ones. This game has everything in it, a good storyline, a lot 
 of action and amazing graphics.
  
  I first started playing this i was amazed by the graphics and how easy the combat in this game 
 was to get used to even in first person perspective. I loved running around or riding my horse 
 around just killing things and discovering new places.
  
  Oblivion has too many side quests and in case you get bored of the main storyline which i did quite 
 a few times, you can just get onto your horse and go around discovering things which is so much 
 fun, finding oblivion gates and closing them is rewarding and levelling up is the most rewarding, 
 sometimes it can be too easy to level up and there are some cheap ways of doing, as long as you 
 avoid the cheap ways you will love this game. Spells in this game arent essential, as a powerful 
 sword with a deadly enchantment on it will kill anything in one hit. thats the flaw in the game 
 which really put me off it. I reached a point in the game where anything i hit died in one go, 
 ruining the experience but that took 20 hours of gameplay and still there was a lot to be done 
 in the game, i just didnt like everything dying in one go.
  
  Collecting armor and rare items and storing it in your house is fun too and also joining factions 
 and rising up the ranks is incredibly fun as some require stealth missions and pickpocketing things 
 and picking locks to rob somebodys house and so on, this game has everything.
  
  This game looks amazing graphically, the textures, the peoples faces, the weapons everything... 
 And you can patch it to make it look how you want it to, thats even cooler! The presentation of 
 this game was astounding. This game has it all, just towards the end you will get a bit bored of 
 it and move on but no matter what, you have to play this game, even if you havent played another 
 game of this genre, oblivion wiill make you fall in love with it, you will be addicted to this 
 game, playing this game whenever you have the time, you will not be able to pry yourself away from 
 the computer until everything dies in one hit. If that wasnt so, this game wouldve been a 10/10 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukaneus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  So much to do! Just walking down a street and can find numerous quests to do and strangely enough 
 it never gets boring because after a while you will find it easy. the map is easy to remember and 
 the tutorial chucks you straight into the realistic fighting simulation. Overall a great game that 
 will last the viewer for hours. Although some people would say it is a ver tedious game it all 
 depends on what you do if all you do is kill then sell then kill then sell it is boring but the 
 quests is a great way to earn rewards and it is really fun.
  
  (my friend has a 500 hour account) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Developers take note. This game, and the series as a whole, sets the bar for all the competition. 
 I wish all games got this much love from the devs. Gamers would be a lot happier, and spend WAY 
 more money. I remember when developers use to care about their games. Now it seems like most games 
 get rushed and released just to make a few bucks, but Oblivion is one of those games that has obviously 
 been nurtured by the developers. Nurtured for you, for you to love and play with like a cute little 
 puppy. I'm not gonna go in to details here, but if you like single-player RPGs/FPSs... then this 
 is an absolute MUST OWN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodlemoo12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scroll series has really captured and shown what a real rpg is with fun and addictive 
 gameplay wich keeps bringing you back for more.
  
  Wether you are new to the series or have played the previous games you will really enjoy this one 
 as it has beautiful graphics and a easy to use combat system with powerful magic.
  
  Even though the main story is kind of short there is plenty to do along the way such as looting 
 caves and ruins, side quests and just exploring and admiring the lovely game world of Cyrodil.
 
  
  Also there is plenty of mods to keep your game going longer such as OOO which is a tremendous mod 
 that really redesigns the whole game to give you an almost new experience with new armour/weapons, 
 new monsters and makes the gameplay harder.
  
  i would reccomend this game to anyone who wants to experience a true rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frithead92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt the best installment in the elder scrolls series, the game has intelligent 
 AI, extraordinary graphics and hundreds of hours of play time, And thats just in the main quests!.
 
  
  There is however a downside to this game, the system requirements. Unless you have thousands of 
 dollars to spend improving your computer, this game will always be a bit choppy, i suggest playing 
 on low or medium quality if you have a 256 meg graphics card and 1-2 gigs of ram, the system requirements 
 of this game led to my low tilt rating. The gameplay is absolutely incredible, thousands of characters, 
 all with unique conversations and purposes.
  
  Be whoever you want, from the Arch-Mage of the mages guild to the head of a dark brotherhood of 
 assassins, you choose entirely who you want to be, with 10 races and over 20 classes you can entirely 
 customize your character. This game is quite probably the best RPG game ever made, its well worth 
 the money to buy. The game may take a while to get started but once you get into it its completely 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisoned_muffin
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? The Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion takes place in Cyrodill. The main quest of the game 
 is to save the land from a demonic invasion. However the main point of the game is not the main 
 quest, but rather the side quests and the exploration.
  
  Quests:
  The main quest is definetely pretty weak. It conveys a sense of urgency, however there is no rush 
 to do any of it. Most of it involves venturing into the plain of Obliviion (hell) , to slay monsters 
 and close portals. Sadly the plane of Oblivion is neiter dangerous nor particularly interesting. 
 You have to close a ton of gates to complete the main quest and their all pretty much the same 
 in terms of landscape and monsters. Unfortunately, the monsters aren't really any tougher then 
 the monsters you might fight in the forest. The plot is very predictable, there's no real choice 
 and the charachters are pretty weak. However, it is short, so you can be done with it quickly.
 
  After that their are the side quests which are either factions or city specific quests. The factions 
 are the arena, the fighters, mages, and thieves guilds, and the dark brotherhood. The arena is 
 definetely the worst. You just have 1v1 fight after fight. The fights do not get harded as you 
 progress and it is possible to be arena grand champion at level one.
  The next faction of note is the fighters guild. They are competeing with the Blackwood Company, 
 basically another fighters guild. Sadly you can't join the Blackwood company and are forced to 
 destroy them if you want to advance in the fighters guild. The quests are pretty nonsensical. *Spoiler* 
 The Blackwood company gets their power from some sort of drug. The thing is this drug makes you 
 hallucinate causing you to mistake innocent people for goblins. This begs the question of how they 
 derive their power from it if it makes them kill people their supposed to protect *spoiler*
  Anyway the fighters guild has always been the stupidest TES guild. Their quests are totally linear, 
 make no sense, and aren't a whole lot of fun.
  Next up is the mages guild. They have some sort of nemesis with the necromancers. Why? who knows. 
 You pretty much spend the whole time doing quests that are exactly the same as the fighters guild 
 quests. You don't need to be a mage to advance in their ranks so even a big dumb orc fighter can 
 be archmage. Thieves guild is a little better. They only have 11 quests. But their quests are a 
 little more thought out. The quests involve sneaking around and stealing particular items. One 
 thing that I've never understood is why the Thieves Guild is always protectors of the poor and 
 noble people. Of all the people in the Thieves guild, not one of them is mean spirited or cagey 
 or greedy or anything. They just walk around smiling and being noble. Back to the point. The thieves 
 guild took me an afternoon to beat. It was entertaining, but alas very short. The final guild is 
 the dark brotherhood which everyone says is the best. They go around assassinating people. The 
 premises of their quests are interesting. Most have parameters, or normally just one parameter, 
 which if you follow you get a bonus. The quests are somewhat interesting. However the ending was 
 very stupid. Basically you get tricked into doing something. You don't have a choice about it either, 
 no matter what you get tricked and thiers nothing you can do about it. You're then tasked with 
 protecting someone who is invincible. This is probably the stupidest final objective ever. In each 
 guild you eventually rise to the top. Being on top is meaningless as there is very little you can 
 do. Occasionly you receive paltry monetary rewards but thats about it. In summary the factions 
 are just another line of sidequests, they follow a linear route culminating with you being the 
 faction head. There is little vairety between fighters and mages guild quests, the arena is downright 
 stupid, but the thieves guild and dark brotherhood are entertaining if only because of neat quest 
 premises.
  
  Dialogue:
  Oblivion maintains a dialogue system where you say a word, whic represents the topic of a sentence. 
 The computer then responds with a few sentences. Dialogue is probably one of the biggest failings 
 of the game. While every line is voice acted the acting is not spectacular and their is not a single 
 memorable line. Their are also a handful of times when you have no idea what a certain choice is 
 going to be. At one point I was supposed to recover an amulet. I talked to one person and said 
 amulet . Somehow this pissed them off and caused them to attack me. The keywords result in lack 
 of precise control over what you will say and thier is not a single cool line in the game. As far 
 as persuasion goes, in order to get npc's to like you, you play a persuasion mingame with them. 
 Suffice to say the minigame is very easy. People who would have every reason to hate you, say if 
 they belong to an enemy faction, will love you after a few minutes of the persuasion minigame. 
 It is stupid on many levels and is the second dumbest thing in the game behing leveled loot/enemies.
 
  
  Exploration:
  One of Morrowinds best aspects was the harsh, alien enviroment full of weird and deadly creatures, 
 strange plants, ash storms, and sweet, but hidden, loot. Obliviion has two main areas, the mountains 
 to the north, and the forests everywhere else. Unfortunately the world of Oblivion tends to contain 
 bandits, trolls, and bears as its monsters. Another annoying thing is leveled enemys. The idea 
 is monsters level up with you so that the overall challenge remains the same. Unfortunately this 
 removes any extrinsic sense of accomplishment from leveling up. Also it means you can become arena 
 grand champion, and do anything else, at level 1. One thing in Morrowind was the ghostgate. A big 
 fenced off area full of mean monsters. I guess Oblivions equivalent would be the plane of Oblivion. 
 Unfortunately, the woods right next to the cities and the monsters in the fiery pits of hell are 
 all equally tough. Also loot is leveled. This removes most of the point of exploration. If you 
 are level 1 there is zero chance of you finding great loot in a dungeon. Also the loot in the shops, 
 right next to the city and in the deep dark woods, is all about equal. While there is a big world 
 to explore, its all the same, lacks any atmosphere and there is nothing to gain by exploring it.
 
  
  Combat:
  Combat in the game relies on a mix of player and charachter skill. You always hit your target, 
 but how much damage you do is a function of the quality of your weapon and the skill your player 
 has. Combat in the game is not the least bit challenging. However it does have a few redeeming 
 values. The most notable is the physics and the ability to kill enemys by tricking them into triggering 
 their own traps or falling off cliffs. This is pretty entertaining for a while and difficult to 
 execute so thats a plus.
  
  Stealth:
  Stealth is vastly improved. You can now sneak around in the shadows and snipe people with yor bow. 
 Also schedules enable you to pickpocket people on their way to work for their house key and then 
 rob their house while they are out. Unfortunately thats totally unnecessary because of the lockpicking 
 minigame. In morrowind lockpicking was 100 percent dependent on charachter skill. In Oblivion the 
 opposite is true. Lockpicking is a minigame. Any clumsy warrior type can pick even the hardest 
 lock if the player controlling them is skilled enough. This makes thievery ridicoulously easy. 
 Annoyingly regular merchants won't buy stolen goods so you have to sell them to fences. This could 
 have been really interesting but its not. All fences belong to the thieves guild, none are undercover 
 cops, etc. For some reason regular merchants can tell if any item is stolen. I'm sorry but No, 
 I won't buy that stolen apple is them most ridicoulos thing ever. It's a friggin apple!
  
  Magic:
  Magic has remained pretty dumbed down. Pretty much it's just another way of killing things 
 now. There is really very little difference between shooting a bow and casting a spell. Mark and 
 Recall along with levitation have been removed. The only cool part is the ability to remotely trigger 
 traps with telekinesis. Still traps are pretty rare.
  
  Charachter generation and progression:
  As in all Elder Scroll games the most powerful charachter 
 is the fighter/mage/thief. Still you can do alot towards customizing your charachters appearance 
 so thats a plus. Cgarachter progression is a little counter intuitive. By casting tiny spells over 
 and over you can eventualy be an all powerful wizard. Also, weapon spells increase based of how 
 much you hit. Therefore, to train yourself you want to find a crappy weapon that deals 1 damage 
 and constanly hit a mudcrab, stopping occasionly to heal it. If you do this enough you will become 
 the finest swordsman in all the land.
  
  AI:
  The AI causes the citizens of the town to wander around and talk to each other and go places. The 
 idea is they have needs, sort of like the Sims, and try to fulfill them. I think its good Bethesda 
 decided to do something a little new, considering all they make are sequels. It doesn't work that 
 well though chrachters jobs consist of watching paint dry and a few even repeat the same animation 
 over and over. They also have conversations. The converations don't sound the least bit natural 
 and if you play with subtitles the illogical exchanges will be displayed in big font on your screen.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  Their isn't much to do in Oblivion. Their is 150 quests down from Morrowinds 500. In terms of exploring, 
 it has to have some sort of intrinsic value as there are neither interesting locales nor cool hidden 
 loot. The quests usually have one real solution and their is very little choices to be made. Whereever 
 there is a conflict you can only side with one side. The dialogue and story downright suck. The 
 only positive things that come to mind is: the size, the physics, telekinesis, a handful of quests 
 and sneaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyrk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is like crack: you will never leave it no matter what
  
  Gameplay: 9 - You start in a Dungeon. You can start creating any of the many kinds of characters 
 to chose from, even make it male or female. You can make it random or design it by yourself and 
 choose all the minor features on the face. When you are done, you are introduced by another prisoner 
 in the cell in front of you, and then Captain Picard comes to introduce you to this odd world of 
 Oblivion. Although some quests can be boring to get from point A to point B, you can get rewarded 
 with many items like shields, swords, staffs and anything you can find on a knight from the Elder 
 Scrolls. The gameplay is really impressive because you can do anything at all in the game without 
 even touching the main quest. The controls are simple and depending on your graphics card, this 
 game will run fine.
  
  Graphics: 9 - Again, depending on your graphics card, you can experience the real world of Oblivion 
 with a great graphics card and memory space. This was hard to rate because the graphics card on 
 my computer blows. I had to put low graphics for a great performance. But if you have a great graphics 
 card, your game will run as smooth as a baby's but.
  
  Sound: 10 - Great voice overs, music is fantastic and sound is everywhere. Get inside a creepy 
 dungeon, the sound will change to a creepy ambient music. Go inside a town, the sound will change 
 to a medieval-like song. Some sound effects could've been a little bit more realistic, but other 
 than that, the sound was one of the best things in the game.
  
  Value: 9 - You will absolutely love to play this game if you liked Morrowind or if you are a RPG 
 fan. I am a MMO fan, but I loved this game anyway. I loved the effect with the snow and I loved 
 playing for hours. I had to start a new game and I've already been playing for 30 hours at least. 
 Believe it or not, you will enjoy this game more than you enjoyed Morrowind or any other predecessor.
 
  
  All in all, you better give this game a shot. If you dont trust me, just look at other reviews 
 and watch some videos. Maybe that will help you get convinced. And whats cool with the PC version 
 is that you can actually download mods and make your own and actually play them in the game. You 
 have to try this out one day. A 9.4 out of 10 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great technological master piece by the phisics graphics and value. I was playing 
 this for 2 weeks straight looking at all the dungons many towns. The great thing about Oblivion 
 is the fact that the graphics did not suffer due to the fact of enourmess size of the map. The 
 battles against your enemies has improved from the repetitive slashing in morrowind. In my point 
 of view this game is almost perfect but still needs some tweaking, like more variety of music and 
 more enemies a little longer story would be nice to. A great featuer is that you do not have to 
 follow a story and just go around the world robing or helping people, joining guilds and exploring 
 the map. Oblivion needs a top PC to run as well as the 360 version which is a problem for some 
 PC owners (if own 360 get it for that .... or PS3) .
  
  This game is a must have for RPG fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Like many of you, I had this game preordered months before release. What stood out about it was 
 the graphics. They made my jaw hit the floor. I had never seen anything look so realistic. I enjoyed 
 every minute of the game. The open options to do what you want, whether good or bad is phenominal. 
 You can be the savior to many, while at the same time be the secret mastermind of the Thieves Guild. 
 The excitment of having to make it to the next door before you burn to death in the sunlight as 
 a vampire will never grow old. I could go on and on about the possibilities in Oblivion. By the 
 time I got around to finishing the main quest, over 100 hours of play time was logged.
  
  Gameplay-10 about as good at it gets. Sometimes the AI will be a little strange, such at times 
 when monsters will just stand there as you snipe them to death with arrows, if you are sneaking.
 
  Graphics-10 near-perfect graphics in terms of life-like realism. Best 3D graphics ive seen.
  Sound- 9 the voiceovers are excellent. Too bad only a handful of people did the voices for a few 
 hundred characters. Value- 9 this game will always be a keeper, and one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  this game is just perfect i havent found nothing that i havent love in it the graphics is just 
 amazing the area were you can explore is huge like hell and you can do anything in this game.. rob 
 kill fight buy and a whole lot more things GRAPHICS: the best graphics that i have ever seen in 
 the whole world i have to say i havent found something bad in the graphics SOUND: the sound is exacly 
 as good as the game because it really gives you the filling of the past and the andrenalin in the 
 battle
  GAMEPLAY: well i did sayd it is the perfect game i have ever seen so i have to say that it is olso 
 the most fun game that i have ever played nothing wrong in it
  
  for the ending this must be the perfect game that i have ever played he kept me going for along 
 time and the game is olso **** long i havent finishd him yet but im going to so i reccomend to 
 buy this game but i guess that i dont need to tell you that dont i?
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talkingpie92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantastic game in almost every sense. It has great graphics, gameplay, story, lifespan, 
 sound, and the world is huge.
  
  I'll start with the story - you are a prisoner rotting in a jail inside the huge imperial city 
 of Cyrodil. While being taunted by a fellow prisoner, the emperor and his agents (the blades) suddenly 
 come into your cell and the emperor seems to recognise you from his dreams. It turns out the emperor 
 is escaping from the city because of assassination attempts and there just so happens to be a secret 
 passage out the city through your cell. Co-incidence???
  Anyway, you escape from the prison and embark on a quest for the emperor to find his long lost 
 heir.
  
  The story is nothing short of breathtaking. It's not only very long but it's extremely engaging 
 and acts as a good incentive to want to play the game. Some of the story missions are superb in 
 the way that they draw you in. At one point you have to infiltrate a secretive cult and as you 
 go further into the maze of tunnels following your fellow cult-members you feel almost repelled 
 and desperate to get out before it's too late.
  
  The graphics are excellent and I would be lying if I said you don't need a very powerful computer 
 to play this on. But you could almost justify the purchase of a new computer just to play this 
 game - yes, it really is that good.
  My only quarrel from the graphics standpoint is that from afar - say, if you in a huge valley looking 
 across to the other side - the textures are hideous and can spoil the game. You can remedy this 
 however by downloading mods - gamespot have all the best one in one downloadable pack - however 
 the instructions are not always clear so it depends how much the bad textures bother you. But be 
 warned they are awful.
  
  Sound-wise the game is great with some fine music and excellent voice acting - including a performance 
 from Sean Bean.
  
  The gameplay is simple but effective. You can choose from a 1st person or 3rd person perspective, 
 though I'd highly recommend 1st person. The action is fast and fun and doesn't get too bogged down 
 in complex manoeuvres. The game is mostly role-playing but there are plenty of fighting sequences 
 and the game certainly doesn't let itself down on this front.
  
  I mentioned before that the game world is huge, and it is, but you can auto-travel to anywhere 
 you've already visited which is an excellent addition to the series. The real bulk of the game 
 comes from the side missions. There are a good few factions to join, each having a wealth of quests 
 for you to embark on, plus most of the people you meet on the street or in the pub have something 
 for you to do.
  
  This game is massive. There are tonnes of things to do, places to go, items to collect and spells 
 to learn. This review is already about twice as long as I was hoping to write and I still haven't 
 covered half of the things you can do in this game. But that is a good thing, as finding these 
 out for yourself will be a rewarding experience in itself. If you own a 360 or good PC, it would 
 be a crime to miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iedoc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  i might be somewhat biast or whatever, since i played morrowind first, and absolutely loved it, 
 but it got boring after a while. from all the openendedness. so, when i started to play oblivion, 
 i was like holy **** this game rocks! but i knew i probably wouldn't like it as much, since it 
 was pretty much morrowind, but better in some areas, especially the graphics. i love the graphics 
 in oblivion, and the horse riding, but it seemed like there were some things missing. i don't know. 
 but seriously, i liked morrwind better. sequals always do that. the first game is a wonderous thing, 
 so the second tries to copy, and make it better, but its never as good cause its not original anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matarou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the greatest games ever created, and defiantly one of my top favorites. You 
 can do almost anything in this game, from being the hero and doing all that is good, to being a 
 vampire, murdering in the night. You will spend countless hours on the masterpiece and its worth 
 every dime. Try some of the downloads, they may be a few bucks but pay for themselves time and 
 time again. You get the quest that you download on ANY character, so by them early if your thinking 
 about buying. I recommend this even to those new to the RPG series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Blade29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Truly a great acheievment in gaming history. The Graphics are spectacular and the character face 
 and body detail are just amazing. The human motion and actions are almost perfect. The great variety 
 of weapons are just too good to choose from. You may wield an Axe, Sword, Warhammer, Bow and Arrows 
 and if you love to be a sneaky character you can weild a dagger and become a skilled asassin. The 
 amount of quests in the game is just to much. There are so many to choose from and the main quest 
 is so much fun as you start running errands and then become a loyal Hero as you fight ni a great 
 battle for the only surviving emporer of the land. The only fault with oblivon is that it is a 
 very sophisticated game for the computer game for the computer to run so sometimes it will be tricky 
 to run smoothly. But that aside I woudl rate a oblivion 9.7!!!! Please read my other reviews..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I think the game is actually going for 20 off of the shelf, but both the 360 users and PC users 
 can direct2drive download it for only 10. It's well worth it if you want to continue the Oblivion 
 experience and are getting bored storming caverns and collecting black-bows. Though I would have 
 really had liked to see some closure on the lack of an emporer after the original storyline, this 
 will suffice.
  
  The faction system has been one of my favorite parts of Oblivion since its first release, so this 
 new intriguing addition is from my perspective a very nice one. And while some might argue that 
 one quest-line is not enough to have to pay for. Why not? It's official content among slews upon 
 slews of unnofficial usermade content. They give us the means to create our own game for free pretty 
 much, what more free things do you want? Really? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The world of RPGs is heavily bloated and it seems like in recent years, every other RPG is based 
 in one way or another off of the Dungeons &amp; Dragons ruleset. Oblivion tries to break this mold 
 by claiming that it's a completely immersive, state-of-the-art, and wholly creative adventure that 
 will have your jaw dropping.
  
  If only all of this were true.
  
  Oblivion is indeed expansive, but it's in no way innovative, state-of-the-art, or wholly creative. 
 It's hard to become immersed when many things in the game world lack shadows, even at the highest 
 settings and it's hard to become immersed when every dungeon looks exactly like the one before 
 it. Oblivion's world suffers from an unhealthy dose of repetitiveness.
  
  The world is not the only sufferer of this repetitiveness. The quest design, the characters, the 
 voice acting, and the general gameplay all have a slow and dumbed down feel to them; you're constantly 
 running from point A to point B, slashing the same monster types and looting the same chest types. 
 If there's any creativity in Oblivion, it's hard to find.
  
  Even the claims of Oblivion being a character sandbox fall short. Hours into the game, nearly finished 
 with the main quest, hours spent roaming the countryside for extra goodies - and my character feels 
 just like he did when he first started. There's nothing to be found in Oblivion that truly makes 
 you feel powerful.
  
  Graphics - Visuals are impressive, but only if you place aside that fact that nothing static casts 
 a shadow and that anything at a distance looks horrible; textures are repeated to the point where 
 everything looks the same; art direction is asleep.
  
  Audio - Character voices throughout the game are voiced by the same five or so people; Sean Bean 
 sounds like he was bored out of his mind; Patrick Stewart was drugged into doing this game because 
 he sounds catatonic.
  
  Gameplay - Melee characters feel sluggish, magic characters feel downright boring; the same dungeons 
 all over the place; bland mission and quest design; interface is convoluted and cramped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon_Lord_914
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the RPG to end all RPGs. Don't bother playing anything else. I once thought no one would 
 ever be able to top Morrowind, but leave it to Bethesda to prove me wrong. The graphics are realistic 
 and suberb. I once spent 20 minutes just standing in one place, watching the virtual world go by. 
 The water rippled and reflected, the weather was like any normal day in real life, the NPCs made 
 their way through the day, it was incredible. The sound was great, the background music was nice 
 without being intrusive and the effects were out of this world. The gameplay was amazing in that 
 way only a game from the Elder Scrolls series could be. The storyline was wonderful, and the world 
 was even more immersive than ever. My only complaint was how you could go through each set of guild 
 quests without hitting any guild conflicts, as was not the case in Morrowind. That just seemed 
 to add another layer to the game. However, it's still the case that Oblivion is, in my opinion, 
 the last RPG you need ever buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firerey619
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  this game of the elder scroll 4 :oblivion is a kicking ass good game.
  the game is about a empore who was killed, and the gate to oblivion open. creature and monster in 
 this gate to oblivion. and you have to stop them from opening. in this game there are 10 different 
 races like argonian , breton, dark elf, high elf, imperial, khajit, nord, orc, redguard, and wood 
 eif.
  the gameplay is super, and the graphics are alsome. the sounds are good and the sounds are super 
 to to to to to to to. the thing in this game is the loading with are sometimes walking it will be 
 loadingf sometimes. the loading scrren is for like 40 seconde. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chutup
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is such an overrated stupid hunk of junk I hate it so much. No I'm not a fanboy, I played 
 the game for well over 20 hours trying to see what people thought was so great about it, and I 
 hated almost every minute. This isn't the kind of game where I say It's not my thing, but I see 
 how people who like this genre would enjoy it. No, it is far beyond my comprehension how anybody 
 could enjoy having The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion piss straight into their eyes.
  GAMEPLAY: terrible. The combat , which makes up most of the challenge in the gameplay, is repetitive 
 in the extreme. Admittedly, it has taken a step up from most WRPG combat systems. Rather than simply 
 clicking on enemies until they die, you have to block until an enemy attacks and then strike back. 
 Sounds cool until you do it millions of times with every enemy in the whole damn game. Another 
 thing I hate about the combat is that blocking doesn't prevent damage, it just reduces it. And 
 another thing is that your spells are pathetically weak and use up far too much mana (or 'magicka' 
 as it is named in a futile attempt to sound like Final Fantasy) so they're very useless. Same with 
 bows, but maybe that was just because I didn't play as an archer.
  Outside of combat, gameplay is similarly lame. Mostly it involves walking around talking to people 
 and occasionally sneaking, which I found next to impossible. There are no puzzles or variety although 
 there are a few stupid minigames like lockpicking and stuff but they are all VERY shallow.
  GRAPHICS: everyone says WOW IT HAS LIKE FIVE BILLION POLYGONS AND HIGH DEFENITION LIGHTING WITH 
 REALTIME THINGYNESS!!!11! but that doesn't change the fact that the game is butt ugly. The art 
 designers were all smoking crack when they worked on this game, and not in a good way like how 
 the art designers on Katamari Damacy were also smoking crack. The environments and enemies are 
 all the same generic stuff we've seen in hundreds of other WRPGs. The people are literally ugly. 
 All the dungeons are recycled, cut and pasted so that while the game claims to have something like 
 fifty dungeons, it's actually two or three dungeons, endlessly copied with minor variations. The 
 same can be said of the towns and overworld. SOUND: Admittedly, there is a LOT of voice acting 
 in the game - almost everyone talks with sound. But everyone, even the main characters, have absolutely 
 terrible voice actors who sometimes seem not even to understand the words they're saying. This 
 is made worse because the facial animations are crap and emotionless, and the story would suck 
 even if it were just written down. So you never give a damn about the story. The music is mostly 
 not even there and when it is it's bland and generic.
  VALUE: OK, so it does have 200 hours of gameplay if you do absolutely everything. But that's actually 
 about 20 hours of gameplay, copied and mixed around until you've played every part of it 10 times 
 over.
  TILT: I give it a really low tilt because of many other bad things about it. The physics suck. 
 Not only are they unrealistic, many objects which should be physically simulated, like pots hanging 
 from strings, simply aren't . Another reason is the AI. The AI is A JOKE. It was said before the 
 game came out by the developers that it had the best AI in any game ever. HAH! what a load of crap! 
 It's more like the worst. All that stuff they said about the reactive characters is bull. The characters 
 are stupid in the extreme. Combat AI is even worse. Allies and enemies get stuck in scenery and 
 try to walk through walls. They ask you the time of day when you're pillaging the town. Sometimes 
 when you talk to a guard who is attacking you, he just forgets that you did anything wrong. They 
 are all SO FRICKEN STUPID I HATE THEM ALL. Once I even talked to a guy who bluntly told me: I HAVE 
 NO MESSAGE . What the hell is with that?
  Yes, everyone in the game has a 24-hour schedule. But when you think about it, it's actually really 
 boring to follow someone in an RPG around just to see when they go to bed and stuff. Oh, and the 
 story, even the sidequests, is not reactive at all. Occasionally in a sidequest you get a pathetically 
 obvious choice of how you carry out the last part of the quest, but it's all really lame.
  Plus another thing: You may be able to talk to everyone in the game, but none of them have anything 
 interesting to say.
  OK, I've ended up just listing individual faults, so I'll wrap it up here. TESIV: Oblivion is a 
 fundamentally flawed game. The basic philosophy behind it is wrong. By focussing so much on making 
 a realistic world, Bethesda forgot that just being realistic doesn't mean it's fun. Take the world 
 from Twilight Princess as an example of how they should have done it. See, the world is smaller 
 in TP, and less realistic, but here's the thing: There is actually fun and interesting stuff to 
 do in that world. I would take just one interesting, linear, unrealistic level over a whole world 
 of boredom. That's all from me.
  like you care,
  William Broom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankied94
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is a marvelous game! The gameplay rocks. You can do whatever you want. If you want to be evil 
 you can be evil. You can be a hero. Or even both.
  Although the graphics aren't all they hyped to be, the gameplay and the rest of the game are great. 
 WARNING: You need a good computer that can handle this though.
  
  It's very easy to be confortable with the controls.
  This game makes you feel like your actually 
 in the game. It makes it seem like the next day whenever you break into someones house to use their 
 bed to sleep. I would reccomend this to anyone who loves video games.
  I am 13 and I love this.
  NOTE: Don't listen to the ratings! There is NO nudity at all so far. 
 And the language is nothing that you wouldn't hear from other people. No F' word and none of the 
 serious stuff.
  So don't let the rating stop you from buying it. The character dialouge is increadible. They say 
 different things all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zazoo4455
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is the best game ever made!! It has amazing graphics, amazing gameplay, 
 an amazing story, and amazing depth!! It just doesn't get an better than ES: Oblivion. You get 
 to choose from a variety of characters, all with certain attributes. Building skills is a lot of 
 fun. The AI in the game is excellent. The spells and fight system is great. The game is very open-ended 
 with a main quest, and tons of side quests. There are so many things to do in the game that it 
 just doesn't get boring. The game can last hundreds of hours. If you like RPGs, I highly suggest 
 checking out Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JN_Fenrir
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  One could go on and on about the graphical splendor of Oblivion, but I think that aspect has already 
 been fairly well covered by the community. Cyrodiil is an absolutely gorgeous place, and the sheer 
 amount of detail continues to impress me to this day. This quality makes Oblivion one of the most 
 immersive RPGs to date on any platform.
  
  Unfortunately, your connection to this gorgeous world ends with simply manipulating and managing 
 items, and using your skills to get your butt from one place to the next. No doubt, the storyline 
 is a grand affair, and when you reach the end of it, you really feel like you've made a difference 
 in this big, crazy, mixed-up world. Nevertheless, the game leaves you feeling a little starved 
 for substance.
  
  Sure, there's all sorts of stuff to do in Oblivion. Think you'd like to try your hand at stealing 
 and thievery? Go for it. Want to get your acrobatics skill high enough to go roof-hopping? Sure 
 thing. Drinking the blood of the innocent? Yeah, we've got that. You can fletch, rob, jump, swim, 
 bite and brew 'til your heart's content, if all that's enough for you.
  
  I should also mention that the majority of stuff in Oblivion - pieces of cloth, raw metals, animal 
 hides, jewelry, etc. - is completely useless (aside from making the world incredibly immersive, 
 of course) . The game would have benefitted a great deal from some kind of crafting system, which 
 would have made the Armorer skill a little more useful and, at the very least, give you a single 
 good reason for picking up all that junk.
  
  It's just a shame that, even with all this awesome stuff to do and such a huge world to explore, 
 your actual character choices seem fairly limited. Specifically, the game seems to cater more strongly 
 to a warrior/mage combination than anything else. You can still creep around and launch arrows 
 into people, but you're going to have to go mighty far out of your way to be any good at it.
  
  For example, let's say you're an archer and you'd like to enchant your bow with lightning damage. 
 First, you have to get yourself a soul gem and fill it with a soul, which requires some level of 
 aptitude in Mysticism. You also have to make sure your Destruction magic skill is sufficient that 
 you can cast a decent lightning spell. But to even be able to enchant anything, you need access 
 to the Arcane University, which means you'll have to complete the first tier of quests for the 
 Mages' Guild. By this point, it sounds like you're already a pretty powerful mage. Why are you 
 carrying that bow around?
  
  It can be very difficult to stay in character as your play Oblivion as a result of the need to 
 use a wide range of skills to get the full +5 attribute bonuses at level-up, and the fact that 
 enemies scale with you in level. In order to get the +5 bonus to an attribute, you simply need 
 to gain 10 points in any of the three skills governed by it. The problem arises in that you automatically 
 level after any 10 skill raises, so if you simply focus on your major skills, you'll probably never 
 receive a full +5 bonus. For that, you'll have to micromanage your skill sheet, filling in points 
 in skills that are totally irrelevant to your character. Again, it's not so bad for the melee/warrior 
 types, but if you favor stealth over fisticuffs, you need to make sure you're getting your full 
 +5s.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a game that gives you a hell of a lot to do, but without providing you with 
 the freedom to create a character that gives it any context. What the game does, it does extraordinarily 
 well, and Bethesda definitely did a great job refining and roping in the gameplay compared to previous 
 Elder Scrolls games. But as a long-standing fan of the series, it's a little sad to see the gameplay 
 so fiercely neutered.
  
  Nevertheless, the game provides enough to do and enough variety that it remains an absolute must-play 
 for fans of any genre. It's certainly a winner in terms of value, offering potential hundreds of 
 hours of gameplay (and that's before diivng into the vast array of user mods) without having to 
 fork over a monthly fee. Whatever your plans are, do yourself a favor and book a trip to Cyrodiil, 
 and plan on being gone for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skennedy8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  There is really no need to add much more to what everyone else has said. Dollar for dollar, hour 
 for hour, click for click this is the best game out there right now for role-playing. With an open 
 game and a huge modding community there is more to this title every day. Buy, Play, Enjoy! The 
 only unfortunate thing is that you will probably love this game so much you will have to go out 
 and upgrade your graphics card!
  
  Be sure to grab some of the downloads here at Gamespot as they can really help fine tune the game 
 play to your individual style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtrack0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  How much free time do you have? It's a legitimate question if you're considering Bethesda's epic 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, as it's likely to engulf whatever tidbits of unoccupied hours permeate 
 your life. It might even start chipping away your daily responsibilities. With over 200 hours of 
 gameplay, Oblivion's depth is nothing short of staggering. However, depth means nothing if it's 
 paired with crippling bugs or frustrating gameplay. Though Oblivion has a few issues, it thankfully 
 avoids any major blunders, making this the best single-player role-playing experience to come along 
 in years.
  
  To briefly sum up, Oblivion has no multiplayer. It's an entirely offline role-playing game, meaning 
 you'll complete quests, level up and progress through a rich storyline. As you grow more powerful 
 you'll acquire better weapons, armor and spells to kill monsters and, if it's your preference, 
 innocents. Oblivion's four guilds, Mages, Fighters, Thieves, and Dark Brotherhood, all have their 
 own unique questlines and provide opportunity for added perks. Designed to be an open-ended experience, 
 Oblivion's biggest draw is its massive world. Set in Cyrodiil, a province of the larger land of 
 Tamriel, practically everything is accessible right from the start. You can head in any direction 
 you like, playing to beat the story, to complete side quests, or wander around fields, mountains 
 and streams exploring at your own pace. Though the main quest is usually a game's primary draw, 
 that isn't the case here. The game starts out with the world in danger and you're destined to save 
 it. Pretty standard stuff. The largest threats to Cyrodiil are the Oblivion Gates opening up across 
 the land. Flanked by ominous stone columns, these flaming portals are doorways to hellish dungeon 
 settings where better armor and weapons can be found. Which ones you enter is totally up to you, 
 though some are required by quests. While the story missions are great, there's a ton of excellent 
 content you'll be missing if you stick strictly to the main plot. The guilds, for instance, all 
 have epic storylines of their own. There's a gladiatorial Arena in the Imperial City where you 
 can engage in mortal combat with one, two or even three enemies at a time for cash rewards. It's 
 a wonderfully open-ended game, yet also surprisingly focused once you decide what you want to do.
 
  
  Anyone who played through the previous The Elder Scrolls game, Morrowind, will remember the almost 
 total lack of direction, a feature which turned many off. While in that game that main quest didn't 
 even begin until around 15 hours after starting, Oblivion kicks off with a major plot development 
 and thrusts you immediately into the main adventure. Once given your initial task to restore order 
 to Cyrodiil and shut down the demonic invasion from Oblivion, you'll never have trouble figuring 
 out what to do next. This is mostly due to the intuitive map and easy to use quest log. Whenever 
 you accept a task to perform or are assigned a duty, an entry is made in your journal. By clicking 
 on the quest you can see a brief description and set it to active. Any active quest in your log 
 is highlighted on your map screen with an arrow. Red arrows mean you need to pass through a door, 
 green ones mean you're in the right place, and the arrow also pops up on the compass at the bottom 
 of your screen for extra convenience. Unless you're a total masochist, it's a much welcome improvement, 
 making quest objectives and locations much easier to find.
  
  On top of that, you're given the ability to fast travel around Cyrodiil. Every location in the 
 game pops up as an icon on your map. To be eligible for fast traveling, you need to first visit 
 the location on foot, although the major cities are accessible right from the start. After a location 
 has been made fast travel accessible, you can pop open your map, select it, and arrive there instantaneously. 
 Though time still passes when you travel, you don't have to actually spend it hoofing the journey 
 out. If you'd rather walk, that option is always available, but fast traveling effectively eliminates 
 the tedium of fetch quests so prevalent in the RPG genre. On top of that, it's great for when you 
 want to buy specific spells or armor only available in certain cities. With the improvements to 
 the map, journal and travel system, the world of Tamriel just got a lot more user friendly.
  
  These improvements make Oblivion a great title for anyone still wary about RPGs. Though the 
 depth and gameplay options may be daunting, there's always plenty of information available to tell 
 you how to go about getting things done. Of course, the goal of any game is to make your character 
 an utterly unstoppable force, capable of destroying friend and foe alike with the mere twitch of 
 an eyelash. To become an unconquerable world dominator in Oblivion, there's a mind boggling array 
 of options.
  
  Before doing anything, you need to create your character. Bethesda has implemented a great creation 
 feature, allowing you to meticulously customize your character's appearance and class. Whether 
 you play as a reptilian Argonian, stout Orc or sneaky Wood Elf, you'll be able to adjust skin tone, 
 facial structure, hair styles, eye color and many other options. When moving through the initial 
 sewer area, you'll also choose a class, which can be completely customized should you wish to do 
 so. We could list all the options available, or we could tell you that it's entirely possible to 
 create a thief-mage High Elf with albino skin and bruised eyes, a penchant for haggling with item 
 vendors and nasty accuracy with a bow. What this all means is Oblivion lets you create as fine-tuned 
 and personalized a character as you could possibly want. Despite the range of options, some of 
 the skills and attributes are useless given the effectiveness of others. For instance, Luck is 
 a terrible attribute to choose for one of your two primaries, since it doesn't directly affect 
 anything. A few of the skills, such as acrobatics and athletics, are useless as well as one of 
 your seven main. The way your character levels up is through use of skills, not experience. The 
 more Destruction spells you cast, the more monsters you conjure, the more you heal yourself, the 
 higher those skills rise. Once your skills bump up enough, you level up and can increase attributes. 
 Since you're going to be running and jumping (athletics and acrobatics) constantly, there's no 
 need to build those into your main attributes.
  
  If you do pick a few useless skills, you're going to know it a few levels down the road and likely 
 want to change them. Once you're outside the first dungeon, however, you can't change your character. 
 So read all the information provided by the game and choose whatever you feel best. Yes, it's going 
 to require thinking. If that prospect turns you off, then this game probably isn't for you. Better 
 yet, make a game save right before leaving the initial dungeon you can reload should you be unsatisfied 
 with your character choice. In fact, save about every five minutes. Since you'll never be sure 
 how powerful an enemy is going to be, the chance of a brutal death is always high when trekking 
 across Cyrodiil. Having a recent save is a requirement, otherwise you could find yourself losing 
 hours and hours of progress. Though the game will auto-save, it's a better idea to have a hard 
 save available, since the auto-save always overwrites itself. Once outside the initial dungeon, 
 you'll start to understand just how massive Oblivion's world really is. Opportunities for new quests 
 and stories are everywhere, and there's no pressure as to which path you should follow. Thanks 
 to the map, journal and fast travel system, it's way easier to follow a path once you pick one. 
 Throughout each of Cyrodiil's towns you'll find nearly everyone has something they need done, and 
 each task has a story behind it. Though many quests turn out to be standard dungeon crawls, there's 
 usually a twist or turn along the way. For instance, buying a house at a discounted price in Anvil 
 seems like a great deal. That is, until you actually sleep there and get attacked by ghosts. Upon 
 investigation, you discover there's the corpse of a long-dead Necromancer haunting the crap out 
 of your basement, and he's still pissed off. This kind of attention to detail is present in many 
 of the game's bevy of questsInteracting with people around Cyrodiil is surprisingly realistic, 
 and Bethesda's much-hyped Radiant A. I. system works well. NPCs engage in random conversation from 
 which you can glean quests should you eavesdrop at an opportune time. We witnessed one branch of 
 the fighter's guild sit down to eat dinner in unison. NPCs will take naps, engage in everyday activities, 
 and occupy themselves with swordplay or spellcasting for fun. Some of the random conversations 
 still sound stilted and unnatural, starting off with lines like, Hey, so how about that local Mages 
 Guild. It's basically water cooler talk, but it's interesting nonetheless. Sometimes, you'll overhear 
 more intriguing topics, like one NPC hitting on another.
  
  Actually engaging NPCs in conversation is absolutely impressive, as each character in the game 
 has spoken dialogue. Considering the titanic amount of NPCs in the game, that's a lot of spoken 
 dialogue. Though in many cases they're just canned responses using a repeated voice (every Argonian 
 female sounds pretty much the same) , there are always some unique samples for every quest. Whether 
 the NPC is pouring their heart out to you because they need help or detailing an intricate history 
 of a specific item, it's all voiced, though not free of occasional excessive cheesiness. There's 
 also an engaging persuasion system in place in case an NPC won't give you the information you're 
 looking for. Like the rest of Oblivion, there are multiple ways to get them to see your side of 
 things. Depending on the kind of character you're playing, you can use speech skills to charm them, 
 use a charm spell or just toss some money their way. Rewards from doing so include getting information 
 necessary for quests, and gaining an NPC's trust so you can buy a house, among other things. So, 
 the system isn't there for the sake of its own existence, it serves a function which at times can 
 be very beneficial.
  
  Once out in Cyrodiil's wilderness, these persuasion skills become much less relevant. You'll instead 
 need to rely heavily on your combat skills. One criticism of The Elder Scrolls since its beginnings 
 has been awkward combat, and that remains true here. Oblivion's fighting mechanics are much improved 
 and interactive over previous versions, but still not perfect. You're able to block and swing with 
 separate buttons and have another for casting spells. Blocking can knock enemies off balance for 
 free swings, but also do the same to you, so the fighting is no longer a mindless procedure of 
 hitting attack ad nauseum; you'll actually need to pay attention and properly time your swings, 
 blocks and casts. In one-on-one situations, these controls function well but run into problems 
 in confined areas or in group battles. A good strategy in Oblivion is to lure all opponents to 
 an open area, allowing you to move around. While you don't need pinpoint accuracy to attack effectively, 
 you do need to be facing the general direction of your opponent. In tight quarters, the dizzying 
 effects from getting smashed by swords and maces make proper aim overly difficult. While in open 
 spaces you could recover by backing up, you're pretty much stuck in many of the smaller cave tunnels. 
 This problem intensifies when in group battles, especially with friendly NPCs. Since getting struck 
 occasionally makes you wobble, you'll have a difficult time discerning who you're slashing at in 
 a group melee. Given the fact that friendly NPCs will actually start attacking you should they 
 take enough damage from your weapon, it's important that you're targeting the right person.
  
  During the confusion of battle, you'll need all your important spells and weapons readily available. 
 Enter Oblivion's hotkey system, which allows up to eight items from your inventory to be accessed 
 without returning to your menu screen. It's a wonder the system was limited to only eight, given 
 the depth of the rest of the game. There are literally hundred of icons to choose from, be it items, 
 weapons, spells and armor. Trying to limit that to eight is a little extreme, especially considering 
 the range of situations you can find yourself in. Why not implement a system where you can switch 
 between multiple hot key sets? That way, you've got a hotkey set for magic, one for combat, one 
 for fighting undead, one for marksman, etc. As it stands, you'll have to constantly switch appropriate 
 icons in and out of hotkey assignments, which is more of a hassle than it should be.
  For PC users, the hotkeys are conveniently mapped on your keyboard, but Xbox 360 owners will be 
 faced with a more annoying control setup. The D-Pad's vertical and horizontal directions work fine, 
 but the icons you assign to the diagonals will prove difficult to select with any sort of regularity. 
 You'll often find yourself mistakenly switching to a healing spell when you meant to pull out a 
 shield and sword, or siphoning health when you meant to summon a Frost Atronarch. Combine this 
 with the imprecision during battles with multiple foes or in close quarters, and you'll find combat 
 in Oblivion requires a little more patience that you might have expected.
  
  Despite those issues, the rest of The Elder Scrolls IV controls very well. Basically it just comes 
 down to whether you prefer a mouse or a thumbstick. Though the game offers a third-person mode, 
 don't bother using it save for checking out your armor. It's nearly impossible to fight with the 
 camera pulled back, and some of the third-person animations look unrealistically silly (sideways 
 moonwalk, anyone?) . All in all, Oblivion functions better than it did in Morrowind, but there's 
 still room to improve. Though you'll spend a lot of time fighting in Oblivion, you'll also spend 
 a good deal of it just wandering around. Mostly, this will be an unconscious result of Oblivion 
 looking absolutely fantastic. Environments sprawl for great distances in front of you, trees and 
 grass sway to and fro, and the lighting and level of detail in the sky can be breathtaking at times. 
 The environments look so good, it's nearly impossible to resist the urge to plunge into the unknown. 
 Weapon and armor models are intricately detailed, towns have their own unique architectural flair, 
 and though some of the dungeon designs may get repetitive, they're always pretty to observe.
  
  Character and enemy models are highly detailed, though some of the NPCs have odd facial features 
 and questionable speech syncing. Creature animations are generally very good, and the physics system 
 embedded in each model can produce some impressive results at times. For instance, a conjured Daedroth 
 can effortlessly smash an enemy several feet through the air on a killing blow. Downed wolves roll 
 down hills, and enemies can be blasted right out of midair with a well-placed magic blast. Unfortunately, 
 the graphics aren't without their faults. Though you can see extremely far into the distance, far 
 off hills will be blanketed in low-resolution textures that otherwise mar a beautiful scene. Loading 
 times may also be a bother. Not the loading times when entering doors or fast traveling around 
 the world, those are entirely manageable. It's the loading that occurs when traveling across the 
 land that will cause the Xbox 360 version to stutter, as well as any mid to lower end PC. The game 
 needs to load in grass and environmental objects at regular intervals, and the ensuing pause in 
 the action may turn some off. There's also a very visible amount of pop-in, as grass, rocks and 
 even houses appear at the edges of your vision. This loading setup was obviously implemented to 
 keep framerates manageable. For the most part, it's excusable considering the stunning graphical 
 heights Oblivion is able to reach in other places. Still, the loading stutter and the framerate 
 may bother you as well. While the game runs at a steady clip in dungeons and indoors, you'll notice 
 a performance hit when traveling quickly through outdoor areas and in crowded towns. These framerate 
 drops don't so much affect the gameplay, but remain an annoyance as it takes you out of the experience. 
 On high-end PCs these framerate and loading issues are diminished, but most PC and all Xbox 360 
 gamers will have to put up with them to enjoy the otherwise visual delight that is The Elder Scrolls 
 IV.
  
  While wandering and wondering at Oblivion's visual prowess, your ears will be equally entertained. 
 As previously stated, the game is packed with an amazing amount of spoken dialogue, for the most 
 part well acted. The musical score is excellent and fitting for the game's medieval fantasy setting. 
 Depending on the environment, you'll get cheery daytime adventure type of compositions, tense battle 
 music, and ambient, unsettling string arrangements for dungeons and ruins. Sound effects are equally 
 impressive, with crisp metal clangs for clashes in battle and eerie, otherworldly audio for magical 
 happenings. Wraiths and ghosts boast unearthly wails and residents of the Oblivion plane bellow 
 in deep, hell-tinted cadences. With a game this gigantic, you're going to have to expect some bugs. 
 Morrowind had quite a few, some relatively serious, specifically with the Xbox version's fall through 
 the world bug. Thankfully, Oblivion has so far proven to be a more stable product. That being said, 
 if you play this game, you'll likely encounter crashes. Bugs include the PC version crashing to 
 desktop and freezes during loading screens on the Xbox 360. When we first popped in our Oblivion 
 disc it has absolutely painful loading times, but they went away the second time we fired the game 
 up and haven't returned since. Other bugs include monsters and NPCs disappearing, clipping through 
 walls, and strange sound glitches. Do the bugs make the game unplayable? Absolutely not. Sure, 
 they're annoying, but they don't break the game. The sheer amount of content and breadth of gameplay 
 options that went into this title outweighs any minor gripes that can be made about errors that 
 crop up here and there.
  
  Closing Comments
  I've done enough blabbering and hairsplitting. Is the Elder Scrolls IV worth a purchase? Definitely. 
 Currently, it's as good as gaming gets on the Xbox 360. If you're an RPG fan, it's an incredible 
 experience. If you regularly beat RPG fans with hockey sticks, you should still try this one out. 
 It's got combat issues, the hotkey system could have been implemented better and some may be ticked 
 off by the environmental loading stutters. However, none of those criticisms hold back Oblivion 
 from being a thoroughly enjoyable, user-friendly, gorgeous experience with enough content to keep 
 you returning time and time again.
  
  Another Take
  from Tom McNamara
  Once upon a time, I bought the Collector's Edition of Daggerfall and wandered through its operatically 
 enormous landscape for untold hours. I played and finished Morrowind and its expansions. ES4 was 
 my most anticipated release since Half-Life 2, and it doesn't disappoint. While I don't think Lynda 
 Carter's voice acting is that great, this aspect of the game is otherwise uniformly excellent and 
 star-studded -- a refreshing change from the B-list hell us RPG geeks are often stuck with. And 
 it's all voice acted; apparently over half the disk is dialog. The music is also memorable, yet 
 it doesn't get tedious after many hours of playtime (I passed the 25-hour mark last night) . The 
 ambient material in the dungeons is awesome. I've finished the Thieves Guild quest line, gotten 
 to Conjurer in the Mages Guild, but I've only done a few quests in the main storyline. Unlike most 
 other RPGs, the side quests have nearly enough content and narrative continuity to be games in 
 their own right. Each of the main organizations -- the mages, thieves, fighters guild, Dark Brotherhood, 
 et cetera -- has its own drama to unravel, and you're rewarded with some pretty cool loot along 
 the way. There's so much content, in both the cities and the countryside, that I'm astonished Bethesda 
 was able to put this thing together in a reasonable amount of time. But its not all wine and roses. 
 There is a certain quest in the main storyline that simply must be done early on. It appears to 
 be hard-coded for a large amount of NPC (non-player character) assistance, as you'll encounter 
 a much larger amount of monsters than usual. The monsters of Oblivion dynamically progress to match 
 your character level, giving you a challenge no matter where you are in the game world, but your 
 NPC assistance appears to remain static. So quests that require this assistance can be extremely 
 difficult if you wait too long to get to them. Those helpers who were wearing iron or steel armor 
 will still be doing so 20 levels later, whereas the enemy will have some pretty nice gear. It gets 
 ugly. You can also level up with non-combat abilities and get your butt handed to you, since the 
 game appears to only check your character level, not your combat proficiencies, when auto-adjusting. 
 And a spellcaster won't have much in the way of roots or snares, making for a lot of backpedaling 
 during combat. Also, I find the Invisibility spell to actually be too powerful. Not only does a 
 monster completely lose track of you, but you can even bump into them and push them out of your 
 way. You can cover a ton of ground without getting in a single fight. The spell can last up to 
 60 seconds with a manageable mana cost, and it can be recast ad infinitum. There's no WoW-style 
 cooldown, or diminishing returns (such as monster resistance) . The behavior is flat and its effects 
 total. Once I got this spell, I sailed through the latter half of the Thieves Guild quest line. 
 But while Oblivion certainly has its quirks, it's still very compelling and engrossing. It's also 
 a ton more stable than I'm used to with Elder Scrolls games. Character creation is a little complex 
 for the ES initiate, and the town guard AI a little physic when I borrow something, but I was hooked 
 after going through that first big mission in the main storyline, and I think most RPG gamers will 
 be as well.
  
  By Jack fry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFlood
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Very much like the 360 version, but any difference is minor and unfortunately to the negative. 
 This game is still a must get but if you had a choice between pc and 360, take the 360 version. 
 Graphics are incredible very detailed if you have a good enough memory card and you put it on high 
 settings, sound is amazing and can outscore most movies on the well orchestrated pieces for the 
 game. The game is easy to pick up and highly addictive. I have been playing over 100 hours on this 
 game. There is no reason not to buy this game, if you have $60 spend it on Oblivion right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is imo one of the best in the series for character diversity, environment, character 
 interaction, and fun. You have a lot of control on how your character looks and what role he/she 
 plays in the world. My main problem with the game is the leveling system. I just seems too random, 
 its not like the normal rpg where you just go grind trash mobs for a few hours then go pwn. My 
 second and last problem with the game is the story missions are as easy to beat at lvl 1 as they 
 are at lvl 20 because the mobs lvl with you. One of the best characteristics of the game is how 
 much rpg-add you can have with this one. From robbing peoples houses to stealing horses, exploring 
 caves, and finding the seemingly millions of easter eggs planted in the game you never get bored. 
 the graphics are also amazing and have suprisingly low system requirements for how advaced the 
 game looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunnaplaya
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Oblivion surpasses any RPG game i've seen. There are minimal bugs and the graphics are beyond amazing. 
 The quests are relevant and fun. I thought it was really cool when i could walk up to the chains 
 in the cell and using the grab key i could move them around, I've never seen that before in a game. 
 One of the best features is the ability to create your own MOD files and/or download them from 
 gamespot or the official MODs at the Oblivion site. It adds an unlimited amount of content to the 
 game. My only con is the Physics when using an enchanted weapon, the NPC's and enemies fly a little 
 too far to be realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  this is a truely superb game it is like world of warcraft i like both but i prefer world of warcraft 
 ok now this is an awesome rpg that u get to pick ur race and class and have fun in the world now 
 wat u wanna do is get to a high level then level up ur stats and have fun and be evil by killing 
 a hole towns fill of people and stealing all there stuff then breaking out of jail then recover 
 all the stuff u stole from the evidence files but u can also be good and do story line missions 
 and guild missions too ^^ but have pacience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goonplatoon1032
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big RPG player but i heard MANY good things about this game and had to try it out. i'm 
 more into the FPS and strategy (civ 4) but i was truly astonished by this game. MY strenghts overway 
 my weakness by 20 times.
  
  Strengths: 1. beautiful scenery, characters, and effects reminds me of the realism in half-life 
 2, but in a whole environment instead of level by level
  2. so many options available to you such as classes, birthsigns, races, major and minor skills 
 it would take a lifetime explore them all.
  3. lots of locations
  4. 4 guilds - about 13 quests each main quest- around 19 quests the arena - fight random evildoers 
 daedric quests - wierd and sketchy, but yields good weapons SIDE quests- (my favorite) and lots 
 of them
  5. Impressive AI
  6. Variety of foes
  7. better graphics than WoW
  8. only slightly better than Morrowind, which is quite the standard
  9. Way better than Gothik
 
  
  Weaknesses
  1. no multiplayer (who cares, quit whining and go play CS)
  2. poisons are meaningless (at least i think so)
  3. can freeze and crash (but thats why there's 
 a diligent autosave system)
  4. quests can be redundant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodlin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  If anything truly bad could be said about this game is that it is too big. I have only mapped less 
 than half of the world and had already spent 100+ hours on this game.
  
  This game got it right, and it shows. The previous Elder Scrolls we, at times, a disappointment. 
 It is truly enjoyable when programmers learn from their mistakes and try to correct them.
  
  There are numerous side-stories that can easily keep one busy, if they wished. The main storyline 
 was enjoyable and the graphics and sound were well done.
  
  If there were any downsides, it would have been the stiffness in the responses to the people your 
 character meets. There was also some moments of sluggishness from my machine where there were numerous 
 creatures battling my character. Later, found this problem to be with my video card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  I've spent 150hours on Oblivion easily, and loved every minute of it. Graphically, it is probably 
 one of the best looking games ever made, not including all of the mods you can download that improve 
 on this. The quests are very differing and exciting, especially the Dark Brotherhood quests. My 
 only complaint is that you can beat the main story in a few hours if you wanted. Also, most of 
 the caves and ruins are the same. I don't even explore them anymore... One of my suggestions is 
 to turn off fast-travel. This will make exploring the map a more important part of the game, also 
 increasing the play time. Also, make sure you computer can run this game before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I've had the pleasure of owning Oblivion since the day it was released, and over the past few months 
 I have given the game a REAL good playthrough and therefore I think I am pretty qualified to give 
 a definitive review of this awesome game. Before I do that though I must point out that my experience 
 of the Elder Scrolls series is extremely limited, that is to say I own Morrowind and now Oblivion 
 although I have only really played Oblivion to any large degree, and when I say large degree I 
 have clock over 125 hrs of gametime. Part of what draws you into Oblivion are it's stunning visuals, 
 which I will get to later, and it's a great testament to the quality of this game that it makes 
 me want to play all the way through Morrowind. I've also had the pleasure of being able to play 
 both the XBOX 360 AND PC versions of the game, so you might want to check out the end of this review 
 where I will endeavour to compare the two platforms and give you an informed view of which version 
 to get (if not both) .
  
  The game begins with an introductory sequence where we meet Tiber Septim, the Emperor of Tamriel 
 where he explains in no uncertain terms that he has envisioned the coming days to be he last. The 
 sequence features great music, great voice acting by Patrick Stewart and a wonderful flyover of 
 the imperial city. Suddenly you find yourself in a jail cell, which by the way looks absolutely 
 gorgeous, for a jail cell that is. It isn't long before you meet the Emperor in person, who conveniently 
 needs to go through your cell to access the secret passages that lie under the Imperial City. I 
 say convenient because this is exactly what allows you to escape from prison. It is interesting 
 that you have no idea of why you are in prison, and indeed you never do find out at any time during 
 the game, but this definetly works in favour of the free form nature of the game when creating 
 a character that uniquely fits the person you want to play as.
  
  As it turns out the Emperor's visions of his demise are true, and his dying words are what start 
 you off on Oblivions main questline. The first hour of the game is spent exploring these underground 
 passages, until eventually you reach the Imperial Cities sewers, and consequently a passage that 
 leads to the outside world. This first hour serves as an introduction to the games mechanics and 
 also helps the game determine and recommend a class for you to play based on your actions. You 
 are not bound by this decision, and can freely choose another class or even create a completely 
 customised class. Creating a custom class merely consists of selecting seven primary attributes, 
 which will be what determine how and what you need to do to gain levels.
  
  Upon reaching the outside world you are greeted by a stunning lakeside vista and are free to do 
 whatever the hell you please. I think it would be a fair call to say that Oblivion is the Grand 
 Theft Auto of RPG's, only set in medieval times. Your first course of action is most likely to 
 honour the Emperor's request, whereby you will ultimately be set on a course to find and rescue 
 the Emperor's lost son who is the heir to the throne. If you choose to go this route you will ultimately 
 and quickly discover your first Oblivion gate. The main quest line has you effectively trying to 
 stop this Oblivion Invasion by shutting these gates down. You can play the game at your own pace 
 and can deviate from the main questline whenever you want for as long as you want with no penalty.
 
  
  Speaking of quests, this game has a LOT of them. In fact in addition to the main story quest line, 
 there are four different guild questlines and the arena questline. There's also a LOT of freeform 
 questing to be found. Of course there's also plenty of fort ruins and ayleid ruins and dungeons 
 to explore for loot as well. Oblivion has an interesting loot system in that the amount of gold 
 you can loot is based upon your level and also the quality of loot is also based on your level 
 and it's all random. Theoretically if you wanted you could save your game every time you loot a 
 chest, and if you don't like what you got you can reload your save and try again. This isn't entirely 
 an exploit because it has happened to me where I died after getting some nice loot and upon loading 
 my last save I found I didn't get as nice a loot I did the first time. Think of it as an insurance 
 policy :)
  
  I've mentioned the levelling system a little but I really need to expand on it because the game 
 scales difficulty of enemies based entirely on your current level. So if you choose to try and 
 close that first Oblivion gate at level 1 you can, and you will find it's not really that much 
 of a challenge. However if you did what I did and wait until you are several levels higher you 
 will find it not only challenging but in some cases impossible to progress.
  
  When you are not questing you are free to move around the cities and towns, you can go into shops, 
 buy items, get items repaired, kill shopkeepers, shoplift, knock things off shelves, run around 
 killing everyone in sight, break into people's houses and steal stuff, break into people's houses 
 at night and kill them in their sleep and THEN steal stuff.... or perhaps you want to go herb gathering, 
 hunting talking to everybody, there is a lot stuff to do when you're not questing and there is 
 a lot of fun to be had with the games physics engine, particularly in respect to dragging and arranging 
 corpses. Oh, and you can read books too, if you are so inclined, and some of them upgrade your 
 stats. Perhaps you want to buy houses and furnish them, you can do that too. I think the best way 
 to sum up Oblivion when you are not questing is the little blurb on the back of the box that says 
 LIVE LIFE IN ANOTHER WORLD - this is ENTIRELY accurate of Oblivion.
  
  What makes living in Oblivion so compelling is that the graphics are pretty damn gorgeous. Weapon 
 and armour graphics look amazing. Character model also look great. The outdoor environments decent 
 to stunning. Weather effects are about what you expect, although when you get a stormy night it's 
 particularly impressive and immerisve. Sunrises and sunsets look great, especially near lakes. 
 I think Oblivions graphics really shine in the indoor areas.
  
  Soundwise, well again it's what you'd expect. The music's pretty average, it's certainly not one 
 of the best soundtracks I have ever heard in a game. The title theme is very good, but the in-game 
 music is only really useful for telling you when you are in combat. It's certainly pleasant enough, 
 but I've definetly heard better orchestral soundtracks in games before.
  
  So, should you get the PC version or the XBOX 360 version? I played Oblivion primarly on the XBOX 
 360 and have played 12 hours of Oblivion on my PC. The PC used was 3.0Ghz Intel Pentium IV based 
 system couple with a GeForce 6800 GT videocard. The game will auto-detect your system and select 
 an appropriate default setting, and in my case the game chose HIGH with 1024x760 resolution. I 
 have done a comparison vs XBOX 360 taken from the exact same spot in the game and I can tell you 
 that with a GeForce 6800 GT you can expect to get the exact same detail levels as the XBOX 360 
 version.
  BUT, I did notice that the 360 version had better framerates AND I also noticed some mouselag (which 
 usually indicated you need to lower your screen resolution) .
  
  There is another thing to consider between the two versions, and thats the controller. If you play 
 on the PC version you can play Mouse and Keyboard or you can even hook up a 2 axis gamepad. I was 
 really disappointed to find out that the game does not support the wired 360 controller for windows. 
 Reguardless of which platform you play on I can say without doubt that the best method of control 
 for Oblivion is NOT Mouse and Keyboard as you may expect, but instead you really should be playing 
 this game with a 360 style controller. It's a lot easier to select spells during battle with a 
 D-PAD than it is to stretch your hand over to hit the number 8 key.
  
  You may also want to consider you sound setup. If you have your PC connected to a 5.1 receiver 
 then this isn't relevant, but if you don't or can't and do have a 5.1 reciever then maybe the 360 
 version would be better.
  
  With these 3 things in mind I would recommend a minimum of a 6800 GT Videocard based system (or 
 ATI equivalent) if you want to play the PC version. These days a GeForce 7800 probably costs the 
 same or less than the XBox 360 with HDD and you will get better graphics, so if you have surround 
 sound on your PC I'd recommend picking up a 7800 to play Oblivion.
  
  I checked load times on both setups and found that they are pretty much identical, although I didn't 
 bother with timings. The one thing I noticed on the PC version with 1Gig of RAM is you don't get 
 the Loading Area pauses you get on the 360 version.
  
  In summary reguardless of which platform you play on, Oblivion is an awesome game and is one that 
 everybody who likes RPG's should play. It's going to last you a long time, and I can also say this 
 game is truly replayable, this isn't a game you finish and never go back to again, you will want 
 to play it again to try out different classes and, well it's just a great timewaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjawa1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Ordinarily I don't buy Fantasy games. I am not a big fan of the genre. My love, now and forever, 
 will always be with Sci-Fi based games. And there is never enough of them out there in my opinion. 
 But, several friends of mine, who are also big Sci-Fi fans like myself, bought this game and told 
 me I would love it too even though it isn't sci-fi. I told em they were full of it. I put it off 
 for as long as I could. I finally bowed to the peer-pressure and bought it this weekend. The primary 
 reason why this is such a good game is not so much the look and feel of the game, it's the over 
 all aspect that really shows that the folks at Bethesda and 2K Games really took the time that 
 was necessary to plan a good game. My only beef with it is that it's not Sci-Fi. If it was, it'd 
 be perfect. I do have one other beef with the game. It is the fact that it takes so much to run 
 it. Myself, I have a nice gaming rig and it runs the game turned all the way up with no noticeable 
 drop in frame rate. But if I was the Marketing Manager, I'd be highly upset with the programming 
 staff for not allowing lesser machines into club. Seriously, if you don't have a good machine, 
 this game looses so much. One of the best things about this game is the fact that there is always 
 something to do! You can run quests until your bored to tears, then go and search out dungeons 
 and hack and slash your way back. It's great! You can spend time feting out the mysteries of Alchemy 
 (Which is chemistry, but we all know how I feel about fantasy) , spend hours making everyone on 
 the game like you, or just piddle around with magic and other such things. The options that one 
 has available make this game playable for months. Then, they go and include tools so fans of the 
 game can add their own content. I suspect that this game will be played for years by most people 
 who purchase it. All in all, one of the best games I have seen in a long, long time. I only have 
 2 real bones to pick with the game; It ain't sci-fi, and it takes too much hardware. (Yes, I know, 
 the first one isn't really a viable bone) . But I will be recommending this game to anyone that 
 cares to listen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lourdous
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I loved this game.. ALMOST as much as i loved Morrowind... Maybe it's becuase i stumbled across 
 Morrowind and had years to wait for Oblivion but i expected more for my wait.. In fact in some 
 ways i almost think that Morrowind was a better game and that Oblivion was more concerned with 
 awesome graphics that story and gameplay. Don't get me wrong this still makes my top 5 all time 
 favorite video games but i think they focused too much on what the X360 was capible of sound and 
 graphics wise and not quite enough on improving the best RPG series of all time ( yes i think elder 
 scrolls is better that final fantasy) .. more could have been done with horses ( horseback attacking 
 for example) and the weapons, while still cool, paled in comparison to all the legendary weapons 
 in morrowind... in fact the best weapon i came accross was a copy from morrowind... old faithfrul 
 Umbra...
  Oh well i'm really being too negative... Had i played this without ever playing Morrowind and having 
 a several year anticipation i would have been so in love i would never have stopped playing as 
 it is i'm hoping bethesda doesn't dissapoint me next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  The Eldercrolls IV Oblivion is an roleplaying game which could be called a massive singleplayer 
 roleplaying game. The game, which I got about 2 months ago, stunned me, right when I began. The 
 gameplay is similar to morrowind, but its much better. The spells can now be done with a weapon 
 in hand, which is very good thing for fighters who use spells. Blocking is now done by yourself, 
 so you better be ready to block. Fighting is much more better than in morrowind. The story is interesting, 
 but mayby bit too short. Quest are very well done. Now you have a compass, which you will automatically 
 use to find your location, and you may even instantly travel to your location by clicking it on 
 the map. The game lasts very long, thanks to all the sidequests, and the huge area of the game
 
  
  . Oblivion is one of the most beatiful games, that i've ever seen, and it does lag in my system 
 (athlon xp 2200, 1024 ddr memory, and geforce 6800 gs 512 ddr special edition) . It is very good, 
 that oblivions world really lives. The people of cyrodiil start talking with each other, they go 
 sleep at night, they go pray for gods etc. The best thing about oblivion are the so many ways you 
 can play the game. For example you can play as a knight who wears heavy armor, and rushes his enemies 
 with a sword or mace or you can play as a thief or assasin who sneaks and backstabs enemies or 
 shoots the enemies with a bow. Oblivion gets replay value all the time, because with the consturuction 
 set, you can make tons of new items, places etc. The best mods are made like a proffesional of 
 Bethesda softworks. Simply Oblivion is the best game in the elderscrolls series, and it is a masterpiece, 
 which has more value in it than almost any another game. Oblivion is going to have a multiplayer 
 mod some day. Then Oblivion is better choice for multiplayer game than wow, if you want to play 
 just with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheQuesoMan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I believe Gamespot was wrong in declaring this the inferior version in comparison to the 360 version... 
 their is just so many ways to tune the game to perfection compared to the game on the 360.
  
  PROS: Amazing graphics - Nice AI - Re-vamped combat system - 100+ hours of gameplay - Voice 
 for all characters - Huge 16 km map - Interactive flora and fauna - Impressive loading times - 
 Countless user modifications
  
  CONS: AI not as in-depth as it might seem at first - Lack of any interesting sound-effects - Only 
 horses to travel with (controls for it kinda suck) - Enemies level up with you - Weak main storyline 
 - Hey! That guy sounds like that guy! - Where are my choice of verbal actions?
  
  My only real problem with the game is the sound. All weapons pretty much sound the same and everyone 
 in the same sex and race have the same exact voice actor.
  
  My other tiny gripe is the lack of verbal chatter coming from the player. You have no real options 
 in your dialogue to trigger anything unique for a second run through the game.
  
  What gives Oblivion its lasting appeal are the user mods... don't you just love the internet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sora529
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain amazing. I'm not good wiht intros, so I'll just analyze it for you.
  
  Gameplay: A lot of fun. The hacking and slashing of the melee is simple, but not overly simplified. 
 Magic, while I have trouble aiming, is well planned out with lots of different spells and powers 
 to use. Ranging is difficult to me, but being a Fighter/Mage myself it doesn't bother me.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful, even if they aren't varied. Much of what you see is forest, and what isn't 
 forest is dungeon, but these elements are used so well that it's hard to rate them any less than 
 perfect.
  
  Sound: A voice for every single NPC in the game. This is a feat in itself, but coupled with a soundtrack 
 that is good (albeit forgettable) and you have a great sounding game. Oh, and the battle sounds 
 aren't half bad either.
  
  Value: So much to do, so many quests, so many items to get. It'll take a while to get 100% finished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwood15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  If oyur an RPG fan oblivion is the game too have, With at least 60 hours game lay and enough quest 
 to keep you looking its a must buy!
  You choose your class and can join many guilds.. Theifs, mages ect.
  It's good fun to play and 
 is beautiful to watch! The sounds are brilliant and the ability to interact with everyone in the 
 game is very impressive. I'm not very good at revieing as you can see but over time i'm sure i 
 will improve :D
  It does take time and effort to do these reviews n i don't have either but i will find the time 
 to do reviews in the future
  Thanks for reading this. Sn! per 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are amazing. (if you have a uber PC) For those that like first person hack 
 and slash type games. Oblivion has the same strength and weaknesses as it's predecessors, but more 
 so. It has better ambiance, dialogues, voice acting, quests, graphics, music , books ; all elements 
 that contribute to good immersion, althought the main plot is really clich&eacute;. The adventure 
 part of the game is good : you walk around in a pretty , lively world, with a lot of characters. 
 Most people agree that was well done. On the other hand, the actual gameplay is weaker. The skill 
 / leveling system is almost the same as Arena, which is more than 10 years old. Basically, you 
 need to pay attention to when you gain levels so you don't screw up your attributes. You need to 
 be careful to not use certain skills too much if you want your character to be like you want it 
 to be. When you level, the monsters are scaled to your strength, so it's almost pointless to get 
 stronger. This isn't fun.
  The Bad: I really tried to love this game but as you can see above, my The Good section is not 
 filled with much good. So just read some of the points above for The Good , The Bad and even The 
 Ugly . (sorry, a little Clint Eastwood nostalgia)
  
  Gameplay:5.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Sound:7.0
  Value:4.0
  Tilt:7.0
  Singleplayer:5.0
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Conclusion: Overall, 
 Oblivion is a fair game. If you care about graphics at all, expect to be wowed, but past that, 
 it's pretty boring after a few months of play. Every area of the game has noticeable improvement, 
 but a boat with a half plugged leak is still sinking. They got the graphics nailed down, lets work 
 on the game play and drive the story home! Vastness is a great feature, but throw me a bone here! 
 If a game relies on mods to improve gasmeplay and make it more fun to play, it has some major problems.
 
  
  My Score:6.3 Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlawrence123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  OK, first I should tell you that I have been a big FPS and Strategy gamer since the beginning of 
 gaming on PCs. So Oblivion had to be awesome for me to bite. It is and I did. I run a great gaming 
 rig, so I could enjoy all the nice touches. This is a game that really benefits from a fast rig, 
 2 gigs of RAM and good video setup. The game kingdom is very big and it looks great. I added a 
 lot of the downloads and some of them add really nice touches. There are cheats galore and I had 
 to try some. It's easy to give yourself a ton of gold so you can buy anything fast. But I found 
 that very boring. I got to level 9 quickly and threw out the character and started over. Playing 
 the normal way with no cheats makes it a much better experience. When you level up with no cheats 
 it just feels way better. Don't cheat. Take the time to enjoy the ride and you eventually get the 
 better stuff anyway.
  
  I have spent $50 on may games. I can count on two hands the ones over the last 20 years that I 
 felt gave me great value for my money. This is certainly one of them. If you like RPGs, this is 
 a must-buy. Try a custom character class. I never really liked any of the built in ones. Definitely 
 add the natural environments patch after the official patch. Check out all the guides as they really 
 helped me understand how to play. There is depth here to beat the band and it can take many hours 
 of reading and playing to get good at it. I spent a whole day just getting potions and spells down. 
 Play with the .ini fie settings (see online guiides) . I don't like all the defaults. In my opinion, 
 It's set low for less than stellar rigs with no memory or horsepower.
  
  I have only a few nits with the game. It can crash from time to time but the big patch fixes a 
 lot of that. It isn't multiplayer and that would be really sweet. There are tons of NPCs in the 
 game and they used the same 4 or 5 actors for all the voices. Well, we aren't paying $100 for the 
 game so I guess we have to let that slide. I have found that many people have had trouble with 
 the crashes. In most cases, they are running it with too little memory, a slow rig with the candy 
 turned up too high or a lousy video card. If you don't have the rig for it, it can be a drag. And 
 playing it at 1280 x 1024 with all the bells on is smokin'. You might consider upgrading for it. 
 It's that good (I did for HL2 so I didn't have to for this) .
  
  It really is as good as people say it is... I would give it a 10, but only Half-Life 2 ever made 
 it to that in my opinion. It's in the same league as CoH or Call of Duty 2 in quality. Just buy 
 it. Congrats to Bethesda. Great job. So when is the next one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anotonio_204
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  MAKE MORE MODS!!! MAKE MORE MODS!!! MAKE MORE MODS!!! MAKE MORE MODS!!! MAKE MORE MODS!!! MAKE 
 MORE MODS!!! ....................... ... who ever is designing this game, should of ADD a little 
 more ability to the players, for ex: able to fight on horse back riding, fishing anywhere, able 
 to climb on obstacle, and if this game is really for ONLY MATURE!!! please, and I must say please, 
 add some flirting or a little love to it... OR come up with something more FANTASTIC world on the 
 next one, plus make it that's is possible for your character to do ALL MOST ANYTHING and go ANYWHERE!!!! 
 MAKE ME SOME MORE games!!! come up with something MORE BETTER!!! keep it UP!!! i'll buy it even 
 if it cost me $100.00 per game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleX98
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is go awesome! There is sooo much stuff to do. You do not even have to follow the main 
 story line you can go do what ever you want and it is really cool! there is many races to choose 
 from, alos many professions to chooes fomr like warroir mage etc. The only bad thing about this 
 game ( not really that bad) is that it takes a very very good graphics card which can cost some 
 money! so, If you have like 50 bucks a good comp. and graphics card stop reading this and go get 
 this game now now now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterch_sniper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Oblivion I had a little time to know what to do, but now I can easily beat 
 the main story. The graphics are the real deal in this game, it has HDR, soft-shadows and all sorts 
 of other high res. goodies. The gameplay is really fun but I take a few minutes to understand exactly 
 what to do. But it make up for this tiny problem with all the side quests, and you'll spend tons 
 of time improving your character with all the skills and armor and weapons.
  
  GOOD: It has eye-catching graphics, it has tons of replay value and hundreds of quests to do. The 
 sound is great and for the price of the game, a PC, Xbox 360, or buying a PS3 to play it on, when 
 it comes out.
  
  BAD: Sometimes it takes a while to get used to and there's no online elements.
  
  Why not play 
 it as an RPG, then play with your friends as an MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh4d0wc4st3r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a huge game, I havent gone through everything yet but I can 
 tell you one thing, its amazing. Everything in this game stands out and makes the game unique 
 and fun to play. The main story line is really deep and many missions to do. Hundreds of weapons 
 and armor, even more items, spells and all of the jazz found in most RPGs. The graphics is the 
 main highlight of this game. The environments tend to look a little bit muddy at times but the 
 overall graphics are life like. The characters facial expressions when they talk to you and everything 
 really makes the game stand out above any other RPGs Ive ever played before. The amount of detail 
 going in to items and character makes the game that much funner to play. The sound is great, 
 the character speech and the overall environment sounds make the game really realistic. The soundtrack 
 is perfect for each location. Sound effects are realistic in everyway. I have beaten the main story 
 twice already and it doesnt seem like Im going to stop anytime soon. There are just so many side 
 missions to complete and overall replay value. Its easy to tell that a lot effort has been put 
 into this game.
  
  Anyone with a computer that can run this game properly should definitely check this game out. If 
 your PC cant handle it, upgrade it. I bought a new computer and graphics card just to play this 
 game and its really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KratosAurion7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome not only it is nearly perfect but it is nearly impossible to stop and say 
 Guess il play another game today . But the thing is everything in this game goes with the overall 
 theme. You feel like you are IN the game not just an outsider. If you wanna be a villain you can 
 just go and kill some people and steal everything that has value. The quests are quite cool and 
 not hard to find the place where you need to go. With some time you will be able to call Cyrodiil 
 home, with all these adventure the map being HUGE offer a load of exploration and dungeon''eering''. 
 Its very fun to purchase a big house and place trophies of swords and shield looted from big monsters. The 
 soundtrack is just plain wonderful and goes well with the game. The time go complete the main quest 
 (no side quest) is around 25-40 hours but if you want to to everything in the game you can count 
 about 200 hours or more, and with the whole lot of mod these numbers can get very high. The only 
 problem is that is take a pretty big comp and a super blaster graphic card. One thing I would upgrade 
 it that the textures when viewed from some distance isn't very stylish (even at the max texture 
 fade) . The specs for the game is abysmal , but if you can't play at the very high settings the 
 worth of the game start to drop quite fast. I tested it with a pretty fast and power machine but 
 my nVidia 6800 was quite borderline to play it. Still i suggest that everyone with a good comp 
 should play this game if they like the genre of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is The Best Role Playing Game I've ever Played and my first game was Ultima 1. In just 
 about every aspect it is an enjoyable play. There are only 3 things I don't like and none of them 
 are really a big problem. they are as follows. It is extremely hard to make any money early on, 
 Your character levels way too fast and Much of the equipment is overweight . In the respect to 
 the equipment a bow weighs as much as a large axe. sorry this is not feasible. On the plus side 
 there are mods out now ( many can be found right here at Gamespot) that help out with these three 
 issues) ; Otherwise the game is great. At first I really didn't think I'd be able to play as I don't 
 meet over 50% of the minimum requirements. I only have 384 ram, I have a 1.5 gig dell that although 
 its a pent 4 its an original and everything is outdated. I did buy a video card with a +1 shader 
 technology to be able to play. Like I said I really don't meet the requirements but I can still 
 play. Even with all the missing elements that intefere with sound, graphics etc it is still beautiful. 
 I play and its like a real world, with the reflections on the water, the moving grass in the fields, 
 the mountains in the distance and the beautiful star filled nights. Its a game where you can immerse 
 yourself in the sheer beauty of the graphics. The battling is great and the monsters are rarely 
 overwhelming. ( as long as you are careful) A great story line and a world so large that though 
 I've beaten the main quest done more side quests than I can count I still haven't completely uncovered 
 the whole world. It's a game I would recommend to anyone who likes adventures or just enjoys taking 
 their time to explore. Its a job well done by Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Energenix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Utilizing the some of the newest and most innovative middleware available (the Gamebryo graphics 
 engine, Havok physics engine, SpeedTree, and FaceGen) Bethesda set out to greatly improve upon 
 the appearance and versatility of Morrowind. If you have been going by screenshots to judge the 
 visual sophistication of Oblivion, you will never fully appreciate the masterpiece Bethesda constructed 
 until you play it for yourself on a high-end system.
  
  The first impression that I got during the opening cutscene was one of astonishment. Though the 
 in-game graphics dont match the quality of the intro FMV, they come pretty darn close. The environments, 
 both interior and exterior, are lush and full of life, texture, and substance. NPCs are especially 
 impressive  lip-sinking is near perfect, and facial expressions are very life-like and convincing. 
 Occasionally, however, some characters eyes will disappear at certain angles when talking up 
 close, leaving either a black whole or the environment behind the character visible. This can be 
 particularly annoying in an important conversation, or an encounter intended to be emotional or 
 important to the progress of the story. Lighting was most impressive, especially with HDR enabled. 
 Your frame rate will take a slight hit, but it is well worth seeing the province of Cyrodiil in 
 all its glory as it was intended. The graphics tweaking ability is average; the sliders for Character, 
 Land, Grass etc. distance are especially nice, allowing you to pull back on the reins a bit if 
 your machine isnt up to spec. But with all options maxed out, Oblivion truly is beautiful to behold.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The first-person POV works very well for this game. If you want, you can also switch to third-person 
 view, which often multiplies the difficulty of most tasks, most notably combat. First-person view 
 provides you with a crosshair to assist you in targeting your enemies and also provides much better 
 depth-perception and perspective while battling others. The Journal, or in-game character menu, 
 is quite functional and easy to navigate after learning where everything is. Being designed for 
 a cross-platform release and keeping controller navigation in mind, some elements of the journal 
 layout may appear overly simplified or dumbed down. It would be difficult on a console to navigate 
 a full-screen multithreaded character menu, so it is understandable why they choose to compress 
 the layout. The menu is mainly divided into categories for Character Status, Weapons, Armor and 
 Clothing, Alchemy, and Misc. items, which are all arranged in a tabbed menu which is easy enough 
 to navigate. You can quickly view your health, magicka, and fatigue status via the HUD.
  
  You will find the opportunity to embark on a multitude of side-quests during Oblivion, many of 
 which you will enjoy far more than the main quest. Though there are a very few bugs to be worked 
 out, these quests are often a welcome relief from the main story, and often provide you with special 
 or unique items, armor, or weapons that cant be acquired elsewhere. Side-quests also provide your 
 character additional opportunities to advance in level and attributes.
  
  Music/Audio:
  
  First and foremost, the soundtrack, which was composed by the talented Jeremy Soule, opens 
 up a whole new dimension in the game. The bombastic opening title, a further revision of the Morrowind 
 theme, foretells the impressiveness and wonder of the world you are about to explore. Every theme 
 fits its situation, and each piece is quite moving and somehow allows you to easily ignore the 
 repetitive elements of adventuring.
  
  Sound effects and character voicing are also superb. Though sometimes the voice actors for NPCs 
 over-act, they provide a generally impressive and satisfying performance. Environmental sounds 
 are also very well done, and are as realistic as they could be.
  
  Overview:
  
  A triumph for Bethesda, and a long-awaited adventure for gamers, Oblivion brings the Elder Scrolls 
 series to life in a way that was previously impossible. While the game has its shortcomings, they 
 are more than made up for by the outstanding graphics, voice acting, musical score, and engrossing 
 story that takes you to the far ends of Cyrodiil and plunges you into the depths of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha666__
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay = 9/10
  
  Its morriowind at its finest. The combat has been beefed up alot. You now have control of your 
 block and unlike in morrowind if your marksman skilled sucked you would miss with many arrows. 
 Now the marksman skill governs how powerful the bow your using is. Same applies to blade. Most 
 of the time you are seeking to master your skills because they yeild some awsome benifts (a master 
 of heavy armor is encumbered by any heavy armor he has a equipped for example) . Again Alchemy is 
 an almost useless skill, but w/e. The world is huge (its not quite the size of morriowind but trust 
 me you wont complain) and rather neat. The game has inproved in about 95% of its areas. Why than 
 doesnt it net the 10 out of 10? Well Bethesda screwed up the barter system..... it blows now. You 
 will find many atime late in the game when you'll be packing armor with 6000 gold and merchants 
 only have like 1200 in most cases. Now in morriowind this wasnt a big deal because you could buy 
 stuff from the merchant and get it to even out. Not here, you cannot buy and sell at th e same 
 time. A merchants gold never goes away no matter how much you sell to him. He just usually doesnt 
 have enough to make selling you stuff worth it. There are other things wrong with the system, but 
 you'll find em. Overall its an incovience but nothing that makes the game not worth playing. Now 
 levitation spell kinda sucks normally but oblvion made it worse. Sometimes you need to climb a 
 mountian......... but the game really doesnt let you walk up em all that easily. Its seems that 
 when the slope gets steep the only place you can climb up is where there are grass patches. This 
 usually means you have to go quiet out your way to get to where you need to go and there is no 
 jumping 8000000000 times to get up the hill. If its too steep to walk up, its too steep to jump 
 up. The game scales everthing to your persons lvl. This means you want high skills and low lvl, 
 beware as enemies will kick the SHI* out you if you power lvl without the skills to match. Not 
 really a complaint, but a warning.
  
  Grapics 8/10
  Now wait before you jump to conculsions. THIS IS A GEOGEOUS GAME! if you can run it. my comp can. 
 i know what the game has to offer and its great. Y only 8 of 10? heres were the tech issues come 
 in. The game is freaking huge and becasue of this it cant possily load all the textures and still 
 keep short loading times. This means that for the surrounding mile its looks great. BUT, if you 
 can see for more than that your in for an eye sore. The textures arent any more than 15% loaded 
 and it just looks like muddy crap. As you get closer though it loads and looks rather beautful 
 as it should. Also the game its self is rather pretty but it only shines with all that the make 
 it pretty mod pack has to offer. The games looks about 3X better with theses mods on and i strongly 
 suggest that you go through the make ti pretty guide gamespot offers before you play.
  
  Sound 10/10
  everything sounds great, voice acting on all dialoge, not to many voice actors used 
 though and it shows. Everyting sounds great and you can replace the mp3's the game starts with, 
 with you own if you desire. Value 10/10
  
  i've been going for about 50 hours and i'm done with the faction quests but i still have the entire 
 main story, all the random quests, and still need to explore many of the dungeons that serve no 
 purpose for any quest. I think i should be finished around 200 hour mark. Tilt 10/10.
  
  its gets the 10 cuz i'm not really sure why they have this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagi86
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is among the best single-player RPG's that I've played, and it's nice to see such a good 
 game among the highly popular MMO RPG's. The graphics are stunning, especially when using the long-distance 
 setting. Along with the graphics, the performance of the game is great as well. Running on a Dell 
 laptop, the only slowdowns I've encountered are during fights with lots of magic and lots of enemies, 
 but otherwise, slowdown free. The sound seems to be typical Elder Scrolls type, in other words, 
 similar to Morrowind. The world is smaller than Morrowind's, but this is not a bad thing, as the 
 world is still plenty big. At first, I was somewhat disappointed with the layout compared with 
 Morrowind's, but it eventually grew on me, and I became fond of it (especially when going back 
 to Morrowind's style) . The gameplay is very similar to Morrowinds, or at least feels very similar. 
 The fighting style is similar, which is good but no match for Gothic/Gothic II's fighting style. 
 The armor and weapons are again very well done with lots of options and combinations. So far I've 
 played for 85 hours and still have a ways to go. If you want, you could probably beat the game 
 in 40 hours, but there are so many side quests that I have decided to take part in, the hours just 
 racked up. Again, this game should be a must for classic RPG fans, and this game will not disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorNisse
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, is the best RPG game I've ever played on alot of aspects. The first 
 thing is the open world. On the previus game (The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind) there was alot 
 of places you could not actually reach, and if you accidently fell into the water then you had 
 to swim for hourse before you found a place where your character could get out of the water and 
 onto the land again. Another thing was the way of getting around fast . That thing sucked, you 
 had to pay alot of gold if you wanted to save an hour of walking in the wilderness. Oblivion is 
 certainly better in these aspects. You don't have to swim for miles before finding a place to get 
 up on land, it doesn't cost you half of the gold you got in your pocket to travel to a city again. 
 And it doesn't take hours to go from one corner to the other.
  
  Another thing is the humor Oblivion has. Some persons are just hilarius. My most beloved character 
 is Faelean (the skooma junky whom you have to kill for the dark brotherhood) . You also got Lucien 
 Lachance, (the one who invites you to the dark brotherhood and later becomes your leader) one second 
 he speaks with a dark scary voice, and the next he sounds like hes in an amusement park and is 
 telling mommy how fun the ride he just was on is. There are several more characters whom makes 
 you laugh from time to time, and also a alot whom you want to penetrate with your sword, or make 
 a barbeque of.
  
  The fighting sequences is excellent aswell, you got full controll where you want to cut the bastard 
 you are fighting and can avoid they're blocks if you aim right. If you use bow and arrow your enemy 
 can still block the arrow even if its flying directly towards they're face. The magic is something 
 you can complaing on however, the destruction spells are too easy to use. Your fireball for example 
 will hit EXACTLY where you aim when it is released from your hand, but if you are spinning around 
 it won't hit where you aimed when you pressed C (standard button for casting spells) .
  
  Other spells can be problematic to use. Lock spells doesn't always hit the target and therefor 
 there are some things in the world wich will refuse to be unlocked even if your spell is good enough 
 to unlock it. The heal spells is excellent. They don't cost too much magicka, but they can still 
 drain it all from you.
  
  You can explore up to 90% of every pixel on the map if you wan't, there are also caves, forts and 
 other places you can go to without disturbing a quest. You can break into any house you wish you 
 can even kill whomsoever you want, as long as they are not quest givers or you have to talk to 
 them in any quest. but even if you can't kill them you can still steal stuff from them (wich I 
 advise you not to do, since if you are discovered you will have to load from your last saved game, 
 and if you are as clumsy as me, well then you got a few hours of playing until you are at the same 
 place again) .
  
  If you get bored of the mainquest, well then you can always go to any town you like and ask for 
 some rumors and you can do another quest. You can make sure you get thrown in jail and you will 
 be invited to the thives guild. You can murder someone and do some dirtywork for the dark brotherhood, 
 you can visit the Mages guild and get recommendations to join the arcane university, you can join 
 the fighters guild and kill people and things, you can become an arena fighter and fight your way 
 up and make alot of gold on the way. And theres always people who need help with something, look 
 around and you will get countless of hours of fun playing beside the mainquest, and it will also 
 make the mainquest alot easier since you will become stronger, better, and richer on doing things 
 for others. Some quests can be boring and take too long, or even end when its the most of fun, 
 but there are more quests.
  
  The three things that bother me the most about the game is:
  1. The vampire thingy, I hate to 
 be a vampire and it takes ages to get rid of it.
  2. Riding on horses whould be alot more fun if you did not have to step down from your horse to 
 kill every stupid wolf who thinks he can kill.
  3. The oblivion gates. After you have rescued Martin Septim they are everywhere, and they really 
 ruin the nice nature of Cyrodiil. And if you want to close everyone, well then, you will have atleast 
 10 more hours to play. I can't speak for anyone but myself, but closing an oblivion gate is extremly 
 boring, but it can be worth it. If you want to enchant an item for free.
  
  The game time depends on you actually. You could easily go through the whole story in less then 
 40 hours if you are an inexperinced RPG gamer. Experienced can do it around 10-20 hours. But everyone 
 can easily look forward to over 100 hours of gaming time, since you can do so many things and you 
 can try to do the game story with diffrent races, diffrent races will give a diffrent gaming experience 
 since they all got abilities wich can make it easier or harder for you. You most also choose a 
 birth sign wich determines what kind of person you are, you also have to choose a battle class 
 wich will determine alot aswell. These three choices gives you hundreds of diffrent types of characters 
 to try out.
  
  It is totally worth whatever price it costs for someone who thinks RPG games are OK! Anyone can 
 play this game. Tough if you don't let your children look at The Lion king then you should probobly 
 kick them out of the room when you are in oblivion or in a cave. Remember that you can change the 
 Gamma whenever you want, so I suggest that you play with the gamma as low as it gets until you 
 have to sneak and can even see the sword infront of you, then you only need to raise the gamma 
 a little and you can walk through these pitchblack tunnels. Remember that the shadows doesn't hide 
 sounds.
  
  It's a perfect game for anyone who can handle a mouse and a keyboard at the same time, you don't 
 have to be able to press 65 buttons in one second to be able to complete this game, you can take 
 it easy, relax and enjoy instead of stressing, you can also whatch the EXTRODINARY environment.
 
  Bethesda softworks should get the nobel price in making beutifull environments for this game, 
 you can walk the widerness and just enjoy what you see, but you may also encounter some beasts 
 who will try to kill you as soon as they see you. It only laggs for when theres too many spells 
 flying in the open or when theres too much wind in the grass while fighting, otherwise its perfect.
 
  
  Making a Character
  
  its really hard to make a face look good, everytime I try they look like retards.
  Its fun to 
 try and perhaps its just me who sucks in making faces.
  I whould however like to be able to add beard to my character, and adjust length and weight of 
 my character, and for the females even change size of the breasts. Adding some old scars whould 
 be fun aswell. and a bigger variety of eyes is also needed. Otherwise its a perfect character editor.
 
  
  Choosing class and birth sign
  
  Its perfectly detailed but misses one important aspect, wich of them is best suited for wich race, 
 birthsign and class? Oterwise its perfectly detailed.
  
  The diffrent guilds.
  
  1. Fighters guild
  Easy to join, tough it is somewhat annoying to join, walk into any fighters 
 guild to find out where you have to go and who you have to talk to to join the guild then ask them 
 for contracts. You will travel to diffrent places and help people with varius problems and also 
 try to figure out why the blackwood company is so successfull in whatever they are doing. Fairly 
 easy guild to advance in and fun, tough its very short and can be annoying to travel between the 
 two persons who hands you your contracts.
  
  2. The mages guild.
  Easy to join, walk into any thieves guild in any town (not imperial city) and ask them to join 
 the guild, they will accept you and now you will have to ask for recommendations. Getting recommendations 
 isn't very fun at all, since you need one from every city, but as soon as you get them all you 
 will be accepted in the arcane university where you will battle necromancers who want's to see 
 the mages guild and arcane university burnt to the ground.
  
  3. The Thieves guild.
  Takes time to join. First you need to be arrested, then you will need to be found by a scary looking 
 old woman who will give you a note from the theives guild. Then you have to go to the imperial 
 city - the waterfront district, wait until midnight and go to the small garden between some of 
 the shacks and the wall and talk to the guy with the torch Armand Christophe . After that you will 
 compete to join the guild with two others, once you have completed this then you will have to start 
 breaking in to peoples homes and steal stuff, or steal it directly from them. However, don't steal 
 from anyone on the waterfront nor any beggar in the whole world. If you do you will be kicked out 
 and have to pay blood money wich is 1000 gold, and that is kinda hard to acquire early in the game. 
 Once you have stolen some items you have to go to Bruma and sell your stuff to Ongar the world 
 weary, in Olavs tap and tack tavern. Once you have sold stuff worth 50 gold you can get a special 
 job from Armand Christophe. After you have completed each special job you will have to sell more 
 stolen items, remember that you're fenced amount of gold ( the amount of gold you have sold items 
 for) can only rise.
  
  4. The dark brotherhood
  Doesn't take as long time to join as the theives guild but still needs you to run around on the 
 roads. First you need to murder someone, guards and civil persons only. Then you need to sleep 
 in a bed. Then you will be visited by Lucien Lachance who offers you to join the guild, and give 
 you a task where you will show your loyalty by killing a guy named Rufio. once you have done this 
 you will have to go to another place and sleep and Lucien Lachance will visit you once more and 
 tell you to seek out Vincente Valtieri in the Cheydenhall sanctuary. he will tell you where it 
 is and how to get inside. In the dark brotherhood you will travel around Cyrodiil and kill persons 
 and make a small fee aswell, make sure you collect each bonus since some of them are really worth 
 loading the game a few times.
  
  5. The Arena
  Not a guild but easy to join, just go to the arena in the Imperial city, go down to the blood pits 
 and sign up, then tell them you are ready for a fight, get up in the colosseum looking arena and 
 kill others for more gold then you need.
  
  6. The order of virtous blood
  Don't really know what to do but a woman will approach you and tell you to visit a guy named Seridur 
 in his house. He will tell you he his hunting a vampire and ask you to kill him. This innitiation 
 requires you to speak to the accused guy, he will give you his story of what happened and you will 
 have to make a choice of whom to kill. When you have killed teh vampire you will then be able to 
 sell all vampire dust you find for 250 gold to the order. Vampire dust is found on dead vampires 
 bodies.
  
  GS ratings
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Reviwer's tilt: 10
  
  My ratings
  Environment: 10
  Characters: 10
  Variety: 10
  Difficulty: 
 5
  Personalities: 10
  Main quest: 8
  Side quests: 8
  Guild Quests: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalhaug
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  I guess most of you agree that Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is maybe the best roleplaying game around, 
 but...
  
  I must say its a bit annoying and disappointing that the developers of Oblivion didnt hire more 
 actors for the voice acting. If you walk into a room/house, you might end up hearing the same voice/actor 
 on all the characters there. I think that destroys quite a bit of the overall experience/atmosphere 
 i get from this game and gives it a budget feel to it. I hope all developers should take this into 
 consideration when they make games that includes a lot of voice acting and different NPCs. The 
 same actor can`t play the voices on both father and son! It destroys the feeling and atmosphere 
 in the game. The same critic goes to Gothic II.
  
  Looking forward to see any comments on this.
  
  Kind regards Espen Dalhaug
  Norway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  This as an almost perfect game and is pointless to enumerate the good parts of it.
  Oblivion's developpers done everything in this game almost perfect from the point of view of graphical 
 details and the technical solutions. Unfortunately, this perfection is hauling down the game a 
 little bit, in my oppinion. The world of Tamriel is very beautiful, it's almost perfect but I cannot 
 fall in love of it like it happened, for example, with Arcadia world from The Longest Journey Series. 
 All the cities are superbly created, but, I always had the feeling that something was missing. 
 All the streets, the houses are so perfect that you won't find any distress, drab districts, dirt, 
 domestic animals, etc likely to be found in an medieval town. Towns are missing the charm, the 
 scent, the music and the vivacity of the medieval towns. All the inhabitants are all well dressed, 
 have a lot of good manners and all of them don't move when you are talking with them. They seems 
 to be all strangely nice even when you are waking them at 3 a. m. in the morning. The diallogues 
 are poor realised, I didn't find any motivation to start a conversation with any of the characters 
 in the game, unless I had to. They all seems to be the same. I found more interesting, more disturbing, 
 the Oblivion Wastes world. Unfortunately, all the levels after entering on the Oblivion Gates are 
 pretty much the same. Once you have closed 2 Oblivion gates, you won't have the motivation to close 
 another one. This way, the main story is pretty much repetitive. The additional quests are many 
 and more diversely. Personally, I haven't found much reward after finishing the additional quest.
 
  The sound is great in the game. Excellet symphonic music and especially superb battle music will 
 be found in the game.
  Asside from some weird script issues (for example, when I found the 2 missing sons of an old man, 
 shortly after their returning home, they all started to yell at me to leave their house, otherwise 
 the'll call the guards, culminating with the memorably -in his stupidity- moment, close to the 
 end of the game, when triumphant returning with Martin, the new king, to be crownned in the Imperial 
 City, I was arrested from a guard on the way there, and the king waited me outside prison until 
 I fulfilled my sentence) , the game is incredibly well done, close to perfection. But, except the 
 beautiful mornings and the snow in the Jerall Mountains, it is a cold, perfect world, you will 
 like it and admire it, but you cannot love it. Despite this, is still a great game to play by almost 
 any kind of gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyBridFuRy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Recently buying the game today, I quickly installed the game and before you know it... I was playing 
 it right away. Bethesda softwares has got you going in this insanely next game from The Elder Scrolls 
 Franchise which brings about every element in the Role-playing genfre. With this game, you can 
 spent literally days, weeks, and months that will make you intuitively intrigued by how you get 
 to react with the environment in different ways. Basically, you start of with 6 classes and each 
 of them very unique, and with that being said you can get to choose a variety of different classes 
 that suits your style of way of playing Role-playing games. Unfortuantely, playing this game takes 
 a lot of patience due to the fact that you easilly get frustrated with the games loading time and 
 annoying disturbing quests and Acquaintance to its gameplay. Overall, This game has got my attention 
 from the gameplay, graphics, and just essentially anything you can imagine from this awesome game. 
 I am looking forward to their next expansion which is coming in next year, and for those of you 
 who doesnt like this game you are probably not a big fan of role-playing hack &amp; slash games, 
 so this isn't a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I could go on and on talking about Oblivion, but I am going to try to compress it into a few short 
 paragraphs by hitting the high points. The Elder Scrolls III's sequel, The Elder Scrolls IV (imagine 
 that!) , is a tremendous improvement on it's predecessor while still maintaining a vast, open-ended 
 concept. When I first started the game I noticed two things immediately. First, the graphics are 
 amazing. Second, the music has that great epic feel of Morrowind. Third, I had no idea how good 
 of a computer this is. The game kicks off with a nice overview of the Imperial City (after a short 
 interview of an old guy that is about to die) and cuts straight to you in the Imperial Prison. 
 This is where the storyline begins. While playing, I noticed a gorgeous landscape that I could 
 almost smell, or wished I could smell, I don't know, I was basically in a trance half the time. 
 I can't really remember. I found Oblivion to be much more organized than Morrowind. The plethora 
 of quests, spells, and items are neatly arranged, and an arrow points to where you need to go to 
 complete the next portion of the quest. This is a vast improvement from Morrowind's finding this 
 book for a mage is equally important as saving the world from certain doom. [see my Morrowind review 
 for more details (yes, I just advertised a review) ] I cannot put in words the awesomeness of this 
 game. Therefore, in order to put it in perspective, I will comment on the few setbacks of the game. 
 First, the computer required to play this game can be slightly out of the budget of most people, 
 but if you have the right computer, that doesn't matter. As far as the actual game goes, the quests 
 can get a little repetitive. You often find yourself happening upon a cave or ruin and having to 
 battle various monsters, animals, or people. However, each cave has its own uniqueness to an extent, 
 and there is usually plenty of treasure to find. Another setback is the amount of side quests. 
 I got so bogged down with fun side quests that I did not even want to bother with the main quest. 
 So, that is not really a bad thing. Actually, it made the main quest easier when I finally decided 
 to play it roughly 40 hours or more later. There are very few glitches in this game. I only remember 
 two or three. I remember seeing a floating bottle in an alchemy shop in the Imperial City, sometimes 
 monsters will see you through wall they cannot get through and will try attacking anyway, and once 
 on the main quest, instead of seeing the siege engine collapse in front of me, it collapsed above 
 me. Those are very minor things that don't really affect the quality of the game in the end. The 
 end of the game is by far more spectacular than Morrowind. Morrowind just ends with some weird 
 looking guy dying while Oblivion ends with a climactic battle scene and a dual between gods. That 
 was an amazing way to end an amazing game. One final thing I like about all Elder Scrolls games 
 is the ability to continue playing after you have finished the main quest. This feature allows 
 a person to keep on enjoying the game after you feel you should be done. Bethesda has really made 
 a masterpiece here. Let's hope the sequel is even better, and maybe this time with scent added 
 to the landscape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperial_Colone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  But does a technical masterpiece always make a great game? I'm sure most of you have heard mixed 
 reactions to oblivion, some people say its the greatest RPG ever made, some people complain that 
 it is far too short, and was highly over-hyped. The game features a huge world, with more than 
 19 square kilometers of land, over 1000 different NPC's, a compelling story, and a first-person 
 RPG experience that builds off of Morrowind. The size of the game is a problem though, sure the 
 world is huge but free-roaming around the world can be very dull, boring, and repetitive. You will 
 often find yourself using the travel system to get from one town to another. In Morrowind the FPV 
 fighting system was somewhat criticized, but in Oblivion Bethesda has truely changed it, and it 
 feels great. The graphics on this game are also another big deal. Oblivion is a beautiful game, 
 the characters, terrain and effects all look great but there are a few problems. Far-away landscapes 
 have very low detail, while everything around you will look great. There have been numbers of patches 
 however which fix these problems, but for your average joe installing them can be a hassle. The 
 story of this game is pretty well played out, there is a violent outburst in the capital, the kings 
 sons have been killed and he has come down to your jail cell with his guards to use a hidden escape 
 route. He claims that he has seen you in his dreams, and the guards warn you to stay back while 
 you go your own seperate way. One big problem with the story is that, if you go through and try 
 to beat the story along with some side-quests, you will wrap it up in about 8 hours minimum. And 
 for a huge game like this I expected the story to be longer. The true content though is the side-quests, 
 there are hundreds of hours worth of things to do, from simple errands, to difficult tasks, and 
 sometimes too difficult. The leveling system of this game was a poor decision by Bethesda to use, 
 when you level everything in the world levels as wel, setting you up for an extremely difficult 
 journey depending on the difficulty. At times you will find some fights just too difficult and 
 you will have to lower the difficulty. Another problem with the game is that it is very gloomy. 
 The outside world is vibrant, and beautiful but most of the game takes place in underground dungeons, 
 which are all dark, uncreative and repetitive. If you are looking for an RPG with a lasting, and 
 amazing story Oblivion may not be for you. But if you are looking for a game with loads of content 
 than Oblivion is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerous112233
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. There is absolutly no flaw and it even one an award on G-PHORIA! In 
 this game you get do whatever you want, do the missions..... don't....... steal things, kill people 
 and stuff. It's just like the real society, if you kill someone in front of guards, the guards 
 will charge you a fine, if you kill someone in the shadows, and you can kill anyone and everything, 
 you won't be caught, and NO MORE ANNOYING RETARDED RESPAWNING **** This game is honestly revolutionary, 
 you have missions you can do if you choose to do so, and a wide range of weapons to use. You can 
 also choose different races to be like reptile or something. This game has everything you can do 
 steal, kill, and almost NO invisible barriers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great. I mean, its beautiful. The character models are nice, well done and the unique 
 NPC activity is wonderful. The game is definately a lot of fun for about the first 6 hours of play. 
 But thats where the fun ends.
  
  Story
  Weak story, in fact, even following the main quest doesnt draw you in. There's no real mystery 
 to drive you. There's no adventure to make you want to finish the quests. All you do is close the 
 gates, and each gate is almost the same as the others. You dont see much of an impressive cut scene 
 to inform you of what you've done, or what will happen next or a move on the plot. In fact, it 
 feels all the same as if you're just drudging along
  
  Not only that but all the activity you do, all the side quests dont improve you except for a few 
 weapons you can gain or special items to wear. Honestly, you dont see much to do even though there 
 is so much. Let me explain, everything you can do is repetitive. Each guild has its quests to conduct, 
 but nothing drives you to do them. You dont feel like you're the character drawn into action to 
 do what the quests require you to do. There are so many poor qualities to this game I wont even 
 bother to explain them. The game had great potential... on the line of Zelda OCarina of time... that 
 was a great game, this one however, is a failure. Great graphics, better NPCs than ocarina... but 
 unfortunately thats all it has on zelda. Zelda was a great gaem and still is. I liked Oblivion 
 for about a day. AFterwards, it was too repetitive and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls has been one of the best video game series ever, and Oblivion does its part in 
 making it better. The previous game in the group, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, is one of my 
 favorite games of all time. Its best quality was that it was the biggest game ever, and you could 
 do whatever you wanted, whenever you wanted. However the combat and magic aspects of the game were 
 kind of sketchy. If your skill was not on a high enough level you could stand point blank next 
 to someone swinging your sword, and you would hit them one out of six times. The same was true 
 for magic, where if you were to cast a spell from a magic class in which you weren't suffuciant, 
 your efforts would get you no effect. However those problems are all fixed in the new addition 
 to the franchise, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. In this game your attacks will always land on 
 your enemy. So instead of missing your foe alltogether, a higher skill ability in your weapons 
 class will increase the damage you can inflict. The magic in the game is also helped out to. If 
 your character has a high enough level to cast the spell, it will work everytime you cast it. There 
 are plenty of spells so that any character will be able to have a respectable spell library. The 
 combat aspect is probably the most signifacant imporvement to the game, but there are plenty of 
 others too. Travel is one of the other big ones. You can fast travel to any significant location 
 you have previously visited, in which game time passes as if you were to travel the distance, but 
 you don't actually have to do it. Horses are also present, which are much faster than foot travel.
 
  
  However the game doesn't seem to be as quite huge as Morrowind, but it is still bigger than most 
 out there. Overall this is one of the best games for your money that is available today, and is 
 really worth your time. And if you ever get tired of the game, which you shouldn't, you can occupy 
 your time by creating mods, or modifications, that you can add into the game. This game is 100% 
 worth you 50$, so if you are ready to spend hours on end by yourself infront of this computer screen, 
 the world of Oblivion is waiting. Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of my other 
 reviews while a make my way toward the certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews and edited 
 this back in, so you should just have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  the elder scrools 4 oblivion is well amazing, definitely the best RPG eva, even better than morrowind. 
 first the graphics. OMG! they are amazingly detailed to the monsters to the NPCs to your character. 
 The environments are brilliant with amazing forests and wildlife to the realistic cities and dungeons. 
 The weapons deseve a spcial mention too. They are fantastically detailed with markings and are 
 extremely varied with many types. The story is mint and you'll probably be distracted by just wanting 
 to explore the beautiful, beautiful world and doing the unbelevable amount of sidequests. it lasts 
 absolutely ages im on 89 hours and i've hardly scratched the surface so you can see the immensity 
 of it. If you've got a powerful enough pc to run it buy it and have a hell of a time xbox 360 owners 
 buy this NOW coz you have a super fast oblivion with OMG graphics EVERYONE BUY THIS NOW OR YOU@LL 
 LOSE OUT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinotenshi
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  First off this game is not an RPG it's its GTA3 with swords. The game is extremely shallow and 
 repitative, the level and skills systems are so broken. the main quest is horrid, most the side 
 quest are stupid. the best thing about the game are the guild quests and arena and they end all 
 too soon. every dungeon looks the same, has the same monsters, there are no real surprises in the 
 game. It's GTA3 without the style. The game is average. Gothic 2 is a far better RPG imho, and 
 GTA3 is far better adventure game, there is no reason to waste money on thing. That so many people 
 think this game is good, just baffles me, it's shame that mediocrity ike this gets rewarded, and 
 outstanding games like Freespace 2 go unnoticed by many, shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genji_glove1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is probably the most groundbreaking RPG since Final Fantasy 7 in 1997.
  
  Im not going to write 500 words about how great it looks, or how brilliant the character creation 
 system is, because youll already have heard all that; instead Im just going to run over some 
 of the small things that all add up to make Oblivion great for me.
  
  Firstly, the price for PC. Im not sure what its like in America, but I got Oblivion brand-new 
 for &pound;20, as opposed to &pound;45 on the 360. I know a lot of people say the cost of upgrading 
 your PC to run Oblivion makes the 360 version worth it, but In my experience, you dont actually 
 need that great a rig to run it.
  
  Which brings me onto my next point. I have a 2.8 Ghz processor (not the best but pretty good) , 
 a gig of RAM (again, not optimal but good) , and crucially, an Nvidia GeForce 6200. For those of 
 you who dont know much about graphics cards, that is bad. My card is riiiiiiight at the bottom 
 of the list of supported cards. Im upgrading pretty soon, sometime early next year probably, but 
 the point is: my crappy graphics card has not destroyed my enjoyment of the game. Even if you have 
 the graphics settings at the absolute minimum, as I have them, Oblivion is still a very good game. 
 I get a good framerate (about 25fps, which is fine for me) in the indoor sections (which includes 
 caves) and an acceptable framerate (20 fps-ish) outdoors.
  Even if you have a completely crap PC, itll still only cost about &pound;100 to get a half-decent 
 graphics card and some RAM, to bring your PC into the new millennium.
  
  The length of Oblivion is absolutely insane. Unless you are super-hardcore, and play for 16 hours 
 a day, solid, for about 3 weeks, you will literally NEVER run out of things to do on this game.
 
  I consider myself a relatively hardcore gamer (check the name fellow FF6 nerds!) , but I can still 
 see no feasible end to my enjoyment. I have poured about 100 hours into Oblivion overall, and I 
 can still think of 50 things I have yet to do.
  I know it doesnt seem like that much, when people say 200 hours of gameplay in their reviews, 
 but trust me, once you sit down to play, 200 hours will suddenly seem a lot longer.
  
  Finally, the unique felling you get from just living the life of a fantasy character. The first 
 time you explore Imperial city, seeing all these insane things. A huge moment of revelation for 
 me came when I read on the internet, that a slightly different symbol when you talk to a character, 
 means they will be involved in a quest at some point. There are literally HUNDREDS of characters 
 with that on them.
  One moment I remember clearly was when I was playing as my assassin, doing a job for the Dark Brotherhood. 
 I had just killed an NPC, and I was riding away on my getaway, erhorse I just thought to myself: 
  that NPC wasnt just some pointless character put in by the designers for the sole purpose of 
 dying, they ran the inn just off the north road from Leyawiin. Killing actually seems like a big 
 deal, because every NPC has a place and a role in the world of Oblivion, and from the moment you 
 click play, to the moment you quit, you are a part of that world, too.
  
  In conclusion, Oblivion is a game that should not be missed, whether you are a hardcore RPG veteran, 
 who actually understands my name, or just a computer owner looking to pick up your first game. 
 It contains some light-hearted humour and some genuinely moving moments. So if you havent already, 
 go out and buy Oblivion right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epona_143
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of RPGs, but this is the acception. Although it may have a couple glitches. 
 It is DEFIANTLY worth a buy. There's a wide range of gameplay. You'll end up putting 300 hours 
 into this game, maybe even play it non-stop. That's how it was with me the first hours of gameplay. 
 If you get tired of an old character, make a new one! And the graphics are just ASTOUNDING. One 
 of the best titles on the Xbox 360 platforms. Hope to see Bethesda make just as good a game for 
 the 5th title. And the musical score is also great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbest67
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Incredible graphics. Mage is somewhat clunky, but quite usable. Sneaking and marksmen skill are 
 wonderful, especially the zoom being available only after you get proficient. Lock picking is fun 
 for the first 100 attempts or so (LOL) but I am SO happy for the Auto button.
  I am pleased that the monsters keep leveling up with you; so many times a game becomes boring after 
 a short time because the monsters become fodder. Not Oblivion. The ability to have mod quests is 
 also just wonderful, but the greatness is that you don't HAVE to do the quests. Just wander. A 
 whole country, with dungeons and bandits and forgotten shrines and lost races. I have found well 
 in excess of 150 places so far, and I have spent little time exploring.
  Only 1 dislike: let me fight from my horse! If you ride around, expect to lose a few horses. You 
 cannot fight while mounted, and you are stuck for 4 or 5 seconds while dismounting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattstone12
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  complete let down, had alot of things missing. a breakdown of the problems:
  
  1. No more then three types of dungeons, in morrowind you got, what? four?
  the forts are easy. alyied 
 ruins are like dungeons from the 80's bland and boring. caves are even worst then both of them.
 
  
  2. Glitches and bugs, too many to even be complete. this game should still be in beta.
  
  3. The story line is still like morrowind, in prison and still the same old faction, the blades.
 
  
  4. The lack of things of interest, narestrels house has zombies, the couple in the imperial city 
 has a ritual thing in thier basement, dive rock has that horror of dive rock . too little life 
 for a country. all there is objects that have enchantments.
  
  5. No more than the basics of the factions, they had missions and faction like one to build raven 
 rock, ect.
  
  and finally 6. Culturally dead an too small, not many places to explore, land marks are just hills 
 and rocks.
  
  it fell behind alot due to these problems, they don't want to go into detph anymore. now its looking 
 bad. the poor textures won't bother you much, but the occiasional crashes will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  One word sums up this game. AWESOME!
  
  The only issue i had with it were...
  
  1. Small glitches during gameplay.
  2. Relavitvely high demand on for good PC hardware to get 
 the best out of the graphics. Don't bother getting this game if your PC and GPU just meets the 
 minimum requirements or even slightly above that because you will get very very poor graphics, 
 especially outdoors.
  
  If your PC dosen't meet the requirements its worth saving this game until you get a new PC or save 
 up for an X-box360. Personally, i don't like playing through epic games like this on weak graphics. 
 Games like this only come out so often that you will want to wait for the right hardware to get 
 the most out of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theforger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the greatest game ever conceived. All the graphics the storyline is truly amazing. 
 If the original storyline doesn't please you then do the side quests; they are just as immersing 
 as the main quest. To tell the truth in my 100 hours of gameplay i haven't even started the main 
 quest. One bad point is it eats up your computers performance like anything. No matter how powerful 
 your PC is, Oblivion will bring it down on its knees. There is considerable lag time like the official 
 reviews say. BUT overall one of the most addictive gameplay yet. Too bad there is online gameplay 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS (10/10) : New generation graphic, it is very beautiful. You don't need to have the best 
 PC to play it, solid PC is enough.
  SOUND (10/10) : Nice melodies, just like in Morrowind, but voice acting is probably the best ever.
 
  GAMEPLAY (10/10) : Very addictive, there are so much contents and quests to finish and they are 
 very fun. Story is cool too. World is big and there are a lot of thigs to see (castles, caverns, 
 ruins, cities, mountains...) . RPG parts are perfect too. On the beggining it will take a lot of 
 time to creat character beacuse customation is very very rich, there are a lot of things to do.
 
  VALUE (10/10) : More then 100 hours, it is enough to tell how long that game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesare313
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I nev what to expect. I never played a RPG before so did not know. This is one of the best games 
 I played and certainly one of the best games in my collection. I have been mocked and other things 
 because I don't understand some things. Despite this I enjoy this game and its graphics is wonderful 
 but there are some issues like far grass sometimes dissappears. It plays well as well. In all my 
 time playing it only crashed once b and only one slight bug? The side quests can be very enjoyable 
 and sometimes for a person like me - challenging. The information about spells equipment etc is 
 easy to use and you can see what you have at a glance. Some of the best quests are those tears 
 you have to find and if your level is high enough the arena becomes slighly more challenging. I 
 started as a thief then when I had a sound financial footing I becam a honest person. You can choose 
 your classes but choose them carefully as it will make a difference. I was a mage so can't carry 
 lot of stuff. I actually going to start again and do it the way it should be since I learnt a lot 
 on how to play it. the sound is excellent andserves as warning to your surroundings when there 
 are enmies nearby. It makes the game worth playing. One annoying aspect is the limited number of 
 things characters say after about 20 hours since you would have heard most of what they have to 
 say. There are many characters you can become and i suggest to stick only to the good guilds. Overall 
 a good game and worth playing - many things to do, sound, money to make, fame or infamy, murderer 
 or mage - the choices are wide. What will you be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkonator
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion is a great first person sword/bow game. The custamization is perfect 
 and the graphics are great. In the game you are trying to save Tamriel from the Daedric lord Mehrunes 
 Dagon and his worshipers the Mythic Dawn. The Mythic Dawn is led by Mankar Cameron. The main quest 
 is not very long but once you beat the game you can join guilds and do millions of other quests. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone over 13. I wish that you could travel to Morrwwind and the 
 other places in the Cyrodil and not just have to stay in Tamriel. In case you don`t already know 
 this game is for P. C. and XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csdragon
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I found out that my 1-year old graphics card was considered low 
 end. So, I went out and spent about $250 for a new one. I am still not able to max out the graphics 
 in the game (that would have cost me about $350) . Anyway, after adding the new card and making 
 some tweaks that I found online, the game runs pretty decent with most of the cool effects. At 
 this point, you may as well go buy an XBox 360.
  
  When I first started playing the game, I would probably have given it a 9. something, because I 
 thought it was awesome. The world is huge and it was the most realistic RPG I had ever seen. But, 
 after about 20 hours of playing this game, I started noticing the many things that continued to 
 bug me for about the next 30 hours of playing it, which greatly reduced the gameplay (fun factor) 
 for me.
  
  Here is a small list of things that reduce the overall value for me.
  
  1.  I got so tired of the Oblivion gates that I have quit 
 the game for now, after about 40 hours of play (still haven't completed the main quest) . The gates, 
 along with the dungeons, keeps, etc. have many differences to them, but after you have done a couple 
 of each, you get a nostalgic feeling that you have no purpose in this game.
  2. Random (and leveled) magic items and creatures. I personally like it when there is a specific 
 magic item or a specific unique creatures in a game. It just adds something. I realize that there 
 are a few unique creatures, but I don't like the idea of fighting countless creatures of the same 
 type over and over again. I am like 25th level, and it has been probably 10 levels since I have 
 seen a new creature or a new magic item (that is worth using) ... It is starting to remind me of 
 Diablo/Diablo 2 (where at least you would occasionally find a unique item) .
  3. Way too many courier type quests. It seems like 80% of the quests that I have done are go talk 
 to this person, so you take an item to another person, so that you can go talk to another person. 
 I love a lot of quests, but these are mostly quests that eat up time. There needs to be more heroic 
 type quests, where you go slay the dragon.
  4. No dragons. Maybe this world doesn't have dragons, but I like dragons, so any type of Fantasy 
 RPG, must have dragons, for me to like it a lot.
  5. I think the plot so far is lacking - note that I am probably only about 3/4 of the way through 
 the main quest.
  6. NPC's that are part of quests do not level as high as they should. So, they basically get their 
 butts handed to them by all of the leveled creatures you go up against.
  7. I think the A. I. is sort of crappy. For example, I doubt that a random wolf or any animal for 
 that matter would see me from 600 yards away, and then actually chase down my 25th level character, 
 just so it can hurt his teeth or nose on my heavy armor. I think it is stupid that you get accused 
 of stealing by accidentally touching a horse that is not your own. I don't know how many times 
 a creature or person that I am fighting falls down into a pit or lava while trying to chase after 
 me.
  8. Things that are absent from the game. - Boats actively moving on the water. - Birds and other 
 non-aggressive wildlife (I guess that the aggressive wolves eat everything else) . - Any type of 
 flying creature. - I don't remember any cats or dogs walking around the towns. - SECRET DOORS - 
 I think maybe I found 1 in the mansion that cleared.
  - Lacking Puzzles - I think that there should be some better puzzles. Most of the puzzles (if you 
 want to call them that) are so simple that a 5 year old could figure them.
  
  Please realize that as I write this there might be fixes to some of the above (I haven't checked 
 in a couple of months, as I injured my neck and could not sit at the computer for long periods 
 of time) . I know there were some mods to some of the leveling effects, but I haven't actually tried 
 any of them.
  
  Overall the game starts out pretty fun, and has some serious pretty graphics. I think that if you 
 could make a great story with a graphics engine like this, modify some of the leveling stuff, and 
 add some missing elements, you would have a perfect 10. Until that happens, I will just go back 
 to playing NWN (now NWN2) , because they have so much replay value.
  
  I think the 9.3 (9.6 on the Xbox 360) is not accurate. At most, this game should only have like 
 an 8.5. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobeesh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best games out there for the 360, if not the best. It will easily 
 draw you in for a gaming experience that will last for over 100 hours. The world is so big you 
 just can't help but explore. Often times I find myself feeling very small in such a large world 
 literally polluted by quests and goodies. While the main story line can be completed in a matter 
 of a few hours virtually nobody will find themselves focusing singularly on the storyline. There 
 are literally hundreds of other side quests that will consume a vast majority of the average players 
 time. Each and every quest does an excellent job of bring the player into the story and many seem 
 to follow a very respectable dramatic structure. One feature that will stand out to any player 
 is easily the vastness of the world and it's attention to graphical detail. You've never realized 
 that video games encompass generally small worlds until you've played Oblivion. Some truly breathtaking 
 views are found in this game. Sometimes you'll find them from the tops of mountains or from lazy 
 beach-side hangouts, but the developers designed the world in such a way that allows you to really 
 admire the landscape you roam around on. Because the game is so enthralling and the world is so 
 all-encompassing it seems Bethesda may not have spent enough time balancing it or bug testing it. 
 I can't even describe how many different bugs I've encountered in this game. I've fallen through 
 floors, seen dead people slide into mountain sides, grabbed mutton from live sheep, had quests 
 that didn't initiate properly, had monsters that fell into rocks kill me when I stood on them, 
 jumped out of levels over walls, and strangely levitated across ground after skipping across water. 
 These aren't even all of the bugs that I could list with this game but these are the most frequent 
 and the ones that definitely shouldn't have made it into the final game. Call me a snob but the 
 sound design leaves much to be desired. many common sound effects that should have been loaded 
 into ram have to be streamed off the disk. For example, when you take damage and you haven't in 
 a while the disk has to spin up and a second or two later you hear the sound effect. The surround 
 effects are also lacking. On my 5.1 setup people who are too close in front of me will come out 
 of my rear speakers instead of the front ones. When people are talking the fade from one speaker 
 to another feels too abrupt as well. While the music is absolutely amazing it suffers an unfortunate 
 flaw. When you encounter a baddie the music changes from the normal tune to a more intense battle 
 tune. Both songs are awesome and fit perfectly but there isn't any sort of transition at all. There 
 isn't even a cross fade. One song just turns off and the other turns on. The balance of the game 
 almost ruins it at later levels. So how easy is it to become invincible? Anybody could be an unstoppable 
 beast with a mere 5 or 6 hours of game play. Simply cover yourself with chameleon gear and nobody 
 can see you when you hit 100%. Resistances to elemental dammage aren't capped either leaving many 
 avenues through which your character can be extremely over powered. Diablo 2 released many patches 
 well into its life span to fix balance issues, none of which were even close to as bad as the issues 
 in Oblivion, but Bethesda has not patched out such sorry excuses for lazy programming. I'm sorry, 
 it probably seems like I don't like this game very much. I wouldn't have put in over 100 hours 
 of play if I didn't like it, I really do. It has some shortcomings though. I don't think a lesser 
 game would be able to get away with being so buggy but this is Oblivion. If you want your soul 
 sucked out by a game this is an excellent choice, just be prepared to deal with some really annoying 
 bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striker0102
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I think this game is amazing, but not 200 hours to play. More like 80 hours or more.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the trees. But you need alot of ram to have grass and play smoothly.
 
  
  The combat is rad, swords and axes can get boring, but bows are cool.
  
  I like the horses, so much better way to travel. But you can't have weapon out.
  
  Physics 
 are alright, but it can get annoying because you can't drag a body up stairs and it takes ages 
 to pull it up a slope. I say this because, I like to drop a body off a cliff or something. Its 
 fun, when you can do it.
  
  I say that the dungeons can get boring, all the same. I remember in one video demonstatrion of 
 the game, the guy was in a dungeon , two skeleton's ran at him and they got caught in a trap. But 
 I haven't ran into one of thoughs.
  
  NPCS are ok, but I wish they included the ones from the game demonstration.
  
  Getting caught 
 in crimes is so annoying, if you go into a house, you murder someone. You are caught straight away, 
 inless to kill them in one shot. Killing a gaurd in the wilderness, when you meet another gaurd, 
 you have been caught doing a crime.
  
  The main quest is briliant, but once you've done that, its not like they say you can explore the 
 world. Instead, you shut the game down and you think to yourself, I want to get counter strike 
 source. A game that is a great internet player, meet new challengers and new tactics instead have 
 to do all the quests which I all know
  
  My conclusion is that it is a game that is not a game to kept playing on the same character. Instead 
 you decide to play something else, not to explore it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrotek
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was the most disappointing game this year.
  There's already 1200 reviews so I'll make this simple:
  
  This game is so completely overrated 
 that it blows me away, and the fact that Gamespot gave this game a 9.3/10 is completely wrong, 
 showing that Gamespot obviously did not play this game past the 10 hour mark. Gamespot's reviews 
 are almost always on the mark, but I was so disappointed here. So disappointed at you, Gamespot! 
 World of Warcraft got a 9.6 from Gamespot, and I've played it for 2660 hours with 6 level 60s. 
 In Oblivion, I beat the main storyline at level 8 and there was nothing new afterward except boring 
 side quests.
  
  Here's a quick breakdown:
  
  1) Completely repetetive and cheezy dungeons
  
  There's basically only 2 types of dungeons 
 you'll see the WHOLE game. There's NO variation Either a wood door in a rock or a Stonehenge-type 
 ruins with a downward spiral staircase. This gets REALLY old and repetetive. How did Gamespot not 
 mention this in their review? The only explanation is that they only played it for a few hours, 
 not even long enough to see the repetition. TSK TSK.
  
  All the dungeons look -exactly- the same. All the same boring rock texture with the same exact 
 kinds of chests and monsters. There's never anything new! Where's the huge dragons to fight? Where's 
 the Epic chests and storylines? They're just not there. During the 2nd day of playing I started 
 noticing parts of dungeons that were not only similar to other dungeons, but were the EXACT SAME. 
 How can they claim 200 hand-made dungeons ? That's complete BullSh*t! They're not hand made, in 
 fact, the repetition was already getting on my nerves on the second day of gameplay!
  
  The graphics are great, yes /agree, but what good is that when the content is so repetetive?
 
  
  I beat the main quest storyline at level 8 and there was NOTHING but boring run around and talk 
 to different people side quests until I stopped playing at level 26. Where's the epic end boss? 
 Where's the content?
  
  There's literally only a handful of repetetive monsters. There's probably around 20 different monster 
 types in the whole game. In every single dungeon you can expect the same boring mobs. You already 
 know exactly what you're going to see before entering any dungeon. There's never anything new! 
 This is why it's Obvious that gamespot didn't even play this game for more than a handful of hours 
 before deciding it was almost perfect . Great job analyzing this job, gamespot, PFFT /sarcasm.
 
  
  The only type of land featured in the game is forest. Where's the desert? Where's the great plains? 
 Where's other types of environments?? Nope, the only terrain you'll EVER see in this game is forest. 
 That's it. Even the animals running around the forest are useless and repetetive.
  
  In conclusion, it's obvious that Gamespot only played this game for a short amount of time before 
 giving their review. This review pisses me off endlessly. The game looks great out of the box, 
 but after beating the main storyline and shutting down the Oblivion gates (which means entering 
 and beating about 10 dungeons that all are modeled EXACTLY THE SAME) then you see a cool FMV of 
 a dragon fight (which was cool) but afterward, that's it. You get nothing new for your $60. there's 
 NO NEW content after that. I played from level 8 to level 26 expecting to see some new monsters, 
 new items, new dungeons, new continents, ANYTHING.
  
  Gamespot claims over 200 hours of gameplay when they obviously didn't play that far. Literally, 
 the game has about 8-12 hours of gameplay until you beat the main storyline, and after that, there's 
 nothing but side-quests run here, do this, run there, talk to that person, etc.) You never travel 
 to new lands or do anything out of the ordinary. All that's left is a ton of boring side quests
 
  
  Even the DEMO of Dark Messiah of Might and Magic was more fun to play and had a higher replay value 
 than Oblivion.
  
  To pay any money for this game is a complete waste of time. Once the ooh nice graphics feeling 
 wears off, you're left with a hollow, rushed, wannabe RPG that doesn't even come close to the previous 
 TES releases.
  
  Such disappointment.
  
  SHAME ON YOU GAMESPOT. I'll say that again to make myself feel better.
  
  SHAME ON YOU GAMESPOT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mebo123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  this is the best rpg i ever played and i play a lot of rpg belive me ok in this game you start 
 out by choosing a race first u should read the little book in the box so u can read the skills 
 each race has and what skills are good for your style of combatout of the 3 there are a few races 
 to choose from example Argonian theese are lizards that are slightly talented at every skill also 
 they riesest diesease and can breath under water witch is a good skill for some reasons i am an 
 orc because i prefer in your face combat anyways there are 3 types of combat there is magic which 
 is like using spells to kill your enemys or open locks or play with peoples minds!! next is stealth 
 this is stuff like bow and arrows and picking locks so like assassins next combat so like blade 
 blunt strong armour a bad thing is the more you use a weapon or armour it looses condition you 
 use repair hammers to fix them but if you use an item it could break there are a lot of quests 
 and guilds to join so i strongly recomend this game to fans of really long detailed rpg fighting 
 games so buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  In The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion you are tasked to find a lost heir to the Septim Throne. Action 
 of Oblivion begins in the prison. You meet your emperor, Uriel Septim VII, who says he saw the 
 end of his life and the future of you and whole Tamriel itself. You escape from the prison after 
 Uriel's death, bound to haste to Weynon Priory to deliver the ancient Amulet of Kings to a Blades 
 agent named Jauffre. After that, your story begins. There are tons of quests to do, along with 
 hundreds of places to mark and dungeons to explore. There are new factions to join (excluding Fighters 
 and Mages guilds) like an Arena (where you fight as a gladiator) , Dark Brotherhood (a guild of paid 
 assassins) and Thieves Guild (stole items without killing mobs guarding it) . There are many ways 
 to grow your character. You can be a warrior (swords, daggers, hammers, axes, all those weapons 
 one- or two-handed and hand-to-hand combat) , a mage (choosing from Destruction, Illusion, Mysticism, 
 Restoration, Alteration and Conjuration magic schools; Alchemy is also possible) or a thief/assassin. 
 Whichever side will you choose you'll always end up the same: the Oblivion Crisis ends and whole 
 Tamriel is free of Daedra invasion. Graphics are one of the best I have seen this year (it's better 
 even more if you add the Make it Pretty modpack released by GameSpot) . Sound is as good as ever. 
 Gameplay can be good but it's replay-ability is weak all the way. When you get to the half of it 
 it'll make a little boring. It's a good game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aska49
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Well, the way I see it is TES: IV Oblivion is one of those overhyped games, that are good up to 
 a certain point. I really enjoyed this game, for awhile. Eventually it got boring. After I beat 
 it once, I didn't feel like going through it all again. I'm one of those gamers that really enjoy 
 these kind of games... But something jsut went stale about Oblivion. Graphics, sound, enviroments, 
 all that was spectacular. But... there wasn't as much substance as I was lead to believe. So, I 
 would reccomend buying it if your a fan of RPG's, but if your looking for a deep story that will 
 last awhile. It's not here... at least... I didn't find it. From a technological standpoint though, 
 I MUST give this game props, I was amazed (after upgrading my computer) at all the graphical details 
 this game is packed with. Though, even though everyone talks, most have the same voices which kind 
 of ticked me off. They could of used a little more variety. Overview: Great game for RPG fans, 
 but it won't last you long if your like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Yes its a great looking game... if you can handle it....
  Yes its a truly expansive game... if thats what you're looking for...
  Could they have polished 
 it off a little bit bettter... yes.... yes they could have...
  My main complaint about the game is the face that the combat feels a little bit uneven and boring 
 at times and the sound has some minor bugaboos that show up every once and a while. There are many 
 time when playing when sounds either don't show up or are disjointed, and almost every sword sounds 
 the same when they clang, no matter what they're made of and how they hit. I also feel that having 
 such a chinsey and simple main quest is kind of a waste and I feel like they could have made it 
 a little more developed in such a huge world. It feels like DOOM with swords instead of space age 
 guns... Go quick.... close the portal to hell... crap I mean oblivion. The guilds add some fun 
 missions to the mix, but they all start to feel the same after a while.... It feels like they tried 
 to do too much and ended up just making all of them a little sub par instead of polishing off everything... 
 Also the leveling up system is too simplistic and feels as if there is nothing that needs to be 
 done besides wondering around sometimes... and there needs to be some degree of things being more 
 powerful than you so you don't just storm through everything.... I just feel that some of their 
 innovations and improvements to the gameplay made it less of a challenge and more of a walk in 
 the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyshalle83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I'm a major role player, I've done my fair share of table-top games, online games, MMO's, I've 
 really done it all. My favorite RPG of all time was Fallout, but that has changed with the discovery 
 of Oblivion. This is literally, the best action-adventure RPG of all time.
  
  Now, let's be fair. Oblivion, judged simply as an RPG and nothing more, is not the best RPG out 
 there. It lacks companions that you bring with you for the long haul. It lacks any character development 
 of any type, for pretty much every character in the game save the character voiced by Sean Bean 
 (and even his progression is underwhelming) , and save for a couple of instances, you don't really 
 feel like you can have any affect on the world that doesn't involve killing something. That isn't 
 universally true, mind you. Many things can be solved with just words, but it's rare that any resolution 
 to any conflict doesn't involve violence of some type, and on the few encounters that don't involve 
 violence, you tend to not believe you're actually affecting anything so much as helping a single 
 individual.
  
  The point is, you need to judge this game as an action-adventure RPG, and not as a pure RPG. As 
 long as you keep that in mind, then this game pretty much has everything.
  
  First of all, graphically, it's beautiful. This is one of the best looking games I've seen. The 
 fact that you can seemingly look off 20 miles into the distance and see actual locations in-game, 
 as the whole game is one big zone (except when you go through portals, or walk into buildings, 
 or enter cities) , it's almost breathtaking.
  
  Character customization is fairly deep. It sucks that you can't change bodytypes between the races, 
 and this is especially annoying when it comes to the elves, who's heads seem far too small for 
 their enormous bodies, but still, it goes beyond just picking a head. However, despite the tons 
 of customization options, your human character will inevitably look like he's suffering from down 
 syndrome. It's almost impossible to avoid.
  
  There enormous amount of stuff you can do in this game alone makes it worthwhile to play. You can 
 be a thief, sneaking around, breaking into people's houses, dodging guards, picking locks. You 
 can similarly be an assassin, sneaking around slitting people's throats. Or you can be a gladiator, 
 fighting in the grand arena, or a noble warrior. You can swim in this game. You can ride horses. 
 You can STEAL horses, and it'll matter. You can become a vampire.
  
  The first-person perspective to this game as well as the real-time action gives this game a unique 
 feel to most RPG's. In my opinion, it's better. Just because it's an RPG doesn't mean it HAS to 
 be turn-based. It might not be for everyone, but that isn't a defining characteristic of an RPG. 
 Things are more atmospheric because of it, in fact, the game would lack most of its exciting and 
 thrilling moments if it were turn-based, or even viewed in a different perspective (other than 
 first person) . In my opinion, there is nothing that says Role Playing more than seeing the world 
 through your characters eyes.
  
  There are some issues that I don't like, mostly because despite how open-ended the game is, it 
 actually is quite linear. It's just disguised relatively well. You can choose when to do things, 
 in what order to do things, and in some cases you can choose to not do things at all. However, 
 when you go on a certain course, there is almost always only one outcome possible.
  
  I have two examples, both of which are fairly major. The thieves guild, and the muderer's guild. 
 If you want to play a good character, then you have no hope of bringing either of these groups 
 down. In fact, if you're truly good, then you should avoid them at all costs. I personally went 
 to try and join both groups, in order to work my way up and ultimately destroy the leaders. In 
 both instances, I was unable to do so. Instead, you simply work your way up, and become the leader 
 of the group. Further, it typically takes you quite a bit of time to work your way up the ranks, 
 so it might take you 10 hours of work to do something, thinking that you'll bring the whole organization 
 to its knees and it'll be a major victory for the side of Good, only to find out that you are now 
 the baddest ass murderer on the planet, and you now run the guild of all murderers. They should've 
 given you more options.
  
  As for the replay value of this game, well, there isn't much. Since everything has more or less 
 one path, unless you completely avoid doing anything bad in the game (such as joining the murderer's 
 guild) then you might be able to play the game again as an evil character, but there's little point 
 in doing so. If you do join the murderer's guild, it won't actually affect you in the rest of the 
 game. You'll still be the champion of the universe by the end of the game, and everyone will sing 
 your praises despite the horrible atrocities you've caused. Further, if you're pure evil, you still 
 have to bring down the big bad evil doers of the game, and you do so while standing by the side 
 of the good guys.
  
  Despite these Role Playing flaws, this is still one of the most well rounded games out there, with 
 so much to do it could easily last you over 100+ hours of gameplay. I personally finished in around 
 75 hours or so, but there was still quite a bit more I could have accomplished that I never got 
 to. Unfortunately, once you beat the game, even though you are allowed to keep playing, there is 
 very little incentive to do so, beyond wanting to take part in all the mini-quests out there. The 
 miniquests really seem like something to do while you're trying to beat the game, for the most 
 part they don't seem very fulfilling by themselves.
  
  Also, and this is just me nitpicking, but it's sort of annoying that the best armor in the game 
 is the evil armor you get off the evil guys from the other dimension.
  
  Sorry that I forgot a lot of the names, it's been about 3 months since I played it last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazanator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Oblvion is an unforgettable expierience with its compeling storyline and free form gameplay that 
 all RPGs should take into consideration. The moment you start the game you are prompted to create 
 a character that you will play as for the whole game, then you begin the game in a jail cell. The 
 emperor comes in and takes you through an escape route that will serve as your tutorial. This is 
 perhaps the only linear part of the game becuase once you leave the tutorial you are free to do 
 what you want in the huge world of tamriel. You can do various side quests or you can choos to 
 follow the main storyline. But none of these are compulsary. I heard that the highest level you 
 can get to is 300 but im not sure, anyhow, you level up quite slowly and this is the only drawback 
 for me. At the beggining there arn't many things to kill at all in the wilderness, but the world 
 gets more crammed with monsters as you level your character. The graphics are amazing as well as 
 the sound and this game will keep you going probably till you're dead. lol :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  The first we noticed when we saw images from Oblivion were the outside locations. In the game these 
 remain of course equally impressive eventhough they have more problems with framedrops than you 
 would like. This is therefore already one of the biggest downpoints of the game and immediately 
 a reason to get the PC Version if you've got a good rig. It does remain very romantic to see the 
 sun going down or have sunbeams peeping through the leaves. Beautiful is the word that nicely suits 
 with this.
  
  Once you close a door of a dungeon behind you or enter the cold space of a cave, the engine comes 
 to its right even more. The light effects, the sharp textures and detailed objects are unseen in 
 the RPG genre. Add to that the first person view and you have a game that truly sucks you into 
 its world and takes you along.
  
  Also the rest of the world helps to achieve that goal. The physics engine is really great, the 
 sound is also impressive seeing the size of everything, although the makers didn't seem to have 
 had enough budget to provide unique voices for everyone, and the enemies are equally varied as 
 interesting. The only thing that will drop you (more than once) out of that dream world are the 
 bugs that sometimes lead to a full lock up, not being able to finish a mission, or just freaking 
 enemies. Saving your game a lot is the thing to do, something that is less fun than you would like 
 seeing the quite long loading times.
  
  Without a doubt you'll be astonished by the game visually and auditively but that of course doesn't 
 mean the gameplay is good. Important here are the missions and storyline. Both are a lot better 
 than in the predecessor, amongst others due to the handy logs and accompanying clues. There's not 
 only an impressive amount of quests, most being beautifully finished, but also the necessary variation. 
 There are more than enough memorable adventures to do to compensate for the obligatory missions 
 to enhance your character. The story is nicely integrated in this all so take the necessary time 
 to read and discover everything and look further than your nose is long. The most fun is that you 
 can choose how, when and if you do it all. Freedom!
  
  The interface is designed to not bother and support you as stealth as possible. All necessary information 
 is shown nice and simple although you'll still have to navigate through quite a lot of menus as 
 we're still talking about a very deep RPG. Also here the game doesn't disappoint and fetishists 
 of this type of games will have more than enough choices than they could ever imagine. Also the 
 controls are quite good, I do prefer a mouse still, and especially the fighting feels a lot more 
 intuitive and realistic. You can now for instance also block and will know better when you hit 
 someone and when you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cetrie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  To Keep it Short, the graphics are outstanding. The gameplay is good, but lacking in missions for 
 each faction. The characters are good. I dont like the great jump between the animals in morrowind 
 e. g the nix hounds and then real animals like bears and lions in oblivion. So it lacks a bit in 
 consistancy. But i love the game cant wait for any new expansion packs to come out for it if any. 
 So overall i like the game but i really think there should be mroe to it. Maybe even great houses 
 that were in morrowind that would be another load of missions to do. Thanks see you later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  this game rocks. if there is a better rpg let me know. i am a big fan of fps games and not of rpg 
 games but when i played this game and it is just like a fps game but more on the sword side. its 
 awsome. its a dream come true. not to mention the awsome graphics. i got the game for free from 
 a friend because you dont need a cd key. it just makes it 10x better because i got it for free. 
 the only bad thing is that when it loads if you teleport and open doors, it sometimes kicks me 
 out of the game without saving but i usually only loose a minute of where i just was. this game 
 is awsome i highly recommend it to anyone who loves fps games and wants to take a break and play 
 a fpm (first person midieval) i made that up. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modulate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game, very few games that I can escape the real world and feel like I'm living 
 in another. This game totally has that feel. The world is huge and there is tonnes to do. The oblivion 
 Gate are pretty amazing, that's entering into another world within the world your already in. The 
 ability to get in good with some higher ups in town give you access to even buy a house so you 
 can start storing all your loot cause there is no way you can carry everything you find. There 
 is just too much. I also love visiting new towns and seeing the huge statues all over. All lot 
 of in depth thought and planning went into this game, along with some very creative minds. I wish 
 all games could be this intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hideous123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Maybe the greatest game ever made for the PC!
  
  If you own a mid-range gaming rig or higher, this game is for you. Lets start of the review with 
 depth of the game, certain features impressed me from the start such as character creation which 
 is miles better than morrowind. With face sculpting tools you can make nearly a unlimited variations 
 of adventurers.
  
  Combat has been vastly improved with new sounds and blood decals, however when battling with friendly 
 NPCs you may hurt them because the targeting is a little off but you have got to hit them quite 
 a few tiimes and it really doesnt happen that often to be a problem.
  
  The musical scores are fanatastic and give a true adventurers spirit when needed and sometimes 
 frighten you to death when you're in a dungeon and a vampire just jumps out the corner. The voice 
 overs are great with an all star cast.
  
  Finally PC users get the Oblivion Construction Set for download of the website to create their 
 own custom content for so called endless replayability.
  
  This game will use up all your spare time for many weeks and you will keep coming back for more.
 
  
  The only thing that i can say which does not give Oblivion 10/10 is aome bugs here and there, but 
 you will rarely experience these Recommended System By Me (for a very good experience) anything above 
 is great
  
  2.8 GHZ CPU p4 or AMD Athlon 64
  768mb Ram
  
  Video Card List (these Run run oblivion GREAT)
  
  9
  X700
  x800
  x1300 (XT version only)
 
  x1600pro or XT
  x1800
  x1900
  x1950
  6600gt
  6800
  7600
  7800
  7900
  7900
  7950 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodtiwaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I had heard so many good things about this game i spent 900 bucks to upgrade my computer just to 
 play it, while i cant say i'm upset i upgraded my computer i can say this game wasn't nearly worth 
 upgrade just for it.
  
  While the world is very expansive and well voiced, the graphics are amazing i simply wasn't impressed. 
 I found it far too easy to progress through and with proper forethought you could build an elite 
 character who barely leveled (which basicly makes the game far too easy.
  
  chosing skills you never plan on using or only plan on using occassionaly as your main skills allows 
 you to level all the other skills as often as you like, which basicly means you can have maxed 
 out skills on everything except your main skills and you'll be godly. I wont lie i did play this 
 game quite a bit when it first came out and became the guildmaster of every option in the game. 
 my favorite part was the arena but thats probably just me. Unfortunately it just gets old after 
 a very short amount of time.
  
  once you've maxed your skills and baught your house and decorated it with all your collected junk 
 theres not really much left to do other than beat the game which was far too easy due to the fact 
 that i reversed my skills and put the ones i actually planned on using as secondary skills rather 
 than mains.
  
  perhaps this game would have been better if i hadn't worked so hard to max my gains every level 
 (which ment countless hours of monotonous skillgains) but i'm too burnt out to bother trying again 
 any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iserbius
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The game deos a little of everything, but does it poorly.
  For some reason, people are totally blinded whenever Bethesda release their next boring game:
 
  It's graphically ok, but very generic, the facial expressions are ridiculous, and the animations 
 ein general are bad.
  In term of gameplay, the stealth is a joke, the combat is boring, the adventure itself doesn't 
 make sense: Why do the guards let me go, knowing that I'm supposedly a criminal, and I have the 
 kings Jewel in my hand, with a dead king at my feet ?
  The Ai is poorly implemented as well (just like Morrowind) .
  On the positive side, I kind of 
 enjoyed the experience for the first 6 hours until I finally decided it was plain boring and repetitive. 
 I still prefered it to Morrowind though, and I like the scope of the game and what it tries to 
 do, so I give it a better score for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  The Good: -graphics are quite detailed but after a while you will realise that you will look into 
 a room for 3 seconds and find nothing while that room might have taken several hours to create. 
 simplified, much of the grsphics go unnoticed and wasted, especially since the world is so huge
 
  
  -Fighting is nice with noticable wounds on enemy (group rpg)
  
  -a little feature that lets you persuade people to give you more information, quite pointless and 
 boring after several minutes though
  
  -huge world with extremely detailed towns
  
  The Bad:
  -graphics are mostly ignored and so you buy an expensive graphics card with no rewarding 
 benefits
  
  -fighting can get boring especially if you are a warrior, clicking the mouse doesnt have that much 
 variation to it, archers and spellcasters might be more fun
  
  -incredible amount of items. you can pick up everything, cups, plates, clothes, skulls, all of 
 which have no use. eventually you only open gold plated chests as you know everything else is worthless
 
  
  -people speak to you so you can really read and get through the dialogue super fast
  
  -huge world, and i mean huge. this is the worst feature in the game. the only real way to get around 
 to each town or other places such as caves, castles, ect, is to get a horse, but horses are extremely 
 expensive. so you have to walk, or more simply put, press the up key for the next 45 minutes till 
 you reach the next town. this is the major crap point of the game. you can steal a horse but then 
 you become a criminal and that means you cant really do anything until you confess and are jailed. 
 and when you leave the horse it walks back to where you stole it from, so you have to steal another 
 horse
  
  -items continued. there are so many items each with very detailed descriptions, you may take 15 
 minutes trying to pick out the perfect piece of armour
  
  -very long loading times almost every few minutes, unless you have alot of RAM, you are going to 
 be waiting a long time. maybe around 15-20% (5-10minutes/hour) of game is in loading which is a 
 heck of alot
  
  -if you enter a persons house after dark you become a criminal. break into a persons house and 
 u are a criminal. take anything and you are a criminal
  
  some good points but many bad. i noticed these many bad points after just a few hours of gameplay 
 and i just didnt want to play anymore, the repetitiveness and crapulence of the game. the time 
 wasting activites like travelling and battling the endless amount of foes around the place
  
  My ratings
  
  Gameplay - 4, to fully be able to use all of the features takes much to long. 
 a good game needs to have quickly accessable features so you are on your way in no time. battling 
 is repetitive and pointless after a few short hours. conversations is also done badly. doesnt keep 
 you wanting to play on and do that extra quest
  
  Graphics - 6, yes they are good but they add very little to the game that could have been just 
 as good with graphics that are alot worse
  
  sound - 1, nice to hear voices but as i said, you can read alot faster. music is bad
  
  value 
 - 1, value i stopped playing after a few hours, and i doubt that if i were to play again i would 
 play for any longer. its a game that is expensive but for no reason other than people will still 
 buy it
  
  tilt - 1, i didnt not like this game at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anjanand
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  For the first time since since Far Cry I had my jaw dropping initially when i first saw a game. 
 The graphics were the best I've seen since then. If the Landscapes do not blow you away the character 
 detail certainly will. For the first ime in a role playing I saw a diverse Character range. And 
 the different Instrument and Sometimes groovy Weapons adds mystical element. Even though there 
 were many loading in betweenthey weren't long to be annoying thankfully. The game-play was some 
 times boring, but the only thing you had to do then was to just look around at the scenery. It 
 will capture your interest instantly.
  
  A true chapter in the Elder's Scrolls Storyline. Along with magic and a masterpiece fantasy world 
 it is one of the best games i've ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the forth installment of the Elder Scrolls and one of the first REAL quaility XBOX360 
 games to really show of the system's potental. The graphics are breath taking, the voice acting 
 was done perfectly, and the sheer effort put into making the entire game seem so open it's almost 
 ridiculous at times. You can be anywhere and do almost anything you could think of, much like you 
 could in other Elder Scroll games. However, It is notible that while the world of Oblivion is more 
 detailed than previous games, it is also a bit smaller in scale. Morrowind players will notice 
 this right away, but but the evironmental decrease shouldn't bother anyone, because, let's face 
 it, you could still spend well over a hundred hours just exploring the landscape. Oblivion still 
 falls under the catagory of ridiculously huge, it's just not as crazyily huge as Morrowind or the 
 others (actually the decrease in land amount being sacrificed for quality has been happening in 
 the Elder Scrolls serise since the first game) . That said, Oblivion is a near perfect game reguarding 
 quality and next gen innovation.
  
  STORYLINE:
  There is a main quest, of course, but because the Elder Scroll serise has always been about exploration, 
 you don't have to follow it. In fact, most of the game has nothing to do with the main quest and 
 instead spends most of it's time supporting hidden dungeons, missions and guilds for you to explore. 
 There are other hidden stories almost, if not more involving than the main quest.
  
  Your adventures start by customizing your character's race and appearance and then waking up in 
 a medevil prision cell. Immediantly a neighboring prisoner starts to mock you're predicament, when 
 there comes the sound of a group of people visiting the cell block. All of a sudden three very 
 upset guards and distressed king burst into the cell and force you into a corner while they unlock 
 a secret passage out of the castle. The king, apperantly in danger, recognizes you and gives you 
 a strange criptic message. The king then tells the guards to simply let you go and, left with little 
 other choice, you attempt to escape through the hidden passages after the king. It's at this point 
 that you are free to do whatever you want to whoever you want with whatever you want. Almost total 
 freedom. Will you be a hero? A villian? Or perhaps something else entirely...
  
  Like I said, the main quest is a mere hint at what you can do and find in Oblivion. Some of the 
 more interesting aspects and stories reside in guilds or other, less legal organizations. Finding 
 them is up to you.
  
  GRAPHICS: Until Oblivion, most360 games didn't really show off the true power of the 360. This 
 is dibatable, of course, but even then the games that did should the 360 shine were usually nothing 
 but shine. Oblivion was the first 360 game that truely showed that quality could be performed at 
 all levels of graphics AND gameplay. Graphic-wise, the game is almost to much for the player to 
 take in at first. Everything, and I mean EVERYTHING is so detailed that you could spend thefirst 
 couple hours just looking at the plants and architexture of the the first town you find. The textures 
 combined with the awsome lighting effect look almost real.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Like in most Elder Scrolls games, the gameplay is exellent on every level. The only complaint usually 
 being on how LONG everything takes, new features have been added to make travel time faster; like 
 horses and waypoints. The puzzles and dungeons have also gotten more interesting and only a slight 
 bit more complicated. Leveling and fighting mechanics have also been touched up upon as well, but 
 not too different from Morrrowind that there is no real notable difference other than the weapon 
 selection has been downsized while shields, bows and elemental magic have become much more usfull.
 
  
  If you have never played a Elder Scrolls game before than you may be interested to know that the 
 combat take place in first person, sometimes making the game look like an FPS rather than an more 
 traditional hack and slash RPG. There is a way to see your character in third person but most would 
 agree that full combat situation require the usefullness of first person, simply because you can 
 better tell what you are doing. Because it is an RPG, how you fight, who you fight, and want you 
 fight with are completely up to you. If you like to swing an two-handed warhammer that looks like 
 it could easliy outweigh yourself, good for you. If you are more of the type who like flashy spells 
 to fry people with, it's here. If you are an natural born theif who likes to sneak around and stab 
 people in the back, go for it. You could even wander around and beat people with your bare hands 
 if you wanted to. No matter what you choose to do in order to save the world from Oblivion, however 
 remember this: the more you use a skill, ANY skill, the better your character gets at using it.
 
  
  SOUND:
  Also outstanding. The music sets the approprate mood at the best times. Thrilling moments feel 
 thrilling. Peaceful moments freel peaceful. Creepy moments deffinately feel creepy. This is added 
 to by the sheer amout of sound effects in the game. Every sounds so... natural. You can hear things 
 that are not only convencingly accurate, but with a good surround sound system the sound can really 
 make you jump sometimes.
  
  COMPLAINTS:
  I actually don't have much in the way of complaints. I doubt any RPG player has. But... I am a little 
 disappointed that they hadn't thought of a way to add a scrimish or a mercenary like co-op mode 
 to the seriese (it would have been a perfect thing to add has a benefit for joining the fighter's 
 guild. Would you like to recruit another fighter to aid you? Answer: Yes and player two, three 
 then four would be temporary loaded from their games to yours. Naturaly the gameplay would get 
 harder the more people you bring in and...*sigh* I could so write these things if I was able to 
 break into the videogame feild...) . Anyway, I also hope they improve the downloadable content situation 
 as well. Minor personal wishes aside, however, Oblivion is an absolute must for any RPG fanatic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the forth installment in the Elder Scrolls series. I personally started playing this 
 series with Morrowind and then later went back to play Arena for a bit. My expectations were to 
 see a game that matched and beat what Morrowind had done for the RPG genre, and many of those expectations 
 were met.
  The graphics in this game are extremely impressive and with the right sound card you can really 
 immerse yourself in the environment that Oblivion team created in this game. There are birds chirping 
 in the forests, wind blowing through the trees, crickets doing that annoying noise crickets do, 
 and people rustling about and chatting it up on city streets. Everything feels pretty alive in 
 this game at first glance. And from the highest mountain you can see from one horizon to the next 
 and the capital city really looks like one. Its pretty amazing. The only problem is the shading 
 on the characters, which looks pretty awful and even confusing.
  In terms of gameplay, the fighting in this game is much improved over the old Morrowind mechanics, 
 though it still could be polished up a little more and made a little more interesting. Aside from 
 the fighting, spellcasting has been improved by making it a single key to cast. Mission quests 
 seem to be dumbed down, however. Though keeping track of a mission has been made much easier in 
 this game, having an arrow constantly guide you really takes any cleverness out of solving a mission. 
 There is little to no satisfaction at the end except for the gold you are awarded and any experience 
 you gathered along the way. And the interface of your map and inventory and mission log is just 
 a big mess.
  The introduction to the game is good for beginners to get them into the feel of how the rest of 
 the game will play out. It basically holds your hand for the first 30 minutes. However, for anyone 
 who has gone through all of this before, its a nuisance and boring. It also does not feel as epic 
 as stepping foot on the shores of Morrowind with a beautiful town before you and a enormous silt-strider 
 towering above you. Coming out of a sewer filled with assassins onto the shore of an empty lake 
 just seems anti-climactic. However, come out facing the capital instead of away from it from a 
 higher point and then you can awe your audience.
  That great feeling of having progressed in the game has also been taken away. Unlike in Morrowind 
 where you felt like a god once you could finally enter the volcano and survive for more than a 
 minute, there is no such feeling in Oblivion of a forbidden zone. All the creatures level up with 
 you, so you can never get revenge on those old bastards that kept massacring you in the beginning, 
 nor tempt fate against a huge ogre when you really aren't ready. They just won't be there. Same 
 thing with getting that super armor at the bottom of the cave. Unless you are a high enough level, 
 you are just likely to get a piece of leather.
  Though Oblivion has boatloads of content, it really starts to get repetitive. There are hundreds 
 of caves, but each one starts looking like the other after only being through a few, and since 
 you know there really is no unique loot at the bottom of any of them, there really is no reason 
 to explore them. Same feeling with the NPC's. There are about 1,000 unique NPC's I believe, but 
 they are all just shallow voice recordings. Once they like you they tell you something more and 
 thats the end of your relationship with them. I feel if the developers would have just cut the 
 content in half or even a quarter, but focused more on just making that quarter a lot more interesting, 
 this game could have gone a lot further. The average person needs a little more to keep them tuned 
 in if you want them to explore every single cave and ruin.
  To sum it up: Great game that practically anyone can enjoy, but with a short main quest. It should 
 have gone for better quality rather than so much redundant quantity in terms of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  the game is amazing , 1 of the best thing`s to do for fun is too goo to the city and shoot people 
 with your bow and if any 1 tell me they never have done this, can just jump off a roof! (well maybe 
 i got a bad sense of humor) but I think it`s funny!!! xD but any way buy the game !!! i deleted 
 it by acident but now im buying it . GET THIS GAME its BEUTIFULL! booooooooooooooooooooring that 
 i have 2 write 100 words.... i dont write theat many words in a day.......  
 even at school...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I have this game since released date, but never got around to writing a review for it -- being 
 that I haven't found the motivation to complete the main quest. That was 5 months ago. The only 
 faction that I have completed so far is the Dark BrotherHood. All the other factions are halfway 
 done, completed the gladiator challenges and on mission 3 of the main quest. Much of my other time 
 on this game have been testing out different race and job combinations, and exploring this beautiful 
 virtual world.
  
  At first glance (10-20 hours) , it was an awsome game, nothing was quite like it. The graphic was 
 and still is awsome. Everything else -- gameplay, the many quests and the story just seems meaningless 
 afterward. This is do meanly to being too open-ended, a large world and dull gameplay and special 
 effects (sword play, bow, axe, blood, pyshical demage effect, magic effect and pyshic) . After many 
 hours of gameplay, the sense of progress just vanished. Thus the reason I lose my motivation to 
 continue playing.
  
  The monster level-up with your character gets really annoying. It destorys the purpose of leveling 
 your character at all. The point was to become stronger than your enemies. To be able to explore 
 more difficult areas. But I don't need to be doing any quest at all to level, I can just head to 
 the endless many dungons and level up there. After a while... I realized the only reason I should 
 level up is so I can get the new armors and spells. Which aren't that effective either considering 
 I'll be battling more powerful monsters by the time I get them. The only armors and accessories 
 I've found useful are the chameleon enchanted ones. With the help of the Arcana University, I've 
 achieved 100% chameleon. And I went hacking, slashing, and blazing everything to bits and in flames. 
 Then... it hits me that all the dungons are alike, they get recycle over and over again.
  
  Everything starts to become very repititive, I start to feel like I am going in circles. I have 
 gained 10 levels, got new weapons, armors and spells, but I am back at square one. Because the 
 monsters have gained 10 levels too. Eventually, I stop caring about leveling, no sense to level 
 up if I don't get stronger. It also makes the quests much more easier at lower level.
  
  So I start to focus on only quests. The DarkBrotherHood quests were quite entertaining. Sneaking 
 in the dark to take out your victims. Getting to the Arcana University was fun, enchanting your 
 weapons and armors was nice, I can finally stop having to hunt for enchanted armors and weapons. 
 The arena presents some welcoming challenges as well. By this time, I was tired of doing quests. 
 I wasn't getting anywhere, I was still at square one. I have completed all these quests, and so 
 what? There are still endlessly many more to go through. I have tested every races and jobs, and 
 reach glass armor level. I look at the main quest and just don't see why I have to continue torturing 
 myself.
  
  After all that is said though, this is still one of the most visually stunning RPG ever made. OOO 
 mod makes it even better. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushahid
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Without doubt, Oblivion is one of the most beautiful games out there. That alone makes it fun to 
 play for a while. However, once the initial crush is gone, the game itself is quite repetitive. 
 After a while, it is reduced to simply getting quests and then going and killing things. (That 
 being said, there are undoubtedly a few fun quests - like the one where you rescue someone from 
 inside a painting....)
  
  Of course, in the end, it could be argued that every RPG can be reduced to this - however, usually, 
 there is a sense of accomplishment that comes with a progression in a story that is simply lacking 
 in Oblivion. That can be fun for a little while - especially with poisoned apples - however, once 
 the thrill of rising in a guild is over, there is little more left.
  
  Ultimately, a lovely game - just not one that I care to play for more than a couple of days a year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazena86
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  First of all, I was a big fan of Morrowind and was waiting for this game for a long while. It was 
 hyped a lot and I was getting some adrenaline boosts every time I saw some screenshots.
  
  Once I bought the game and got it running, I was at first really happy about the graphics. It was 
 just as beautiful as I had imagined. The character creation was just a bit painful... Even though 
 it was good to be able to make your character unique, I think it's a bit too much to be able to 
 tweak the thickness, height, curves and color of eyebrows. Maybe that's just me, but that's how 
 I see it.
  
  Okay, the tutorial was made easy enough.. Though the gameplay was very similar to TES: Morrowind, 
 so I didn' have much to learn. The story kicked in right from the start! With the voice of that 
 bald guy from X-Men. At first I was also really impressed that every dialog had voice acting!! 
 However, once you play the game for 50+ hours the voice actors kinda feel the same. In every town 
 there's at least 10 NPCs with the excactly same voice. Kinda disturbing. And it brings down the 
 ambience and credibility a lot.
  
  The sound effects aren't that great anyway, but they seem to do their job. As for the music... 
 It's pretty much good quality, but I would have wanted something more fast-paced for the combat 
 themes. And maybe a bit more heroic music too, hehe.
  
  Getting out of the starting dungeon was great fun! Yay, I can finally see the great outdoors! I 
 checked the map: Oh wow, this looks huge! And started exploring a bit before I went to Imperial 
 city - the capitol of Tamriel. Well, it all didn't seem that huge after a bit of exploring. Walking 
 from a town to another didn't take all that much time even when I took some sightseeing routes. 
 Also the environment is packed full with ruins, caves and stuff like that!
  
  Wtf, when I go walking in the forest (which is like 100meters away from our house) I can't see 
 ANY ruins, caves or anything besides normal forest no matter how far I venture. Of course, eventually 
 I'd bump into roads or houses, but you got the point. Also the compass ruins a lot of exploring 
 in the game. You talk to a quest NPC and he shows you the location on your map. Okay, I'll just 
 fast travel to the cave ten feet from the location, yay! 
  
  This game really lacks the epic feel.. It has been made too easy, too fast. And where is that roleplaying 
 experience? Every creature on the freaking Tamriel is as good as I am! Wtf, rats can kill off citizens 
 with their mighty claws? Bandits are wearing daedric armor? No way, something is wrong here.
  
  Sure, there are a lot of quests. Which earns a small plus for this game. But all the quests 
 start feeling a bit boring too... There seems to be no real point in doing them. it doesn't affect 
 anything in the world! I may get some additional dialog options with the quest NPC but that's about 
 it. The game lacks interaction. (I doun't count completing the main quest and everybody worshipping 
 you as interaction. That's just freaking annoying.)
  
  Overall.. The game introduces the best graphics I've seen so far. The landscapes look real enough 
 (though the forests seem to be lacking a lot of trees) . The sounds and voice actiong gives a good 
 first impression but as time goes on you'll get bored of 'em. Gameplay is still as solid as it 
 was in Morrowind which is good.
  
  As the content seems large, it repeats itself a lot... There are also a lot of things that eat 
 away the credibility of the game. The community is a huge bonus though! This game has lots of extra 
 content on the web if you just have the time to search through hundreds of pages. It just feels 
 a bit wrong that I have to download gigs of user-made content to be more happy about the game. 
 And even with the new content, the game just starts feeling like you're eating paper. Quit while 
 you still enjoy the game. Make it a good memory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  If you can handle a good hour and a bit of tweaking your system to handle this monster (and by 
 all means do it because it will work great on most computers) then prepare yourself for what is 
 undoubtebly the best Role Play game ever made up to this year being 2006.
  
  First off, the graphics are absoloutely jaw dropping if you can muster the machine power. The sound 
 is just as impressive and the music score is above and beyond what is wished for. But of course, 
 the most important thing is the gameplay and entertainment values. You are immediately thrust into 
 this amazing world from the moment you start the game and you develop your character as you progress. 
 None of this typical stuff where you just spend hours trying to slap together a character before 
 you even dive into the world like all other roleplay games. The best part of this game is that 
 it is replayable even for a single player experience. You can finish it in about 40 to 50 hours 
 or you can do side quests to improve your character and take weeks. The variations of character 
 design is very vast and creative, so you will never get bored. Dungeon crawling and quests are 
 superb as is the AI of all the denizens and occupants of the world. I can go on forever but there 
 is no need. This is the best game I have ever played but I am a fan of roleplay games so my marks 
 are naturally higher. If you don't like roleplay games, then this will be the one that will enlighten 
 you to do so, guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanXer0x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Morrowind, despite it's flaws, is a really tough act to follow. I mean, so tough that it's one 
 of my favorite games of all time. I knew either way, that I would have to at least try Oblivion 
 despite my friends and the detractors.
  
  Regardless, I'm so glad I bought Oblivion sooner rather than later. And no, I haven't even upgraded 
 my computer. I'm running it through the Oldblivion program at the moment, so I will be even more 
 excited about the game in the future.
  
  What makes Oblivion just as good as, if not better than Morrowind is in the improvements carried 
 over. I actually want to play something other than a fighter or a thief now. And finally: shooting 
 a bow, making potions and collecting ingredients, the spell system, and the quest system are not 
 only usable, but are all practical and incredibly addictive. The game plays out just like a Harry 
 Potter book; fun and easy to run through. Failing to realize when it's 4am in the morning and you 
 have to go to work in 2 hours. Oblivion has a few shortcomings though. Unlike Morrowind, Oblivion 
 has a Invisible Barrier instead of swimming/flying forever. No aforementioned flying/levitating. 
 Which tend to mire the feeling of an epic world. But, Oblivion has better and more thought out 
 storylines for it's subquests and the main objective, which seriously improves the games sense 
 of being epic.
  
  Only 5 minute fanboys could complain about a game like this. Judge for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nalhutta94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to like about this amazing game. The only way it could get more realistic is if you grabbed 
 a sword and went to your local library and chopped away. Oblivion has everything a gamer could want. 
 Gameplay:
  Gameplay is truely breath-taking. If you want me to compare it to another game well i simple can't 
 oblivion is like no other game. its way better.
  Gameplay overall: AWESOME : Graphics:
  B-e-a-u-t-i-f-u-l just beautiful. If you dont have a high spec pc dont bother w/ this game. You need 
 a high-power pc to enjoy it to the fullest. The graphics are even prettier than real life. i rather 
 play this game than look out my window. Sound
  Thumbs-up!!!!! The sound of your blade slicing through your ememy is like one-million signing angels. The 
 footsteps of raging minotaurs are like a graceful harp. Value
  If i were as smart as Bush* i'd buy this game for 355$. Thats all i have to say. Overall
  Letss 
 just say its to good for an anolagy. *intellegence of bush is based on nalhutta94's thoughts and 
 his thoughts only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a work of Art. Aside from a few nick picking issues this game is close to perfect. 
 I'm going to keep this one short. Just buy it. Don't ask any questions and see for yourself. RPG's 
 have been around since the computer was invented and we have seen many great titles come our way 
 but they often sacrifice graphics for game play. This is not the case with Oblivion and you really 
 get the best of both worlds. It has the depth and game play of Might &amp; Magic but also has the 
 graphics that are hands down better than most of the latest FPS games. The graphics of Oblivion 
 are some of the best visuals I have EVER seen in ANY game. Sometimes you just feel like walking 
 around this world for the view. Oblivion has a great storyline with a creatively thought out structure. 
 The game has a perfect difficulty level and has great music and sound effects. The overall concept 
 of the game is tremendous. The quests are for the most part original and entertaining. However 
 I have never rated a game 10 (perfect) and I still will not rate this game perfect. There a few 
 little trifles with the game here and there like visual diversity in locations and some repetitive 
 minor quests. This is just pointless nit picking and when you have a game that offers so much you 
 soon forget about these minor issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I only play Shooter games and things of the direct sort but this game caught my eye and I must 
 say that I am glad it did :)
  First off, the game has stunning visuals and audio with a lord of the rings-like orchestra music 
 throughout the game, the visuals are on par with the source engine, as are the physics, but they 
 do lack a little in facial appearance (as does the source engine to an extent) .
  There is just so much to do and so much to interact with I can only say to buy it. An Ex. is that 
 I was roaming around outside the imperial city and hunting deer and such but stumbled across a 
 small plant growing in a bed of rocks, I went on a mini-quest to discover what it was, traveling 
 to two different cities and asked to go on a scavenger hunt for these little plants for some pay.
 
  I would highly recommend the game to anyone looking to escape this world for a few hours at a 
 time with a high amount of replay value in a game that could virtually never end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azerel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Oblivon is an Exellcent game, although sever graphical glicthes stop it from being perfect it is 
 still the game it promised to be, and abit more. Gameplaye 7/10
  The game is very open endend, for a Good player...
  the Stories simply do not contain enough 
 choices for the evil attuned charcter. The spell system can be much desired for, and the combat 
 system, although fast paced, gets dry after a week of playing or so. But, other then that the game 
 is fairly well sparsed. Exploration is done alot better now, and the way interaction is carried 
 out is, although dry, effective at the same time. The games combat system involes simple stepping 
 forwards and backwards, lefts and rights and constant button mashing. and the spell system is oh 
 so repeditive. Its like casting fire ball, over and over and over etc. again. And have the same 
 animation cycle through. The structure of most of the Dungeons are immesnve. With close to relistic 
 shadows and ligthing thieving can be closely related to the THIEF series, which I am a close fan 
 of. The game is well strucerd in terms of gameplay, but with alot of room for improvement. The 
 radiant A. I is a nice change from the traditoinal stand and talk A. I, but this has already been 
 done, but oblivon does this with indivodial characters. This is done very nicely as NPCs will interact 
 and talk about radom things, like we humans noramlly do.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The Graphics System, GameBryo is the same used for Civilization IV. Oblivon use almost 16000 on 
 just a single rock, in comparison, Doom 3, which when mad with bump mapping, only used par 8200 
 for a barrel, while Oblivon uses 24000. Althought some people may say the more the merrier 
  The more polygons can cause an immense strain on the processor. Meaning that the chance of a lower 
 FPS is great. The LOD is magnificent, but the LOD itself is pea soup and just looks horrible, unless 
 you install several mods. pea Soup Meaning it looks like soup, with black dots scattered across 
 it. Terrain about 1mile (Virutally Speaking) close to the player looks perfect though. A visible 
 tile with distand grass is visible, but that is very minor and can easily be rid of by raising 
 the resulution beyond 1200x 1024x. The Texture maps are amazing, Most of the Objects are very highly 
 detailed. You could look at a rock and (If you have the Texture size on MAX) the detail would increase, 
 instead of decreasing like normal. The game uses HDR extremly well, but it is very performance 
 intensive. You could look at objects and they would be sun drenched realsitcally and beutifally.
 
  
  Sound 9/10
  Oblivon has an exellent music score, although it is classical (most people do not appreciate classical) 
 it fits into the enviorment perfectly. For example, when you enter a dungeon, you do not hear music 
 but you hear ambience!. This is rarely seen in mass rpgs, e. g fable. The sounds of weapons clanging 
 against armour (yes thats right) is supurb. The way the oppsition grunts is realistc, as they would 
 only really grunt when knocked back, and being stabbed doesnt make them stab, no unrealistic nooo! 
 when they die. And they will constantly taunt you, with thier taunts getting weaker as they get 
 weaker.
  
  Value 10/10
  Defeinaly Worth Every Penny, this game is something worth chacting.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt. 8/10
 
  Played, got bored, played some more, got better, and vice versa, a very bumpy, yet very prmossing 
 and enjoyable for the pateint person.
  
  Conclusion 8.1/10
  Definaltly Worth Cacthing, Possibly one of the most Revolutionary RPG the game has vast amouts 
 of area to improve on. All in all, a great game. My Computer Set Up
  
  3.06 Pentium 4 HT
  1gb ram
  6600 GT GDDR3 128 bit Gigabyte, OverClocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneCow
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  Oblivion is 100% open-ended and this is problematic in itself, since it destroys any sense of progress, 
 therefore making leveling up and questing meaningless. Every quest is a side quest, including the 
 so-called main quest. However combat is well done, though magic is a little dumb compared to the 
 complex spell sets we have seen in AD&amp; D titles.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Though the graphics are impressive at first, you'll quickly notice that all NPCs including Uriel 
 Septim are simply ugly, that LOD textures are a horrible mess, that the ragdoll physics lead to 
 some unrealistic effects, that the animations are often awkward, and that you'll be forced to cut 
 down on graphical settings a lot and still get a disruptive load of stuttering except if you have 
 the beefiest of beefy systems.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is a boring and repetitive as it was in Morrowind, though it has some good moments (even 
 those get old pretty quickly) . Sounds are generally well done and the voice acting particularly 
 stands out.
  
  VALUE
  
  Though there's a large amount of stuff to do in Oblivion, everything feels the same and there's 
 nothing driving you forward. Therefore you're quickly end up bored and let that infinite number 
 of goblins live their pointless lives in their dark empty caves.
  
  TILT
  
  Bweeeaaah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krom002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  All i have to say is what a wonderful way to follow up the other great elder scroll titles. Morrowind 
 was extremely in depth, but Oblivion seems to take that up to the next level. The graphics were 
 unbelievable, the game-play (everything except for the monotonous caves) was just as i had imagined, 
 in depth and increasingly difficult. The original score for Oblivion did everything that it could 
 to keep the suspense rolling. It still gets me when a creature sneaks up on you and that dire music 
 breaks in.
  
  This game breaks the world's population into two categories: those who have played oblivion, and 
 those who are going to play oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceEmpress
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  One word says it all, perfect. I love the graphics especially, awesome graphics, great story line, 
 wonderful world to explore, the map is huge, you can do almost anything in this game imaginable, 
 all of these elements of the game make it perfect. Its everything you could ever want in a game. 
 There could be a bit more npc's roaming the towns, but i'm not about to let such a minor detail 
 such as that ruin, this game. If you don't believe me when I say the game is perfect, you should 
 try it out yourself, you will see. I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastanok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  How many hours have been spent in Cyrodil? I don't know, but it's far too many already and I can 
 feel another adventure about to suck me in again. This game is addictive.
  
  The critically acclaimed sequal to the critically acclaimed Elder Scrolls: Morrowind sets you as 
 the saviour of the world as 'Oblivion' (hell, for lack of a better word) begins to spill over onto 
 the face of Tamriel. Or not. Oblivion's not picky.
  
  For example, I pretty much ignored the main quest and became an assassin/tomb raider cross. I traversed 
 the country, adventuring deep into ancient elven tombs to retrieve powerful gems and rich statues 
 on behalf of a collector in the Imperial City. I carried out these trips in between having some 
  fun under orders from the Dark Brotherhood. Earned a pretty penny 
 in loot from the former and payment of gold and magical items from the latter.
  
  These are just two sets of quests of the half dozen or so quest-archs the and plethora of singular 
 quests. I've been playing for FAR too long (is this what a WoW fanatic feels like?) and I'm sure 
 I haven't seen half of what there is to do. Quests are given naturally, which makes a nice change. 
 People don't randomly tell you to... to go kill those rats in the basement (not even the Fighter's 
 Guild) ; you're either assigned missions by a guild or you offer your help in matters you happen 
 to over hear or ask someone about. There are even quests that barely include NPCs at all, such 
 as recieving unholy tasks from Daedric gods at their shrines. It's so... real.
  
  But there's one massive reality-breaking problem. The barks. 'Barks' are the things NPCs and enemies 
 randomly shout out in games. In combat, things are a bit repetative. Hearing the sixth vampire 
 in a row shout out 'Why don't you die!?' is only midly annoying, however, in comparison with such 
 Oscar winning dialogue as...
  
  I hear 'name' knows a thing or two about armour. 
  I hadn't heard that. 
  Is that right? 
  No, I didn't know that. 
  Goodbye. 
  Goodbye. 
 
  
  ... Oh, boy.
  
  So, it's freeform and only a little broken. What's it play like? Well, let me run you through a 
 standard tomb raiding trip. I wake up in the luxury suite of an Imperial City inn and change into 
 my red dress and matching, gold-trimmed shoes. I may look sweet and proper but the rings on my 
 fingers and amulet around my neck keep me fast on my feet. Anything goes wrong, no-one's touching 
 me. I'm not too proud to turn around and run with my tail between my leg. (Metaphorically, I'm 
 not a Khajit or anything) .
  
  So, it's out of the door and down to the ground floor. A quick breakfast bought from the owner 
 and a read of the paper - Grey Fox - Man or Myth? ) later and it's time to go. I walk through the 
 bustling streets and out through the massive main gates to my horse. I rummage in the saddlebags 
 (a very useful little mod', that) amd pull a Superman into my armour. It's a full set of black 
 leather covering the torso and legs, a little present from my 'Brothers'.
  
  So, saddle up and trot down the expansive, gleaming bridge. I check the map and follow the path. 
 It's morning and the place is lit up beautifully. I pass a family of deer and they scatter. I notice 
 a bandit on the road ahead so veer off and take a route around him.
  
  I arrive at the white-granite doors to the Aylied city. I get off my horse. No need to tie him 
 down - he's not going to wander off anywhere. Good horse like that. Inside, I dispatch a couple 
 of rats that have taken shelter there before I turn a corner to find a black-robed elf in the next 
 room. Luckily, I was sneaking and the necromancer's looking the other way. I pull my sword and 
 slowly creep up behind him. Pull my sword arm back and deliver a swift, hard slice across the back 
 and he hits the ground, dead. I grab his staff and strap it too my back. I consider nabbing his 
 clothes, too. I could use them later, perhaps.
  
  I find myself in an expansive central room. It's full of skeletons, zombies, ghosts and more necromancers. 
 Honestly, don't these people clean up afterthemselves? I'm not going to able to sneak my way through 
 this one. I recall a set of images and arcane scriptures. With a quiet utterance, a great ball 
 of fire propells a second black-robed mage over a ledge. His creations rush me and the third necromancer 
 shouts out an alarm. A few scratchs and scraps later, one skeleton falls to dust. I'm no fighter... 
 so I rush for the statue, grab it from its pedestal and peg it for the doors. My phenomenal speed 
 easily outstrips my assailants and I'm out of the doors before either of us no it. A rat's corpse 
 lies at my horse's feet - they obviously got into a scrap while I was inside.
  
  A quick ride back, and perhaps a detour or two to investigate some other ruins, and I'm back in 
 the city. I don't bother to change again, but go straight to my client and sell the statue. He 
 gives me the locations of a few other items I could get for him before I leave. I could get a room 
 for the night or go find my little house on the Waterfront... but it's nearly night-time. Time 
 to further line my purse with the blood of the people of Cyrodil. And these people call me a hero.
 
  
  A much touted feature is that all of the NPCs go about their lives without you. They go to work, 
 go to the pub, go home and do a little light reading before bed. Or do whatever it is they do. 
 This doesn't actually have a great effect on the game, though. You just have to know where someone 
 is if you want to talk to them and many quest-vital people stay put for... well, for ever. A dinner 
 party could last months just because you need to be there. Towns will hold out against the forces 
 of Oblivion for as long as it takes for you to arrive and sort them out. When you realise this, 
 it really spoils the effect.
  
  There's just SO much to do in Oblivion and you very rarely lose track of what you're doing next. 
 It's up to you. YOU HAVE THE POWER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Okidoki, now that I've had a chance to spend around 60 ours with the game and see what it has to 
 offer, I think I should voice my opinion on this humble website. First of all, for a game that's 
 hailed to be a truly immersive experience Oblivion kinda lacks immersion. I mean there are moments 
 when one feels they're in a middle age forest surrounded by hordessaaaaa... I mean two massive, 
 angry, mean wolves ready to come and get slaughtered by a swift movement of ones arm... Or a big 
 angry minotaur running around near the road for reasons pne can only wander about in goosebumps. 
 Ya, even the so called amazing symphonic score doesn't add **** to the feel of the game. The music 
 stays the same rain or shine, and there is no sign of urgent battle music as well. If an enemy 
 approaches, the great symphony just fades into silence and some other boring **** comes on to help 
 drown some of the boredom of Oblivion's endlessly repetative battles. Second of all, why make such 
 a lush big world full of nothing, if you're gonna let the player click on any of the towns right 
 from the start of the game and be magically teleported there? Third of all, RPGs are about story, 
 characters, and leveling up ( or some sort of advancement like finding better equipment ) . Oblivions 
 unimaginative, uninspired, shallow, dumbed down story is so utterly disgraceful that it makes one 
 want to slap the creators so hard, one's hand would crack in half.
  
  Ok, I can't bother to talk about all of the poor qualities of the game, too much. There are also 
 lots of good qualities, so don't get the wrong impression. Oblivion I a good game, but not nearly 
 as good as most people say it is. Here's a breakdown of all my worthless opinions:
  
  Gameplay:
  +lots of ground to cover
  +impressive battle system -which gets so boring and repetative 
 due to lack of unique weapons, creative spells, unique skills, and also due to level scaling which 
 keeps the games difficulty EXACTLY THE SAME throughout the ENTIRE GAME
  +Intresting quests such as rescuing a guy from a painting, killing all the people in the dark brotherhood 
 for the sake of purification , curing vampirism, and stopping a bunch of drug addicts called the 
 Blackwood Company
  -uninteresting and boring quests such as most of the quests of the game
  -scripted events are as dull as lookin at a doorknob ( and at least in the second one, it might 
 turn! heehee :) )
  +you can kill almost anyone and everyone!
  -at level 1 (if you dont bother to sleep and just level your skills)
  -no crossbows
  -no dual 
 wielding
  -can't attack while on a horse
  - you can't go that way, turn back now! 
  +stealth elements
  -thieving is useless, noone has anything useful
  -the only thing you can 
 buy with gold is a house and some pants... wait a second... + ... there we go!
  -what the hell is up this the inventory!? This ain't xbox! Make a damn pc style RPG super one fits 
 all great inventory for pc Oblivion you buncha yoyos!
  -contsant stuttering when travelling outside (even happens on 360) due to constant loading of each 
 area, which could have been bigger -too many negatives to write, too many people to piss off
  
  Graphics:
  +looks good man!
  -backgound textures are attrocious
  +but after installing 
 a ****load of mods for this game, it looks good!
  +huge draw distance
  +detailed people and monsters
  -which have unimaginative design
  
  Sound:
  +hey hey! voice 
 actors!
  -what only like 2? For a thousand NPCs!?
  -bad soundtrack which never sets a mood (not much variety in it either)
  +slashing of weapons 
 sounds realistic Value:
  +200 hours of gameplay! YAY!
  -15 hour main quest...
  -gets boring after 40 hours
  -and unbearable after 60 Bottom line, buy oblivion! Everyone else 
 likes, why wouldn't you? Or if perhaps you want a fuller RPG experience you can wait for Neverwinter 
 Nights 2. That might have a bit more stuff in it. You know like skills, magic, unique equipment, 
 unique enemies such as dragons and big bugs, and characters you care about, and so on. The choice 
 is yours muahahahahahahahaha... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  
  
  the story in oblivion is pretty pathetic and not that interesting but it goes something along the 
 lines of the king is killed and u have to preform all these quests for the new heir while crushing 
 the necromancers and close shut the jaws of oblivion 
  
  
  
  as youve prob already heard this game is graphically 
 amazing especially the water effects. Sometimes when i was riding my horse or something i just 
 stopped and stare in awe of the buetifull landscape
  
  
  
  the soundtrack is pretty cool but the begining 
 menu sounds kinda like the theme song for pirates of the carribean for a little bit lol XD
  
  
  
  oblivion uses the havok engine and it 
 shows its pretty cool how when u kill an enemy there body like slides down a slope or something
 
  
  
  
  the fighting isnt anything new or extrordinary but it works pretty well. basically you have your 
 nourmal attack button ur sheild button and ur power attack and u can cast magic and stuff. i was 
 kinda dissapointed in the stealth part of the game, i wish there was a cool cutscene or something 
 when u sneak up on someone, all that happens is u get like 6x damage or something kinda unrewarding. 
 oblivion also has tons and tons of weapons theres like tons. the way its laid out is that you have 
 ur basic sets like iron and stuff, then special weapons like a weapon called chilrend wich is like 
 a blue glass short sword, bnut the amount of weapons isnt in that, its in the ammount of specially 
 enchanted weapons and staffs that can do cool stuff. lastly, the magic in this game is REALLY cool 
 its broken down into like 5 or so sub catigories of destruction summon etc but my favorite is the 
 summon in wich u can call for awsome monsters to come and help you fight wich is really fun.
  there are also a huge variety of awsome places to go to and dungeons that are just there for u 
 to explore, and if ur done with them there are also tonsa of very creative mods for u to explore, 
 my favorite is a pilotable ship that u can sail (jason1's pilotableship.)
  
  in the end oblivion is a very good game that adds a huge ammount of depth to an already good game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seffiroth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say this game is absolutely fantastic. But saying it's the best RPG ever is just a 
 big slap in the face to THE BEST GAMES EVER like Chrono Trigger (OMG HOW I LOVE YOU CHRONO TRIGGER!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 :D.) . Not to mention other games like Seiken Densetsu: Secret of Mana, Earthbound, and I can go 
 on and on but I really haven't played others to much (Wii's VC here I come.) Well, other than that, 
 this game has some great visuals and somewhat addicting gameplay! But I must warn you, approach 
 with caution, because this game is not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool the facves 
 of the people are very ugly but the graphics is perfect it is very good game i love it
  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
  very much ,i alsow love fable 
 the lost chapters
  
  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool coool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apokalipse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Awesome graphics. Game-play to make your eyes water. No bull. Just minotaur. 100+ hours and I still 
 haven't even finished the main quest.
  The side quests are so numerous and involving, you could play for days, and not even need to touch 
 the main quest! The Dark Brotherhood Quests are dark. The thieves guild quests are, well, thievish. 
 The main quest is really cool, especially with the ending. No, I won't spoil it. But it is cool. 
 The only thing I can think that's wrong is the fact that you have to have a pretty jacked-up system 
 to play it. The patch solves that partly, with the Very Low Graphics setting.
  The amount of add-ons for this game are too flippin' many to count!
  Things like whole new towns, 
 scythes as weapons, and the occasional cheaty add-on (like a bow of infinite arrows, etc.) . This 
 will be the last RPG you will need. Ever. Nothing better than this out there, anyway.
  
  Power to the PunKs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2112rushman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has allowed me to role-play more than any other game I've played. So far I've spent roughly 
 160 hours playing mostly two characters. The graphics are the best I've ever seen. The quests are, 
 in general, surprisingly different from one another. Playing a character using all magic skills 
 was personally the most fun for me, but there are almost an infinite amount of other ways to play. 
 The sound effects are extremely good in most cases with the exception of the repeating voices of 
 the characters you meet and the repetition of the sound of your own character being hit. Even though 
 I've played the main quest through twice and most of the other quests at least once, I find that 
 I'm drawn back to try different skill choices. You can enchant your own items, create spells, mix 
 potions, summon creatures, sneak for extra damage, block damage directed at you with a shield or 
 a weapon, become a vampire, join four different guilds, fight in the arena, be as good or evil 
 as you like, go to jail, or save the world. It's your choice. Should I do the main quest first 
 or last? Should I try leveling quickly or slowly? Should I use the fast-travel option or should 
 I just walk there? These are just a few of the questions that you will ask yourself (and possibly 
 change your mind about) as you play. Is it the most fun game of all-time? Hard to say, but I would 
 probably place it in my top two at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattx13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect... It flawlessly combines aspects of beautiful scenery, animations 
 and character design, addictive gameplay, endless customization of your character and easy controls 
 into a package that is unbeatable to date. Now, that is not to say the game is without any fault. 
 There are quite a few bugs that knaw at the games brilliiance ie. massive pause times between dilect 
 in certain circumstances, crashing, stuttering, and many other bugs, thogh even this does not take 
 away from the lasting impression that this game has and is leaving on all who play it as a masterpiece 
 and rolemodel of gamming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveydavey
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off I'm no elite gamer ---I think I have about a dozen games including CoD 1, Sims 2, 
 FS2004, and Halo. I'm the sort of gamer who buys a mid priced card and gets sucked into buying 
 a game a few times a year. I have Morrowind and was always bothered by the paradox of an immersive 
 3D world where all communication was done with text boxes, so the arrival of TES IV with voiced 
 characters and brighter, better rendered graphics than the fairly drab Morrowind was too much to 
 resist.
  
  Performance wise, I had to OC my 6800gs and weed-whack the entire surface of Cyrodiil (which makes 
 it look like a park) , but I was able to get decent FPS at 1024x768 w/ HDR, except in combat with 
 more than 3 opponents, so I was fairly happy with that. The absence of AA can definitely be noticed, 
 though.
  
  As to content, I have mixed reactions. This is the 2nd Bethesda game I've owned and I have to say 
 that their creative sensibilites don't bowl me over. I'll hold up Blizzard and Ubisoft as a couple 
 names that have impressed me more with the pure immersive originality of their worlds. The world 
 of TES is just a little mundane somehow. The fantasy aspects of things like architecture, cultural 
 elements, and creatures are not, well, terribly fantastic IMO. This is pure taste, obviously, but 
 I have a right to make that aspect part of my review.
  
  True, there is a fair amount of different content and there are surprises if you dig, but it is 
 also possible to get stuck pretty easily in a rut. I realize that real variety of content in a 
 world this large is hard to achieve, but I was even a little surprised at how much repetition there 
 is in things like dungeon design, as well as the design and goings-on within the towns. There is 
 one city thus far in Cyrodiil, but it is really pretty small. Another really starkly repetitive 
 thing is the voice acting. I read that there are over 1, 000 characters in TES IV but you will 
 quickly feel like you are meeting the same half-dozen or so over and over again because of the 
 small number of voice actors used. I will make a brutal statement and say that Patrick Stewart 
 and Sean Bean, as much as I like both of them, could have been traded for a few more unknown actors 
 working for scale to fill out the general characters and the game would have been much better for 
 it.
  
  AI wise, I have not been overly impressed. Some aspects of battle AI are decent, but with characters 
 routinely walking into walls, asking what you want after you walk past them, carrying on conversations 
 where the two parties are mentioning unrelated subjects, and with shop keepers frowning at you 
 after a successful and happy business transaction (to mention but a few glitches) , one begins to 
 have a hard time finding the powerful AI engine in evidence.
  
  So, after all that I'll admit that I'm layering on complaints, but this game has been so aggressively 
 praised that I felt like a few more yes, but... reviews were needed. I think one shouldn't jump 
 to the conclusion that this is a game that is as real as it gets' at every level because I really 
 think it is far from that. But there is certainly a get out of it what you put into it factor and 
 a certain amount of effort will yield some interesting and sometimes surprising gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevo3000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game could very well be the greatest game ever made!
  
  I had been playing the game for quite a few hours when I finally finished the main mission in the 
 game, to light the Dragonfires . I thought the game was pretty short and not enough to do, little 
 did I know that was not the end! There was still MANY hours of gameplay left!
  
  The game succeeds because there is actually a MASSIVE amount to do and many many missions to complete, 
 ranging from stealth style theft missions to out and out slaughter with your preferred style (sword, 
 bow and arrow, fists etc)
  
  You can join the various guilds scatted around the map and take missions for each of the outfits, 
 you can venture round on your own, discovering missions just by talking to the HUNDREDS of characters 
 you meet on your way round. the choice of weapons is awesome and the depth of other areas such 
 as armour, magic and potions is fantastic.
  
  The map is large and the cities are very very well designed as well as their buildings and interiors.
 
  
  Overall, the game will give you well over 100 hours gameplay and you should not get bored, there's 
 just too much to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  An open world, breath taking graphics and intuitive design makes Oblivion a game every PC gamer 
 should own.
  
  I'm new to the Eldar Scrols series, but after playing this game there is no doubt I will continue 
 to enjoy the rest of the series. It all stated after taking a look at a preview for Oblivion several 
 months back, the graphics grabbed my attention and the description of the gameplay left me intrigued 
 at how it was all going to work.
  
  All I know now is that it does work. And how... This game has a huge selection of quests to persue 
 alongside the main adventure with something to do everywhere on the map; the towns are home to 
 citizens with problems to solve, the guilds are a way to secure a solid job and the wild is filled 
 with old forts and their under ground dungeons.
  
  There is huge variety, and yes the dungeons are more or less identical in some way and the guilds 
 mainly require you to kill stuff but it never gets tiring. You are always finding new items to 
 sell and use and increasing your skills to make you a better warrior, mage, thief or whatever class 
 you are.
  
  The graphics? Simply amazing just look at the screenshots.
  
  Sound? Well, my PC is old and sound doesn't always work... but when it does the effects are great 
 and the speech is... ok, considering there are only 4 voice actors for each gender, but it doesn't 
 bother me. The main characters are voiced suberbly, with the likes of Patrick Stewart and Sean 
 Bean lending their skills to the game.
  
  Value? With so much stuff on offer if wouldn't matter if you paid &pound;50 or more for it. I mean 
 its over 200 hours of gameplay for gods sake.
  
  Finally, be weary of its adictiveness. I just don't like thinking of how many hours I've spent 
 playing on it (more than 40 in a week) . But it's worth it. This game is a gem, so buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newslacker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The best in the series. The only RPG that lets you define your character based on your playing 
 style, and lets you develop every skill available to every class. The mods available are nearly 
 endless and fix anything you might not like about the gameplay. The difficulty slider is a welcome 
 change that allows you to advance minor skills later in the game without getting yourself killed 
 over and over. The main quest is intriguing but the side quests really make this game complete. 
 The multitude of guild quests and small side quests keep things interesting for around 100 hours 
 if you complete everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  The emperor is assassinated, as well as his heirs. Strange portals to the plane of the daedras 
 suddenly appear across the land, strange cultists worship old gods and in the middle of it all, 
 we find you - in a quest to find the only surviving heir and bring an end to the daedric invasion.
 
  
  When a developers ambition is to raise the bar for a certain game category, they usually fail. 
 Oblivion is a prime example of how careful development, immersive storytelling, splendid use of 
 art and technical superiority combined make for a game vastly better than even the closest challenger 
 in the CRPG genre.
  
  So - having played the game since its release I've found, that the initial excitement of the game 
 is replaced by awe for the depth of its gameplay.
  We are not talking about the technical achievements - impressive as they may be - but the fundamental 
 gameplay of Oblivion, the many small details that combined make for an immersive trip to the other 
 side of the computer.
  
  Like the classes. Compared to the predecessor; Morrowind, Oblivion has a better and more pronounced 
 balance between classes. For once in the TES (The Elder Scrolls) series it is possible to play 
 as a pure mage or a pure warrior. Still, if you want to mix the classes (as before) the game is 
 balanced for that as well. In Morrowind, the game became too easy too early. In Oblivion, theres 
 a more steady challenge throughout - due to an evergrowing increase of the challenge. As you progress 
 in levels, so do your enemies and the equipment found on them. It may not be 'realistic', but it 
 does make the gameplay and the flow of the combat more gritty, challenging - and fun.
  
  But even more impressive is the variety of missions. Theres a big difference between missions - 
 for the guilds as well as for the many missions and quests that can be found in the cities across 
 the land. Without revealing too much, the quest usually have a 'twist' which other games lack, 
 and makes for some surprisingly deep stories.
  
  As usual in the TES series, everything in the world has a weight and a value; only very few objects 
 are 'static' - in Oblivion the added bonus of real physics help make the world come alive.
  To add to this immersion, the plant life and trees in Tamriel wave in the wind, and the atmospheric 
 sound, HDR lighting and shadows makes for some incredibly vivid scenery.
  
  But the game requires a fast computer - to get the most out of this game (meaning that you will 
 be enable most video options) , a dualcore CPU, a X1xxx GPU or Geforce 7xxx GPU with 256 MB RAM, 
 2 GB system RAM, and a fast HDD will be essential for a good gameplay. I started playing Oblivion 
 on a Geforce 7800GT GPU, but after I replaced it with a Radeon X1900XT GPU the game ran much faster 
 and smoother, and I could enable or increase more of the visual options. Note that HDR in this 
 game is almost essential to get the most out of the visuals; as HDR makes the lighting of the game 
 - indoors as well as outdoors - more precise and... well, atmospheric (looking at the sunset in 
 this game is just one of the many cool moments in this game with HDR enabled) . So - essentially 
 Oblivion gives an experience few other games can achieve; and it has so much content for the many 
 classes you can play, that just about no CRPG gamer will miss anything. And those who haven't tried 
 CRPG (computer roleplaying games) should start here.
  
  Downloading mods to make the outdoor textures - especially in the distance - more clearer is adviced, 
 though. Unless you like 'peasoup' backdrops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sune_Gem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  This game is close to being one of the most perfect rpgs i could imagine. It only lacks minor things...
 
  
  Gameplay - 10
  A Variety of combat options are at your disposal from being an archer, Warrior, Or magic user and 
 with the great class creating option you can make a mixture of any of them. You could have a stealthy 
 warrior who sneaks up for the kill with his sword, or shoot them undected with a bow for critical 
 damage. Theres also a great 10 races to choose from many of them unique in looks and prefered combat 
 styles. Yet you don't even have to fight to grow levels. If you wanted to make a more peacfull 
 charecter who just wants to live a normal life you can use skills like mercantile, speechcraft, 
 Illusion and other non violent skills to grow up levels, buy your house pay for extra rooms and 
 even buy (or steal) lovely decorations and place them where you want.
  You can work for the dark brother hood and pursue a path to evil. Or fight for justice as a member 
 of the fighters guild. Or become the saviour of the world and fight for the blades and stop manker 
 cameron from openening the gates to Oblivion. A Nightmare like realm where people are tortured, 
 burnt and where few dare step. The game is truly whatever you want it to be.
  
  Graphics - 10
  ... Its simply in a league of its own here. When i took the first step out of the 
 tutorial dungeon set to the highest detail... I just froze. I have Never seen graphics that good 
 in my life. How on earth gamespot rated the graphics as 9 i will never know and probally never 
 will. The enviroment is out standing. The trees sway in the wind along with the grass and bushes, 
 Deer flurry by trying to escape a wolf whos trying to catch them, Certain weapons Shimmer in the 
 light as you weild them, like wise certain armours that are shiny can actually reflect on the surrondings. 
 All the small things are largly detailed aswell, At around 6:00 gameplay time you can look out 
 to the ocean and see the sun rising emiting a red glow across the ocean waves and reaching out 
 to you. Its been a year+ and nothing comes close to this detail still.
  
  Sound - 8
  In my opinion the music is not great. The main theme keeps a certain charm to the game but most 
 of the battle music is a little bit of a bore. Yet i guess the voices come under sound and WOW 
 there must be thousends and thousends of voice overs done. Never at any point do you have to read 
 what a NPC is saying to you. No matter how you respond to them they will always speak out there 
 fealings and speak it out in a very great manner. Yet with the great voice talent done another 
 bad point is lack of voice actors. Many times i heard the same voices speak through diffrent people. 
 Yet i suppose they couldent get an individual voice actor for ever charecter because they would 
 be searching for years.
  
  Value - 10
  No matter what the price it will last you ages and continue to amaze you for long times to come. 
 The many outstanding achievements are enougth to last you a very long time. It never seems get 
 boring really you never really do the same thing twice, no matter how many times you start the 
 game again there are Tones of ways you can do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game visually stunning, musics are just great, and gameplay is so innovating, it is just kind 
 of RPG game that everyone should give it a try even if you don't play RPG games. In fact, this 
 was pretty much my first RPG game I played, and I loved it. Now I am very into this game and other 
 kind of MMORPGs. However, for every game, there are always problems no matter how great the game 
 is. I am listing all problems I could think of at this moment here, just to help gamers decide 
 where to spend their money.
  
  As a lot of people already know, this game requires a very powerful PC. It doesn't mean you must 
 own Intel Extreme and ATI X1900XTX. However, you will lose significant amount of visual details 
 and that is huge as visual details are one of the biggest reason for you to own this game. Another 
 known problem is that this game has handful of bugs. Although many of the bugs were fixed after 
 1.1 patch, it still doesn't seem to be perfect.
  
  Also you should keep in mind that if you were looking for the absolute realistic social world from 
 Oblivion, you can be disappointed as some of the game's features are quite unrealistic. For instance, 
 you can suddenly move backward in the middle of the air while you were jumping forward by pressing 
 back key. This is not just unrealistic but it is just not possible. You might lose your interest 
 of this game if you were told these kind of gameplay, and you wouldn't want to spend your money 
 for something you wouldn't play ever again after the first try.
  
  Obviously, if you don't think that's a big part of the problems (and yes, it is quite negligible, 
 but many people seemed to care) or if you simply just don't care, this is the game you should try. 
 Be prepared to spend a lot of your time as well, as most likely you'll find this game very attractive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I have not played a better RPG in all my life; not one thats as pretty, varied, fun or so full 
 of things to do as Oblivion is. I would still be playing this game today if i didnt accidently 
 overwrite my level 30 character (AAARRRGGGHHH!) and i bought this game a few months back. This 
 game is easily accessible for newbies yet it will take much time for any dedicated RPG pro to see 
 everything that Oblivion offers the gamer. The graphics are superb, a real joy to look at as you 
 wonder the massive world. The gameplay is great and immersive, however I found that combat can 
 get a little tiresome after a lengthy time playing, but overall it is terrific. I bet even non-RPG 
 fans would enjoy this game, and recommend any gamer to buy this game without a second thought, 
 as you will definetely not regret it. The Good - Snazzy graphics - Loads to do - Addictive - Genius 
 quests
  
  The Bad - Should be a bit deeper - Fighting gets tiresome - NPC's look a bit weird 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaggleoooo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I had heard great things about Oblivion, but I had never played it nor seen it. My computer was 
 too lousy to play Civilization IV, let alone the most graphically challenging game in existance. 
 Yet I did get my computer upgraded, with enough power to play Oblivion (and a video card which 
 cost AU$450) . The game was OK to start with, but as soon as I emerged from the sewers at the start, 
 I was instantly hooked. We will now have a look at the 4 main parts of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay of Oblivion is excellent. There is a plot in the game, a good one where 
 you must find the assassinated Emperor's son and stop an invasion by the daedra of Oblivion (aka. 
 hell) , but you can completely ignore the main story and do anything you want. This could include 
 stealing everything that's not nailed to the floor or walls (or pickpocketing the captain of the 
 city guard) , searching for loot in dungeons and cave or even cutting down everyone in the world 
 in cold blood. Fighting is very easy in Oblivion, as a click of the mouse swings your sword, raises 
 your shield and drawing and firing your bow. Spells are chosen in the menu and cast with the 'c' 
 key. Out of the cities, nearly everything is out to get you, so you have to be prepared for battle 
 at all times. Enemies range from rats, to trolls and ogres, to the dreaded Dremora, the daedra 
 of Oblivion.
  
  GRAPHICS: There isn't a great deal to say about the graphics of Oblivion, except that they are 
 the best. And I mean the best. You'll need an exceptionally powerful computer to play the game 
 at the top graphics level, but if you do, man they're good. From people to trees and plants, to 
 weapons and armor, to cities, caves and ruins, even the fiery planes of Oblivion itself, look so 
 realistic that it's not funny. There are some especially good views in the game, including one 
 overlooking the Imperial City, which are so good that you wish you were there, except for the fact 
 that you might be being attacked by one of the game's realistic-looking creatures at the time.
 
  
  SOUND: The sounds of Oblivion are just as good as everything else. From the sounds of birds in 
 the trees, the people in the streets and the sword that's cutting the daedra to bits, it all sounds 
 awesome. All the people in the game have voice actors, which is great, but they don't have a great 
 deal of lines to say, so you might hear the same words being spoken a few times over. The sound 
 of weapons is amazing. Swords actually sound like they are being drawn when they are drawn and 
 bows sound like they have actually shot an arrow after they have shot an arrow. The sound of the 
 arrow thumping into your target never gets old either. The soundtrack in caves and dungeons is 
 the usual cave and dungeon fare, with spooky sounding music making you worried that there will 
 be something to kill you around every corner, and, as a rule, always expect some axe-wielding skeleton 
 around every corner.
  
  VALUE: There is only one sign that could show how much value Oblivion has. Unfortunately, it's 
 not on the keyboard. That sign is infinity. Yes, there is almost infinite gameplay value in Oblivion. 
 Like I've said in the gameplay section, the opportunities for fun in Oblivion are almost limitless. 
 There is the main quest, which probably takes around 50 hours to complete, 4 guilds with numerous 
 quests, including a Fighters Guild, a Mages Guild, a Thieves Guild and an Assassins Guild (the 
 Dark Brotherhood) , random quests from individuals in towns, quests for Daedra worshipers, a gladiator 
 Arena, as well as countless ruins, caves, dungeons and mines to scout out. You could steal everything 
 you find, or even kill everyone that you see. The possibilities are infinite.
  
  I could go on and on about how good Oblivion is, but right now, you should stop reading my review, 
 upgrade you computer (it probably will be necessary) , buy the game and give up everything else 
 you like to do. It will just distract you from playing the game.
  Only joking!, but seriously, buy this game and play it as much as you are able to, because there 
 won't be another game like Oblivion for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very very very good game. It has very high system requirements, but this game is 
 very long if you do the main quest and the side quests. There are so many weapons, armor, and items 
 in this game that it will keep you occupied for a long time. The environments are stunningly good, 
 but when you walk it looks like the trees, grass etc. is just popping out the ground, but it still 
 look awesome. I would recommend this game to anyone who loves rpgs and is looking for a really 
 good game that any rpg fan (if it can run on there computer) will have a lot of fun with. THIS 
 GAME IS THE BEST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xHayterx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Ah hah! Had your hopes up didnt I well thats the problem this game should have a online mode since 
 its so much like an online mulitplayer RPG.
  It would be absolutely awsome, if so.
  Character customization is almost limitless, so they wont have to worry about look alikes. So all 
 Im saying is they should at least think about a expantion pack. Online would be absolutely beautiful 
 in this game, it seems you could really get a community going. From anything to hunting licence 
 for deer and ect. Have a home town, prisons are all there. Its just a thought but i think enough 
 for looking into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkterra187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't a huge fan of the morrowind for some odd reason so I kind of debated on getting this game. 
 Be honest I am amazed by this game. The Graphics are beautiful, the gameplay is wonderful and the 
 amount of stuff that you are allowed to do in the game, is just nuts but in a good way. If you 
 like RPG's this is a great game to get, the only problem that I had with this game but it wasn't 
 enough to really give it a lower rating then I did was the leveling system, it was kind of slow 
 and it was complicated and took a while to get the stuff I wanted. But other then that, it was 
 one of the best games I've played in a long time.
  
  This is definitely a buy and worth the money you put in it.
  
  The other thing I thought would 
 of made this game even better then it already is, is if the would of implemented a multiplayer 
 feature into the game.
  
  Time Spent playing this game is based on how much I have actually played this game, it shows how 
 much I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archeon_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  K, pretty stright foward, i love this game. Well, now that i beat it , its really borring and theres 
 nothing to do. But, while i was playing it i thought it was one of the greatest RPG's i've ever 
 played. Great story , and i really enjoyed the gameplay. The only things that i didn't enjoy that 
 much about this game is the very repetitive battles... meaning the mashing of the R1 button (and 
 ocasional blocking or spells) and then watch your enemy randomly roll down the mountain because 
 physics don't exist in Oblivion. *Also all the gliches... Other than that i thought that this was 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  The game is the best! The graphics is outstanding, and the game is awsome! I simply love it! Though, 
 I had to uninstall it, I will install it again. I also think that the character creation is great. 
 So many options... The sound sometimes crushes (at least to me it does) but that is rarely! I think 
 the most impressive things in the game are gameplay and the graphics! I mean you can see every 
 single leaf on a tree, I mean come on... Anyway, the game really rocks!!! Bye, bye! PunkAss P. S. 
 I'm not really some cranky punkass, I just like the way it sounds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToughHorn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Words alone mean nothing when it comes to the Elder Scrolls IV 
  Oblivion is the masterpiece of the century, the game is perfect in every way
  This game is the 
 very boundary between the gaming of the past and the future. The Gameplay is rather similar to Oblivion's 
 little brother Morrowind but much more enhanced and thrilling, although a person already knows what 
 to expect it just helps you minimize your learning curve. The time a man can spend plaiyng the game 
 is 300 or more hours since as most people already know, Oblivion is not a game which cares about 
 time. The difficulty of the game is not high, its rather easy. Creatures take to the undergrounds 
 - more and more creatures are more often seen underground in tombs, ruins, catacombs instead of prowling 
 the surface for unweary players. The Story line of the game is the shining star upon the christmas 
 tree &amp; the graphics is the tree itself .In this Action packed adventure we travel to the distant 
 eastern lands of Cyrodill, the heart of the empire. The presents under the tree are the feelings, the 
 fun and the joy you get from playing Oblivion . A truly spectacular game, if you just play it you 
 wont be dissapointed.... Falling in love with a game isnt easy but it does happen ToughHorn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freboy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  When you develop a game like Oblivion you want it to be the best of its kind, and Oblivion is a 
 very impressive game with gorgeous graphics and effective sound. Most importantly, it has one of 
 the by far largest and most realised game worlds to date. Its a virtual buffet of side quests, 
 dungeons and factions besides the main campaign that involves saving the world from invasions from 
 the daemon world Oblivion. But the more realistic a game is, as GameSpot writes in its review, 
 the more realistic you want it to be and the Oblivion experience is marred by several drawbacks 
 that keeps it from being that top-notch game that it has been made out to be. With all the extremely 
 favourable reviews this game has, I guess Ill have to focus on the drawbacks.
  
  The first problem becomes apparent the moment you start up the game: the perspective. First Person 
 Perspective was never suited to model close combats and it still isnt; its had to tell the distance 
 to your enemy and even if the developers have done a fine job of adding new skill-based elements 
 to combat, its not that much more interesting.
  
  Another inherited problem with the FPP is the tunnel vision; you never know when an enemy is hiding 
 just outside of your camera field like in some bad horror movie. Its even more frustrating when 
 you start taking damage and have to look around to see where its coming from. It should be noted 
 that you can switch to 3rd person perspective but that makes the problem in the previous paragraph 
 that much worse.
  
  A free tip to developers: Reserve FPP for shooters with emphasis on long-range combat like Far 
 Cry.
  
  The next real drawback is the monsters. When the local wildlife attacks you on sight, a lot of 
 the immersion goes down the drain to no use. When your trusty steed enters the skirmish to help 
 you stomp the voracious wolf, the scene becomes even more bizarre. (Yes, you can ride horses. It 
 works pretty well too.) Other than overly aggressive animals, many of the low-level monsters are 
 quite uninspired; giant rats and little imps, rounded up with strange insect-like creatures that 
 charge you head-on even though you are obviously much larger than them.
  
  Furthermore, the monsters level up when you do. It may have sounded like a good idea at first, 
 but one of the main satisfactions of experience-based fantasy games is wading though enemies that 
 used to pose a real challenge.
  
  When you switch to 3rd person view, youll also notice some quirky animations. Your character swings 
 his weapon so stiffly it looks like hes chopping firewood with a hatchet. Also, dont spend too 
 much time on designing your characters appearance. Youll only see him in 3rd person mode, and 
 then youll mostly be staring at the back of his neck.
  
  Finally, it must be said that Oblivion is a bit too open-ended for its own good. I am generally 
 in favour of open-ended games, but when you emerge into the world in Oblivion, once you get your 
 bearings, you find yourself asking so, now what. Its open-ended nature robs the game of its sense 
 of direction and purpose. Whats worse, because your dialogue choices must match every conceivable 
 character, they become incredibly uninteresting. In comparison, old favourites like Planescape: 
 Torment or Baldurs Gate took some liberties with your characters background which enabled them 
 to give the plot that much more focus, and the protagonist that much more personality (even without 
 skewing him toward any special race or class) .
  
  Now, there are several genuinely solid aspects of his game too. Most importantly, the game is very 
 cleverly based on both experience points and player skill. Any character can for example attempt 
 to pick any lock, but one without the proper value in Lock Picking will need to spend that much 
 more time and lock picks to get it done. Unfortunately, instead of being awarded experience for 
 killing monsters (which would favour warrior characters) you get experience for using skills. This 
 has certain unfortunate side effects, such as players that jump along rather than walk (jumping 
 is a skill) . Having your fantasy hero jumping through the marketplace just feels silly. I mentioned 
 the horses; being able to ride from one place to the other instead of trekking just feels right, 
 although having your mount help you in combat doesnt.
  
  To illustrate what Oblivion did wrong, lets compare it to a game that got it right. I previously 
 mentioned the classic Baldurs Gate. In the world of 2D sprites on pre-rendered backgrounds, it 
 doesnt look entirely wrong for an NPC to just stand in the corner, waiting for you to talk to 
 him. When he speaks, his personality shows in his words, and that gives you a surprisingly complete 
 image of him. When you, on the contrary, leave nothing to the players imagination, you had better 
 come up with something even better, and that is truly hard, too hard in this case.
  
  In the end, Oblivion falls victim to its own ambition. When the technological part of the game 
 raises the bar as high as in this case, its hard for the game designers to keep up, and end up 
 reducing the whole experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WestleyViau
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  You can play it over and over and its still a thrill and an unforgetable adventure. The gameplay 
 in oblivion is amasing, if you want to have the true experience, i suggest you remove the HUD and 
 crosshair because it adds more to the experiance and brings you into the world. In oblivion there 
 are many different types of combat styles and ways to fight. As far as the character costomization 
 goes, the nine different races to choose from really add on to the world, espcially when you can 
 pick of books and read about the history of the world and all sorts of things about it. The spells 
 and weapon classes to choose from are great, there are many different types of spell classes and 
 two different type of weapon classes not counting the hand to hand combat style. One of the major 
 deals with this game are the NPC's, each NPC different from eachother one way or another weather 
 what they look like or the kind of personality they have. The land for you to explore is giagantic, 
 there are plenty of ruins, caves and abondoned fortresses for you to discover in your journeys. 
 There is much more to be said of the gameplay in Oblivion but i gotta move on. When oblivion first 
 came out the graphics were something most people haven't seen before in a video game. I played 
 it on pc with the top of the line graphics card and its just breath taking. Everything from the 
 trees and grass to the NPC's and weapons all the designes and ideas make the game's appearance 
 almost unbeatable. When you first open the game to select what you wish to do, not the main menu 
 but the one to play the game, it really gets you in the mood to enter a world at your disposale. 
 The voice acting stunning, though some of the NPC's have the same voice, each NPC has different 
 things to say to you. There are many ways to experiance this game and each of them are different 
 and great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZMan314
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 4: OBLIVION is just mind blowing. It's massive, the quests are never ending and the 
 graphics breath taking. To me it's what a good RPG is all about, getting lost within your character 
 within the boundaries and prameters etablished in the game. I Love the mods out there. Great to 
 go through the game mod-free (maybe only utility mods) then open that baby up!! The only thing 
 negative about it, is it is a little buggy but fixes are out there. I highly recommend this visually 
 stunning masterpiece. It is a very satisfying and rewarding RPG. I can not wait for Elder Scrolls 
 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  The Good: The game is set in a huge detailed enviroment where you can interatct with every charecter. 
 The game is action packed and will have a style ro suit everybody. Eg combat, stealth, magic and 
 so much more. The al is very intelligent, with each charecter having their unique personalitity. 
 The game offers hours and hours worth of gameplay and one of the best interactive enviroments. 
 The graphics are simply amzing, with no other pc game so for showing as much detail. The game is 
 simply a amazing pc experience which offers som much fun and enjoyment.
  
  The Bad: Has high end pc requirements. Pity the fool which doesnt go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trenchermanX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  have to put in quite a lot of time. The game starts a bit slow, and you'll find that there is a 
 lot of work to be done before you can actually enjoy the benefits of full armor, spell-making, 
 enchanting and the rest of the options available to you. The game is huge in every sense, from 
 world exploration to side-quests. You can join several guilds and factions that offer quests and 
 rewards, become an arena champion, and well, save the world. That old thing. The list of things 
 to do seems almost limitless, and that's not taking into account the mods available, which aren't 
 few. During gameplay I would get the feeling that there is just too much stuff to do and that there 
 is no way I could ever finish, but stick with it and after roughly 100 hours you'll begin to see 
 the finish-line. Dungeon exploration becomes a bit repetitive at times and closing oblvion gates 
 also, but doesn't take away from the overall quality of the game. I am a bit skeptic as to how 
 many people can really play this game full blast, you need a monster PC to get it running at half-decent 
 quality. The controls are incredible, maybe I would have liked to see more combo options and moves 
 during battles though. And through the game you do get the sense of being detached emotionally 
 from what's going on, the feeling that hl2 gives off putting you in GF's shoes was amazing. But 
 this is about Oblivion, and emotional detachment aside, it does a great job of entertaining. The 
 sound is fantastic, graphics also, the story is very complex and when you begin to see how many 
 factions and races are involved you head does tend to spin. The number of books to read, people 
 to speak with, heists, murders, battles, etc is too high to count and there is much to do, anyway 
 too much to account for in 100 words, more or less. But if you are an rpg afficionado and have 
 a gaming pc, DO NOT MISS THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K9-KY
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Oblivon is one of those games that just blows you away. You can see there hair blow in the wind, 
 blades of grass bloww in the wind, Players Panting, bark on trees, sweat, Everything is amazing! 
 The story line? Well anything you want. lol. not realy its long twisty and turny, well its hard 
 to explan. Its a great squeal to Morrowind. Everything a real gamer wants. No efence to the noobs 
 but you need to be a gamer. You choos from tons of species, classes, birth signs, routs, good and 
 bad, wepons, defence, spells, jobs, and much much more. B) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrUnOdeFeNiX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is simply perfect! If it plays wants a game that in one exactly 
 content has History (perhaps linear or more than it is not excellent in a similar way) .
  To choose between being of the good or of the evil DURING the game and before with a personage 
 alone.
  This game one another one is not type that I do not remember the name more is simply perfect also 
 because it mixes RPG, fps and adventure in one same game, where you fika only not clicando to 
 attack and yes you who attack!
  E the artificial inteligencia is of high quality what it makes you to lose hours playing the times 
 alone to pass a small part of the game.
  Is more than one rpg, is in truth one really perfect game!
  Not necessary to say very, they attend 
 the videos or they buy the game and they see for proper itself the power, the magic, the blows 
 and everything what you can make in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaknefien
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Sure there are bugs to exploit, and there are other little things that 
 lead no where but really its a beautiful game. I havent even beaten it yet. Im stuck just riding 
 around on a horse soaking up the scenary, Killing random villages, or wanderers. The codes to spawn 
 things to kill is pretty easy as well if you wanna cheat and just randomly kill people that is. 
 One thing i dont like is the whole weapons system, the rate you get new types of weapons (i. e. 
 -Fur-leather-Chain-elven-so on) , and that a Claymore is just a tad more powerful than a longsword 
 or something of that value. But other than that i love it! Its such a wonderful game and if you 
 have anytime on your hands that you dont wanna play other games such as WoW, or SWG, or anyother 
 game that gets old fast. This one wont get old ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unkillable
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best looking games I have ever played, it manges to detail the game world and 
 also contains a ton of quests. The game is also open minded so you can progress to a really high 
 level before you try to tackle the main quests. This game is not really that hard because you can 
 set the difficulty and all but god after long doses of this game, I find it to get boring. Not 
 only that, but this game doesn't end, at all!
  
  The most I do now is take tours around the world and if your computer is good enough, you can view 
 a colorful and amazing world. I can only play at medium and it still looks as good as it can get. 
 The worst part is the gameplay, as melee is very linear and repetitive as there are only 4 different 
 power attacks (1 for each direction you move in) and a standard attack. If you have a shield you 
 can use it to block attacks but that's just about it... unless you would like to hear what the 
 magic is like. There are several 'schools' in Oblivion that categorize the types of spells there 
 are, some are for healing, stealth, or just plain destructive. You get to customize your character 
 but it involves a long process and is more of a chore really.
  
  There are lots of quests that make it hard to pick which quest you want to do, but they are sometimes 
 rewarding in their own ways. You can turn a blind eye to most quests but there are some you absolutely 
 MUST do.
  
  There are lots of weapons such as bows and maces, along with some nice sets of armor really help 
 the game get a certain medieval feel to it , all while making it feel authentic and real (just 
 don't grab an apple from an inn) . Then there are the moral choices... You can either play as someone 
 who tries not to kill anybody but then there is also the dark side... While there are no bonuses 
 for being an angel or Darth Vader (or just insert your name here) it does make you feel like you 
 have a sense of control in the way you traverse through Oblivion.
  
  I would recommend Oblivion to most people with a 'good' computer and a whole lotta' time to kill. 
 If you experience any problems or want to up the game I would recommend that you upgrade your computer 
 or visit a computer store. Now if you run out of things to do, there is good news...
  While I haven't played them, I am aware that you can get a lot more out from the expansion packs, 
 it may as well be a long adventure. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquecruz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 6, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Oblivion when youfirst play is the gigantic quality of the graphics 
 meaning they are so good they almost look as a picture...... really. And the graphics combined 
 with the great mix of RPG first person action game makes it even mor worth while and to add to 
 that is a 15 hour main sory quest combined with abouta 100 hours of sidquest and it is if you whent 
 rigth trugh them. This ganme is complitely amazing and beautifull and the grates thing about it 
 is that you will enjoy the gratness of the game trought more than a 100 hours to make it nearly 
 an nevereding game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank88806
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game IS a good game, but and this is a big one, its nothing compared to morrowind. Oblivion 
 may be visualy stunning but graphics isnt everything, you have to set yourself to a quest, and 
 in my view thats not what RPGs are about, yes the quests should be good but there should also be 
 endless hours of freeroaming brilliance, oblivion's free roaming was pretty pathetic, i found nothing 
 to kill but rats, wolves and bandits while wandering though forests for a good few hours. The dungeons 
 are ok but seem to get repetative, once you have done one you have done them all. I see this game 
 as being absolutly brilliant but it just doesnt touch on morrowind i would probably be writing 
 about the sheer genius of the game if they had skipped elder scrolls 3: morrowind and just moved 
 straight on to oblivion, but the fact is they diddnt, its like a premiership footballer (oblivion) 
 with its international superstar big brother (morrowind) . so to end it all, oblivion = good game, 
 morrowind = excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hair_So_Spikey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  This game is great... there that's the truth it's like a sunny sky, a pretty girl's face, a great 
 joke, or a 8 foot long NES controller, you can't really explain why they are great they just are 
 but in the spirit of journalism I shall endeavor to fight away some of the mystery! The game is 
 nearly perfect in all respects the combat system is exciting and fairly complex while a little 
 more options in a fight would've been awesome like say dual wielding more hand to hand options 
 it's all and all the best yet in a elders scrolls game. The magic system has likewise been revamped... in 
 a sense, all the familiar spells are there but there are a few MIA like levitation so i guess the 
 ordinators are safe in this game if there were any (there isn't) The addition of horses helps the 
 game but the advent of auto travel puts a slight dampener on it's greatness. While the swordplay 
 is awesome the real improvement comes in the stealth portions of the game now it's not only a viable 
 option but a damn good one and so satisfying too! The true fun, however, comes not from the game 
 itself but from the player, creating whatever crazy character you want and immersing yourself in 
 the game world is what truly makes this game what it is and it is so easy to do so thanks to the 
 crisp graphics you can practically feel the bushes and other shrubbery brushing your face as you 
 try to ascend a particularly steep hill you can feel the chill from the snow covered vistas of 
 the northern provinces of Cyrodill. The guild system is back in full effect this time the thrill 
 from having a group of minions who owe their allegiance to you and no-one else is a great feeling, 
 getting chased by guards? Well your fighter guild underlings will help you kill the guards! I would've 
 liked to have gotten a minion to travel with for the fighters guild Ala the mages guild or dark 
 brotherhood but it's still very satisfying. This review has gone long and i still haven't talked 
 about the main storyline! Which will probably sum up your first few play-throughs it's hard to 
 get into the story, not that it's not good or anything it is but because the side quests are so 
 engrossing AND rewarding! As for the sound for the game it's just as great the music is subtle 
 and unobtrusive and the animal sounds are as engrossing as the visuals. Pick this game up TODAY 
 and you'll be happy to step into the bowls of oblivion! just watch your step there's lava EVERYWHERE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoltEMX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  WOW. After 3months of playing I still have missions left to finish.... After watching the video 
 review there is not much else I can say. The game is unbelievably thought out and developed to 
 perfection. basically its like GTA only back-in-a-day were instead of cars you have horse, instead 
 of missions you have quests, instead of guns you got swords, maces, arrows and magic. And then 
 you add fractions and cults to it, and youve got a game that will keep you in your computer chair 
 for hours and time will pass by without being noticed. If youre into role playing this game is 
 you #1 must have. Even if you for some unknown reason do not like it, someone close you know defiantly 
 will.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  iv spent most of my time in the beginning of this game. the character choices are extremely vast, 
 i just couldnt choose so i keep starting over. i have beaten the game and gotten into all the guilds, 
 so dont anyone say u played this game for 5 minutes and loved it then wrote ur review.
  
  cons: the guilds are pretty similar... hey u, lowlife, go get this stuff for me/kill this person. 
 with the exception of the theives guild, which is original and fun. alot of this game is repeatitive 
 and if uv played it once thru, u can beat it again in a matter of hours.
  
  pros: the immense amount of quests and people to meet/talk to/kill, is amazing. it may be repeatitive, 
 but it doesnt get boring very fast at all. the pace is just right. not super slow like morrowind, 
 and not super fast like diablo 2. once u get into a good fight u gotta have some quick moves, but 
 fighting isnt the only thing there is to do.
  
  the main part i love about this game is its like ur in a real world where u can sit around all 
 day and talk to people, go shopping, or u can go treasure hunting, or just loot houses and kill 
 people. ur character is amazing customizable. what race to be? what skills do i want? vampire or 
 not? do i be a generous hero, or a major pain in the ass? what do i look like? do i wanna rob and 
 kill this guy, or give him a coin?
  
  also, the game content is pretty much limitless. u can download new  
 or if u have a 3d modeling program, u can make ur own! (my fav part, nothing i like more than drawing 
 a sword then being able to swing it)
  
  if u like rpg's or sim games, get this, get... this. its worth every penny for the hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kombainer
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  I think that there can be two different opinions about this game. Those people who have never played 
 an Elder Scrolls game before would of course find Oblivion perfect. The graphics in the game are 
 outstanding. Even if you set the graphics to low quality the game would still look beautiful. The 
 sound keeps up with the picture. Beautiful music, characters who speak with voices of famous actors 
 like Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean  the game has it all. Oblivion is also one of the few games 
 that give you the ability to create your own unique character. When I saw all those manipulations 
 that a player can do with a characters face while creating him, I was really amazed. Unfortunately 
 soon after that the game began to disappoint me. First I noticed that there are fewer skills to 
 choose from than in Morrowind. Then I saw that weapons have fewer characteristics then in Morrowind. 
 While completing a quest where you have to protect Martin on the way from Kavach to the Temple 
 of Blades, I noticed that Martin is actually immortal. =) The main disappointment was the Quick 
 Travel option, which shortens the game extremely. All these are small details, but when combined, 
 they make Oblivion way too easy for a game of such level. And when the game is easy it is inevitably 
 boring. Surely Oblivion has lots of good things, but most of them were introduced to us 4 years 
 ago, when Morrowind came out. Of course, as I said before, these things will be noticed only by 
 those who played Morrowind. Others would think that this is how a perfect RPG game is supposed 
 to look like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMutantX3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - WOW just a tons of quests, and Camera control is great.
  Radiant A. I and Physics are So Life-like! Quests &amp; Exploration, the gameplay is the BEST yet 
 on any Xbox 360 games!
  
  Graphics - While not the best, it's still so lifelike. I strongly believe we will see better looking 
 games in the future for sure.
  
  Sound - Not bad at all. Music is Excellent!
  
  Value - I spend 200+ hours on this, GO figure. :)
  
  Tilt - I like this kind of medievil game, 
 and I LOVE RPG. If there is anything else I want from this game, it's Puzzle-solving, otherwise 
 it's just Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalmatao
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best rpg game of 06 i have played some good rpg's recently such as fable the 
 lost chapters and ds2 but this put the ice in on top of the cake i have this game on pc and game 
 spot have some good mods for it making the game longer the only thing i think is slightly bad about 
 this game is when you go round steal you near enough get caught every time or when you kill a guard 
 in sneak mode the other guards attack you? wb if you dont think this should be the rpg game of 
 the year and tell me why you think that if possible tell me if you have another game in mind.
 
  
  this is generalmatao writing about oblivion elder scrolls IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardv12222
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  While this game completely captivated my attention at first with its visuals and open environment, 
 once I figured out how the leveling system worked, the game quickly digressed to the state of boredom.
 
  
  If you want to love this game, dont worry so much about how to get the most out of each leveling 
 up just play for the stories and quests, or you will quickly replace it.
  
  If you are looking for a rpg with good immersion this is your game. If you are looking for a rpg 
 that will last longer I would look at NWN for its multi player features.
  
  If you are looking for a FPS, I wouldn't even look at this game, the controls are almost too clunkly 
 for a good FPS, and the fights at times it can be hard to really play it well. But switching to 
 3rd person really helps out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  best game i have played for a long time the plot is that you start as a prison and you are lit 
 out will really you a escape and u have to really protect the empiror because someone is trying 
 to kill him this bit is really the turtoil bit but the empiror die he gets killed and then you 
 are really free after you get out of the sewers were it takes place u can contiue to follow the 
 real quest if u want but it is best to just get a feel for the game ,you can rob people kill people 
 get put in jail cells swim become a contenter in the arena buy goods sell goods get weapons and 
 get aromur join guides like the fighters guides ,the mages guides ,the thieving guides and the 
 darkbrotherhood guides.
  really obilivion is that there is Demons are ravaging the world of Tamriel, and it is up to you 
 so save it in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. You can try to restore the rightful ruler to the 
 throne in this next-generation, first-person RPG. Choose from a variety of races and classes to 
 create your own individual character. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion features over 1,000 non-player 
 characters that eat, sleep, and complete their own objectives. You can explore an open-ended environment 
 completing quests and eventually ridding the world of the marauding demons. and there ar many more 
 things to do.
  
  a summary of the game is u live another life in another world and you can create and play any character 
 you can imagine from a noble warror to a assassin it has next generation graphics brillent visuals 
 real like medevli towns dungeons and realistic forests really u could say it is just a 3d copy 
 of runescape but 10x better.
  
  overall oblivion is a brillent game to play and it is better when u add the mods to it make it 
 even better an morrwind will ever be so go and buy it now if not done so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be honest... I want to so badly give this game a 10. I only give graphics a 9 because 
 my computer cannot run it on full graphics, so I cannot experience the beauty that Oblivion truly 
 is.
  
  I have finally taken the time to beat the main quest and it was a dandy. I am the Listener for 
 the Dark Brotherhood and the Grand Champ for the Arena. I know there are tons of other side quests 
 that I haven't even tapped into. Dozens of caves, fortresses, Ayleid Ruins, and more undiscovered 
 and unexplored. 28 Oblivion gates I still need to close. So I am FAR from even coming close to 
 finishing this game if you can do such a thing.
  
  I can't even begin to describe how amazing this game is. As I said I never had a liking for RPG's... ever. 
 Reason being they were always boring and mundane and lacking in action. Oblivion obliterated that 
 notion I had. This RPG is not only truly epic from an RPG standpoint, but it also incorporates 
 action and combat into the system so seamlessly and beautifully, that sometimes I forget I'm playing 
 an RPG.
  
  The world is immersive beyond anything I have seen or experienced. As I said I still have a lot 
 of world to explore, Guilds to join and master, skills to max, enchanted weapons to find, monsters 
 to destroy, and so much more. This game incorporates everything a MASTERPIECE should incorporate. 
 This game is truly a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a stunningly gorgeous game, which will push even the highest 
 spec gaming rig to its limits.
  
  Oblivions primary story line lasts only about 20-30 hours of game play, but thats not all that 
 Oblivion is about. Oblivion is about exploring the environment which is huge. There are also Side 
 quests strung about the map, as well as Guild quest which increase the amount of game play mission 
 exponentially. If you have played any of the previous Elder Scrolls games the Character Classes/races 
 should seem familiar, as will references to areas and occurrences in the previous games. Oblivion 
 is a large map, not as large as the previous games, but the level of detail in Oblivion is so much 
 higher than any game before it, that the decrease in size can be overlooked. The visuals in the 
 game are stunning, even when running at a lower detail level the game looks great.
  
  Every NPC in the game has their own audio track, so the game is extremely immersive, however all 
 the characters looks fairly similar during the conversation and dialog exchanges. There are many 
 character classes to choose from, as well as the ability to make your own class. There is an endless 
 amount of spell to create and use. The sere level of content in the game is amazing.
  
  First person Combat in the game is fun, and it is simple to bash in your enemys with a large battle 
 axe. Or snipe a Goblin with a bow and arrow. Also difficulty can be adjusted with a simple slider 
 bar, so you can customize your experience.
  
  There are feature to the game that I have trouble remembering them to post them, but be assured 
 that Oblivion will waste many hours of you life. I highly recommend checking this game out on either 
 of the Systems its available on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaco123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Oblivion hmmm what can I say..
  
  This is the only game that ever lagged with my graphic card geforce 6600 GT. It requires a tremendousy 
 powerfull pc for perfection...
  They should have added a more kick-aS* background music
  (this is its only downside)
  
  If you have quake 4 or half-life 2/hl2 episode 1 running in 
 full graphics i know i did and dint lag even once you'll be shocked that this game can actually 
 make your pc lag hahahaha
  
  All in all this is a revolutionary game its an rpg like no other. Dozens and i mean dozens of quest 
 to keep you occupied.
  The best thing about this game that its very easy to manipulate tons of additional awsome mods 
 outhere to keep you itching for more. If you love RPG's you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotanpelled
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  i didnt like this game so much.. at the beginning i loved it until i saw that when you jump, you 
 can control it (you started to jump when you are not moving than you can start moving while in 
 the air :| ) ,
  
  the story is bad cus there is no time limit for you to close the gates of oblivion.. if there is 
 no time and there are no monsters getting out from the gates... why should we worry about whats 
 inside?
  
  the battle mods are very lame, no special move's, no blood, just blocking, fast attacks and strong 
 attacks.. LAME.. the only two good things i can say about this game is the graphics and physics.. 
 thats it.. stupid npc's, lame AI..
  
  sorry about bad english and salamat (bye =) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome... but if u use the lowest resolution it will become too ugly.. sounds 
 are cool.. and gameplay is great..
  
  Cool : - Graphics and environment all great and looks like a real world. Grass and tree swaying.. 
 and all.. - the gameplay is great and and easy to control.. becuz its FPS the original home for 
 this game is PC.. - the main quest is superb.. secondary quest also great.. the most great quest 
 for free roam game.. Uncool : - The npc voice all the same.. and always talk about same gossip 
 over and over again.. Whats going on with u? I heard that bla bla is good at sneaking i heard that 
 too. Good day .. OMG.. thats sumtime amusing and sumtime very annoying.. - the quest all linear... 
 ex. Fighters Guild Quest u cant choose to side with opposite rival and mages guild quest u cant 
 join the Necromancers... unlike D&amp; D series.. this game secondary quest is lack of freedom... 
 and NPC is so stupid.. they will chase after the enemy even tho the enemy already fall to a lava 
 below and jump to lava..
  
  This game need is not the best RPG game i ever played.. but it tried to be and i love it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbdave88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  It seems that the game has gotten better, yet the environment smaller. I like the concept of the 
 game and the new additions, but I am dissapointed by the lack of expansion of the game world. Also, 
 it would be nice to see some form of multiplayer come about eventually. In all, the game is great, 
 but I am not impressed with the size of the game world. If only they could come out with an expansion 
 for the 360 that adds more areas to explore it would be great. And yes, they should be just as 
 big if not bigger than the current game world. I just got tired of new quests in the same areas 
 over and over again. It seems like you can get across the entire game world too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337issweet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  its a really good game but, i thought it would of been better. the map isnt as big as i thought 
 it was going to be and the main mission was really short and kinda boring. i was lookin forwards 
 to a game that would take me like a week or 2 to beat but 2 days after i bought it im already done. 
 the fact that you can become the leader of all the guilds if youwant. i like the fact that you 
 can buy a horse and a house but they shouldnt of put the fast travel in the game, it took away 
 the fun of travelin everywhere. plus you need to have a pretty good computer to run it without 
 it laggin. its fun but not the greatest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward and anticipating this game for a three years. I predicted it to be groundbreaking 
 in scale and one of the best games to date. For the first few weeks as i played this game i was 
 enthralled. Stunning visuals, great storylines and wonderful characters. It seemed to good to be 
 true. Then i realized the scam that it was. First of all, everything was the same. Forests, forests, 
 forests!!!! Everywhere!!! The plane of Oblivion looks the same (yes, i know its supposed to look 
 like hell, but a LITTLE diversity in environment) . Though there are some memorable characters, 
 they're all the same!!! Not that they look the same, but they just are!! I can't explain my way 
 out of that one. The combat is atrocious. LIke morrowind, only after a few years you'd expect something 
 not quite as repetetive. Once you get to a certain level, your done. You got the best weapons, 
 the best armor. Enemies are scaled to your level (horrible idea, bethesda!) My final complaint 
 is atmosphere. Morrowind had an incredible atmosphere. Immersive and i felt sucked into it. Oblivion 
 somehow lacked this and felt bland. I realize that this review may cause outrage and hatred out 
 of many people but just hear me out. Because in reviewing this i must be honest, and in being honest 
 i can only give it great reviews!!! But this game is decieving. If you are a hardcore rts fan get 
 it. But heed my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricatrinda1993
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  The graphics of this game are awesome, it is just like you stop playing just to watch the details 
 of the game! The music and sound are very good, it is very easy to learn how to play this game, 
 it has millions of thing to try and discover. The weapons details are excellent. I would think 
 that this is the best Role-Playing game of the year, and maybe the game of the year too. There 
 requisits for the game are a little high but there is a version of Oblivion that makes Oblivion 
 run on old graphics (Oldblivion) . This game is really adictive!
  I recomend it to everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T_HitmaN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  GAME DESIGN
  The term watch your back meens that there is alot of people and monsters around in this action 
 packed game by bethesda this game has the best graphics that i have ever seen, the trees have all 
 branches and the houses have even microscopic detail on them. This game also has very good physics 
 an example is when i was in a dungeon/cave i saw a plant of wood as a bridge i jumped on it 3 times 
 and it broke. Another good thing is that when you attack a person or animal or monster they do not 
 take 100 hits to kill (unless used for a quest) which is better than most games where you do have 
 to hit about 100 times to kill. The only thing that i would not rate a 10 is the sound some bits 
 in the game are a bit tacky, but apart from that the game is flawless. GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in this game is hard to describe but it is very good i rate it a 10, i am able to 
 describe some of the gameplay there are alot of things to describe so ill only describe a little. With 
 this game you are able to buy new weapons, pickpocket, kill, be a vampire, make potions, invest 
 in markets, cast spells, buy houses and you can also use cheats which is good for very hard bits. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Incredible!
  
  This game has the best graphic and stroy! You must have this game. It is what I call a MASTERPICE 
 and the best elder scrolls 4 and ubisoft game. It's defenetly not for everyone but you must play 
 it. I guarantee you won't regret it. You have a lot of things to do and the posibility too choose 
 your path in life (hard to find this in regular gamez) . For example if you choose to be a bad guy 
 you won't have the oportunity to join the fighter's guild, but if you choose the good guys you 
 will be able to choose the bad guys later on!: D
  
  Play this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee93
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  This games is a must have!! The graphics are amazing, animations r sweet, and the game play is 
 awesome and fun. This gives u alot of options so u get 2 decide how u want ur character 2 be like. 
 There r plenty of weapons 2 experiment with like bows, swords, and staff. Plus u can master skills 
 so u can so u can exceed in that area of fighting. U can choose which class u want 2 b in. (thats 
 very important depending what u want 2 specialize in for ex: theif or warrior.) Youll hav alot of 
 fun playing this game. Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  to all ye elderscrolls fans, im sure you have all played this since the day it came out like me. 
 you will need to get a good PC to run it though so if you are thinking of upgrading, now is defenantly 
 the time.
  
  the game play is very enveloping. quest after quest you just can not stop playing it. the combat 
 action is better then morrow wind and the magic. the spells are awsome and fun. this (like morrow 
 wind) is a game you will can play for 5 years and never get board and the best part is all the 
 mods. make a great game even greater. coupiouse amounts of character types, guilds quests and so 
 on. even after the main quest you can still play for ever and ever.
  
  if you are thinking about getting it, GET IT! you wont be sorry
  
  it does have some minor 
 stability issues and it is a system hog so like i said have a good machine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benosalankelley
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  This is the best rpg only for 2006. The Graphics are overall amazing, but for low setter users 
 like me. I do have trouble getting used to it. The tutorial is easy to get used to as well. The 
 game can be great unless bugs get into the way of your progress. The story very simple, close the 
 gates, destroy the daedra lords.
  help Martin defeat the main bad guy. But the side quests and use of created mods from other gamers 
 can be great, i recommend Overhaul to make this game impressive, unless you have a high machine, 
 which i don't. It is quite good getting used to the music and sound of the game. Very soothing 
 and intense when travelling the world. A lot of side quests can drive you away from the main quest, 
 which is good thing for me, since i rather do alot of side quests to gain alot of strength and 
 power to defeat higher level enemies, before challenging the main quest is actually short. After 
 awhile, it can get boring for me, but it okay when downloading new mods to enhance more game time. 
 There is many actors like Patrick Stewart who done really well with the emperor himself. As well 
 as Sean Bean playing his son Martin. Overall, a superb game that can sit around for hours and hours 
 of game play time having fun with mods. Enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  WOW!... and once again, WOW! This game is absolutely incredible and I highly recommend it. The graphics 
 deserve about 20 wows but we'll only give it one big WOW. Everything is perfecty designed from 
 the trees to monsters to buildings to the sky!
  
  Fighting in this game is great. You get all the greatness of Morrowind but with the new addition 
 of blocking. There are many things to do in this game. There are alot of quests, alot of monsters, 
 and a whole bunch of dungeons to explore. Alot of things require thinking so if you are a good 
 problem solver you will enjoy this game to it's fullest.
  
  But problem solver or not (I'm not much of one) you will still love every party of this game. I 
 gave the sound a 9 because some of the tunes get a little annoying but the sound effects were nailed 
 perfectly. Especially the voices, they had the perfect person for each character. I'm sure all 
 of you have a computer (hopefully :P) so if you don't have this game then go out and buy it it 
 is totally incredible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DR_RISK
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  GAME DESIGN
  The term watch your back meens that there is alot of people and monsters around in this action 
 packed game by bethesda this game has the best graphics that i have ever seen, the trees have all 
 branches and the houses have even microscopic detail on them. This game also has very good physics 
 an example is when i was in a dungeon/cave i saw a plant of wood as a bridge i jumped on it 3 times 
 and it broke. Another good thing is that when you attack a person or animal or monster they do not 
 take 100 hits to kill (unless used for a quest) which is better than most games where you do have 
 to hit about 100 times to kill. The only thing that i would not rate a 10 is the sound some bits 
 in the game are a bit tacky, but apart from that the game is flawless. GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in this game is hard to describe but it is very good i rate it a 10, i am able to 
 describe some of the gameplay there are alot of things to describe so ill only describe a little. With 
 this game you are able to buy new weapons, pickpocket, kill, be a vampire, make potions, invest 
 in markets, cast spells, buy houses and you can also use cheats which is good for very hard bits. 
 By Bradley Border : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscipleofSteel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This was my first elder scrolls game and i soon disliked the fact that it takes forever to get 
 around... and for such a vast game, lacks a better diversity in monsters and fauna, i did get rather 
 annoyed getting off my horse every 50 yards to beat down a huge rat or wolf that was trying to 
 eat me. The dungeons had very similar structure and fighting to each one another, but other than 
 this and slow skill progression, the game is beautiful and entertaining. I did like that fact that 
 characters were pretty free to specialize in what ever skills they want, so mixed tank classes 
 such as a fighter/mage or fighter/thief or mage/thief are completely do-able. For some one new 
 to the elderscrolls series the game takes a long time explaining how things work such as alchemy. 
 I also dislike the fact that though the player was able to join multiple guilds (fighter, mage, 
 theif, assassin) some later faction quest objectives interfered with other guild membership requirements 
 (dont steal from members of your guild, dont kill other members of your guild) . I didnt like the 
 fact that when i was defending myself and accidently hit my horse, i was later kicked from the 
 guild for it. Yes my horse cost alot but i havent heard it talking yet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevenwarlocks
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing single-player CPRGs for so long that I once had to type the word tiltowait 
 when I wanted to blow stuff up. Over the years, technology has changed CPRGs, but not necessarily 
 improved them. Some games have had high quality content; some, a staggering amount of content; 
 and others have boasted non-linear gameplay, replayability, or novel features. I have always had 
 the feeling, however, that games were all being held at or beneath a certain overall quality level 
 by a glass ceiling of sorts (perhaps imposed by the invisible hand of the marketplace) . If a new 
 CPRG boasted twice as much content as another, that its content would necessarily be half as good, 
 or so it seemed. Oblivion has, at long last, shattered that barrier. As it turns out, there may 
 never have been any such ceiling  CPRGs could always have been much better. Recently, MORGs have 
 become the big thing in CPRGs, and if they are for you, then your problems are solved. Whether 
 it is World of Warcraft that appeals to you, or any of the dozens of others, you have plenty to 
 do. For me, theres one huge problem that MORGs will never be able to overcome  they are only 
 as good as the people who play them, and even a very good questing companion can easily spoil the 
 mood of the adventure. Even on an RP server  everyone wants to be the hero of the story, and it 
 just doesnt work.
  
  In a single player CPRG you and your party are always the heroes. I hope, by the way, that developers 
 dont get confused about what a single player CPRG is. They are games in which there is only one 
 player - they do not have to be games in which the player controls only one character as is the 
 case in Oblivion. I, for one, hope to see more single player CPRGs in which I can control a party. 
 I dont recall a good example of one since Wizardry 8, which, I believe, was 5 years ago.
  
  Oblivion is fantastic looking, but something of a system hog. In some ways, Oblivion succeeds 
 almost too well, skirting and perhaps crossing into the Uncanny Valley. If you are not familiar 
 with the UV theory, it posits that the human mind tends to enjoy realism in virtual reality only 
 up to a point. Because it comes so close to mimicking the appearance of reality, Oblivions few 
 graphical flaws stand out more. Oblivion heralds a new era in CPRGs, even as it threatens to drive 
 many companies out of the CPRG business. Why? Because there is no longer any market for the middling 
 products they have been selling for so long. Why continue to buy hard candy once you have an Everlasting 
 Gobstopper? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billychanxtr33m
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I really dont understand why everyone is so high on this game. Its a great game, dont get me wrong, 
 but i think its being overrated. Gameplay- Some of the outlying things to do in this game are great. 
 Being able to make your own spells and the searching around for the vast alchemy ingredients to 
 make whatever potion you want is really fun. The real issue is the core gameplay. As a melee fighter, 
 get ready to start clicking on your mouse... a lot.... As a mage, you can only have ONE spell equiped 
 at a time. You can map out around 10 other spells, but this is only to equip them. The A. I. can 
 easily be defeated by just running backwards and hitting them with ranged. The last big issue I 
 have with the gameplay is that the as you level, your foes will level accordingly. This is supposed 
 to keep things even and intresting but it just ends up hurting the fun. It just ends up making 
 you always feel a step behind your enemys. Leveling up should make you feel more powerful, here 
 it just means better loot.
  
  Graphics- The game world looks beautiful. And, I can run it maxed out with little effort on my 
 respectable notebook. For some comparison, I can only run BF2 smooth on low. I do have some issues 
 with the character models though. When you make your character, you have tons of face editors but 
 cant edit body type. Switch into 3rd person mode and youll see just how silly the jump animation 
 really looks. Sound- The music here is well written and you get all the appropriate clings of swords 
 and booms of magic. However, once you get past Jean luke Piccard in the opening sequences, you 
 realize how weak the voice acting is. Other than a few main characters, there are only about 5 
 voice actors. Some characters will just plain have the wrong voice, or have different voices for 
 different answers. Nit picking? Not if you are going to call this a game of the year.
  
  Value- I didnt buy this game, I was given it. Knowing what I do know, I probably wouldnt shell 
 out 50$ to get it. I cant really put my finger on it, the game just seems to be less than the sum 
 of its parts.
  
  Tilt- This is my first Elder Scrolls game and it will probably be my last. I did have fun, and 
 there is plenty to do in the game. In the end, I just cant see how this game is so universally 
 loved... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marius_thq
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  First of all i want to say that this game has it's good parts and it's bad parts, more bad parts 
 than good ones, i don't know about you guys, but this is my opinion and it is at the same time a 
 fact even if you admit it or not! At the beginning TES IV: Oblivion looks very promising, graphics 
 are great, sound is great and the world is big and lots of things to do in it!
  I must say that some people may have rated oblivion very high and this i think because it's graphics 
 and maybe some other minor details but people usually only are interested in graphics, maybe if 
 you noticed... all the games with very cool and shiny graphics are always rated the best, especially 
 games with a very high performance thirst, TES IV, X3 reunion, P. J.'s K. Kong and many others that 
 do not pass my mind currently are in the same place as the above mentioned, don't take this as an 
 offence i like oblivion too, not too much but i like it, it has some features i really like... for 
 example, being able to advance in a certain guild, do certain things, choose a certain path and etc., but 
 still it lacks many features that would have made the game really superb!! Ok, now after saying 
 a few words on where oblivion shines, let's get to the part where oblivion does not shine at all!
 
  I have to begin with the beginning, at first you start in a very cosy jail where there aren't to 
 many things to do except doing nothing and waiting till you'r chance shows up, like i said expectations 
 are high, you heard the game is famous, everyone is talking about it, everybody's got it and ove course 
 everybody is playing it, again great expectations but still you'r at the beginning and you don't 
 really know too much or seen too much about it! I don't know about others but the more i explored 
 the world of Tamriel, the more i played TES IV, the more disappointed i got.
  Game developers before and today really don't know too much about making a game i mean they know 
 how to create them but some times you think how much do they really know, they program, they script, they 
 create 3d models and the 3d world but still there is a part where all of them... well maybe not 
 all but most of them ignore it, the part where  and ai meet, these 
 things and many more create the intelligence of the game, more realism to it and i'm not referring 
 to the mombo-jombo, sf, or other products of the imagination, i am referring to the functionality 
 of the game, the dynamic part of the game where everything takes life, in TES IV's world there really 
 isn't too much life, the kind o life i'm talking about, how many of us seen the npcs walking into 
 a wall and not getting anywhere or when you went into a tavern, it didn't matter to which one you 
 went because you didn't see life in it, they where empty, no npcs except the one that was selling 
 various goods to you, or wouldn't you wish the npcs would at leased walk straight or at leased acted 
 more real or being able to tell you more things and do certain things in the day except standing 
 and looking at you when you pass near them, like Gothic 2 for example you really felt that the game 
 was alive, people cut tree trunks, the smith made weapons and used the anvil, the hunters went into 
 the forests to hunt, and i remember the part about it that was really special, if you took something, did 
 something illegal and no one seen you.... no problems, no fines, and no jails unlike oblivion if you 
 pick something from the ground that someone dropped, all guards from all cities immediately know 
 that you did something bad and you need to pay for it, either in gold or either in spare time ,the 
 other minus of oblivion that i hate even more has to be concerning advancement within a certain 
 guild, how many of us did all the stupid mage's guild quests hoping that if they complete all of 
 them, they would get to do something special in the end, for example if you worked so hard to become 
 an arch-mage... at leased enjoy it in the end, for example... maybe reintroducing necromancy in the 
 mages guild or maybe ban all spell making, or why not .... maybe even sending someone else to do 
 the dirty work and kill those ugly monsters, cause maybe you are too sick of them to do it, have 
 some power, in the game i kept hearing about the council.... there was no real council not even a 
 little gathering where you could see npcs standing in chairs and looking at each other like morons 
 (laugh) , what i'm saying is that game developers should work more on the ai, the features rather 
 the destroying they'r eye site with hours of modeling and graphics, and maybe the next time you 
 go on a mission, you can take someone with you so they can tell you a joke before you end up reloading 
 a saved game for the second time because you got killed while trying a joke twice with a humourless 
 high level necromancer! and maybe if the reloading doesn't work, go raise an army of peasants, telling 
 them how dangerous and how skilled are the necromancers that not even 10 reloads of a single saved 
 game couldn't do the trick, and maybe after you kill them... maybe the bodies will disappear, rot 
 or something so you wont see them whenever you pass again through they'r hangout ! Well at the 
 end what can i say, i really could have allot more too say on Oblivion but i don't want to have 
 too many enemies, Oblivion is well worth it's money, it's worth playing it and it really is a good 
 game, in the rest what can i say but excuse my bad English because i'm not English and i really 
 didn't learned it in school cause you didn't have what to learn (laugh) ... good luk to you all and 
 happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quakeknight1991
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the best rpg done for now. It has a lot of hours of gameplay.
  
  There are lots of quests to comlete, a big world to explore, lots of waepons, lots of books to 
 read and a thousand npcs. Oblivion has a great
  
  open ended story and awesome graphics. There are kinds of of enemies too. There are lots of ways 
 to fight in oblivion: melee weapons, bows, sorcery, stealth or mix of them. Oblivion has a great 
 gameplay and it
  
  becomes more difficult while character gains more experience. This game is REALLY GREAT, so if 
 you like rpgs or even if you don't you MUST play
  
  Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opulous
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Hello ladies and gents. Time for my take on the Elder Scrolls Oblivion. I have, so far, only played 
 two Elder Scrolls games, Morrowind and Oblivion. Morrowind was genius. It's excellent graphics 
 and free-form nature really was great. I, personally, prefer games which are free-form and you 
 don't have to follow missions. When I heard of Oblivion, I was extatic. It sounded so.... perfect 
 in the previews, I knew it was going to be pure gold. Now, the story is usually based on your character 
 saving the world by following a prophecy, (an Elder Scroll) but really, I prefer to ignore the 
 main quest whenever I can and go about doing my own thing. Ok, time for breakdown of the good, 
 the bad and the ugly, (no rip-off from a film, I assure you)
  
  The Good
  
  1. Breathtaking graphics. The graphics are the real big attraction factor for the game. Even if 
 you havent played the game yet, you would still want to play it because of the screenshots.
  
  2. Great NPCs. The NPCs in Oblivion are very life-like. They will go about there daily life 
 routines while you are off adventuring, and will talk and look at you based on what they think 
 of you.
  
  3. Variety. The variety of things to do in Oblivion is staggering and very immersive. Even when 
 you have completed a quest, you still just want to continue and do just one more, then you realise 
 its midnight and past your bedtime.
  
  4. Brilliant main quest. Although usually I detest the main quests in Elder Scroll games, in Oblivion 
 I will make an exception. The plot is deep and engaging and you really believe these people need 
 you. The voice-acting is excellent and overall is a spark of genius.
  
  The Bad
  
  1. NPC natter. When you enter a town or city, you will nearly always hear the locals yapping on 
 about there toothbrush or bucket, (and no kidding folks, I actually heard a group of people talking 
 about them things) . Problem is, the AI seems to have trouble deciding who it is they are speaking 
 to and if they have seen each other before.
  
  2. Too much stuff to do. The variety of things to do will sometimes leave people confused and makes 
 it hard to decide just where to start.
  
  Overall, an excellent game which will surprise you the more times you play it. Now, if you will 
 excuse me, im off to start WW3. See yas!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearGamez
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  === Pros / Cons ===
  
  ___ Pros ___
  + Immersive world to explore
  + Lots of things to do
  + Excellent graphics
  + Pretty good voice acting
  
  ___ Cons ___
 
  - Combat system was "meh"
  - Main quests was "meh" as well
  - System hog
  - Recycled a lot of the voices actors/actresses
  
  === Review Text ===
  
  At first I was 
 hesitant on buying Oblivion, because I'm not a huge fan of RPG-based games. To my surprise though, 
 I found this game to be quite fun. You basically start off with customizing a character and you 
 jump right into the game starting in a prison cell where you'll encounter the Blades and the Emporer. 
 You escape with them through the sewers of the prison, during these times you begin to choose some 
 attributes skills on what you want to master in which it is pretty simple and self explanatory. 
 Once you escape the prison the adventure begins from there.
  
  At first the game feels a bit slow, there's a lot of traveling to do when your working on the main 
 quests of Oblivion. However if you travel and look around in the world of Tamriel while working 
 on the main quests of the game, there's a lot of little side quests that can be found accomplished 
 - and many of them are quite fun and interesting to play through, which also gives you a slice 
 of what the world of Tamriel is all about.
  
  As for leveling up the character, it bases on what you do. I've only tried out creating combat 
 based characters, so I don't know much about magic based character, but it basically works like 
 this:
  - If you run a lot, you'll level up your athletics (allowing you to run faster)
  - If you use the blade class weapons a lot, you'll level up your blade skills (doing more damage 
 later on)
  - If you get hit a lot with heavy armor equipments on, you'll level up your heavy armor skill (keeping 
 your armor more reliable and perhaps less damage to your health)
  - You get the idea...
  
  As you progress leveling up, more new enemies seem to appear and they're much tougher to deal 
 with. The difficulty of the game can be adjusted, but if it's adjusted for too easy... you'll level 
 up a lot slower, which there isn't much feeling of accomplishment.
  
  As for combat fighting, it's not very exciting. As a combat based character it's pretty simple, 
 you use block to fend off enemie's attack which stuns them for a few seconds giving you plenty 
 of time to attack them back. However I've only played at the default difficulty, so this method 
 may not apply if played on very diffcult settings. Overall though, the combat system doesn't really 
 feel as polished as it could be.
  
  Other than that, all I have to say is that the world of Tamriel is a very fun world to explore. 
 There's a lot of things to do and I found that many of the things to do in this game just... fun 
 and plain entertaining. Sure the combat is sub-par, but the amount of contents in Oblivion itself 
 has so much to offer, and I enjoyed a lot of what it has to offer!
  
  I would recommend this game only to players who are interested only in exploring a world. This 
 is definitely not a game for players who just wants to run around and kill things... although you 
 could... it's just not really fun playing this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adledbetter
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game starts a little slow, but just wait. Before you know it there are missions upon missions 
 to do... this game is deep. Weeks of playing time. The most replay value of any game ever!
  
  You can build your character from many races and abilities, become a legend as a fighter, a 
 mage, a thief, a dark brotherhood leader, or many other roles.
  
  This is the best Xbox 360 game and probably the best game of any console. Let's see Playstation 
 3 try and top this!
  
  This is the only game that I have joined message boards to talk about. It is addicitive, fun, and 
 creative. Become a part of a different world... this game actually lets you travel to times and 
 places you've never been to and convinces you that you are really there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makiavelius
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, from where should i begin.
  TES IV is a very innovative game, with all the performance of a rpg, a fps, and a adventure one 
 game, TES IV is in my opinion a almost perfect game, with all the things you need to waste lots 
 and lots of hours per week (like 100+) , the only mistake they made is the multiplayer, they dont 
 have a official patch to play online, so you have to play alone, but if you are a lonely gamer, 
 theres no problem, just buy the game and you will be happy for almost forever.
  This is a game that takes a lot of performance of your machine, like awesome graphics, great gameplay 
 and not soo good sound effects, but one of the best things on the game is the interactivity with 
 the npcs, some of them have additional informations that you can only get from them if you have 
 a good relationship with them, with may choose from talking with them, to bribe. Actually, those 
 games has becoming more popular, games like fable, morrowind and even gta has winning more and 
 more audience from the public, and TES IV have some unique features like, when you kill a human 
 enemy, you can take all that he have to you, and them you take them clothes, you really take it, 
 i mean they cant be naked because it was going to affect the purchasers public, and it was going 
 to be a 18+ game, and i dont think bethesda could make that and sell less copies of the game.
 
  You can also choose tons of races, from some human races, to reptilian, bestial, drows and etc, 
 you can download some unnoficial patchs too, theyre anywhere, like new armors patchs, weaps, places, 
 lands, houses, npcs , etc.
  Theres lots of classes to choose, and the leveling system isnt like the normal one, that you 
 get exp from killing one monster, you need to improve your skills like the normal way : practicing, 
 you can enter to 4 different guilds, and even be the champion of the arena, you can have a horse, 
 and steal the other people, but if the guards catch you, you have some chooses to make, go to jail, 
 pay gold, or the better one... resist arrest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertvjk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The best RPG game ever!!! Nothing what so ever comes close to this game its just simply the best!!!
 
  
  Gameplay: OMG!! SOOOOO much 2 do in this game from creating hunderds of spells to killing tons 
 of creatures to stealing form houses. The controls are simple to use no probloems to do. The re 
 are so many ways you can take on an enemy in this game its just wow, you can go toe to toe, if 
 you fancy yourself as a archer you can just do that, sneak up behind them n kill them in one swipe 
 or use your magic to do a number of things like conjuring up a skeleton to fight for you to throwing 
 fire balls at them.
  
  Graphics: Again OMG!! AMAZING i am curently playing on low detail n it is just simpley class, i 
 have played it on high details before and jst WOW!! Its mind blowing. They are to a crisp. No faults 
 in graphics
  
  Sound: I no i'll say it again. OMG!! Perfect voices from begars on the street to the emporer. The 
 voices are just class. The sound effects are also good very life like. Can't go worng with the sound.
 
  
  Value: Superb vaule you for money. 18 for the best RPG game out now, i mean you can't get much 
 better than that. :Overall: Like i have said before this is just an amazing game. But there are 
 some things wrong with this game. Like the really anoying glitches that just makes the game crash 
 at radom places. That is the reason i have not given it a 10 out of 10. The loading times are fairly 
 quick, no problems there. The menus are just easy to navigate around, simple. The quest are superbly 
 describes so you are never lost and it places a marker on the brilliant map so never go round like 
 a headless chicken. The creation system in this game is also amazing. You can pick from a number 
 of interesting races witch are all amazing in there own ways. There are a number of cool birth 
 signs aswell. But best of all of the creation system is the number of choices of classes. There 
 over a hunderd of classes you can create or pick from the ones the game already offers you.
  
  I have this game for the p. c but because i have quite a powerful computer its good but if u 
 dont have a powerful computer i would definatley not buy it go for the xbox360 versoin then. Anyway 
 what i have been trying to do through out this review is to try and make everyone to see sense 
 and buy this game. BUY IT NOW!! Just for kicks one last time. !!! OMG!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has very good graphs that whenever I play it i turn blind for awhile, this is not joke 
 is true,
  
  I play so much on that when I stop playing and I stand up i lose my legs xD!!.
  
  This one 
 is the best game that I have played in PC in all this year!!!.
  
  This game is so good that I forget to eat and sleep xD!!!!!
  
  I believe that I am going to 
 put a computer in my bath just for playin this game there, Im not kidding, ill do that i promise, 
 and if anyone arround here nows how to do that stuff tell me please.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion --- PC GAME -----
  
  Graphics ----- 10
  Sound -------- 10
  Gameplay --- 
 10
  Value ----------10
  Tilt --------------10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  What more to say?
  
  Looks great. Sounds great. Plays great. More mods that a 60s TV show and abilities to grow and 
 expand as a character like never before.
  
  Top notch. Besides the fact the price is now very low for this absolute gem, you have no excuse 
 not ot get off your @$$ and go buy it.
  
  Go on. Go. I see you just sitting there.
  
  I have to get to 100 words. Maybe I am there now.
  
  Nope. Need more words. Moooooore words. 
 Like spleen or maybe glump. Is glump a word? How about quipnar?
  
  Soooo... a few more words, the gamespot system tells me. I will go alphabetically:
  
  Abba 
 -- great band.
  Butt -- Tee hee!
  Camel
  Dromedary
  Eiderdown
  Fan-dam-tastic
  Goonies -- scaaaaary!
  Himmelfarb
  
  100? 100!
  
  Peace!
  Scott 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tordrengen
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  It's the most open ended role-playing game ever... but so what?
  
  First of all I don't like the design of the game, the character design is uninspiring and ugly. 
 From a technical viewpoint the graphics are perfect, but from an artist's viewpoint the design 
 is just to mediocre. The orcs look like actors with bad costumes.
  
  The main story sucks. I think the most important part of a roleplaying game is the story, and the 
 story in Oblivion never seems to be about anything. Go there... do that... kill these guys, It's 
 just not enough to draw me into a game, especially a long game.
  
  I think the Vampire part of the game, is more a bug than a feature. I spend about 8 hours of hard 
 work getting rid of it. Please let people decide for themselves if they wan't to suck blood from 
 people every day.
  
  Oblivion is quite an interesting experiment, but I don't think it's worth the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  UNBELIEVABLY AWESOME! The best RPG in all of history, in years it will recorded as one of the legends! 
 The story is the most imaginative and one of the most variable ones i have ever played, except 
 for Grim Fandango of course. The create a character in the game is good fun as well, being able 
 to pick your own race and hair, this is the one of the main things that made the Sims so successful. 
 The main attraction to me is the secondary story lines e. g. The guilds the Dark Brotherhood or 
 the individual missions giving by citizens of the city. I gave this game a 9.8, it should get a 
 10 but i found it repetitive in places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyvanreisi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  I thing it is one of the most strange games that I have seen and it was some thing like revoloution 
 on games that I have ever seen very beauiful bachground and etc....
  but I tink generally the games sould be a littile more cheap
  ofcourse this game beacause some 
 people cant buy them
  but I know this game az one of the best games
  hmmmmm about graphic I should say that is great and I think a little more than great
  about gameplay 
 its good to but it could be better but now is nice
  and sound was also good
  and at end it was so nice to but and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game alot, and I have never gotten bored. I mean its perfect. The graphics are 
 the best to come out so far. The map is 16 square miles (our miles) . It's one of the biggest gaming 
 maps ever made. Its original. The sound is very good, and the gameplay is great. The one bad thing. 
 You better have a kick ass computer if you want to play it on high graphics. I love this game. 
 Hundreds of weapons and armor. Hundreds of spells you can learn. Alot of create your character 
 options. Plain out and simple its the best RPG to come out so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulLine
Rating: 3.1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Having played Oblivion for a while on and off, at first I thought it is a good game, but it lacks 
 telling you where the oblivions gates are. I had completed most of the main quest until I got out 
 of the great gate and got a messege saying that a gate remained open.
  
  This makes the game annoying to play and also Martin was no where to be found. After getting the 
 great sidal stone the room becomes very hard to get out of as it turns white and you can see where 
 the exit is.
  
  It is a game that could be more fun if only the main quest wasn't as hard to complete, due to lack 
 of control. The game could haven been better thought out before being released as from a great 
 game to one I would throw into the bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinkada
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I can see how someone could not like Oblivion, I really can. There aren't that many armour designs, 
 there aren't as many voices as there could have been, the action is good but it's no Devil May 
 Cry, and the game is, or the main story at least, very, very short.
  
  But Oblivion isn't aiming to please someone who hears about the Quick Travel feature and instantly 
 skips 90% of the game's content. No, Oblivion is aimed, unlike nearly every other game on the market, 
 at someone who actually wants an incredible game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10.
  
  As I said, the combat is no Devil May Cry. The game doesn't try to be an amazing fighting game, 
 so I took off a mark, simply because... I'm a tight-***.
  
  But the gameplay of this game comes from the exploration.
  
  Oblivion is a world. It really 
 can't be said in any other way. NPCs will talk to you in the street, random people, upon seeing 
 your glorious (or not so glorious) armour will come and ask you to do Sidequests for them. You 
 can be diseased, NPCs can permanently die, you can be expelled from your Guild of choice... So 
 many of your actions actually effect the world. The combat may not be Guilty Gear, but it's certainly 
 a big improvement over Morrowind or most MMOs, which I feel is the closest thing you can get to 
 describing this game, even though it's singleplayer... For now. More on that later.
  
  I want to go on about the secret Guilds, the people you'll be approached by, the things you can 
 stumble upon... The one thing I will say is that if you decide to use an FAQ for this game, it 
 will suck. This is just the kind of game you should never. Ever. Ever use an FAQ for. It's not 
 like, say, Final Fantasy, where to get the ultimate weapon you need to do some rediculously obscure 
 thing to unlock a boss fight. Maybe wait a playthrough or two before using an FAQ, and even then, 
 you shouldn't bother.
  
  Just play the game on your own. Explore. That's the whole nature of this game. If you abuse Quick 
 Travel, or look up how to beat/get/do such-and-such, 90% of the charm of the game will be ruined. 
 And if I tell you anything about the things that can happen in this game, once again, it will be 
 ruined.
  
  So just take my word for it when I say this is an incredible, breathtaking world that you really 
 do feel like you're a part of.
  
  Graphics: 9/10.
  
  I took a mark off here for a very good reason, and that's because I saw the graphics before the 
 game went to the XBox360. You see, this is the single, final reason that I grew a hatred for the 
 360. I won't flame it, but I will mention this:
  
  The graphics before this game came to the 360, were... Rediculous. They were just incredible. Even 
 the grass was 3D. Why did they tone it down? There are two theories:
  
  1: Like Doom3, the game was just too much for a normal PC to handle, and like how ID removed the 
 advanced AI from Doom3, Bathesda removed a lot of the detail.
  
  2: In order to not make the 360 look 100% outclassed, Microsoft told Bathesda to tone down the 
 graphics of the PC version so it would look the same as the 360 version.
  
  Both of them are equally likely, but I made a choice of which one to believe.
  
  So, I took 
 a point off because the quality isn't nearly what it was meant to be. But regardless, it's still 
 freaken' amazing. Enough, by far, to be rediculously immersive, and that's the whole point of the 
 game, right? I don't like to go into huge detail about graphics, crap like "you can see the slime 
 on the walls" or "you can see the blood dripping off his armour!" because frankly I don't notice 
 that stuff often. I mean, occasionally I'll run up a cliffside and stare out over the horizon and 
 just say, "... Holy crap..." but that's about it. And that's the point. Oblivion does enough to 
 really make you want to take that scenic detour. And when you first get into the world of the game 
 from the intro stage... Just... Wow.
  
  In short, could have been better, still enough to wet my pants.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  I was 
 originally going to give this game a 10/10 for sound, but I just don't know. The music is all background 
 music, mostly forgettable ambience. It sets the mood of the game for sure, and the sound effects 
 are spotless, but I just would have appreciated some build up, dramatic orchestra bits in key places 
 to really build the tension.
  
  But that may've made it feel less like a world and more like a movie. Bathesda are the designers, 
 not me, but I still feel bad about giving ambience a 10. So 8 it is. I can't say much on the music 
 other than that, because really it's just backing to the insane graphics and immersion levels.
 
  
  Value: 10/10. I'd give it a 12 if I could.
  
  This is where the game really boosts itself from 'Brilliant' to 'Oh my God, get me a towel'.
 
  
  What I did, and what I encourage others to do, is to play through this game, normally, with the 
 standard game, no patches, no mods, nothing. Just the game.
  
  Because once you do that, you can then do what everybody's saying and go check out the wonderful 
 world of Oblivion Mods.
  
  ...
  
  I can't say much more than that. Download the right mods, and Oblivion:
  
  -Suddenly looks 
 about twice as realistic before.
  -Has much cooler armour.
  -Much cooler characters.
  -Better balance.
  
  Among other things. With some other mods you can add new areas to the game, 
 add social clothes or even, my absolute favourite bit, create a server for a few friends to play 
 on. Yes, that's right, Oblivion suddenly becomes a multiplayer game, like an MMO except without 
 the bullcrap grinding and whatnot.
  
  I have trouble really giving the game a higher ranking for this, because it's not -really- Bathesda 
 who did it, it's the players. Sure, Bathesda gave the players the ability to mod to such an extent, 
 but it remains to be the players doing most of the work.
  
  Then I remembered that this is a review of the game, not the company, so yes, it did boost its 
 rank for me by a buttload.
  
  So, a huge congratulations and thank you to all the skilled modders for this game, because they 
 quite simply made it even better than it already is.
  
  Overall: 9.5 (9.4, whatever) /10.
  
  I seriously rank this game up with Devil May Cry 3, Guilty Gear and Indigo Prophecy as games 
 you absolutely must play. There's no if's, and's or but's about it, to use an incredibly cliche'd 
 line. You just... MUST play this game. Revolutionary is the perfect word, because it's the kind 
 of game that's just going to change absolutely everything. I hope. If more games are like this 
 I will be significantly less cynical and jaded about the gaming world.
  
  I'll requote something I said about Devil May Cry 3 for this. Just play it. It's simple. If you 
 don't play it, you will regret it for your whole life. Play this game, even if you rent it first, 
 just play it. You're just not a gamer if you don't. That simple. Go. Rent it. NOW!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  WHY ARE YOU STILL HERE?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tin57
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the 2nd best RPG game I've played so far. It has everything an rpg gamer wants. This game 
 succesfully reached the goal of every RPG game, to let gamers live another life in another world. 
 The world looks amazing and impressive especially with the new patch installed. And the new feature 
 of fast-traveling is simply superb. (compared to morrowind in which cas you have to look for silt 
 striders and in the case of remote settlements players must really walk which is a total waste 
 of time.) (in case you were wondering, the best RPG i've played is GOTHIC II Night of the Raven 
 :) ) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I know all of you gamers have been waiting for a game that has the most perfect graphics yet. Well, 
 Oblivion isn't only about it's high-quality graphics. Hell no it's not. It has incredible gameplay 
 up to at least 200 hours with all the side quests you encounter. The people you meet in the game 
 are incredibly designed and their attitudes change by what you are doing currently or whatever 
 you have done in the past. The sound in the game is great. The voice acting is phenomenal. Your 
 weapon selection in the game is wider then any gamer could imagine. You will be able to conquer 
 these simple controls in a matter of minutes. You will also like that you can choose what kind 
 of character you are based on gender, species, and class. You can customize there clothing and 
 weapons. You will learn dozens of spells throughout the game that are for protecting, healing, 
 and attacking. Oblivion just has everything any RPG dreams of having. One thin gI like that is 
 not in the wholse story mode is going to the Imperial City Arena. You can train, battle, and even 
 bet there. You will earn cash for every battle you win and you will earn cash on every bet you 
 win. Oblivion is just one of th emost amazing games up to date and deserves a standing ovation 
 for al lthe hard work put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogan79
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, some of whats contained within this review may be found (by sheer coincidence) in other player 
 reviews, but theres only so much hyperbole that can be bandied about without sounding like a gushing 
 fanboy
  
  Gameplay:
  Total freedom of play in a game world that is huge. 6 cities to explore (from memory) plus countless 
 other places you can find on the map. You know what the gameplay is about, explore, complete quests, 
 fight beasties and man. Combat is excellent by the way, much better than morrowind.
  
  Graphics
  Unbloodybelievable! The screen shots explain it better than I ever could. Exploits 
 the latest in graphics hardware, including high polygon count models and HDR lighting. Investing 
 in a graphics card would be an excellent idea...
  
  Sound
  Top sound effects, and a wonderful symphonic score.
  
  Pretty much THE role playing game of 
 the year, so what are you waiting for (those hesitant to play it yet) , just get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VDrakula
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best game ever made and the best RPG all of time! You can play more than 150 
 hours!!! It is possible to buy mods for game or create a your one. Game start in a dangeon. A king 
 of Cyrodil is essaping from assasin trought your cell. King hopes to find hero from his dreams. 
 Graphics Is amazing. I play Game on two PCs. On AMD 4000+ nVidia 7800GTX 2GB RAM was really amazing. 
 I set evrerithig on max 1024*768. Game was running 25 FPS. Sound is so great Jimmy Soul made a 
 best sound for video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadp1xel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This is one you can't get over. Let me get this straight, i am not a usual RPG fan but when everybody 
 was talking about oblivion, i had to see for myself.
  The game is awesome. The game engine looks spectacular with the HDR on, you almost feel there. It's 
 a little complicated to learn at first if you never played a elder scrolls before. You can complete 
 the main quest, that takes about 40 hours and-or you can... do whatever you like. Make friends (guilds) , 
 make enemies, steal houses, horses, murder innocent people, eat the blood of sleeping people.
 
  There is a lot, i mean a lot of side quests to do. If you want to see it all then
  prepare for at least 400 hours of gameplay. Not bad for a 50$ game, as i just finished prey that 
 lasts less then 8 hours...
  Bottom line This is to become a classic and a must have for a RPG fan or any game fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSoMnIaK604
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is my first Elder Scrolls Game, and boy was I impressed. There is SO much to do in this game, 
 that alone blew me away, I have the freedom to be and do whatever I want! If some guy walks up 
 to me and says something I don't like I can just shoot an arrow through his head! its amazing.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics off the start amazed me, but as I played for a bit I started to notice the 
 flaws, such as texture tiling, but with a few texture mods that was quickly fixed, the detail in 
 the weapons and characters was great, I spent an hour or so just admiring the scenery, the starts, 
 the sky, the grass, the plants, simply amazing
  
  Sound: The music was.... extremely suitable for all of the situations, you get dramatic battle 
 music when your under attack, and peaceful semi cheerful music when your in town.
  
  Gameplay: Clearly meant for first person, but again this can be fixed with mods! The gameplay was 
 great, with a few AI flaws I encountered, such as lions running into boulders, It takes strategy 
 to beat the monsters alot of the time, and theres pretty much everything you can imagine, from 
 simple rats & crabs to Minotaur lords and Daedroth (Giant alligator things :) .
  
  If I were you I would go out and buy this game.... now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoOmIzZlE
Rating: 3.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I hate this game! Ok i first tried it at my friends house and it was cool. Mind you i only played 
 for about 10 minutes. I bought it and by the time i was through the sewers i hated it but i brought 
 myself to keep playing it. It gets old to fast and it has to many problems. My biggest problem 
 would have to be the repetedive combat. You have to get so far just to get into the heart of the 
 game and you have to have high tolerance for bad games to get this far. The graphics are just gorgous 
 but they can't make up for the crappy gameplay. If you want a real RPG game go buy Knights of the 
 old Republic for xbox its much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mimo_90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  well, its a wonderful game. u start as a prisoner in a small cell and as you progess in the game 
 you'll find a Tremandous world ahead of you and a 1000 hours of playing. u can select almost everything 
 in your character pls u can say wat u can (ofcourse if they added voice i'll give it 10) smart graphics 
 plus a nice combat style (it might look simple but its excellent) the only problem in the combat 
 is the magic spells which are the same but with difrence colors. but that doesn't make it any less. anyway 
 the sound is nice. the fact that-if u can-u will be able to kill everyone. lots of sidequests and 
 guilds that u can join. all of that gave it the .4 score but the The Dark Brotherhood is wat gave 
 it the 9. vampirasim is another cool thing. all in all you should play it if you're in killing wierd 
 creatures and people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyre577
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  To start off, this game is simply amazing. Gorgeous graphics, a draw distance as far as the eye 
 can see, and purely addictive gameplay that will draw you in and keep you hooked, the only thing 
 that keeps this game back is the fact it crashes. ALOT.
  
  Now you might say, "But.. but.. it doesn't stand up to teh standards of the PCs!!!" Well, comparing 
 this game to the typical MMORPG on the PC is clearly unfair, as this game was, and has been, intended 
 to appease the PC gaming audience who have been crying out for a good, immersive single-player 
 RPG. Now my fellow PC gamers, that game has come, and it is The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion.
  
  When you first load this up, you will first notice the amazing audio support this game has. 
 Yes, there are not that many songs for an RPG of this caliber, but, they are all good and immersing, 
 and will keep you in this game for a long time.
  
  Of course, the voiceovers that this game has does get repetitive, as there were not that many voice 
 actors available to do the acting in this game. You won't care though, as most of the characters 
 and NPCs in this game act near-life-like and each have their own duties and responsibilities.
 
  
  Think of this game as a sorta "psuedo-Animal Crossing" in terms of the NPC life plans, duties, 
 and responsibilities. Of course, unlike Animal Crossing, this game allows you to kill the inhabitants 
 of the villages, and literally go on murdering rampages. But, you won't get that far without cheats, 
 as the guards are super-powerful and can kill you in a few hits. Plus, even if you kill one, you 
 still get trampled by hordes of rampaging guards who want you dead. The higher your bountry, the 
 longer you stay in jail, simple as that.
  
  Yes, the guards may discourage you from trying to steal and murder, but the two guilds that specialize 
 in this area are, in fact, very unique and interesting. You may grow tired of the repetitive Mage 
 guild, Fighters guild, etc, so you can decide to join up with the dark side by joining either the 
 Thieves Guild (where you can find people who will buy your stolen goods) , or the Dark Brotherhood 
 (where you can get contracts to kill people, AKA being a hitman) . The characters in this game can 
 be pretty funny, too, with jokes in the game and references to past events in previous Elder Scrolls 
 games. Your character may be a silent hero (except for the words you click on to say) , but it doesn't 
 mean you can't have a personality. As I have described before, you can literally choose your own 
 path through the game. Want to be bad? Go and do various crimes and the people will hear of your 
 infamy and fear you. Want to be a glorious hero? You can do the main quest, plus multiple other 
 quests that include saving people, protecting villages, and purging criminals.
  
  The weapons in this game are very beautifully detailed and gorgeous to look at. When you pick up 
 your first sword and shield, you will be amazed at how the weapon looks, feels, and affects your 
 stamina.
  
  That is another point in this game. You have three separate bars, (Health, Magicka, and fatigue, 
 in that order) and they govern everything you do. Using magic affects your magicka bar, getting 
 hit or falling from high points affects your health, and everything from jumping to swinging your 
 sword affects your fatigue bar.
  
  Now, you might read this review and say, "why the 9.6?" Well, the crash bugs REALLY affect this 
 game, and how much you enjoy it. This game crashes so much, it may turn some people off, but if 
 you can put up with them, and save often, you will love this game.
  
  In conclusion, this game is the best RPG money can buy as of now. You will not regret buying this 
 game, as it is the most addicting single-player game out there, even outshining some FPSes. If 
 you are looking for a PC game to buy, I highly recommend this game to you. But if crash bugs annoy 
 the heck out of you, I say wait until they get all the patches done (or the players fix it) , and 
 then buy this. This game is one of those few "must-buy" games that everyone needs to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razerc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  The game is absolutely astonishing! Oblivion is a true RPG since player has freedom to do anything, 
 like join various guilds, buy a horse and even own a house. Oblivion has same skill system as its 
 predecessors: Skills grow as you use them so player gains a level up when your skills have grown 
 enough, not the other way around like in most other RPGs.
  
  Graphics are really beautiful. The nature and creatures are nicely done and people look different 
 unlike in Morrowind. Though if you use "distant land, trees and objects" you see that the farthest 
 cells have very blurred textures, but they can be corrected with Natural Environments mod.
  
  Musics are moody and atmospheric and sound effects are very immersive if you have at 2.1 system. 
 Especially combat sounds have balls in them.
  
  In-game menus are a different thing. The huge Xbox inventory is neither very pleasant nor handy, 
 but with Improved UI mod that can be corrected. Gameplay is very good, but it has some flaws (depends 
 on player how he/she likes to play it) , but thanks to the ne Oscuro's oblivion overhaul 1.3 the 
 Oblivion can be even more addictive and very much more immersive and playable than ever. With all 
 those gameplay enhancement mods and tweaks this game would definitely earn 10 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, thousands of hours of gameplay, and it is like going to a amusement park 
 where you would never finish everything it has.
  All the things that make this game is perfect, graphics sound, and gameplay.
  
  The gameplay 
 is the jewel of the game, simple, smooth and addictive. It's large world might even make you get 
 the "MMO" feel in the good sense, every NPC seems so alive and real. The first person perspective 
 really grabs your attention to the game and the third person can really show how cool you look 
 if your the "fashion over stats" type of RPer.
  
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen, even when I put it on 800x600 when my computer performance 
 went down due to viruses. The blood effects are realistic not to mention realisticly gory.
  
  The sound is really good, it goes in perfect timing with the hits and slashes, the voice is 
 done really well, and even my speakers are like 3 years old, the sound in the game is greatly done.
 
  
  Value to me doesn't seem much of a problem got it for 300$ equivalent to US $37.
  
  One last thing, this game is so perfect and realistic, that I just can't find anything that I could 
 replace it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Ants
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the fourth installment of the Elder Scrolls Series. While this is my first Elder Scrolls 
 game, it got me hooked. I plan to buy the next game in the series, juust from playing this game. 
 Now the info about the actual game.
  
  Oblivion is set in the land of the Cyrrodillic Empire, which is under siege by the deamonic real 
 called Oblivion. The player starts out in a Jail cell, and after you get past all of the tutotrial, 
 you are finally let out into the open. When i got out, i was very impressed. there mountains far 
 off in the distance, and there was a little butterfly flying around my head. I wanted to go see 
 what the city was like, so i went to the shops area. When i got there, there were a couple of people 
 talking. I went around looking at the different stores, and thinking "Where should i go next?" 
 I cant tell you more, cause i might spoil some stuff. Anyways, Oblivion is very immerssive a must-buy. 
 The graphics are amazing, and the story is pretty good, although short. There are a ton of weapons, 
 but the number of armores is pretty small. I would reccommend this game for anyone who likes action/adventure 
 or RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blingtoaswing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Difficulty - You may come across some challenges, but overall it is just right
  
  Time spent - There are endless amounts to do, explore, unlock and complete in this game, making 
 its lifespan long enough.
  
  Learning Curve: There are quite a few controls to tackle, but you will soon get the hang of it.
 
  
  Game play - Plenty of stuff to do, fun amount of story-lines. The only problem is that you get 
 mixed up with what you are doing because something else usually starts while doing a quest.
  
  Graphics - So stunning that it feels like you are in the game.
  
  Sound - Two words: Ear 
 massaging.
  
  Value - Read the requirements before you buy.
  
  Reviewers Tilt - 1st person or 3rd person, it still feels great.
  
  GET THIS GAME! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetto200313
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  This has to be personally the best rpg of all time its has nearly everything you would want in 
 a rpg.
  
  The main aspect id like to highlight is that i was amazed when i purchase the collecters edition 
 of this wonderfull game that it actually ran on my computer, My computers specs are, Amd spempron 
 3200+, 512ram shared with graphics after share 446ram, ati radeon XPRESS 200 at 256mb.
  
  As you can see that my computer isnt that great but ive got the game running pretty close to medium 
 quality dont know how but it does. Back to the game, The graphics end is amazing in every aspect 
 with the animations of blood on the sword and even the ripples in the water. The sounds where excellent 
 quality as well and who dosent love a game with celebrity voices in it.
  
  There were a few things that could have been added but there is only so much time and only so many 
 resources you can take up on a standard home comp.
  
  Id reccomend this game to anyone and id recommend its predocessor morrowind as well as a good start.
 
  
  This game is excellent for rpg lover and non rpg lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the Elder Scrolls series will probably agree that Oblivion is the greatest game in the 
 series. Many things that were crappy in Morrowind and even the games before that are fixed and 
 wonderful in Oblivion. As soon as you crawl out of the first dungeon, the visuals are simply overwhelming 
 and amazing, especially for a game of Oblivion's massive depth. The gameplay is addictive and fun 
 (nothing better than blocking an attack and then swinging your sword until your opponent flies 
 through the air with the awesome rag-doll effects in oblivion) . The game has so much content that 
 it is almost impossible to see or do everything in the game. In a strange way, this is Oblivions 
 negative side as well. After trying to do so many side quests, the game just kind of burned me 
 out. And most of the events that take place, just don't seem that exciting. The NPC's are dull 
 and make everything, including demons coming out of a gate just seem kinda bland and dissapointing. 
 The music could have been beefed up to help this problem I think. Overall however, Oblivion is 
 nigh endless role-playing fun that everyone should try for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spirytus1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  The sheer level of playability this game offers is unrivalled by any around. The volume of quests 
 and interaction to be had is incredible. This is a vast game executed brilliantly.
  
  I have two quibbles:
  1. It maybe a touch easy
  2. There seem to be only two male and female 
 character voices
  
  Having never played any of the Scrolls series I was sticking my neck out here. In fact, I'm not 
 an RPG fan, but when I hooked this game up I was addicted for days on end. You become the character 
 (albeit Imperial, Orc etc.. and there are lots to choose) . The options you are provided with upon 
 embarking on your travels have a real effect on how your character turns out; so choose carefully. 
 I chose a 'warrior' path which, when I finally equipped myself with decent weapons, was not too 
 taxing. That aside, you are required to apply yourself on occasions.
  
  The two voices confused me. For such a huge game that appeared to pay so much attention to detail, 
 this seemed an odd anomaly, however, the characters are well crafted and have their own 'personality' 
 so this was not difficult to overcome.
  
  I have focused on the negatives for this simply because the game is that good, and most reviewers 
 seem to be in consensus that I thought it would be worth sharing the very minor glitches that I 
 found.
  
  A must buy though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shicezor
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Everyone says the graphics looks good but I didnt get impressed by it. Resident Evil 4 has a far 
 more better graphics than oblivion ever had.
  The combat is just ok and the sounds are like the only good thing in this game.
  The dialogs 
 between the characters feels like the early 3D RPG games back in the early years when they just 
 moved their mouths and eyes and nothing more without any kind of real feeling into it.
  I got bored after just 3 hours and my friend played it for like 20 hours and I still find it boring 
 after that too.
  I rather cook dinner than playing this boring game that doesnt deliver any fun moments at all 
 except when your character dies... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziggy920
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  What can I say almost perfect. I barely have any complaints about it. If anyone says below 8.0 
 score just don't read that review they're probably lieing to you and that didn't even played the 
 game at all. The graphics are so pretty I was overwhelmed by how perfect it was. The makers of 
 bethesda cared how much they wanted a perfect game. The story was also fantastic I was into it. 
 There wasn't much quests as world of warcraft but there was enough to have fun in the game. Another 
 thing also there were so many dungeons that I was cool with it. Remember about world of warcraft 
 that you needed a mount at least lvl 40 well screw that you can have a mount at any level which 
 of course that also made it even more realistic because I said about one thing about there is going 
 to be level for at least 40 and thats when I have to get mount around then.... well I said what 
 the hell. Well its good for anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seaholme
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  This game is the best rpg of all time i dont care wat every else thinks its just so freaking mad. 
 damn there have got some good ideas and a good imagination i love the fact that it brings back 
 people imaginations like with the mods people have made they are sick! and like who would of thought 
 of making a game that has bartering, fighting, stealing, magic, apperance, clothes, armor, weapons, 
 soulgems, factions/guilds, leveling up, rumours, secrets, advice, sneaking, assanating people, 
 being good, being bad, doing deeds, killing people for no reason, creating spells, enchanting items, 
 alchemy like creating potions, ingredients for alchemy, monsters, outlaws, rebels, hidden treasures, 
 keys, lock picking, disarming traps and much more. i think this game is the  
 they bring out another bigger and better elder scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_of_OON
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a really good game, and it is created by really good developers. Compared to Morrowind, 
 though, it is utter crap. Sure, better graphics and combat, but Oblivions world is much less beliveable 
 and living.
  
  But enough whining, let's go to the positive stuff.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  It simply looks amazing. Beatiful envrioments, great design, the forests 
 and fields of Cyrodiil is just stunning. The creatures that you will face throughout your adventures 
 all look really nice, some brilliant. Most weapon and armor look great, except of the butt-ugly 
 Glass Armor. Makes me impotent for weeks. Glass weapons look good, though. The game requieres a 
 ber-computer to run, and that seems like the only real problem. 10/10
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  
  What to say? The music goes from good to fantastic, the voices are mostly great, Patrick Steward 
 and Sean Bean are awesome as the Emperor and the Heir. The music mostly consist of classic themed 
 stuff, and some of them are badly beatiful. The weapon effects are good, the sound of blade on 
 flesh is great, the creatures all sound good. Not much to complain about, 10/10. Maybe a weak voice-actress, 
 but you can survive.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  Bethesda has done great so fat, but here, they was really high on crack. Seriously, Bandits running 
 around in full Glass and a Daedric Warhammer? No thanks. It is all the evil leveling system's fault. 
 It makes the world chance as you grow in level, so when you reach level 20, Liches magically appears 
 out of nowhere. When you reach level 15, the poor Marauders all of sudden starts to wear expensive 
 and super-rare Ebony Armor, one of the rarest and most powerful materials in the game. It is just 
 stupid, total leveling really hurts the game. However, it is still a blast to play of course. 8/10, 
 stupid leveling, good otherwise. The leveling is best fixed with OOO, a great mod.
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  
  I have played it for 700 hours. Questions?
  
  OVERALL: 9.4, awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorgar21
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Whether players choose to acknowledge Oblivion or not, it is impossible to ignore its excessively 
 high critical praise. After being hailed as the best RPG of all time by a slew of reviewers and 
 players alike, I felt obliged to pick up the game and try to justify such a pretentious claim.
 
  
  In this day and age, developers have decided to focus entirely on graphics, and often flush the 
 other aspects of what makes a game good down the toilet. Oblivion certainly doesnt fail to deliver 
 graphically, since the environments are so lush and vibrant, they will kick your PC between the 
 legs and send it running home screaming and crying. The HDR works very well for the most part, 
 even though sometimes I felt as if dousing everything in an otherworldly glow was a bit over the 
 top. Also, even more disturbing are the piss-poor character animations, which are somewhat of a 
 disaster compared to the beautiful forests that are scattered throughout all of Tamriel.
  
  Typically, game developers tend to overlook in-game sound, which is something of a crime since 
 its possibly the most important aspect of what makes a game good. By sound, Im referring to collective 
 group which encompasses the musical score, voice-acting, and sound effects. In order to disassociate 
 the positive from the negative, Oblivions sound effects are the one aspect of sound that Bethesda 
 didnt blunder in some way. Enemies sound incredibly realistic, weapons smash and slice like they 
 hurt, and the outdoors sounds like my backyard. Unfortunately, the musical score is somewhat lacking 
 and becomes incredibly annoying after a while. Furthermore, with the exception of the 1:30 voice-work 
 of Patrick Stewart, and Sean Beans disturbingly upbeat portrayal of Martin, the rest of the voice 
 work is abysmal. One male voice actor in particular, sounds as if he spends the bulk of his days 
 in the hunting and sporting goods section of Wal-Mart.
  
  Above all else, Bethesda trumpeted Oblivions Radiant AI system as the best thing to come out since 
 the invention of sliced bread. This is so far from the truth that it actually adds an unintentional 
 element of humor to the game. Combat AI is more or less pretty standard, but the so-called radiant 
 feature thats responsible for NPC schedules is where the true irony lies. In Oblivion, the bulk 
 of a typical NPCs daily routine involves shifting around in a half-trance state like a mental 
 patient, occasionally stopping to stare at an inanimate object for hours at a time. Even though 
 Oblivions combat system is superior to its predecessor, it is still lacking in more ways than 
 one. The main flaw with the combat is simply that its slower than molasses. This comes as a surprise, 
 given that there is no auto-lock feature that has become common in RPGs nowadays. Warrior characters 
 fight like geriatric patients; they move and hit as if they are about to pass out from exhaustion.
 
  
  Oblivion is fun at times, but more often than not it can be incredibly boring as well. The main 
 quest can be beaten in about 30 hours, while completing all the side/guild quests at the same time 
 adds about 70 or more hours of game play. Overall, I found Oblivion to be a good RPG, but certainly 
 nowhere near the level it is proclaimed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: springy75
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  You should get yourself the right hardware to be able to play and enjoy this game otherwise don't 
 even bother buying it now wait till the Intel release their Hex core CPU and ATI release their 
 Radeon X2150 XTX !!! So you can afford the core 2 duo and the Radeon X1900 XTX... and definitely 
 go ATI for graphic card, as HDR with AA will make the graphics go insanely beautiful... I really 
 make my character sit just next to the river watching the sky and water for many minutes...
  
  The game is very immersive and wide that u can easily spend the next year playing and traveling 
 throw the world of oblivion... Finally, dont bother yourself about what other says about the bad 
 character leveling system because the idea of the gaming world to advance with you in level is 
 very challenging which will keep your character far from getting into GOD mod plays (which I find 
 very boring in other games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This is clearly one of the best games I have ever played! I know I say that about lots of games, 
 but this one just blew me away! The graphics were awsome! The roleplaying style gameplay was awsome! 
 The sound was awsome! AND OVERALL IT WAS  I made a 
 woodelf who could use destruction, restoraition, alchemy, sneak, maksmanship, mercantile, and light 
 armor. But then I realised how expensive those arrows were, so I made a norse who could use restoration, 
 conjuration, blunt, blade, heavy armor, armorer, and block. The installation was easy. And the 
 only problem I had was the framerate wich slowed down every once and a while. Becomeing a vampire, 
 which I actually was ok with, but it was super hard to find the cure. In fact, I never found the 
 cure. Finally, I was, and still really bummed they rerated it "m"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poshkidney
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  The Best elder scrolls best RPG since Final Fantasy 7 This game makes an almost real life look 
 in a game i have never played this on the Xbox 360 i played it on the PC.
  everything lives inside the game you see people chatter with each other threes sway in the wind. 
 The world is just so huge you could get lost.
  I have never played a game where i forget that i am living.
  yet the NPC's dialog are all vioced 
 nothing is silenced exept your kills ha ha. The story is short yet after you are free to do what 
 ever you want.
  The citys look a bit to clean for time and technolgy i would people thoughing chamber pots on to 
 the streets getting covered in it.
  the water efects are terrible yet a few mods can sort that out.
  and not enough blood and gore 
 Anything else that its all good go go go buy a copy now thats an order 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someguynamedjac
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This game is so boring........ nobody else think so?
  in 1 player rpg games, after you level up and get the good gear, your at a dead end. The npcs say 
 the same thing and do the same thing over and over again. I don't get why so many people get so 
 into this game, maybe they like it because it was designed well? Well, a game could be designed 
 well, and still be boring.
  There's not much of a storyline.
  
  so if you haven't played this game, y our definitely not missing much. You'll just be impressed 
 by the way that this game is designed the first few hours or so. After some gameplay, you'll learn 
 that despite of it's amazing graphics and physics (which is the only reason people think this game 
 is "amazing") , you'll see there's not much of a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_oblivion
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. I like it's awesome graphics, even though it makes the loading very painful. 
 I like the game play, the story, the world, and the whole concept. However I am kinda disappointed 
 at the game's attempt at a new level system. As I create my fourth character, it's no longer a 
 tedious task to get +5 modifiers every level, and I had int, will, agi and spd maxed out at lvl 
 14... the game just gets easier and easier, I had to adjust the difficulty from times to times 
 just so I don't get 1 shot kills... It's a good game first time you play, but please, don't play 
 it again, the second time will most likely ruin it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matulu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantastic game full of things to do. This game will still be good without the main 
 quest. The Graphics are good but not great when you talk to people almost every ones got a wrinkled 
 face for some reason. The way there are no cut scenes is like Half-Life 2 which makes you feel 
 more like you are there. The level up system is good. Loads of spells for you to choose from and 
 weapons. And what makes this game so good is that u can be what you want to be, its like real life 
 the way every ones doing something not just standing around. So many side quests for you to complete 
 and there are loads of houses you can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_dimmer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  ... And the answer is NO! Oblivion is a next-generation uber-game. With fantastic graphics, epic 
 soundtrack, good cast (Sean bean (martin septin) & Patrick stewert (Uriel septim) and a enormous world 
 to explore there contains more than at least a 100 hours of gameplay. Compared to TES: Morrowind, 
 oblivion is ''refrehing''. Fx: the fighting system in morrowind sucked, and bethesda really owned 
 it back in oblivion. The only minus in oblivion is.... well, you need a good graphic card ;-)
 
  The story compared to morrowind isent that consuming. Morrowind hat that epic atomosphere that 
 kpet you in frotn of the screen for at least 200 hours! And that is something oblivion havent done 
 to me. BUT, if they make a travel mod too Vvardenfell, as they have talked about, it will deserve 
 at least 11/10! Another masterpiece from bethesda... i wonder what the next TES game is going to 
 be about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erichttp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best games I have ever seen. Oblivion has amazing graphics, an amazing engine, 
 and great plotlines. The Elder Scrolls has been a great series and this is by far the best of all 
 The Elder Scrolls games. Oblivion's graphics are great and the physics is purely amazing. Even 
 though it's classified as an rpg, this game can be played in many different ways. You can be anything 
 from a mage, warrior, thief, and much more. The way Oblivion works is to allow you to have almost 
 complete freedom. The AI in this game is wonderfull, if you follow a character, you can watch them 
 get up in the morning, go to church, talk to there friends, and more. Oblivion is a great game 
 even if your not an rpg fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashevm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  I recommend this game to everyone (but of course check ERSB) ! It has an absolutely wonderful gameplay 
 and breath-taking graphics. It combines the best characteristics of an RPG and an action game and 
 the result is the most min-blowing experience of every time! This Bethesda Softworks' work is a 
 masterpiece. In the game you are a character of one of the eight fantasy choosable races in the 
 game and you live in a fantasy world named Tamriel in the province of Cyrodiil, unlike its predecessor 
 where you lived in Morrowind. In The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion you can be whatever you want in the 
 specializations of Magic, Combat or Stealth. There is a "wonderful world" with beautiful forests 
 and realistic cities.
  
  There are although, in the PC version some technical instability.
  
  Overall, this game is 
 simply marvellous! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goku_javier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that i can say is.... the best role played game until now, its like Zelda, the game 
 has everything and great graphics, its very realistic its totally awesome, i recommended to play, 
 if you want to have a great game this is the game that you are looking, its addictive, the only 
 thing that i would complain is that the game its too long, you have to got time to play a game 
 like this and patient, great graphics, the sound too, in resume, its 9.4 game very very good! hope 
 that the next games of oblivion are good like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I had to write a new review for this game because now i have played this game for a amout of hours. 
 This game for me is one of a kind and to me is well worth the amount you pay for it. You can do 
 almost everything, dude you can get tanned if you are out for long enough. The world is amazingly 
 hude, and so far the possibilitys are endless. The game even sound great, little gliches here and 
 there but passable gliches. The graphics make up for almost everything.
  
  Though I think that you should beable to make your own race, like from scratch. You make the name, 
 history, skills, strengths, weaknesses, color, hight, weight, build. etc. You should beable to 
 do what you want from the beginning. There could be a Neo. Just so that you could be who you want 
 to be.
  
  But overall this game is awsome, not everything is perfect. But that is good because there should 
 always be room for improvement. This game is worth it thought, I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game just had so much to do. It was just plain fun. It was the best rpg of the year it was 
 released.
  
  The good
  
  1: The sound of the weapons is really nice and the enviroment.
  
  2: The music is really epic 
 suits it well
  
  3: The combat is fun
  
  4: Theres just so much to run around and do. So much side quests and stuff. Its just amazing how 
 much fun you can have in this game. Theres just so many dungeons and stuff to run around and do. 
 You will play this game for months and months.
  
  5: The expansion and the mini pack things add a lot of extra content that is fun.
  
  6: The 
 story is pretty decent.
  
  7: The graphics look really really really really nice.
  
  The bad
  
  1: It can get laggy and is kind of a system hog. Not a well frame rate.
  
  2: 
 Some graphical errors can get annoying.
  
  3: The combat is fun but it becomes a little dull as theres not a hole lot of variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrophoboe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion hits every note with precision and accuracy. If considering the last Eldar Scrolls game, 
 which, in my opinion, sucked; it is a major increase in quality. I do not care who you are. Morrowind 
 may have very well been pretty, but its character/class progression was terrible. Consider, if 
 you will, the terrible stamina one starts out with earlier in the game. You could not run without 
 losing a massive amount of stamina, and, if I remember correctly, holding the shift key in place 
 while one was STATIONARY the stamina would deplete; but perhaps that is another game. Im definitely 
 not going to reinstall that garbage to find out.
  
  Not with Oblivion in my grasps. This is exactly what Morrowind should have been in the first place. 
 From the very start you have modest stats that actually allow you to kill low-level enemies in 
 the beginning of the game. You have access to a wider range of inventory in comparison to Morrowind. 
 Currency to purchase items is not quite as hard to obtain as it used to be.
  
  The main quest is linear and straightforward. By linear, I do not mean narrow. What I mean to 
 say is that the storyline is geared in such a way that you do NOT have to go off track from the 
 storyline simply to defeat a certain quest. You can do that, sure, but its completely optional; 
 and thats why I love it.
  
  You now have an arrow to point you in the direction of your quest. You can also warp to areas that 
 you have already explored via the map. This, does not, however, mean that it is not an exploration 
 game, because it is. Not all quests will have arrows to point you in the correct direction. Many 
 side quests and some of the main quests require you to use critical thinking skills and investigate 
 the situation. Of course, as I have already said, you have to actually explore the given location 
 at least once to warp to that location. So, in essence, exploration is still a large factor in 
 this Eldar Scrolls gameits simply not a pain in the ass like it was in Morrowind.
  
  Did I mention that somewhere along your journey you will be able to purchase horses (assuming you 
 have the funds) ? This allows for even quicker exploration, albeit still a bit slow. The help comments 
 are actually a help in the beginning of the game. They teach the key maps of the more important 
 functions of the game and keeps the pace flowing correctly. In other words, you will not have to, 
 except for every other while, view the options screen to find the key maps because they will be 
 taught to you through out the game. The keys are very easy to remember, as well.
  
  The morality system is very open-ended, so as long as you can avoid the consequences. The neighborhood 
 watch of Tamriel is near divine. Kill someone whether or not in the presence of other beings 
 and you will be found by unknown forces. Dont even try to think about a fugitives lifeyou 
 will be hunted down unless you stick to the wildernessand by wilderness I mean what the boonies 
 is like in south of North America.. It wont simply be Cyrodils guards that you will have to worry 
 about, thats for certain.
  
  There is a vampire side quest that will more than likely sideswipe you later in the main quest. 
 You could tough it out and go on as a vampire, but your character will be deformed and.. ***SPOILER!!****
 
  
  you will be required to suck the blood of other individuals unless you like to see your skin erode.
 
  
  ***END***
  
  
  
  However, the whole vampire experience is probably one of the best ideas conceived in an RPG in 
 quite some time. There are many moments where one will find him or her self shouting, neat aloud 
 in his or her head. This is just one of those great experiences. In fact, there are many great 
 experiences to be had on the main quest alone. You will find yourself defending towns from Daedra 
 and closing Oblivion gates. It is rather ironic that the Oblivion gates seem to drop the overall 
 performance (frames per second, in this case) and the general mood of the surrounding towns. You 
 will find yourself wanting to eradicate their existence for not just the beauty of Tamriel 
 but the overall performance of your PC lol.
  
  The different races have many different advantages. Advantages that do not simply involve stats. 
 Notably, the Argonians can breathe under water, while Khajiits have the ability to see in the dark.
 
  
  Do not let the RPG battle system shy you away. You could easily pretend this is an FPS if you correctly 
 level your characterits that accurate. As far as the general combat goes, it hits pretty much 
 everything on the head aside from archery. In fact, archery is quite uselessalthough I feel this 
 may be an issue that could be fixed with a patchits hardly my concern (Im not into bows) . Spells 
 and swords, in contrast, are quite easy to use and do a modest amount of damage.
  
  I feel sorry for Nintendo. This is, after all, the same year The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 is to be released on the Nintendo Gamecube and Wii. It will take more than effort to accomplish 
 a defeat of Oblivion.
  
  Either way, I think it is correct when someone stated that this will be the measuring stick for 
 all future RPGs. One could easily descend its bar limit and still be an incredibly good game ---thats 
 how good Oblivion is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I was taken by all the beautiful scenery and such... at first. Then, I just started 
 to notice all the rock formations that were a little too similar, all the depressions and stalactites 
 in the caves that were exactly the same.. and I realized that what seemed like a great undertaking 
 in graphical gameplay was actually a bunch of lazy copy and pasting by the programmers. 
  
  As for the game, it's very deep. Also very easy. At least, it was for me as a fighter/knight. I 
 never found a battle that was difficult. In fact, I was a little dismayed at how many fights I 
 won with three or four swipes of a sword. 
  
  It's a little bizarre how they seem to strive for realism in some stretches, then throw it out 
 the window for others. For instance, you have a fatigue meter. But I found I never actually had 
 to eat any food. Or sleep (except to level up) . You only get tired by swinging your sword. Otherwise, 
 you can run across mountains and valleys and swim across lakes to your heart's delight. Why have 
 beds and food then?
  
  Overall, I did enjoy the missions. But wow, those who say "greatest game ever?" Sorry, I just don't 
 think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The game that so many have been waiting for is here and it was worth the wait.
  From the off, the graphics are excellent. The textures are well detailed, the environments are 
 beautiful (walking through the forest with details maxed out is an experience not to be missed) . 
 The character models are a definite improvement over the previous titles, though some of the NPCs 
 are still a little blocky.
  Unlike Morrowind, you get a little more help in the beginning, so newcomers will be able to get 
 into the game a little more easily than before, rather than just being dumped into the world.
 
  So far combat is good and meaty, magic looks great and the sound is spot on.
  The world looks huge, gonna be a long time before I've seen everything this one has to offer! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiderFreak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was one of the people who paid the extra money for the Collector's Edition of Oblivion. 
 I'm homeschooled, so I took my Spring Break the week it came out, and pretty much spent the ENTIRE 
 week playing Oblivion. It's been months since then, and was it worth the extra money?
  
  Yes. Yes it was. Oblivion is an excellent game, no doubt the best game I have played since Morrowind 
 (which I only first got last November) . However, it does not beat Morrowind. Call me crazy, but 
 Morrowind is still much better than it, and while it is a good game, Oblivion is not completely 
 what everyone says it is.
  
  I'll go over each individual area of the game first, then sum it all up at the end.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Very good, but not perfect. I'll go over the good first: it's very, very open ended. Like Morrowind. 
 After the inital tutorial dungeon, you're free to do whatever the heck you want to. In my last 
 game I played, I waited a very long time just to do the first story quest. I'd say at least 8 hours 
 of playing (not all in one sitting) before I even did the first mission, and I waiting a lot longer 
 to do the first Oblivion Gate. I even joined and completed both the Mage's and Fighter's guild 
 quest lines before doing the first story quest. If that's not open-ended, I have no clue what is.
 
  
  The combat is good. Better than Morrowind. It plays out more like an action or hack-and-slash game 
 now. Instead of doing a dice-roll to determine whether or not you hit an enemy (like in Morrowind) , 
 you'll hit an enemy with your attack if you're within range and your crosshair is over the enemy 
 (similar to what you'd find in a FPS, but with melee combat, i. e. Dark Messiah of Might and Magic) . 
 This greatly improves the feel of combat, and while it's not as deep as a fighting game or a pure 
 action game, it's much more than the click-fest that Morrowind was. Each type of weapon has it's 
 uses, although Bows are a bit less useful, because you can train in Magic and never run out of 
 arrows, and you ussually do more damage with Magic. Also, if you use Magic, then you can get healing 
 spells, etc. However a non-magic using Theif or Scout will want to have a bow for long-range attacks 
 and stealth kills (much easier to get a stealth kill if you don't have to be within 4 feet of your 
 target) .
  
  The levelling is... not so good. Instead of being like most RPGs, Oblivion tried to balance the 
 game out and make it so that no matter what level you are, it will always be a challenge. In general, 
 that does tend to be the case: even if you're at a high level, the combat doesn't really get TOO 
 easy. The way they did this, though, makes it very frustrating. Instead of giving enemies a predetermined 
 level or level range (i. e. Goblins are lvl 3 or can be anywhere from lvl 3-10) , all the enemies 
 (and other NPCs like Guards) level up with you. Meaning at lvl 1 you're fighting lvl 1 monsters, 
 and at lvl 45 you're fighting lvl 45 monsters. Now, that ussually accomplishes the goal it was 
 set to do: make it so combat is never too easy or too hard. But this also means you never get a 
 sense of power from leveling up. Every battle becomes the same thing over and over again. That 
 goblin you fought at lvl 1 will be just as hard at lvl 10. You can beat the entire game without 
 ever levelling up and not have a problem because you'll only face lvl 1 monsters. You never get 
 the feeling that you're a lvl 50 warrior who's god-like stats could wipe the floor with anything 
 he'd meet in a dungeon, and you never get the feeling that you're still a lvl 5 Spellsword who 
 wouldn't dare face a Daedroth without a whole ton of health potions. After a while, this makes 
 the game feel very repetative because nothing ever really seems to CHANGE when you level up.
  
  Overall, you can forgive the game's few problems. The gameplay is fun, and while you'll be 
 frustrated every once in a while, 5 minutes later you'll do something that will make you remember 
 why you love this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very, very good. I run it at 1280x1024 on mostly high settings with 
 a very unstable framerate that averages at around 30-35 FPS outside (anywhere form 40-60 in a city) . 
 The landscapes look stunning, and there literally are times when you'll just gasp and have to pick 
 your jaw up off the floor at some of the scenes you'll see. Running through forrests seeing trees 
 swaying in the wind, and then coming to a sharp drop down and seeing for miles across the province 
 of Cyrodill is truely a sight to behold. This is a game that, as good as the screenshots and videos 
 are, they do not do it justice to actually see the game in motion.
  
  However, nothing is perfect. Though many herald this game for it's incredible graphics, I can't 
 help but find something wrong with them. It just looks... wrong, somehow. Esspecially people and 
 creatures. The cities and hills and mountains look fantastic, but people just look... wrong. I can't 
 find a way to describe it. And at the default brightness setting, the game looks just plain horrid. 
 For a while I was scratching my head saying "THIS is high settings?" I barely needed a torch to 
 see at all in the darkest places. Once I turned the brightness down to about 1/4th or less, it 
 looked much better. Also, as most people say, it is a very demanding game. If you don't have a 
 6/7000 series Nvidia card or X800/X1k series ATI card, don't expect to run this game on high settings. 
 And even if you do, don't expect to run it at a stable 60 FPS, esspecially outside. I deffinently 
 don't have a really high-end computer, but I have a decent one, and it can sometimes struggle with 
 this game. Just to see my framerate, and to see what it looked like, I have tried lower settings 
 (I think I tried Low and Medium) , and while to some it may be acceptable... I must say, it looked 
 WORSE than Morrowind. I was truely shocked to see how bad it looked.
  
  Overall, it looks good. It's a demanding game, and there's something wrong with people in the game, 
 but the sheer beauty of seeing Cyrodill stretching out before you is one of the most spectacular 
 things I've seen in any game.
  
  Sound: Excellent. The ammount of voice work that Bethesda put into this game is astounding. Every 
 single line of dialogue is spoken. Bethesda has said there's over 50 hours of dialogue recorded 
 for Oblivion, and when you realize all of the sidequests that you can do, and know that all the 
 dialogue from every one is voiced, you can easily understand how they got 50 hours. I will admit, 
 the voice acting isn't the best. Even the voice work done by Sean Bean isn't really awesome quality 
 (although I must say Patrick Stewart's work in this game is wonderful) . And you will hear many, 
 MANY lines of dialogue recycled for almost every NPC (be prepared to hear half the people in all 
 of Cyrodill asking about the other parts of Tamriel, and the other half saying how they don't want 
 to talk about it, all with the same voices) . But when you consider the ammount of voice work that 
 needed to be done, you can hardly knock it down for that.
  
  Value: Totally and completely worth the $55 I paid for it. I've played it for more than 100 hours, 
 but even if you just play it for 100 hours (which is quite easy to do) , and you get the non-Collector's 
 Edition, you'll have speny $0.50 for every hour you played. With the length and replay value of 
 games getting steadily smaller, this is one of the few games I can still say is worth every penny 
 I spent.
  
  Tilt: You'll play this game for 100 hours. Unless there is something SERIOUSLY wrong with you, 
 you WILL play this game for AT LEAST 100 hours, most likely more. And you'll deffinently create 
 more than one character. WIth the option to be a Mage, a Fighter, or a Thief (or any possible mix 
 of the three) , you'll have a hard time creating enough characters to play out all the different 
 classes and roles you want to play.
  
  Overall, this is a phenomenal game. It has some shortcomings, and I would still rate Morrowind 
 higher than it, but this is a game that you should at least try. Buy it. Have a blast. You'll have 
 fun with it for quite a while, although you might get bored with it after a time like I have. Still, 
 this is one of the few games that is truely worth the $50 you pay for it, and I cannot recommend 
 it enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Saturn26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  It very non liner, has guilds to fit to ur liking, u can custimize ur chearcer to however u want 
 perfect for a this genre, but there a few flaws i must mention, if this to be a 10 rated game, 
 these flaws must be fixed
  
  1. loading screen must be faster, about a 1/4 of my plaing time is loading screens
  
  2. objects 
 must load faster, once in a while u tend to run into objects u cant see then a few secs later it 
 pops up
  
  3. Morrowwind was a bit better compared to Oblivion, because they dumbed it down, i belive this 
 is because the 360 is a new console and they wanted everyone to be able to pick it up and play
 
  
  4. This game should have had Online Play, it looks online, feels online, not online, one of the 
 things that would be great if u could have a friend enter ur game, and help u in ur quest that 
 he already done, if he was on a friends list and he did the quest while u were there doing it at 
 the same thime, ur quest is done, also a friends list would be good if they had like i said online 
 play.
  
  5. last but not least, the guild somewhat run into each other, for example, if ur in the thieves 
 guild u cant kill any one, but in the dark brother hood u have too to do the quest, so i would 
 have to do all dark brother hood quest before i do the thieves guild, its very annoying considering 
 that i would have to pay 1000 gold blood money to get back in the thieves guild for killing someone,
 
  
  6. last flaw i saw was a short story quest, it should have been longer, and the world should have 
 been bigger, its seemed to containd to me, unless u buy the add ons from the web, i hope Oblivion 
 is made on blue ray when its made for the PS3, so it can have a bigger world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinite04
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda has done an awesome job once again. I give them a lot of credit for making just a rock 
 solid game. It's no where near as boring as I hear frrom certain people. They just don't get RPG's. 
 This game rocks. I love RPG's again because this game it makes me wonder why other genres don't 
 make worth while games like this. The graphics even on my system are top notch.
  
  I have : AMD ATHLON 64 3200+ 2.19 GHz 2 GIG'S RAM 3200
  WIN XP AND XANDROS DUAL BOOT PC. A 100 
 GIG INTERNAL HD A 300 GIG LACIE EXTERNAL WHERE ELDER SCROLLS IS AT. I ALSO HAVE AN ATI RAEDEON 
 x700 PCI-EXPRESS CARD. I LOVE THIS CONFIG AND I RECOMMEND AMD TO ANY BURNED INTEL OWNER.
  
  I would like to also let you know the storyline is very good, never better. Almost like they hired 
 Lord of the rings writter's !! 
  
  One thing I NEED to add is be very patient the gate's will close eventually just give it time this 
 is not a coffee break cheap butt game. This is a $5 miillion dollar baby treat it with care. I 
 got it from direct2drive with my founder's club membership. I hate cd's they take too long to ship 
 and they get lost too easy so get it now through d2drive!! $50.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wes91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  this is more than likely 1 of the best RPGs out there. the graphics are freakin spectacular, the 
 gameplay is awesome, NPC chat is new and pretty cool, and the battle system is greatly enhanced. 
 this game is much MUCH better than Morrowind. i like morrowind, its a pretty fun game i'll give 
 it that, but in oblivion u dont have to stand around slingin' your sword at the enemy until u hit 
 it. plus, another great improvement to this game is the lock picking system. in morrowind, u stand 
 there and jab your pick into the door intil its unlocked, but in oblivion, a window opens and u 
 can push up on a tab or something i dont know what its called but its way better .i like this oblvion 
 much better than morrowind. i highly recommend this game to every1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Wel first the positives. The game looks amazing, period. The way that you talk with other characters 
 is also perfect, theres a lot to read for the hardcore RP'er and it's very easy to get to the point 
 for the more casual player. The game also gives you a lot of freedom, it reminds me almost of a 
 medievel Grand Theft Auto. Theres as much work put into the side quests as there is into the main 
 quests so everything feels worthwhile. The game feels a lot like Morrowind in a lot of ways which 
 is certainly not a bad thing. Well you can read other reviews if you want a more in-depth look 
 at why the game is good, I'll get to the more unique part of my review... The things I HATE. The 
 things that take this game, which I was about ready to crown my favorite of all time, and made 
 me stop playing it altogether. At the forefront is the new and horrible difficulty system. What 
 I liked so much about side questing in Morrowind was the sense that when I came back to the main 
 quest line I would be a battle hardened veteran, to whom the tasks of the Blades would be childs 
 play. To put it more simply, I liked it better when leveling up made your character more powerful. 
 Now enter Oblivion. I came back to the main quest line after maybe a week of obsessive playing, 
 the leader of the fighters/thieves guilds, and the speaker of the assasins and an arsenal of badass 
 gear, all the while i somehow didnt notice what was going on around me. But when I went back to 
 the first quest in the main line, I was savagely attacked and beaten over the head until I cried 
 by the games difficulty system. All along it had been subtle, a few enemy armor upgrades here and 
 there, a few more troll then there might normally be. But this time when I entered the courtyard 
 of the first castle you enter, there were no scamps. There were about... oh I don't know... 30-40 
 enemies all piled up on my screen, daedra, spider daedra, the croc looking guys... I forget all 
 the names. And this ridiculous pile of enemies had a secret weapon, the ability to slow down my 
 framerate until I could no longer control myself. And so I ran in circles for about half an hour 
 thinning them out and slowly killing them 1 by 1, when I had a revelation. THIS SUCKS, THIS AREA 
 IS MORE DIFFICULT NOW THEN IT WOULD BE IF I WERE A NAKED BOXING LVL 1 ARGONIAN!!!! And so I made 
 such a legendary character, and zoomed through the main story with ease. If you don't believe me, 
 see for yourself. This completely ruined the game for me, and makes me really sad inside because 
 this game was so amazing before I found this out.
  
  PS - If they fixed this by the time you read this, feel free to call me an idiot and correct me 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONJONAUG
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  My approach to this review will be comparing this game with Morrowind quite a lot, as I consider 
 that to be the greatest game of all time.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Combat-The one major improvement in Oblivion. Let's face it, Morrowind's combat system sucked. 
 In Morrowind, you could swing at a corprus beast (a slow moving, very large target) multiple times 
 before even getting a hit on it. In Oblivion, if it looks like you hit it, then you hit it. The 
 downside is that you have to hit things a rather unrealistic amount of times before they fall down.
 
  
  Leveling-Actually leveling up is much the same as Morrowind, although the training limit keeps 
 players from spending all their cash on leveling up like in Morrowind (where, if you knew how, 
 you could reach level 15 in less than 6 hours without much trouble) . However, although level scaling 
 was a good idea, the game takes this way too far. I should not be able to become the Grand Champion 
 of the Arena with a level 1 warrior. Also, in Morrowind obtaining Daedric armor and weapons was 
 one of the hardest tasks in the game. There was never more than a couple individual pieces of a 
 piece of Daedric armor. In Oblivion, you can easily obtain multiple full suits at a higher level. 
 Bandits will be wearing glass armor, and other really glaring problems exist. Obscuro's Oblivion 
 Overhaul provides a quick fix to this though, and adds some other good content as well.
  
  Disappearance of certain things from previous games-The only major things I miss are the levitation 
 spell and a few of the skills (different blade skills, axe skill) .
  
  Lore
  
  The big problem I have with this game. Let me put in a list...
  
  The sudden dissapperance 
 of the Cyrodil jungles-I distinctly remember many books talking about Cyrodil having jungles. There 
 were no jungles in Oblivion.
  
  Mannimarco-If any of you played Daggerfall, you'll remember the King of Worms being a powerful 
 lich that looked really freaking evil. In Oblivion, any young adventurer can waltz into his lair 
 and kill him with ease. That, and he doesn't resemble his Daggerfall self in any way.
  
  The Akaviri are supposed to be snake men... not generic humans.
  
  I can deal with Dagon's Oblivion 
 realm looking like a hell, that makes sense. Making Peryite's and Boeiath's realms the same as 
 Dagon's does not work though.
  
  Other things
  
  A few other things I have to say about Oblivion are below.
  
  While you learn the basics of 
 the game in a much easier way than in Morrowind (they taught you how to move, how to equip, and 
 that was about it, you would have to discover other things on your own) , the beginning of the game 
 takes away from the "do whatever you want" experience by explaining the urgency of the plot right 
 away. In Morrowind, you don't really have too much of a reason to start the main quest, leaving 
 you to discover its intrigue and complex plot on your own. In Oblivion, you are given just about 
 everything about the plot within 20 minutes of starting the game.
  
  What happened to the soft shadowing? That was one of the coolest graphical concepts in Oblivion.
 
  
  The new books are a lot shorter and usually less interesting. There are a few gems among those 
 though, including the Commentaries.
  
  The Imperial City was a total letdown. It should have been larger (MUCH larger, at least twice 
 it's current size) with many more NPCs. Also, White-Gold (the main tower of the Imperial City) 
 should have been at least twice as thick and twice as high.
  
  RadientAI-Giving each NPC a schedule was a great idea. Very well done too.
  
  Graphics-Stunning, 
 superb, and missing soft shadows.
  
  One of the major bad things of Oblivion is that almost everything is solved through combat, and 
 you really don't have much choice in the matter. In Morrowind, I remember having at least two ways 
 to solve most quests, and multiple paths to take through each guild. In Oblivion, it is much more 
 linear. In addition, there are only four major guilds in Oblivion (the Arena doesn't count, it's 
 just constant back and forth going to talk to the guy in charge then going back to fight, rinse 
 and repeat) . Morrowind had many more, and often with more available quests for each one.
  
  The sneak system is good, but when you get right down to it, it's not really that different from 
 Morrowind.
  
  For sound-Morrowind had a better soundtrack in quality, but Oblivion beats Morrowind in quantity. 
 There are enough tracks so that it takes more than five minutes to go through them all this time. 
 Although I wish they kept the theme track that was in the first of the six preview videos (sounded 
 similar to Morrowind's, but better) .
  
  Completing Nocturnal's quest makes the security skill completely useless, this is not a good thing.
 
  
  The Construction Set-Already the modding community is chugging out mods to fix the problems in 
 the game. It's still easy to use, and only takes a couple hours to learn how to start modding.
 
  
  In conclusion
  
  Oblivion is the greatest game of the year so far. Is it the greatest game or RPG ever made? No, 
 Morrowind was better. It is by no means perfect, and there were many aspects that the developers 
 should have improved before releasing the game. However, that doesn't change the fact that for 
 all it's faults, Oblivion is still a great game. I would recommend it to anyone. As long as you 
 don't get too caught up in the minor details, Oblivion will keep you entertained for at least 300 
 hours, probably more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragin_Asian
Rating: 3.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  The game has great visuals ,nice selection of character choices to choose from and the combat system 
 [though not spectacular or revolutionary] works. Other than that the elements of a good RPG are 
 done very poorly. The main story isn't very compelling and the quests are very repetetive. The 
 NPC doesn't seem to give a damn that the end of the world is coming,,, no panic, no fear, they 
 just go on routinely with their daily life. All they do is walk back and forth. You don't see anybody 
 fishing, farming, hunting or anything. You don't see children runnig and playing,..., heck there 
 aren't any children period. Sometime the NPC would stop and have some ridculiously hilarious conversations. I 
 mean, why does a guard reccomended buying armors at the best defense to a beggar? Why does a thieve 
 guild member tells a guard where to go to learn the art of lockpicking? But the game biggest fault 
 is the level scaling balancing, this should never be implemented in an RPG. The monsters will level 
 up and get new equipment when you level up,.. which leave you no point to want to advance your 
 character. This just defeat the purpose of what an RPG is all about. I was looking for a good RPG 
 but instead I got a game with sidequest galore and no rewarding gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  This game is one my favorite game I own. At the beginning you can choose what hairstyle you want, 
 what race you want to be, and every single part of your face is customizable. The graphics are 
 one the best I have ever seen. There are over 100 different people in this game each of them unique. 
 50 square miles to explore and tons of different ways to play. Whether it be Rouge, Fighter, Mage, 
 Thief, Assassin, or Archer, you are good to go with this game. The new battle system is incredible, 
 unlike other games of you hardly ever hitting your opponent, you hit your opponent every single 
 time you swing. But be carful, because if they block, you might fall down or even hurt an ally. 
 Music in this game is heart stopping. Without music, a game could never be. This game is just one 
 of the best Pc RPG games ever!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raviolli901
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls III was really impressive but now its moved on to the wonderous world of Oblivion. 
 it has large landscapes, brilliant graphics, perfect lip synchrinisation, loads of characters and 
 a really intense storylinje unlike elder scrolls III. the one thing that impresses me most is definently 
 the graphics. the engine surpasses others like half lifes source engine. its definently a perfect 
 game for any rpg player! one thing they could improve is to put it online! but overall surely a 
 master peice of its generation. shame it has so high requirements, people would then go for the 
 360 version which is worst! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GK-37
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one that will raise the bar for RPGs. The amout of attention to detail n this 
 game is amazing, especialy when you consider the size of the world it provides. Also the character 
 models are accurate, expressive, detailed, and nearly seamless. Additionally, the weapons and armor 
 are intricately detailed, and have fabulously interesting designs and shapes. It is also amazing 
 that the character creation and custimization can be so cohesive and let each person choose exactly 
 what they want. In fact, the only thing I don't like about this game is that, if you have a computer 
 that isn't up to date, the occasionally bad frame rate makes the gameplay slightly frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapowa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  from the moment you see this game on the shelf, the moment you have this box in your hands you know 
 that this game is going to be brilliant. and it is. it starts off in the traditional rpg way with 
 you the unknown wretch rotting in a ramshackle prison. ou get paid a visit by the emperor of tamriel 
 uriel septim along with a few of his personal bodyguards. he then starts rambling on about you been 
 the "chosen one" or something like that. he then lets you tag along with him to escape from deadly 
 assasins who are after him. after a while he says he can no longer continue and gives you the amulet 
 of kings and asks you to find his son and "close shut the jaws of oblivion". and then when you escape 
 from the prison into the lands of cyrrodil. the line of site, the sunshine the movement of the water 
 right in front of you. you are utterly lost for words at the scale of it all. now the firs thing 
 your thinking is "where is the emperors son?"you could do that quest right now. or not, who cares 
 anyway. this is what oblivion is all about. making decsisions and doing what you like and with 200+ 
 hours you will be making a lot of those type of descisions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayniacs
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The content repeats itself as you level up. The creatures become stronger but there is little variety 
 in the types creatures. This is especially true if you compare the content to the Neverwinter games 
 where the content varies wildly as you level up.
  
  It is an intelligent, complex and long lasting game. A good game. Its just a bit overrated.
  
 
  The content repeats itself as you level up, like this review. The creatures become stronger but 
 there is little variety in the types creatures. This is especially true if you compare the content 
 to the Neverwinter games where the content varies wildly as you level up.
  
  It is an intelligent, complex and long lasting game. A good game. Its just a bit overrated.
  
 
  If you've read this far and enjoyed the repetition this game might be for you. If you've read this 
 far and didn't notice any repetition this game might be for you. If you find repetition boring 
 you might want to consider something else or wait for NWN2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasbrolight
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed all the free downloads from all the people who strive to make the game even better 
 and really appreciate all the attention to detail that they have all put into their work. One thing 
 surprises me though -- Why hasn't anyone put any time and effort to equally making the lakes and 
 water ways more exciting : more fish, civilizations, dungeons or anything to liven up the whole 
 splashing around in enjoyable water fun. Right now the only thing I get out of it is one type of 
 fish, a treasure chest or two, and a whole lot of clams. Also what happened to flying? I thought 
 that whole aspect was cool  I haven't been online too long, but I'm sure someone has addressed 
 this issue. I must have missed it. There was a brief mention of some kind of Flying Act that was 
 described in the game, but it didn't give allot of info. into it. Otherwise this game really rocks, 
 and I am eager to see what else the makers have for this adventuring soul. I live in your world!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToOkie-TOokie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Oblivion was a great play i must say, Coming from a RPG/Quake type person, The scenery in the game 
 was most awesome, running along in the wild, looking at pretty little flowers and beautiful trees. 
 The main quest in the game was very good, "The Picard" was a nice touch to the voice of Uriel, 
 and there are an insane amount of mini quests to do to keep a person slaying for hours on end... 
 but unfortunatly i have to knock it a tad.
  
  Once the main quest is complete all the Oblivion gates disappear, which is kind of a bummer as 
 you don't get a chance to get more of those sigil stones, i felt maybe there could have been a 
 sub quest to find the staff of Dremora or something of that sorts that would allow one to reopen 
 a portal at one of the oblivion sites, so one can run around the molten plains with all the dodgy 
 creatures.
  
  Another is that sometime you get a tad bored of running around, so you take out your frustrations 
 on the gaurds in the imperial city, or where ever, which could be quite fun trying to see how high 
 one can get the bounty, but the problem is when you are fighting the gaurds that one of your guild 
 members, of Thieves Guild, jumps into the fight unexpectedly and you chop him long side the earhole 
 with you sharpend piece of metal, next minute your key gets magically ripped from your pocket and 
 you get tossed from the thieves lack a sack of off potatoes... i mean that dude couldn't of had 
 time to tell anyone while i was pretending his head was a pumpkin, block+space, block+space... 
 Come on! nooit reload, mass slay begin again! ya a tad poor with that.
  
  there are a lot more little nudges but one i found the Most annoying of all time. Before oblivion 
 was released they released a few clips showing off the game play and, some of the scenes and looks. 
 Now, in the first clip where you in the prison they picked up a rib cage and the light shone through 
 it displaying some cool shadows. I got the game and that was the first thing i checked out... was 
 not there at all, not a hint of a shadow. A patch was released, got it thought maybe that would 
 enable... nope nadda.. probaly my 6800gs, yea i guess that is it, so i saved for a 7900gt top... 
 and i must say the game looked the same slightly smoother, but no shadows...
  
  Ya but over a cool game, was worth the wait, and was worth the play, would be good if an expansion 
 comes out and not 500 little add-ons at like $2 a pop. Two things though, if someone never found 
 out yet.
  
  One: The quest to find a cure for vampirism.... Once you complete the quest you can click on reward 
 and he gives you money according to your current level... i noticed you can keep clicking reward 
 and he just keeps giving, very generous dude.
  
  Two: you can cast spell alot faster while holding block, it helped me tons while being mauled by 
 one of those Troll oaks...
  
  Conclusion: Oblivion Rules, Sin Episode 1 drools ( game cost so much for such a short play, Sin 
 RipOFF!, so wat you get original Sin with it... still) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big RPGer, it is perhaps my favorite genre of all. I like the character customization, the 
 weapon choices, the classes, the worlds, the monsters, and potential... and that's what drew me 
 into Oblivion. The problem with Oblivion is a lack of structure. The plot didn't pull me in, I 
 didn't care anything for the characters, and the repetitive dungeons lost my attention after number 
 40 or so. I had no aspiration to finish the plot, as all the Oblivion gates were destroyed in the 
 same manner, and the side quests with the guilds had no bearing on one another. The fighters guild 
 accepted me despite my thieving guild past; the assassin guild loved me despite my admirable fighter's 
 guild morals. I said, bleh. I'd kill 30 or 40 people at a time, pay off my debt to the guards, 
 and then all was well. "Hello, citizen, welcome to my shop..." (SLASH) "Ahhhhh! Oh, youre paying 
 the gold fee means you're not homicidal after all. Well... I guess I can trust you enough too sell 
 you my wears."
  
  A LOT of the side quests aggravated me to no end. Instead of being interesting, they became inconvenient. 
 Vampirism for example - so incredibly annoying. The benefits werent worthwhile enough to want 
 to stay that way, and the cure was a pain to find. Other quests were more along the lines of kill 
 this guy (SLASH) ok thanks. Yes, uninteresting, but at least not annoying. 
  
  There's a HUGE lack of veriety in wepaons overall in this game and no duel wielding which would 
 have helped the combat's dynamics A LOT. Armor also caps out in veriety quickly, and for the most 
 part looks unattactive. This.. urks me, as i'm a superficial person who likes to look the part 
 of a dashing hero with ultra cool armor and wepaons, never able to settle foe the game's "top tier" 
 unless I create it myself. Though you can certianly do that in Oblivion, it's not worthwhile. (see 
 below)
  
  This game does have its good points though, like the graphics. Amazing graphics, but I never let 
 a game carry itself on mere eye candy alone. It's important, yes, but central, no. Even in Oblivion 
 the animations are limited. If you ever see an NPC jump it's like... HE JUMPED... that was odd! 
 Then you jump in 3rd person and it looks awkward. Plus you really can't play in third person because 
 its basically kills your depth perception when swinging, and you miss 9/10 times on touch spells. 
 That works against the game as well.
  
  Another good thing about the game is control. Make dungeons, NPCs, weapon drops, towns, quests, 
 new weapons and armor and so on. However, on the flip side, the more interesting details to play 
 with are only available via a convoluted and overly complicated method and a series of downloads 
 and patches for programs you're not likely to be anywhere near adept enough at to make a difference. 
 PLUS you have to unzip the files, modify ion a complicated manner, then re-zip and hope the hell 
 they work or else you have to start all over again. Make sense? Not really, and neither does the 
 in depth editing toolkit. To sum up, its complicated and annoying, and the overall result isn't 
 worth while since you'll probably over-power yourself in the end anyway.
  
  In general, not my cup of tea. No structure, repetitive, lack of interest, not very rewarding. 
 Of course if you like that kind of thing, this game was made for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cranberry2
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  really feel sorry for it. its the first review a make for a game. In the beggining you like the 
 game because the game grafics are terrific and because there is another terrific thing i loved 
 in this game.. the phisics... they are the best i saw in a game... really the best.. and you might 
 look it with so good eyes in the beggining becouse a lot of people say that it is good.. 
  
  but i feel sorry for it.. its not good. fist it isnt a RPG! its a adventuring, action, talking 
 game! Lvl up in this game is foolish! only make the game hard, you can beat it without lvl up! 
 how can a game with it be an rpg!? oh god it is repetitive to the end! a lot of squars, a lot of 
 quests, a lot of dungeons a lot of same thing! 
  
  Man, this game has no criativity at all. Its just a huge game with grafics. Its has no movies; 
 no remarcable characters ( I mean this. No remarcable or even a little memorable char at all, only 
 your may be... if can be possible) . omg, you just dont envolve emotionaly with any character... 
 the only one i liked a little was a female ogre who became knight with me in Leyawin (she was a 
 crazy one) ... 
  
  and this game is easy.. you can break it easily... couse of it they put that all customable difficulty 
 slider... (lol i dont like that, preffer the easy normal, hard thing) . Just get master in conjuration 
 and sneak! its trully easy do that and now you can strike everyone especily if you are low level.. 
 make you way hurry to the Arcane university and enchande all you plate wih protection and you get 
 a 100 even more def plate that was 25 or 30, nobady can beat you,... so you tell me, move the slider! 
 OMG whats is this! think it have no logic... cuz you will never get the sense of doing your job 
 good.. lol i hate the slider thing.. nobody uses it.. ( i played it on 70% and its easy) 100% is 
 a lot hard, only increases the HP and STR basically.. and basically too, only give you more time 
 to loose i this game...
  
  dude go play Fire Emblem on GBA for you see what is a Rpg or even a game... graphics are nothing 
 for gods sake, at least this game can show you this ( o mean you who saw whats this game really 
 is, not you who just wanted a huge game with graffics to make yourselves buzzy)
  
  i not finished it yet and i will do.. but forced.. cuz im to far finishing he guilds and side quests.... 
 will beggin the main now.. lol
  
  look, its ridiculous but just for dont wast time.. when ur playing this game try to use imagination... 
 imagine your story, some character frienship... maybe you date with an aragonian or somehing... 
 try foolish yourself that you have a friend in this game.. that someone really likes you and have 
 a personality that you haved a story with him... becouse if you not.. it becomes impossible to 
 get to the end... bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a8qlsypp
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Did't really want to write anything special untill I finished it. Looking back, from this point, 
 I have only one message: Envoke your surrvival instincts and Close shut the JAWS OF OBLIVION. Still 
 waiting to see that Dark Messiah Source embded game to descide which one is the greatest. Till 
 eternety... Revolutionary game from Bethesda, filled numerous gaps in my thirst for somethin playable 
 in this time of disappointing flood that runs through the veins of so called "gaming". after playing 
 this masterpiece, my thirst became stronger, and i'll really need somethin havenly to satisfy my 
 future needs. we have been left in ignorancy all this past years, not knowing what the good game 
 was, and then light shined upon the shadow. we need more of this, more action, more reality, simulation, 
 more... light!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitomanez
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  With over 100 hours of playtime and tons of different races, How could you ever get bored. This 
 game is my favorite game I have EVER owned. At the beginning you can choose what hair you want, 
 what race you want to be, and every single part of your face is customizable. The graphics are 
 the best I have ever seen. There are over 1000 different people in this game! 16 square miles to 
 explore and tons of different ways to play. Whether it be Rouge, Fighter, Mage, Battlemage, Assassin, 
 or Archer, you are good to go with this game. The new battle system is awesome! Instead of you 
 hardly ever hitting your opponent, you hit your opponent every single time you swing. But be carful, 
 because if they block, you might fall down or even get hurt. Music in this game is wonderful. Without 
 music, a game could never be.
  This is just the best game in the world!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eladiko2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  so great, worth any cent! i have never seen so much options, so much pathes... must to be on and 
 shelve of someone who call himself a gamer!
  the graphics are amazing, nothing more to say, my mouth left open for the first minutes in the 
 game world... thats the only game that i could be "myself" in... and there is no way that its come 
 to end and there are no missions or mod that you havent tried\done... no moments of boring (the 
 only problem for many people may be the gigantic system requriments...)
  and i also heard that is gonna be a multiplayer mod, that is gonna be soooooo cool, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE FOR ANYONE WHO LOVES A GREAT ACTION ROLE PLAYING GAME!!! PC or 360 this 
 title cannot be missed. I personally was not an Elder Scrolls fan until I played this game for 
 the first time at my friend's house on his 360 (luck terd) . I recently acquired this game for myself 
 on the PC but I've had some difficulty with frame rate and other graphical stuff since my computer 
 is not the greatest in the universe. But if you are one of the lucky ones who own an XBOX360, I 
 definetly recommend picking it up unless if you have a rig powerful enough to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bboyart
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Well, it is just as great as it's predecesors. There is the complete freedom to do what you will. 
 Non-linear story let's you create your own adventures.
  The graphics engine is awesome. Actualy it is probably the best thing in the whole game. You'l 
 get on top of it if you tweak it a little bit to get the most. 
  Music is excelent, althou after a some time playing the same over and over it could become dull.
 
  Sound effects are ok. Just about right with everything else.
  Whell, there what is wrong in this game? After a few hours of wandering around, doing this and 
 that, interacting with the NPC's you'l get a feeling of loneliness. The adventuring experience 
 actualy has not moved a bit since Morrowind as with the NPC's and interaction with them. The vocabulary 
 of NPC's is realy limited. They repeat the few lines they have over and over until you go deaf. 
 
  Much should have been done on improving the adventuring experience since great graphics and sound 
 don't make a great game. Sensation of great adventures makes a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amathyne
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  The best blend of action and role-playing you could ever ask for. Manages to be totally immersive 
 being bogged down with too much trivia - but the trivia is there if you really want it. I took 
 half a point off because I only wish it wasn't quite so demanding on my poor computer. You do need 
 recent hardware to run it even on medium settings. But with all the stuff that is crammed into 
 this game, it's no wonder. A total of over 200 hours of playing time since I bought it, and there 
 is still more than plenty of stuff I haven't even begun to do yet. No game is perfect, but this 
 is one that sure tried to be!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecraponahat
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Well when it was announced i was very excited and joined forums and stuff there were talks of returning 
 some elements from arena and dagger fall but it was more disappointing to see that they removed 
 so much stuff in the game the weapons the spell it was like stripped of a lot of stuff and they 
 focused more on visuals instead of gameplay witch was totaly obvious and annoying but what can 
 i say at least it looked good and improved the combat system of the game this game isn`t for everyone 
 because of its ridiculous system requirements better buy a new p. c if you not using shader 3.0 
 cards or 1gb of ram and at least a 2.0ghrtz processor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a nice game, but it's not that interesting.
  It offers lots of stuff, but that stuff is really boring.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Oblivion offers 
 a nice singleplayer campaign and nice character creating databases. There are also lots of places 
 to discover.
  Good First Person RPG
  
  -The singleplayer campaign gets boring very soon, the enemies are not challenging at all, storyline 
 sucks.
  
  Graphics:
  +Good looking graphics, but not that sharp though.
  Runs OK on a computer that can handle the game.
  
  -Requirements are insane, which i really 
 dont like about a game.
  The gameplay is what is the most important thing about a game.
  
  Sounds:
  +Decent sounds, magic sounds sound cool.
  Some good voice-acting
  
  -Not very 
 interesting, Does not match too other games, like Diablo 2 or something.
  
  Value:
  +Good replay value, Never ending game, no repetitive areas.
  
  Tilt:
  +Nice first impression, 
 decent controls.
  
  -The inventory system is very annoying
  
  Oblivion CYA ALL
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooler_recep
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  it is a perfect game for the ones, who is looking for always aventure... Riding a hose.... using 
 and developing you skills... Fighting and becoming against the nation... this game is for everyone... I 
 want to stay on also the missions in the game.. The missions are easy for the people who knows such 
 like games... when you are on a mission this doesnt mean that you cant make nothing else... ANother 
 perfect thing about the game is its timing... the night and the day... Not so boring and not so slow 
 runnig... Unlocking the door, stealing form the rich and giving to the poor... the items you obtain.... the 
  is designed to made us enjoj this game... Graphics are alsoperfect 
 when you have a good Graphics Card... With the ATI x850XT this game is flying... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bac_Alexander
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Probably everyone has heard about Oblivion and Morrowind even if they did not play the games. The 
 first Elder Scrolls came out in 1994. Arena was revolutionary at that time. In 1996 Elder Scrolls 
 II: Daggerfall came out. Six years later in 2002 Morrowind came out and won more than fifty game 
 of the year award. The game is very nicely done and is greatly improved with two expansion packs. 
 But no game is perfect. Now four years later we have Oblivion. 
  
  Oblivion has good graphics but could have been better. Good sound and a lot of voice acting. Good 
 physics engine but could have been used more. Average AI. But the game itself is quite addictive 
 and has a good gameplay that is easy to pick and play but it is kind of easy at times. There is 
 growing community that is making some good mods for Oblivion.
  
  The game has good graphics but with high requirements. Oblivion uses a lot of new technologies 
 but there are flaws that pull down the graphics score. Some parts of the game are done well, like 
 buildings, textures, water, day and night system, light effects (though only one shadow is allowed 
 per character) . Flaws? Lets start with the characters, they dont look good or realistic and could 
 have been done better overall Some older games have better looking characters like Far Cry, Chronicles 
 of Riddick and Half Life 2. The draw distance for a distant land is kind of low so when you look 
 at the terrain that is not very far away it looks blurry and blocky and it does ruin all the scenery, 
 but this can be fixed with one of the mods. Oblivion feels the same or similar in a lot of places. 
 Take the church for example it is definitely copy and paste job with a few changes (if there are 
 any) . A lot of caves and forts and other places look very similar and so do the cities and little 
 towns. A lot of entrances to caves, forts feel like copy and paste and rearrange few things but 
 some interesting places can be found. Yes there is beautiful scenery that looks great but could 
 have been done better and bit more realistic. Far Cry that came out in 2004 has better looking 
 environments and jungles (oblivion has forests) . 
  
  Sound? Well what can be said? Sound quality is good but more sound variations could have been done 
 as you get tired of hearing the same sound over and over again. Some of the sounds are lame and 
 irritating. A lot of voice acting has been done but each race gender is voiced by one actor, so 
 every orc male will sound the same wherever you go, unless some special voice acting has been done. 
 But considering how much voice acting there is in the game it does not really matter.
  
  Oblivion has a good physics engine but it feels like more could have been done with it. Physics 
 works on a lot of items. It works on dead bodies so they will roll and flout, there are few traps 
 that use physics and in some places you can use it towards your advantage, you can pick one item 
 at a time and carry it without putting it in your inventory and you can not throw the item you 
 are carrying. The most fun you can have with physics is find a place with a lot of small items 
 (on a shelf will be best) , probably mages guild would be the best and throw a fireball and a lot 
 of items will fly in different direction. Ground work is done so more physics might be implemented 
 or improved in the expansion if it will ever be done. 
  
  Artificial Intelligence is not what was expected and could have been done a little bit better. 
 The AI is better than in Morrowind and make the world seem more alive. Conversations that AI characters 
 have get annoying as they sound stupid and repeat a lot but does add more life to the game. Combat 
 AI could have been done better as computer does the same thing and always attacks you, when he 
 has a bow or casts magic he tries to keep distance his/her between. Never thinks of staying away 
 from the player, if it is hostile and sees the player it will attack and can chase all over the 
 map until stuck or dead. AI characters never try to escape from the player like in Arx Fatalies 
 (2002) where if a goblin is losing he might start running away and screaming for help, which gets 
 more goblins and it becomes harder to fight. In Oblivion AI never surprises you it just can overpower 
 you. 
  
  The game itself can get very addictive but a lot of things are done in a way of take it by the 
 hand. Like navigation system, it always tells you where to go on your radar and where exactly your 
 objective is except few quests. Fast travel is alright but travel system was done better in Morrowind 
 where you had to walk or pay money to travel to other locations. When there is fast travel you 
 can not help yourself but use. Fast travel has a good side and it is that it is possible to travel 
 all around the map in matter of seconds, it is good because sometimes you have to do quests that 
 are on other side of the map and than go back and if you get stuck somewhere you can use fast travel. 
 There is one big problem in Oblivion and it is that there is no point in levelling up as it is 
 easier to play without it. Just increase heavy armour, blade and other skills (increases your armour 
 defence, damage done by swords and other benefits) and it make the game easier. But when a player 
 levels up, enemies become stronger, kill faster and only way to get better items is to have high 
 level or else you will be stuck with iron armour and weapons for all game. Better armour and weapons 
 weight more. Some quests require you to be a certain level. Putting all that aside the game has 
 a lot of NPCs and a lot of quests to do and probably about hundred hours can be spend playing the 
 game and still have quests left. There is not much replay value in oblivion though as everything 
 will be nearly the same and doing same quests twice is boring. 
  
  Oblivion community is big and only increasing right now and are making some good mods. Some mods 
 should have been done by Bethesda themselves, like distant mountains higher quality resolution 
 so they would not look blurry and there are other mods that improve oblivion graphics and make 
 it more realistic looking without increasing requirements for the game. One of the places to check 
 out for oblivion mods is www. moddb. com. Bethesda released a patch to the game that fixes some bugs 
 and problems. While Bethesda released some mini mods they want money for it. Probably a lot of 
 gamers will pay, but paying two American dollars or three dollars and twenty cents New Zealand 
 is not very appealing for a small addition to the game when mobile games cost five to seven dollars 
 NZ. 
  
  So what is better, Morrowind or Oblivion? Improvements over Morrowind are, graphics, characters 
 now are voiced and talk to you, physics added, much richer environments, better combat system, 
 bow and arrow accuracy is not affected by your skill where in Morrowind shooting point blank the 
 player can miss, because of low marksman skill, magica now replenishes and character outlook can 
 be customized, no more fighting alone as now on some missions few NPCs will be on your side but 
 only commands that can be given are follow and hold, lock picking is done by you (also has auto 
 try) . Comparing to Morrowind there are some down grades like there are no spear weapons, no short 
 blade skill, better weapons and armour weight more, some of the magic was removed like levitation, 
 cities look very similar, can not put a mini map on top of your screen, can not place markers on 
 the map, no quest organization system, creatures and items level up with you, exploration is not 
 interesting anymore as all caves are similar and have no real rewards, only one sea creature, high 
 computer requirements especially if you want to play with full graphics. 
  
  Even what was said Oblivion is still one of the best RPGs that were released and it can appeal 
 to different ages and easy to pick up if people never played Elder Scrolls series before. There 
 are good and bad points to the game but no game is perfect. The Oblivion community is growing and 
 making some good mods and there is a chance that Bethesda will make an expansion pack that will 
 improve the game. While five mini mods have been released it costs to get them. Fans of role playing 
 games still have Gothic 3 to look forward to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fell_One
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantastic game. Bethesda has really created an immersive world that you can believe 
 would exist. The voice-acting is well-done, although there are very few actual voice actors, which 
 means many of the citizens of Cyrodil sound exactly the same as the others. This can have funny 
 consequences. When the same voice actor plays a beggar and a regular citizen, you can ask the beggar 
 about rumors and their voice will change from a raspy, destitute sounding voice to the voice of 
 the regular citizen. The gameplay is fun, although it can be frustrating since magic-oriented characters 
 will level very quickly, and their spells dont work as well against higher level creatures. Graphically 
 the game is amazing. The only annoying thing about the graphics is the grass, which objects can 
 pass through, making things that fall on the ground almost impossible to find. The musical score 
 is great, staying true to the Elder Scrolls tradition, but bringing something new as well. It was 
 definitely worth the $50 that I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockemere
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This RPG has a great main story line complete with video scenes and characters who talk with you. 
 This game also features many side quests and a nice array of npc's including vampires, wolves, 
 job specific town's people, and other types of monsters. It is also this gamer's opinion that the 
 mods out for this game only enhance its playability and beautification.
  I sincerely hope too see more games like this released in the future. 
  
  P. S. 
  
  This 
 game is long, interesting, and well worth the money spent for it.
  
  (Mini review for the hundred words needed in a review)
  This review is for the need of a hundred 
 words for a review and to fill space.
  I don't think there should be a minimum amount of word for us to write a review. It helps other's 
 know how a game is and lets its creator get constructive feedback. This will probably be my first 
 and last review til they change this requirement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFlex69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  A game like this just worth it. It worth the money, the time, the hard drive space, everything!
 
  
  The revolutionary graphics are almost impossible to believe, literally. It doesn't matter whether 
 you are a RPG fan, or not, you have to play it just to see that eye candy. an opened mouth and 
 a "WOW!"s are guaranteed.
  
  The first thing about the game is, of course, the grafics, but alas, there is a lot more under 
 the hood. The game includes vast amount of quests to run, with many, no with hundreds of dungeons 
 to explore for a lot of treasure and monster slashing.
  
  Former TES fans would notice a slight simplification of the skills system, which still manages 
 to run us through the exiting gameplay. The difficulty setting it a mecriless one, but beatable. 
 Besides, there are thousands of community mods installable, whitch can truly be a great boost to 
 the already fun gameplay.
  
  For conclusion, RPG fans simply cant afford to skip this game. A must have.
  
  Regards Ma. S. Tro 
 \ VflexXx69 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santanachia
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game so long. I've even bought a new PC and Radeon x1900GT, just to see 
 how does it look with max details switched on. Finally Ive bought it and graphics does great 
 but that's all good I can say about Oblivion. Just after the very very first impression [I was 
 so delighted to run freely through the blossoming hills] passed by, I found myself deeply confused. 
 On the one hand Oblivion provides great music and amazing graphics, on the other hand playing its 
 terribly boring, plots are linear, quests are type  
 [map shows you what exactly to do] , NPCs are brainless morons standing still in one place or running, 
 horse-riding or just walking [round and round] aimlessly heaving nothing interesting to say [same 
 speech options, same answers] . How is it possible, that in big cities with a dozens of guardians 
 only few people can be met on the streets? Moreover, inns are empty, houses are locked and uninhabited, 
 but its not a problem to find a fresh apples, corn, bread, etc. inside [maybe theyve 
 gone countryside for a weekend] . Horse-riding, which is indeed marvelous ide, is not enough to 
 stop my criticism. Getting off a hack-back while enemies are approaching makes me sick. Moreover 
 Ive found, that sometimes I was not able to get back on no matter how much I tried and what 
 was worse I couldnt shift this ^%#* old jade even a little bit to find un-bugged place] . 
 Oblivion is full of small bugs making playing rather unpleasant. For example, yesterday I've spent 
 more than hour trying to catch a *&^%^ slaughter fish that was running away from my great hero 
 each time I got close so I could see her under a water. One moment I started dreaming of having 
 anti-personal grenade somewhere inside my equipment to resolve my slaughter fish problem [finally 
 I gave up...] . Another thing is stealing [food, silver plates, etc.] and going into a jail each 
 time speaking with guardians. How the *&@#$ guards are able to look trough my equipment (X-ray 
 goggles????) . Fighting is a one great bug or rather million small bugs - goblins, wolfs, rats, 
 etc. [even jumpin crab] are moving so chaotic and [maybe not a rats] a little bit 
 too fast  WooooW!!!! These poor creatures were running so fast through my hero I had no 
 time to rotate, then were backstabbing me instantly, and running through me one more time, and 
 one more, one more, one more time... 
  
  I don't want to feel nausea, sitting with a face over desk and keyboard, so I am not going to get 
 back to this game soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odessaman66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Game of the year! No question about it. Enormous, a graphic phenomenon. Bethesda took this game 
 to the next level. I love the previous chapters of this great epic. However, this one out glows 
 the previous ones. Gameplay is fantastic and enriching. The new combat system improves on a previous 
 boring yet sufficent system. Sound wise the game stands tall and really enriches the different 
 enviorments. The additon of Fast travel also aids in the overall gameplay. However, I prefered 
 to travel normally to add to the overall feel of the game. This only negative thing I can say about 
 the game is some of the Caves and shrines feel quite similar. The pure open ended gameplay shines 
 in this game and the enormous amount of quests will have you playing this game for a very long 
 time. Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soundbraker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is game that every rpg's friend must own. The day I bought it, i wasn't sure about its graphics 
 but when i got it to my pc i coudn't believe my eyes. It was fantastic. In the beggining I was 
 just walking around and scouting the game's world and after one or two days i begun the main game's 
 quest. The story was amaizing and had the best plot i' ve ever seen in a game. Also the sound was 
 as well as th graphics, OK maybe not as well but it was just fine. The value was just right. I 
 think it is the best game i' ve ever played and that's why i' ve given to it 10. I reccoment it 
 to you without or this is a game for every fantasy rpgs fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connary
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Its incredible how beth can kill one of the best series of rpg games. I think Morrowind r one of 
 the best games i play ever. How is posible they kill the interesting art work and lore created 
 for this 3 chapter and made here a ugly copy of the Tolkien-Alan Lee work for LOTR 
  (imperial city buildings=Minas Tirith buildings..... elven ruins=Rivendel  
 pufffff....
  And the social structures in the imperial region? a joke.... there r non-existent, this is only 
 a big boring map to kill festival. Nothing is put by hand in this chapter.... when u play a few 
 hours u know u never find a object put by someone for some reason in cirodiil... u know u can see 
 ever the same mecanical stuff put over the tables or in a chest in the middle of the forest leveled 
 like u
  Todd say the best choice in a rpg is to kill beast to get the loot and use it to kill other beast 
 ...... (in a eternal minded loop) ...... hummm...... not for me. Perhaps a good solution for Diablo 
 years ago.
  The best choice for me in Morrowind was the reading of interesting lore and the chance to improve 
 my char (imposible in Oblivion.... lol..... how can they get a rpg where u cant improve ur avatar?????) . 
 And in the other hand u no need to read nothing, a compass mark the place to kill and the journal 
 is advanced to your thoughts. lol
  The king is dead and portals to 'Mordor' are opened all over the region... the way take by the citizens 
 is...... do nothing... really is disappointing.
  The IA are the most funny inefective work made ever for a game. Simply dont work, isnt creible.
 
  Dont like the grafic engine. Needs a lot of work for the modders to get a minimal visual attractiveness 
 (ini changes... LOD changes... etc.....)
  I know, im a angry person because i have all my hopes in this game. Yes, its true. They need the 
 money... they got the money i suposse this meant they made a great work....... hummm difficult times 
 for the creativity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Yeah so what if the physics is lame, so what if it's unrealistic. All i want is to kill kill kill! 
 Freedom baby the best game on the planet is finally here. Just look at the amount of mods available 
 for the game! Perfect! Just bloody perfect. I would die to get this game if i didn't have it, which 
 i do. It has a tendency to crash alot and i mean a woahful amount of alot. Nevertheless, it is 
 still an awesome game. Crashing doesn't affect your gameplay because the game saves very often. 
 People should save often too. I just love the mods. I have several mods for the game. But the downside 
 is the pay to get plug-ins. Anyway, just great this is the perfect game for any RPG lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikwutaguy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  When i bought Oblivion i wasnt a big RPG fan. I was more of the FPS online kinda guy playing counter-strike 
 and battlefield. But this game really set a whole new prespective on what i imagined in a video 
 game. The she sheer beauty and detail of everything really blows you away.
  
  But besides the great graphics (assuming you have the pc to run it right) the main story in this 
 game is also mentionable. Although i havent completed the main quest, i still think it is intruiging. 
 
  
  The combat is great because there are so many different ways you can approach each enemy. You could 
 run up there with a warhammer, or be sneaky and hit them with an arrow, lets not forget hitting 
 them with a spell. There are so many different ways to play the game that it will sure to please 
 any RPG fan, or someone like me, who just enjoys video games in general. 
  
  Another interesting thing is the different races and how you can customize all of their major skills 
 to fit you gameplay. You could set all the abilities to sneaking and lockpicking so you excell 
 in something like the theiives guild. It is also easier to level up if you select the skills you 
 like. 
  
  But to sum it up i think oblivion is a great game that nearly anyone can enjoy that has great gameplay 
 and good replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  graphics- 10/10 perfect
  
  gameplay- freaking awesome! i luv just going up and having a sword fight with someone from an arena 
 or just going up to a knight and fighitng him! it's so realistic. this game is very deep, u can 
 choose ur own path, and choose what kind of character he's going to be.. (animal, warrior etc...) 
 i luv the magic in here too. so realistic.
  
  sound- great voiceacting, great sword effects its all good. good music.
  
  value- get it now 
 since it's only $40! 
  
  overall- what a great game, live a new life in a new world. it's perfect for u RPG lovers and it's 
 just plain fun. nothing in this game i don't like. really doesn't take long to learn how to play. 
 get this game before u drop dead because u will leave unsatisfied! this is the best RPG game on 
 the PC! actualyl best ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omni2226
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Eye candy galore, but where is the substance? 
  Quests are boring and repetitive. Npc's blather on about nonsense ad nauseum.
  
  Very poor 
 implatation of gamepad use on the PC. Either make the gamepad fully customisible or dont enable 
 it at all.
  
  Levels. Where to start? How many games have you played were leveling up can actualy be a bad thing? 
 If you fail to waste countless hours raising your minor stats to boost your atributes your character 
 can and will become so weak as to be useless. 
  Then you have the loot leveling. So forget about finding a sweet level 10 weapon or armor to sell 
 or horde at level 5 because it aint gonna happen. Throw in the fact that the enemies level along 
 with you and it makes dungeon exploring a waste of time.
  
  All in all a boring tiresome game to play after you get over the first visual "wow this looks great" 
 rush.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! (If you have the computer muscle to play it.) I have the new 7950 GX2 and 
 it handles the game great! I really like the ability to do anything at anytime I feel like it. 
 If I want to go on a killing spree.... I can, If I want to go on a stealing spree... I can! And the 
 game supports it! Not to mention this game looks amazing! I was very impressed with the graphics! 
 I've put so much time in this game (over 80 hours!) and I still havent beat the actual campaign. 
 Its to fun to do whatever I want. ( Though, I've heard that people who play straight threw the 
 game have beat it in 20 hours, but whats the fun in playing straight threw when thiers so much 
 to do?) Thier are some flaws, but few and far between and easily overlooked considering how big 
 the game is. Plus patches on the net pretty much eliminate the major flaws. I highly recommend 
 purchasing and playing this game if you have an up to date computer, enjoy first person RPGs, and 
 have the time to watch go bye bye.......... you wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toshido201
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion truly exceeds all expectations.
  
  The first thing you notice is the graphics. They're stunning. This game is so beautiful, I spent 
 2 hours just staring at the trees in the distance. The graphics serve to totally immerse you into 
 the game. Everything is beautifully crafted, except the leaves, but perfectly crafted leaves would 
 make this game a graphics card nightmare. This is even supplemented by the fact that the leaves 
 sway in the wind.
  
  The voice acting is also great. They got the right voice actors for every character. No character 
 sounds different from what you would expect.
  
  The fighting, ahh the fighting. They nailed this too. They give you all the old combat styles from 
 morrowind, with the addition of the need to block. If you choose the sword, your combat style will 
 revolve around blocking. Block, attack, attack, block, power attack.
  
  This game offers a lot of things to do. There are many quests for you to do. The down side, there 
 are fewer quests than in Morrowind. The up side, there are hundreds of dungeons that quests never 
 take you to.
  
  This is the thinker's game of choice. If you over think everything, this game will reveal many 
 secrets. To truly enjoy this game to it's fullest you must think like it is the real world. Search 
 for explanations for everything.
  
  This game is not overhyped. I believe it is actually talked about less than it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonfaith
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I am playing this game right now and would like to go over some its finer points.
  
  First off, this is a beautiful game. It just looks good. If you got the Make It Pretty package 
 Gamespot offers it looks even better. I've found myself just walking around looking at the scenery 
 getting pissed when anything attacks me because that bush is really cool. The peoples faces are 
 not too boring to look at and some of their expressions actually come off pretty cool. The enemies 
 in the game will kick your ass when you are weak and distract you with their excellent rendering. 
 You can buy houses in this game (My favorite is in Skingard) where you can stash all the neat stuff 
 you find. I've decorated the hell outta mine.
  
  But I digress. The reason I'm writing this is because I'm ANGRY!
  If your the last person alive 
 who hasn't played this then you don't know what I'm talking about but all the rest of you do. I'm 
 going to be different. I'm going to tell you why this game sucks.
  
  1. If you kill a guard/ranger/legion out in the middle of nowhere EVERYONE who is an authority 
 figure will try to arrest you when they see you next.
  2. There are too few sets of armor in this game. There are like what 11? You can get them all by 
 level 20 or so. Boring.
  3. Most of the Dungeons, aside from layout, look the same. Very repetitive.
  4. There are not 
 enough different kinds of enemies. I'm currently on level 48 and I've hit the bottom of the enemy 
 barrel already.
  5. When the heck did goblins get so freakin tough? Goblins are suppose to be wussy. Why am I getting 
 beat up by goblins?
  6. When you pick up items that are suppose to start quests the QUEST should start. (See my Blog 
 for more details.)
  7. Why can't I attack from horseback? Was this too hard to program? 
  8. The rag doll effects are wonky. Apparently when people die they turn into blow-up dolls.
  
 
  I could think of a lot more but I'm going to stop there. I'm starting to calm down. I do actually 
 STILL like this game. It's not anywhere near Final Fantasy caliber but for a FPS RPG it's close. 
 I'm sure fanboys will hate this review but that's okay I hate fanboys.
  
  By the way, get the nude patch. The bras just look silly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bresca
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an RPG/FPS based in a fantasy world of Magic and Mythological 
 beasts. You must take up your sword (or staff) to do battle against the forces of Oblivion in order 
 to return the Amulet of Kings. Doing so will allow the King to shut the gates of Oblivion. On the 
 way you'll encounter countless side quests in the surrounding towns which will earn you rewards 
 so that you can purchase new armor, weapons and spells.
  
  The gameplay mechanics work fairly well, although it may take some time for a user to be fully 
 capable of using the player menus to its full potential. That being said you don't need to learn 
 how to use it all in order to complete the game. Just equip the desired item and use it. Weapons 
 all move fairly realistically, and there are quite a few weapons in the game, from the ShortSword 
 to the Elven Battle Axe. Everything just seems to work well, so you won't find yourself fumbling 
 at the keyboard very often.
  
  The graphics for the most part are very good, but not everyone can view them at full settings because 
 of the heavy performance hit. HDR is put to use, but can sometimes seem over done, and you may 
 want to leave it off for a performance increase. Character animations and models are of high quality, 
 but are let down somewhat by the textures which seem a bit bland at times.
  You will encounter some magnificent views in Oblivion, like looking out over a lake while mountains 
 are drenched in the glow of the setting sun. And for the most part, they are quite breath-taking. 
 But as I've said, you'll need a beefy system for the full effect.
  
  The sound in this game is top notch. The cries of battle, the clanging of metal all do a great 
 job of immersing the player. This really drives up the tension in some situations. The music is 
 also very well done, but may be hard to notice at times when you are distracted with tasks. If 
 you're travelling the hill-side, you'll notice some very pleasant and subtle tracks, while in battle 
 your chest will pound with the intense drums of an orchestra.
  
  Overall, this is a good games that will please many fans of the genre, but after the main quest 
 you won't find much else to keep you interested. There is also no multi-player, which is a shame. 
 It would have been fun to have a battle with friends in the Challenge Arena.
  If you like The Elder Scrolls then it's worth the buy if you have the time for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a really great game, one of the best RPGs of all time, if you 
 ask me.
  
  The graphics is excellent, the leaves on the trees, the grass, the details on the weapons is just 
 that damn good! The best graphics you can get on a PC game in this period of time.
  
  The sound is perfect, very good quality.
  
  The gameplay is also very good, with an intensive 
 main quest where you save the whole world of Tamriel. You also have other quests (missions) for 
 different guilds you encounter in the game.
  
  I can't wait till Elder Scrolls V comes. When it comes (sure hope so :) ) it has very big shoes 
 to fill! Cause Oblivion was a very good game!
  
  Buy it, enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Leaving aside the main plot, this game is a lot about the little things that put together make 
 this game something you get involve without hesitation.
  The first time it rained while I was playing this game and I got into the closest inn I could really 
 feel the comfortable atmosphere and the warmth coming from the fire. Those are things that make 
 games great. The inmersion you really experience.
  I thought I had touched the sky with FF X. Now I know there is much more to come. Greater and better.
 
  Thank you very much Bethesda games for this massive world to be around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxpaint
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of adventure/RPG games my 2 favorite in the past being Kameo for the xbox360 
 and FFX for the ps2. So i looked at the reviews for oblivion and it looked awesome booted it up 
 and realized i needed a seriously more powerful gpu so went out and bought a x800xl for $130 and 
 can play the game on all high with HDR, distant lands, on 1024x768 res and on my 20.1 in widescreen 
 monitor it looks amazing. The game is awesome i love how custom you can make your characters, and 
 the worlds are so beautiful and huge, i love the fact you buy property and multiple horses and 
 slaying goblins with my mighty sowrd or picking them off with the bow from a distance is awesome. 
 My favorite aspect of the game is the fact it has an action packed experience like KAMEO with an 
 in dept story and huge amount of customization like FFX, and the dark presence of the lone wolf 
 liberating an evil like HL2
  
  Conclusion best RPG? adventure game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game has some of the best graphics around atm, as well as a rich storyline. The 
 character creation is some of the best around (some new races along with adjustable height and 
 weight would have been a nice addition) . I could go on about all the features and intricacies that 
 make this game worth playing, however I'm so taken with it all I can think of is more elderscrolls 
 content, more features. This game is to great and needs to be expanded upon. My prime desire for 
 this game would be MULTIPLAYER, I want to link quest with my buddies and kill them if the desire 
 emerges. Someone in charge of develpment get on this right away k thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRoachy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  When Oblivion came out, I rushed right out to the store and bought it immediately. Every review 
 I had seen of it was nearly a perfect score, and everyone was hailing it better than Morrowind. 
 Being a huge RPG lover, I was giddy as a school girl about it... It's hard to say much about how 
 I feel about it, because it's a mix between love and complete disappointment.
  
  I guess the first thing I can say flat out is that the graphics are down right astounding. All 
 of the textures are beautifully colored and bump mapped, the lighting is absolutely beautiful, 
 and the shadows are almost lifelike. Foliage and trees populate the breath taking scenery outside, 
 and LOTS of townspeople, shops, animals, grass, and fountains populate the towns. When in a meadow, 
 you can see pretty much half of the game world just by looking around, and go there just as easily. 
 The only gripe I have with the graphics is that land in the distance tends to looks a little.. 
 bad.
  
  With beautiful graphics comes beautiful gameplay, right? Well.. sure in a way. There is probably 
 over 200 hours of content in this game, and it can keep you occupied forever if you really care 
 to do so. The main quest is kinda short, and can easily be completed within five hours, at level 
 one. Yes, you can finish the whole game at level one, because the game scales to your level, making 
 it pretty much void of any difficulty what so ever unless you go into settings and jack it up as 
 tough as possible. With that said though, you will still level up often in this game, and with 
 more levels comes new items and monsters. Though, these powerful weapons and armor pieces are cool, 
 they really don't feel very satisfying, because they don't feel like much of an improvement when 
 everything scales to you. The game plays basically like a first person shooter. You can run, jump, 
 and interact all in the first person, and you attack by using a normal attack key. Also, there 
 is no "to hit" ratio in this game, so if it looks like a hit, it is a hit. Because of all of this, 
 Oblivion really feels like a melee first person shooter with a bunch of mini-games..
  
  When it comes to sound, Oblivion shines just as much as it does with graphics. Every NPC in the 
 game has its own voice acting, and the voice acting is excellent most of the time. You can walk 
 down a town street and hear people holding conversations, hear the wind blowing in the trees, birds 
 chirping, and hear basically a whole live world taking place. 
  
  In conclusion, Oblivion is a HUGE game with an almost infinite number of things to do. Though it 
 IS an RPG, the scaled levels and FPS style interface really makes it feel like an action game. 
 It's an excellent game, but just don't expect a really deep stat building game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauro_rubens
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a "Game of the Year" already, the best RPG game so far released. It is one of those 
 games hard to let down. I'm playing the PC Oblivion for over 200 hours and have not finished yet, 
 but because I love to walk and look around, to see the physics and the falling of the dead bodies. 
 Many times I replay some of the missions just to get better results on experimenting and to increase 
 my actual ranking "in the Oblivion world." I have so of the others games, like FEAR or Far Cry 
 but I still prefer to play Oblivion and I fear I'll play this one for many days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet, Oblivion is a First or Third person RPG based on the very popular 
 Elder Scrolls francise from Bethesda Softworks, the game starts out with a simple tutorial on how 
 the controls and fighting works and as you play the tutorial the story slowly unfolds and brings 
 you into the world, at the end of the tutorial you finally get to pick you're character class from 
 a huge selection or simply create you're own. One of the things about the Elder Scrolls series 
 has been the very flexible character progression, want to be a mage/ranger? You can! Theres plenty 
 of options and stats as always with deep roleplaying games.
  
  My only gripe with the game is that there really is not that many different weapons or armor in 
 the game, whilst magic is very plentiful since you can create you're own and the same with weapons 
 and armor, a bit later in the game you can create you're own magical items, but still it would 
 be nice to have a lot more varity with the items in the game since its pretty easy to get hold 
 of some ebony or daedric items and after that point there really isn't anything better but still 
 one thing they have done is added more monsters and enemys, that problem made morrowind slightly 
 hollow and boring whilst oblivions world is filled with them, along with caves, dungeons and towns. 
 Its very hard not to discover something new by travelling in a random direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NubleX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  As a true RPG fan I can easily say that last time I had so much fun playing such a tremendously 
 huge game was back with interplay and Fallout 1 and 2. The first Postal RPG was a nice gory game 
 I had fun playing not for the adventure part but just for the metalhead fun. Fallout however was 
 not densely populated neither it had a lot of locations. Oblivion however tops that by far, endless 
 locations to discover, unlike even Diablo II, where there were caves upon caves (hehe and yes, 
 countless enemies, unlike in Oblivion) . On top of that, the way new objects and monsters appear 
 when you level up makes the game more exciting, if you set the difficulty on hardest than the game 
 becomes a real RPG mindjob. In many ways it tops Morrowind and even MMORPGs like Lineage2 and WoW 
 or even Planetside. Endless ways to play the game gives you a real sense of writing the story with 
 your actions, and you do!! Well made skill system, magic recharging within weapons, endless development 
 of character, realistic world (go into prison!!) , mindblowing graphics (shaders duuude, check out 
 the shaders!!) and another dozen of reasons to make it the game of the year. The only negative 
 side I see is that you need a real machine to play on the nicest graphical level, not all of us 
 can afford it. The other bad thing is NO BLOODY GORE where you chop of pieces, backstab a dozen 
 times into kidneys to bring the blood out or hang people by their intestines. None the less, a 
 masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggestben
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Good points :
  
  + Great graphics. The first time you step out into the world of Tamriel and gaze around the landscape 
 is an awe-inspiring moment. You can see miles into the distance and the HDR lighting really adds 
 to the experience.
  + The longevity of the game is incredible, as even when you've finished the main quest (if you 
 decide to try the main quest at all) , there are tons of mini-quests to complete, houses to buy, 
 dungeons to pillage and so forth. It will easily take you months to even begin to see all the game 
 has to offer.
  + Combat has been refined from previous Elder Scrolls games, so that it actually feels like you're 
 clubbing someone round the face, instead of just slashing at thin air as in Morrowind. This is 
 complimented by the great physics on display. 
  + Sound is another high point as the music, while in my mind not as good as Morrowind's, is still 
 perfectably reasonable. The voice acting is top-notch however, with talent such as Patrick Stewart, 
 Sean Bean and Terence Stamp lending a hand.
  + Cool customising options. You can choose from 10 races, with a wealth of different customising 
 options to choose from. You can choose to fight a certain way, be it with a sword, bow or magic 
 for example. Plus the huge number of amour and weapons available means that no two players will 
 look alike.
  
  Bad points :
  
  - If you've played any previous Elder Scroll games, you might not be as impressed as someone who 
 hasn't. The area of land you can traverse, the number of quests you can complete, the diversity 
 of towns and people are all lower than those found in Morrowind and Daggerfall.
  - If you want to truly enjoy this game you're going to need a high end PC to do it. While you could 
 play the game on a computer which is five years old, the experience won't be mind blowing.
  - The persuasion game is poorly implemented. Basically when you talk to someone and you want to 
 make them like you more (so that they might reveal important info) , you need to raise their disposition 
 by revolving a disk, with each quarter of the disk relating to what you say to the character, either 
 a joke, a boast, a compliment or coercing them. However the character will like or dislike you 
 if you use certain quarters, so wedges in the disk reveal what quarter will raise the disposition 
 the best. If all that sounded unnecessarily complicated, you do get used to it, but a less obscure 
 method would have been better.
  - The control system has been designed with the Xbox 360 in mind, so it is more complicated for 
 PC owners to navigate the inventory screen and try lockpicking. As with the persuasion game however, 
 you do get used to it.
  
  Despite these flaws the Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion is an excellent game and an excellent buy for 
 any PC owner, whether you're a hardcore RPG addict or you've never played a fantasy game in you're 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arikois
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivion it just the best game ever made. i played 300 hours and i havnt goten eough. i have a 
 save with every creater had a fight with rats, fire imps the really annouying dounasors in hell, 
 i did it all/
  
  i ever send a few e-mails with how to make the next game funner, not improvments becuase this game 
 is perfect, lets say i gave them advice. one of my ideas was to make the area online , you know 
 the arean where you fight the gray prince.
  
  i told every one i met / know to buy oblivion and if not oblivion the any one of the Elder Scrolls 
 game.
  
  i love oblivion it the best game ever  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reven240
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the only RPG I have ever seen that could manipulate graphics 
 to make the game world look as real as the one you live in. The physics employed in this game make 
 it even more realistic. The game's controls seem natural to the game and as such make you character 
 easy to control. The campaign is one of the best storylines I have played through in an RPG. The 
 outdoors is supurb, the characters are unique and have their own personalities, the citys have 
 their own atmospheres, character reactions are realistic... I cannot find a flaw in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a nearly perfect game!
  
  The good: nearly no bounaries to where you can go, very alive NPC's, very cool towns, way better 
 character costumization than in Morrowind, you can actually create modifications in the PC version, 
 like new towns and races, excellent sound, very high value, excellent storyline, just too much stuff 
 to list
  
  The Bad: Morrowind had better music, more guilds and factions to join, WAY more and diverse towns, 
 more diversity in landscape.
  
  Overall, this game is excellent and definitely worth playing, it is much improved on all the other 
 elder scrolls games, and probably the best game of all time, I definitely encourage you to play 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marko2te
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  And Iam not overreacting. I played all Elder Scroll games and as a great fan I could not wait for 
 this game to come out. Graphic is great and it is the only good thing in the game but what is the 
 point of haveing great graphic when the whole world is repetitive, Oblivion is 50% bigger than 
 Morrowind but in Oblivion all u have is forrests and hills, in Morrowind u had swamps, deserts, 
 islands, lava rivers and many more, in Oblivion dungeons and caves are every 100m and they all 
 look the same, physics are just for decoration there isnt any quest or part of dungeon where you 
 actually have to use physics to advance in game, small number of armour and weapons, level scaling 
 is worst part of the game, why level when the enemy is always same strenght as you and its easier 
 to finish game as level 1 than 30, and when you are level 20+ every enemy wears deadric armour 
 and is using deadric weapon so why explore a dungeon just enter kill first two opponents and your 
 full with most expensive equipment, fightin is also dissapointing there is no critical hit except 
 when you sneak attack and that will only scratch opponents on higher levels as will all your attacks 
 when you hit someone in head with an axe you will couse same amount a dmg as if hited him in his 
 toe, once an ogre attacked me i shoot 50 arrows in his head and he still moved after me as if he 
 didnt have 50 arrows sticking out of his head, game that needs to have 2GB of mods installed to 
 be playable does not deserve anyones attention. Dont play this better wait for Gothic 3 until than 
 play Gothic 2, Arx Fatalis, Morrowind or anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScrtShazzer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Its a very good RPG, and well worth the wait for it to be released. If you thought morrowind was 
 good, you obviously haven't played this yet. It has a big drain on pc performance but anything 
 with FX5700 or better can play it. Even if you play it on the lowest possible settings, you can 
 still like it. A lot. Its long and has a variety of new quests and guilds to join. Very addicting, 
 so keep playing it to a max of 2 hours per day. I thinks its the best game on pc so far and will 
 be till unreal tournament 2007 comes out atleast. The sound is good but not the best, it could 
 be a little more convincing and dramatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invincible15th
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game. It is so big it just keep on going. Sometimes you even think when does the land 
 stop. Maybe its to big but with so many quests to do its is just fantastic. With the recommended 
 hardware the landscape is beautiful and never ending. You can walk through the landscape for hours 
 but the fast-travel option is better for long distances. I bought a new cpu just for this game 
 and it is worth it seeing the graphics and for future games. When in battle you have to have a 
 strategy or you will get mayor damage that is also great on the game because it isn't like games 
 where you can chop every by-passers heads off. Everything you do is has to do with everything or 
 later it will have cause, just brilliant. It is worth playing for like 200 hours or for sure is 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexmon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Superb game graphics. Fast paced and fun action and battles. Really feels like you're there. Huge 
 game world. TONS of things to do. Over 200+ play hours. Great modding community. Sound's almost 
 cinematic like, including the VO's (Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean do some voices!) Great effects 
 ) blood splatters on sword, and such. Physics are realistic!
  
  The Bad:
  Really needs a top-o-the-line PC to run (which most people can't afford) . Gameplay chug's a lot. 
 Lotsa-loadin times!
  
  Summary:
  This is a MUST-HAVE game for any RPG or action fan. If you like killing and endless action, this 
 is for you! If you like being a different character in a different world, and just goofing around, 
 etc, this is for you! Great action, great world, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --__-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was released on March 20th, 2006. It is an absolutely awesome game, 
 and one of the best RPG's I have ever played.
  
  Gameplay: Things have changed since Morrowind days. Gameplay has been geared towards casual gamers, 
 and hardcore RPG fans like myself may feel left out. For example, the menu has been clearly designed 
 for a game controller. Many old skills, spells, and weapons have been left out, such as medium 
 armor (for better) , spear, axe, and levitation spells. Lucklily, Bethesda including a better sneaking 
 and combat system, plus new lockpicking and persuasion minigames. Not to mention Radiant A. I. which 
 is a welcomed upgrade for sure. 8/10
  
  Graphics: Graphics in this game are amazing. HDR, Bloom, real-time shadows are among the multitude 
 of tweaking options. I have a hardcore rig, so I was able to max out with little penalty. But, 
 low-end computers may be at risk. There are a few glitches though, such as getting stuck in walls 
 and clipping. Those errors aside, Oblivion's graphics are the best I have seen in any game. And 
 that's not something you say lightly. 10/10
  
  Sound: The worst part of Morrowind was it's sound, with it's repetitive music and comical sound 
 effects, but Oblivion fixes this. With realistic sound effects and a varied orchestral score, Oblivion 
 fixes Morrowind's shortcomings. Speech is good but repetitive, as there are only a few voice actors. 
 9/10
  
  Replayability: 200+ hours of playtime was what Besthesda promised for this game. They didn't lie. 
 There are no lack of quests to do, and there always planty of suprises the A. I. has in store. Who 
 need multi-player with things like that. Join a guild or raid a tomb, the game really never ends. 
 10/10
  
  Final Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Great if you have a power house of a PC. Crap if you have anything lower.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much the same as graphics. You need a powerhouse computer to get anything out 
 of this.
  
  Sound: Nothing wrong here. Clashes, voices, spells all sound very good.
  
  Replay Value: Not much because its sooo boring.
  
  P. S. I'm not trying to be abusive it's just 
 that im not an Elder Scrolls fan.
  I'm just reviewing the game as I see it. And you Elder Scrolls fans can bash me all you want it 
 wont change my opinion on this game. And if you don't like the review then don't read it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Fiery portals to hell, evil demons, and dark princes, oh my Now its time for Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion. Bethesda hit a home run in 2002 with Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. It offered a huge 
 adventure, giving you total freedom in a gorgeous fantasy land. Fans were eagerly anticipating 
 the next installment in the series, but after three years people were getting impatient. Finally 
 in 2006 Oblivion has arrived, and it was well worth the wait. By taking everything that made the 
 series a hit, improving upon all of it, and including a few additional tweaks, the game jacks up 
 a grand slam.
  
  Prison - the lovely place where everyone wears uniforms and special friends are waiting to greet 
 newcomers. Okay, this may not be the case in Oblivion, but this is where it all starts. For some 
 unknown reasons, you find yourself in jail. All of a sudden your cell is bombarded by guards and 
 the king of Tamriel, Uriel Septim. He senses something about you, as if fate destined this moment. 
 His previous dreams led him to this conclusion, so he quickly entrusts you with the task of finding 
 his unknown heir. The story moves along as you complete the main quests, but first you must sculpt 
 your character. You have a host of different races to choose from, each with their own benefits. 
 Those strong and massive Orcs boast higher attack bonuses, while those wily Wood Elves provide 
 additions to sneaking attributes. In addition to a staggeringly deep system, you can customize 
 your characters appearance extensively. It goes all the way from a simple hairstyle to the size 
 and structure of their nose. The game really puts everything in your hands, making you feel like 
 there are no boundaries. You'll eventually get to pick your class, birthsign, and so on as you 
 tread through the prison. Once you see the light of day, you're on your way to saving the world 
 of Tamriel from the evil behind Oblivion.
  
  Character development is unique in Oblivion. Rather than the average fight, level up, fight, level 
 up formula, you level up through using your major skills. For instance, if blades are one of your 
 primary skills, then the more you use swords and daggers, the more you skilled you become in that 
 area. To make the most out of the leveling system, you must focus on these abilities to the point 
 where you progress in levels slowly but steadily. A few swift strikes of the sword doesnt result 
 in leveling up your blades skill immediately. This is a bit tedious because it does take time to 
 develop certain aspects of your character, but the reward is more than worth it. Youll soon forget 
 such small issues when youre pounding your foes to the ground one by one with ease.
  
  Do you ever feel that a game falls into the category of one-dimensional? It may be fun for a while, 
 until you realize that youve been repeating the same thing over and over again. Luckily, Oblivion 
 steers clear of this by offering some of the most varied gameplay youre going to find in an RPG, 
 including picking locks, undertaking side-quests, joining the ranks of guilds, conversing with 
 the townspeople... oh, and I forgot to mention heroically closing the Oblivion Gates, hellish, fiery 
 portals leading to depictions similar to the underworld. Although all of this provides various 
 ways to approach the game, combat will be a primary factor in your adventure.
  
  Whats so great about battles in Oblivion is the simplicity. One mouse button triggers your attack, 
 and the other blocks. There is some challenge though, as youll find the AI is more than capable 
 of slaughtering you. Enemies attempt to flee when wounded and group up on you when youre in trouble. 
 This forces you to mix up weapons and spells for the best results. But if visceral melee combat 
 isnt to your liking, you sly thieves out there have nothing to worry about.
  
  A stealthy method of playing is more fun than one might imagine. Pickpocketing an unsuspecting 
 citizen, or executing a quick sneak attack is just as rewarding as bashing an enemys head in. 
 You might be thinking Okay, thats all great, but what about the magic? Youll be pleased to 
 know that the incredibly deep variations of spells have returned. There are different categories 
 for magic, ranging from restoration, focusing on healing, to conjuration, centering on the evil 
 summoning side of things. One of these approaches is sure to suit you, and each is just as fun 
 as the next. 
  
  Forget Snickers, Milky Way, or any other rich chocolate goody, theres a new candy in town... eye 
 candy that is. Its name is Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. If youre one of many who had your mouth 
 drop to the floor in awe with the screenshots and videos of the game, then you already know Oblivion 
 is quite a sight to behold. Its full of everything that makes a game look visually aesthetic; 
 great weather effects, fully detailed characters and environments, and theres variety in the visuals. 
 You dont feel like youve met the same person or gone to this place once before often, and with 
 so much content, this is monumental. That being said, the game does come with its fair share of 
 technical issues. There will be the occasional frame-rate hiccup, and looking off into the distance 
 sometimes results in lackluster scenery. This does keep the graphics from being all they could 
 be, but nevertheless, youre in store for some stunning sights. Some may find themselves sitting 
 upon a hilltop, gazing at the beautiful stars rather than engaging in hectic melee combat. Something 
 like that shows you the developers went the extra mile to make sure that any problems would be 
 painted over by the positives. 
  
  Oblivions audio is certainly not a weak point. The musical score fits perfectly with the fantasy 
 setting, ranging from cheery town music to soft, eerie arrangements for dungeons, backing the ambient 
 sound effects. From the clang of steel to the screech of rats, everything sounds just like you 
 would imagine. Whats most impressive though, are the voice-overs. Each individual has diverse 
 dialect, but whats so astounding is the amount of dialogue. Just about every person in town is 
 up for conversing to the extent that theyll talk to each other. Thats right, you can even eavesdrop 
 on conversations. The attention to detail here is much deserved of praise. Best of the all voice-actors 
 is Patrick Stewart. Yes, Star Trek fans rejoice, because Stewart lends his talents for the role 
 of Emperor Uriel Septim. Although its just a small role, that voice never gets old.
  
  Make sure you have a comfortable seat ready, because once you start Oblivion, you wont be able 
 to get away. Who cares about friends and family when you have Oblivion? If you want to be stealthy, 
 go ahead. If combat is your main preference, no problem. And all you magic lovers out there have 
 nothing to worry about. Theres plenty of scorcery to please the Merlin in all of us. No matter 
 what your fancy is, you have the choice of doing whatever you want. Completing the main quest isnt 
 required, and you dont have to be a savior. If the thought of being a murderer on the loose peaks 
 your interest, this is the game for you. The list goes on and on to the point where its mind-boggling. 
 If youre ready to kiss your social life goodbye, then Oblivion will surely help in those efforts.
 
  
  Morrowind may have been an excellent game, but its not even close to the amazing achievement that 
 is Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. With so ways to play, and so much content, the game will make sure 
 there is a nice imprint in your seat. Sure, it has superlative graphics and sound, and thats great. 
 But when a game goes above and beyond what is expected, thats what should really be appreciated. 
 You smell that, dont you? Thats the scent of game of the year. Itll be hard for any other game 
 to top Oblivion in 2006, and no other RPG has provided such a unique and fulfilling experience 
 in recent years. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: argetlam00
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a completely great game. It offers over 200hrs of a fun gaming experience!!!! Let me 
 explain.
  
  The Graphics: AMAZING!!!!! The absolute best of its gender.. If your comp can handle it that is... It 
 Even gets better with the mods. Beautiful and realistic forests, dungeons and cities!!! You can 
 spend hours just walking across the forests in amazment. The mods make it even better especially 
 theMake it Pretty" mod pack here on gamespot.
  The Graphics take quite a toll on your comp tho.. I run the game at the 1152/864 resolution, max 
 settings using graphic mods on this system:
  AMD X2 Duel Core 3800+
  7900GT
  1GB DDR2 Ram 
  
  I get an average 35-45FPS
  
  Gameplay: REALLY FUN!!!! You can do anything 
 you want to. Explore dungeons, forests and forts!!!! Visit towns, join guilds, hunt for rare items, 
 and do quests. There are hundreds of side quests you can do and there is the main quest. The reason 
 I gave gameplay a 9 and not a 10 tho is the weird level system where the entire world levels with 
 you. So basically at level 30 you will see no rats and bandits will be wearing Daedric Armor... BUT 
 NO PROBLEM... Mods fix this little thing. MODS MODS MODS MODS!!!! There are 
  also official plugins by Bethesda that add great stuff like horse armor, dungeons and more.
  
 
  Sound: AWSOME!!!!! The forests make realistic sounds, great voice acting, Enemies sound realistic, 
 and of course great mods that improve the sound even more!!! AWSOME!!!!
  
  Value: THE BEST OF ALL GAMES!!!!!! 200 hours of fun gameplay!!!!!! WHAT MORE CAN YOU ASK FOR!!!!!!!! And 
 all just for $50!!!!!!!!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Love Everything about this game, graphics, mods, sound gameplay is all just SUPERB!!!!
 
  
  Conclusion: Buy it... BUY IT NOW!!! YOU WONT REGRET IT!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Warning you will not come out of your room. The concept of a first person RPG is not old but Elder 
 Scrolls does it right. If you love collecting side quest and going for the goblin cave and never 
 touching the storyline, you can spend a lifetime of the sidemissions alone. The actual story is 
 quite immersive but if you really like getting cool bling bling or a sword the size of a person 
 or just playing around in the arena; this game will let you do it. I own this game and havn't stoped 
 playing it and havn't beat the story even now. I have honestly spent weeks playing to become the 
 grey fox and once you finish a guild its amazing at the different reactions you will get from the 
 country's citizens. The AI is awsome and the Theivery is sweet, I still have not stoped jacking 
 peoples stuff and selling it back to them. Oh and no there isnt any economical problem created 
 by stealing from marketers if you sell stuff back to them but honestly they never run outa doe 
 so have fun.
  
  Happy Goring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hosshosshoss
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  This new game in the elder scrolls series lets u "enter the game" cause its so realistic and thrilling 
 where u can use magic and skills that cannot be found in other games. Plus it has new features 
 and enhanced graphics.
  THIS NEW GAME LETS U PLAY MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED HOURS. Its really an amazing, interesting, and thrilling 
 game. It is the best game in all The Elder Scrolls series because it has upgraded graphics and 
 enhanced gameplay. This open-ended and very long game makes the player fall in love with the great 
 game. I hope this game makes more success cause in my opinion its the number one game in the world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerKaCe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna try to keep this review as short as possible. To start off you might wonder who do you 
 play as... well you decide! You can pick up stuff from a table it has so much detail in it that 
 you can shoot down a barrel pick up an onion from it and eat it if you want to. You can choose 
 all sorts of weapons to you can become a champion in the imperial city arena if you feel like getting 
 paid big loot. You can rest whenever you want, and you can explore the world pretty much find out 
 new locations rob a home and steal an onion or a broom, lockpick doors, and much more. You can 
 even retrieve darts that you shoot at people. You can also choose what classification you want 
 to be like a night. You can also choose what stars you were born under to cast special spells. 
 The graphics are simply amazing too Even when you see a field 100 miles from you. It sounds great 
 all the way through too like hearing swords clang together or the cast of a spell or the sound 
 of a person. You will spend so much time playing this its almost impossible to believe. It is a 
 simple game to learn and you must buy it no matter what kind of fan for games you are... its that 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Fully freeform play in keeping with the daggerfall games, this game is great. looks great, plays 
 great, you can play it true morrowind style or dumb it down as much as you want. easily hundreds 
 of hours of play, outside the 30 (+) main quest. I am ,maybe, 50 hours into it and still have only 
 done the first 5 quests of the main quest. The journal is a huge step up from morrowind. The sheer 
 number of quests is amazing
  
  great community, lots of content and helpful people on the boards if you find yourself with a question.
 
  
  Must have: Btmod: just a basic overhaul map to get rid of the idiotic console screens on the pc 
 version for map, hud, invo, etc. also some graphic enhancements, weather. I am running about 9 
 mods right now and they all work perfectly so far (half from gamespot half from planetelderscrolls) . 
 
  
  by default there are some ugly people in this rugged land and no good looking ones. Get a mod and 
 make the tavern wenches more appealing, this is a fantasy game after all.
  
  the only reason I docked this game 3 points to a 9.7... it is missing those few things right out 
 of the box that morrowind has, and although mods are increasingly addressing the issues they aren't 
 quite up to spec yet
  1. scaling, is silly. in morrowind there was potential to run into massive monsters that could 
 kill you depending if you walked into the wrong area
  2. morrowind had amazing little tidbits, treasure, and loot stuffed all over: not just in chests 
 or on tables. you could randomly be walking around an inn and find something dropped behind a couch
 
  3. exotic, morrowind was exotic. this chapter is not, nor am I saying it was intended to be. The 
 forest and cities are all very nice and European as intended for this entry in the series. It is 
 still lacking that feeling of uniqueness which morrowind captured. Bring back the big mushrooms 
 and jellyfish transport system for the next game :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1lotus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Almost perfect! What isn't there, you can find a mod, or add it yourself. The people @ Bethesda 
 really gave everyone a chance to see just how "real" they could make their character look, as well 
 as the world around them. The trouble with most people's experience, if any, is they can't pull 
 themselves away, thus causing eating/sleeping irregularities. All leading to the occasional unimpressed 
 review. Don't worry, the're just cranky!! TRY THIS GAME!, but only if you want to be immersed in 
 another realm for a while... maybe a long while.
  The thing that most impressed me about Oblivion had to be the "spectacular view". The first time 
 you exit the sewer, you almost feel lost (thank god for the compass arrow) . If you try to run or 
 ride across the map, you will be in for a long haul. The most frequent complaint I've heard was 
 there's not enough bad guys to dispatch. Obviously they haven't found the right quests for the 
 challenge, or were in "god" mode too much. Overall, I'd have to say I'm throughly impressed! I'll 
 be playing this game for years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardeknarl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive, but I'm not sure why. It's not that new in concept, but all the features 
 make it a treat. ... Interactive environment; everybody talks; wide open wolrld; easy to navigate 
 and stay on track with quests. Constant improvement in abilities is really cool since it's based 
 on how you play. The only thing I would add is a log entry feature where you could record your 
 own notes or make notes about map locations.
  
  Great game, worth every cent.... for a change. And all the game updates and add ons are a nice 
 feature. I'm a purist, so I haven't added many, but it's cool to see all the neat ideas that have 
 been added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sintegra97
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I must preface this review by lettiing everyone know that I am not an old school RPG fan. It took 
 Diablo II and Neverwinter Knights to get me even slightly interested in the genere. With that said 
 this is among the best games I have ever played. When describing it to a friend I told him its 
 "Doom meets Zelda meets San Andreas," and I think that is a fair description which probably leaves 
 out other games that may come to the minds of others. I played morrowind a little since i got it 
 free with a graphics card, but the combat system there was awkard at times and I kept dieing, so 
 in time I gave up on it, but Oblivion is a masterpiece. I've played through it twice by now and 
 am still hooked. I fear for my social life if Elder Scrolls V is online, then I think we are all 
 in trouble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman9891
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding game play and graphics. This was the first time I've ever played one of The Elder Scrolls 
 series, and hopefully this won't be the last. When I first heard about this game I did have my doubts 
 about, but those were quickly thrown away when I started playing it. The graphics are incredible 
 and beautiful, and the storyline is perfect. The sound is amazing and very well placed and the 
 game play is really fantastic, (unlike those games where you have to use menus in order to fight, 
 just kidding) . So get up and buy this game because it's definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirikitaun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Normally when you write a review you must put asside your likeness or dislikeness for the game 
 and try to evaluate it just as it is, but I assure you one thing, this game is trully special, 
 it leaves nobody with undifference. And for myself I must say that is absolutelly brilliant. I 
 must say that I haven't played any of the previous elder scroll game series but it doesen't matter, 
 this game hipnothyses you and when you start  
 reputation... when you star HAVING FUN, you can't stop. And it's all thanks to a magistral combination 
 of all of its elements to offer us the most immersive and addictive gameplay that you can find 
 on any RPG right now on the market.
  
  The first thing that calls your atention, like in the majority of the games, are the graphics. 
 Beautyfull landscapes with lots of effects and many NPC characters that with their expressions, 
 movements and sounds make you really believe that you ARE in the game, along with detailled objects 
 no mater where you look and atmospheric effects too. Tamriel is ALIVE, in the lack of a better 
 describing word for this colossal fantasy world. Unfortunatelly the most negative aspect of this 
 game (and fortunately one among the little few you can find on it, if not the only one) is that 
 you need a quite high-end computer to run this game in all it's splendor, otherwise you'll be feeling 
 only half of the gameplay experience. 
  
  If you felt breathtaken when you first saw the game and its enviorement, when you start travelling 
 through Tamriel and discover its NEARLLY ENDLESS possibilities of game you'll really start to understand 
 why this game has marked a before and after in the PC RPG's game's history. You are trully free 
 to do whatever you want and you must face the consequences of your actions. You can be the tipical 
 good fellow and do whatever thing the NPC's of the main quest ask you, or you can free roam arround 
 Tamriel and become a notorious thief, a powerful and unbeatable warrior, a wise and mighty mage... 
 all in a world where every single step you make in your carrier will be noted by the guilds which 
 you want to join and even the normal people that live in Tamriel. 
  
  Perhaps it's dificulty can be a little opressive for the newbies to the world of RPG's, even for 
 the average RPG player, but there's also a virtue in that , as every single quest is a challenge 
 that you really dont know how will end,. There are many ways to end it, not only the antonomasic 
 win or "die & reload quest" Who knows if, with time, Bethesda Boys will launch updates with new 
 territories and quests to expand the life of the game (just like MMORPG games) , and even an expansion 
 with a gigantic amount of new quests and territories to explore. 
  
  To finish ths review, i'll say that this game has only lacked one thing to achive that so beloved 
 adjective tha tsearches every game, perfection: Multiplayer. If its fun to explore and quest in 
 this game on solo, can you dig what could have been to have its own in-game players comunity, questing 
 and batteling in the arena or sharing knowledges in the arcane university, or even doing big stealling 
 jobs to "gain" reputation in Tamriel? 
  Overall, this game is the best RPG to the date, and it will be a very long long time before another 
 game can score the succes that this Elders Scroll IV: Oblivion has achieved. And for the guys of 
 Bethesda, to you, you have ascended with this game to the olympus of the RPG games and entered 
 the gallery of Classics in the videogame history with this title.
  Congratulations and thank you very much for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazgul_Dude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  This game is without doubt one of the best games i have ever played. I first played it on the Xbox 
 360 with my friend and i new that when i started playing again then i would have to send a letter 
 to my parents and family saying goodbye i wont be seeing you for a long time now. But after that 
 day it was about 1-3 months before my brother got it on both his computers. It might sound like 
 a lot but i play that for atleast 5- 10 hours each day im here. The gameplay is great, the sound 
 is great, the combat is even greater, but the scenary is probably one of the best looking things 
 in the game. So if you havent played this game but want to then i suggest you buy it before you 
 are attack by a hear of flying killer monkeys that will force you to watch episode after episod 
 of barney the killer dinosaur. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Half_Life_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I know a great computer game when I see one and this one is nothing short of just that. Honestly, 
 all that's going through my mind is Elder Scrolls, last week I didn't even know it existed and 
 now it's all I can think about.
  
  Great game from top to bottom, although you may need a pretty decent computer, it's totally worth 
 putting that few hundred dollars into making it a powerful machine to play Oblivion on! Some of 
 the best graphics for an RPG out there by far.
  
  I'm usually not much for RPG's but this one is a down right MUST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_gable
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This is like such a good game its overwhelming to review. The gameplay, graphics, voice acting, 
 story, and much more is just so great. First off its a RPG game, you get to create your character 
 at the beginning, you can customize hundreds of sliders to make your character look how YOU want. 
 You can change eyes, faces, skin color, hair, race, sex, and more. The graphics in this game look 
 very sharp have great shadows and details in walls, landscape, building, people, monsters, and 
 anything else you could imagine. The game is pretty long if you play all the sidequests and complete 
 the main quests. there are hundreds of sidequests that you can play. The mainquest is about finding 
 the heir for the throne and closing the gates of Oblivion. There are numerous of weapons in this 
 game from swords, axes, hammers, bows, shortswords, and daggers. There are many diffrent sets of 
 armors included heavy like Steal and Iron and Light like Leather and Glass. This game is so good 
 anyone who likes RPG's should like this game. I highly recommend it if you have a high end PC or 
 a Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion in fact is a very nice game it graphics are absolute amazing, the world details, the landscape, 
 the quests, the option to do so many thigs, pick pockets, steal :P ,.... there is absolute no other 
 game which offers that, but even if its a great game of course it deserves its  9.0 it is a slow 
 game, level up takes a lot and u sometimes start to get bored.
  
  It is missing that touch when u say, yeah only 200exp and next level new abilityes, more powerfull 
 fighting moves, time to kick asses...!!!
  The only race which could maybe "fell" this emotions are the mages, because in my case I wanted 
 to learn the ultimate destruction spells, which do a very nice amount of damage.
  The level up system of Oblivion is more real but takes that "action touch" away.
  
  Fighting 
 (sword, mace,...) is also a very boring because there aren't different fighting moves there are 
 only normal attack, power attack and block. 
  If u are a Mage this is different u have a lot of spells to summon beasts to damage to open door, 
 get invisible,....., yeah different "fighting moves" but all absolute all fire (same true for lighting 
 and ice) spells look about the same ,... omg and the Ice speels its graphical layout is sooooo poooor. 
 U only see a white "ball" that is cast toward the enemy, an the he suddenly falls dead to the ground. 
 
  Its absolute great when u can say holy s**t , whats that abilty!!! an u see a real ice storm with 
 ice crystal flyeing all over the place freezing the floor and ur oponents an the water if there 
 is some near. (for the Blizzard spell)
  
  Thats what I call action which makes a game interesting.
  
  Don know what u think but If they 
 would have done it this way, it would have been OMFG !!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meska2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game is exactly what i thought it would be.. a great RPG experience. The beginning of the game 
 start out pretty slow, but once you start your first quest you'll be playing for hours! The graphics 
 for this game is just simply amazing, but requires a very high-end pc to enjoy to the fullest. That 
 would have to be the only downside to this game That, and the long load times.
  
  But If your looking for a pc game that has hours of game-play and is easily addictive then this 
 is a game for you.
  
  When i first started playing the Elder Scrolls Series, the games were Old-school. Then Morrowind 
 came along, it was a such a graphical jump from the last Elder Scrolls. Now Oblivion is just that.. 
 a graphical leap from Morrowind. So who knows maybe the next elder scrolls will be just as amazing 
 as oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannuck38
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  You can safely say that Elder Scrolls is a great game in its own rights. The huge world full of 
 quests, dungeons and forests to explore is something rarely seen in RPG's and it will literally 
 have you exploring for hundreds of hours. The sound is superb, gameplay and graphics are unique 
 but if your a hardcore gamer, you might notice some similarities.
  
  But to play this game at it's full strength you will need an XBOX console or a fully upgraded PC. 
 The game requires a LOT of hardrive space so even if you do have a 512MB RAM, shut down all other 
 processes. But not everyone has cash lying around ready to upgrade their PC's. I'm afraid this 
 game is restricted to those who have a console or a high end PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMcWord
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The huge world of Cyrodiil gives you an area that would take days to explore. Oblivion 
 is one of those games that sports a very user friendly interface, making it very easy to quickly 
 equip armor and weapons.
  
  The Bad: Frequent loading times that, depending on your computer (mine is a Dell Dimension 4700 
 Desktop) , can take a good amount of time, especially after you play for a few hours straight.
 
  
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion for the PC is an amazing experience. The many different aspects 
 of the game are pulled together very eloquently. In Oblivion you can decide on many paths to take. 
 You can go through the Main Quest non-stop, become a member of the Fighters, Mages, or Thieves 
 Guilds, or take a darker path and join the Dark Brotherhood. Each of these options offers a much 
 different style of game play, ranging from fighting for the good of Tamriel or murdering people 
 in their sleep on a Dark Brotherhood agenda. No matter what course you decide to take, Oblivion 
 is a great game.
  
  One of the aspects of TES that got me hooked on Morrowind is the detail of the environment and 
 ability to do anything you desire. The seemingly endless forests and wilderness, only broken by 
 the 9 cities of Cyrodiil, are an example of Bethesdas talent. The hundreds of quests throughout 
 the game offer a wide range of activities for the player to take part in. Another aspect that differentiates 
 Oblivion is the differences in the cities. In the North, the city of Bruma is rich in Nord traditions 
 and architecture, while the city of Anvil in the South offers a coastal atmosphere influenced by 
 the many peoples that come through the city.
  
  In Oblivion, and all the other TES games, you have the choice of deciding your race, birth sign, 
 and type. For example, I am a High Elf born under the mage and am a mage. The different types of 
 characters further make the experience of each player unique.
  
  The combat system has taken a huge jump from in Morrowind. In Morrowind your chance of hitting 
 someone depended on your skill with the type of weapon. In Oblivion you always hit them; your skill 
 depends on how much damage it causes.
  
  Oblivion is a wonderful RPG and I recommend it to everyone.
  
  DarthMcWord
  
  Positive 
 feedback is much appreciated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abelmaestro
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I`ve been playing this game since two months and I still hate it. The graphics and sound are good 
 but everything else is just horrible, worst gameplay I ever seened, the story is not interesting 
 at all, the main quest is REALLY SHORT, its so short that you could beat the game in one day. The 
 models to make the character are the ugliest I`ve seened in these days and the clothes desings 
 are frustrating. I buyed this game becouse of the Review that gamespot made (9.3) a real rape!!!. Well 
 guys I hope you read this and don`t make the same mistake I did (Do not buy this game) rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I got this game expected to spend hours of fun playing it. I spent about two hours on it and realised 
 that it sucked. The tutorial takes WAY too long --  almost an hour and a half! Then when you finally 
 get out on your own, all you do is run around forever finding someone who says you need to find 
 someone else miles away! After two hours I realised that I wasn't having any fun, so why was I 
 wasting my time on it? I uninstalled it immediately. The file took over 4 gigs! My computer is 
 VERY powerful, and the graphics weren't even as good as everyone says they are. I wouldn't waste 
 your time, money or computer space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vassa
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Even after the patch the game crashes at the spin of the hard drive.
  
  It doesn't share resources well. If you can keep it from crashing to desktop its pretty fun to 
 play. A spyware scan, A firewall alert, even an automated update check will cause the game to minimize. 
 Once that happens the game is locked and can only be stopped with a 3 finger salute. I've discovered 
 I have to lock my firewall and disable spyware & AVP to get more than 30 minutes straight. 
  
  The Graphics are good.
  The Skill based leveling system is nice.
  The Sniper action with 
 a bow is a blast.
  Manually fighting in melee (left-click attack, right-click defend) gets a little old but does add 
 some adrenalin.
  The MOBS show some tactical skills. WOO HOO.
  I like the game I just wish it didn't CTD every 30 minutes. (No it is not a problem with my hardware.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  The elder scrolls 4 oblivion is personally my favorite rpg and all around game I have ever played 
 so far in my life. It has great graphics and great sound. When you first pop in the disc and download 
 the game it might take a little bit but its definitely worth waiting. Once the game starts you'll 
 be hooked... trust me. The graphics are so unbelievably good if you have a high end pc. Even if 
 you don't the graphics are still really good. Bethesda totally went over the top with this game 
 and I can tell they tried. Thank you Bethesda for this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Excellent, bringing Morrowind to much more powerful PCs.
  
  Im running on AthlonXp 2800 1G Ram 400fsb (chaintech fx5500 agp)
  
  prior to the patch I would 
 say beautiful almost unplayable.
  
  Now after patch very playable on low settings, though the lowest resolution is technicly VGA not 
 even Svga, slightly dissapointing, though game lag prevents useful blocking.
  
  Nonetheless playable now, beter than a 50$ coaster.
  
  I would recomend Oblivion to anyone, 
 however a much beefier configuration would greatly increase functional playability.
  
  I may rereview after my next upgrade
  
  NOTE: compared to Morrowind I have found outdoor travel 
 much safer and dull, I wandered the ocean and only got attacked by 2 crabs. not enough random encounters 
 I am thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I am not an expert in RPGs .. and was not interested . But all the fuss about this game made me 
 try it out...
  
  It was worth it , the game turned out great. At first i liked the beautiful graphics and details 
 of the face and body of the characters but that was not a great achievment.. And as I began the 
 game I was impressed by the graphics of the enviroment even of closed areas.
  
  As you begin you get driven in a exciting storyline that leaves you sitting there for hours wanting 
 to know more to reach the end. The game delivers long hours of gameplay... but the interesting thing 
 is you never get bored.
  
  And for the Sound effects and characters it was done fantasticly .. although I disliked the fact 
 that impressons were not shown on their faces, while there was fear in their voices you can see 
 his face impression to be calm and bored.
  
  Despite this the game is great and worth a try even if you were not a RPG fan .. the game delivers 
 action, adventure and everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildo2020
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  The land of Cyrodill is a perilous place these days and you, the hero, will save not only Cyrodill 
 from the forces of Mankar Camoreans fiendish minions but the entire Empire of Tamirel! Well, of 
 course, you CAN do this but you can always decide somewhere along the line that its not worth it 
 and decide to not save anything and become a treacherous thief instead! The option is yours in 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. This game, like its predecessors, urges players to do what they 
 want whenever they want, full fledged opened ended gaming at its finest! 
  
  You begin the game in a dark, dank dungeon being mocked by a nearby prisoner. Not long after, the 
 emperor and his Blades come into your cell and attempt to escape the city through a secret passage. 
 After following the emperor and his Blades quite a ways the emperor dies and so begins your main 
 quest! From here on out you are on your own. The decisions you make are now your own and so are 
 the consequences! This is one of the best features of Oblivion, the thrill of being able to play 
 the game as you want! Once you get out of the cave there is no need to even bother with the main 
 quest. Instead you can practice with a sword, explore a little bit or maybe pick up a few quests 
 in one of the many cities in Cyrodill. That is just a sampling of what you can do! I would list 
 some more but, telling you may ruin your experience with such a fantastic game! I mean after all, 
 Im not the one playing!
  
  Another great feature of Oblivion is the amazing visuals! Lush forests with vegetation covering 
 the ground and beautiful flowers blowing in the wind are enough to make your eye pop out of your 
 skull in disbelief! The character models are also very well made and their lips are synced very 
 well to the superb dialog. Dungeon walls reflect light as if they were a bit moist and make way 
 for an eerie atmosphere. As if these savory visuals were not enough, Bethesda added support for 
 High Dynamic Range Lighting which makes all surfaces reflect light the way they would in the real 
 world. This makes for some very impressive scenery epically when light is shining through a hole 
 in the ceiling of a cave or the canopy of a forest. If you want these high end graphics however, 
 you will have to have at least a mid-range PC where you will receive some slow down in the more 
 hectic parts of the game. If you have a low end PC, I feel sorry for you because the only thing 
 you are going to be seeing is A LOT of fog and N64 type graphics.
  
  If you can remember to the days of Morrowind, you will recall that the combat system had a few 
 flaws. The first being that you would not always hit your foe even though it looked like a direct 
 slash to the face! This was because the higher your skill with that type of weapon, the higher 
 the chance to hit your enemy was! In Oblivion, the chance to hit your enemy has been done away 
 with! Every time you attack a foe you will hit them (granted you have your crosshair on them!) . 
 Your skill in weapons has also been changed to cause more damage and fatigue you less as your level 
 goes up. The same has been done with blocking. You now block manually by pushing the respective 
 button and your skill level will determine how much damage is blocked. Another aspect of the combat 
 system that was changed is the spell casting. In Morrowind you used to have to press a button to 
 ready your spell (which meant putting your sword and shield away) and then select a spell to cast, 
 then press the trigger button to actually cast the spell! In Oblivion this has all changed. You 
 can now assign a spell to a number and simply press the number to cast the spell without having 
 to sheathe your sword and risk losing a tight battle. 
  
  Many games have come and gone but few have gotten the voice acting right. A few games that come 
 to mind for excellent voice acting are Half Life 2, the Monkey Island Series, Splinter Cell and 
 of course Oblivion. They nailed this on the head! Oblivion easily has some of the best voice acting 
 that has ever been in a game. All characters have voices that match their look and attitude all 
 the way from the Emperor (played by Patrick Stewart) to the seemingly extra NPCs you find wandering 
 Cyrodill. 
  
  The only problem with Oblivion, however, is the transit system. Being able to move yourself from 
 place to place with the click of a button didnt come off as a good idea to me. Instead they should 
 have brought back transportation such as the silt striders, but had them actually transport you 
 to your destination. (think of the Griffons in World of Warcraft) .
  
  Oblivion is an extraordinary game that delivers on everything that its developers promised! From 
 the graphics all the way to the voice acting, everything was very well executed. This is a must 
 have for all gamers alike. If Oblivion is not in your collection by the Christmas of 2006, you 
 are doing yourself a grave injustice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djokomaler
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  the game is good, graphically unique and excellent, they tried and worked very hard. so graphics 
 gets 9 for it. it not 10 because its very demanding. not all of us have 1000 eur just lying around 
 to update our hardware.
  sound is good also. speech synchronised and all that. the 9 is for the fact that the music's bit 
 dull and everything sounds the same, which is boring, if not annoying.
  Now we get to the bad part- the gameplay, which is, putted simply just awfully disappointing.
 
  it's because bethesda just wanted the money
  the main ques is short, the sidequest are few and which is worse everywere there is an arrow to 
 point you in the right direction which makes you unnaware of the environment and focused just on 
 the pointed spot. so you don't bother at all, no more searching for the cave in the vast mountainside 
 like in MW, or searcing for some character in a city.
  you just lose time searching for the non important stuff and everything is just served on a silver (daedric) 
 platter.
  that it's made solely to please the masses, making more players, thus more profit. so no wonder 
 is 6 by me. nice but not nearly MW.
  the difficulty is annoyng. everything is easy, and when i have to slay a higher level monster, 
 which come by dozens in dungeons, i have to swing my sword about 50 times, or use 10 bars of mana 
 to destroy it, which is time consuming and annoyng (playng on average difficulty)
  there are so few quest, so few guilds, and so few artifacts so it's shorter the MW.
  so to compare 
 it to MorroWind.
  Oblivion its better looking, and sounds better, but that's is plain evolution. the game play it's 
 disappointing comparred to what we expected.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  i first time i played this game the first words that came out of my mouth were "WOW"
  
  gameplay- amazing trully amazing i have never had so much fun playing a game since legend of zelda 
 ocarina of time years ago. there is over 200 hours a gameplay so if u love these kinda of game 
 dont plan on seeing the sun for a couple days. you start out making a character. IT IS AMAZING. 
 you can shape him anyway you want. if you are good you could acually make a rough image of yourslef 
 HOW COOL IS THAT. the battleing is easy to get into and its fun. spellcasting is also great. it 
 plays diffrent than your normal rpg. instead of killing monsters and getting exp. to get better 
 at your sword skill you use your sword and you get better with it. same with spellcasting if you 
 want to get better at spellcasting you want to use use spells. the enviroments are amazing there 
 are dungions fields wooods moutains swamps ect.
  
  graphics- best i have ever seen. everything looks so realistic. both the 360 and pc version are 
 amazing. they are identical. so you cant go wrong. people look like people horses look like horses. 
 amazing fire water effects. again the greatest graphics i have ever seen in a game.
  
  sound- THE MUSIC IS SWEEET. its done by jeremy soule the guy who did guildwars music dungion seige 
 2 and morrowind. its amazing there is music for every situation. the voice acting is good. and 
 enviromant sounds are great
  
  value- 50 dollers for pc 60 for 360. BUT IT IS WORTH EVERY DOLLAR
  
  final thoughts. this game 
 is so great. i havnt played anything this fun since zelda.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: personguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable it has almost every thing youd like in a game
  It runs well on my comp I can pull off high on most settings with a good frame rate so id say a 
 geforce 6800 ultra will work fine.
  the graphics R0X3r5 to the max and there even better with the natural environment's mod.
  its 
 defenitly worth a buy and when the price goes down to $40 it will be 
  a better buy than it already is the 360 is a tiny bit bettter though i like it on my freinds 360 
 but i like the pc version too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdPizzaKid111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I think everyone knew that Oblivion was going to be a revolutionary masterpiece... actually, I 
 know every knew it. While Oblivion is one of the best games I have played, it unfortunatley cannot 
 earn a true 10/10 that everyone was expecting.
  
  To put it simply... Oblivion has the most beautiful graphics I have ever laid eyes upoun in a game... 
 even on my PC which is running with a kind of lousy ATI RADEON 9600 video card, the game is amazing. 
 I can't imagine it with a better card, but it must be even better. (You will be fine if you are 
 planning to play the game on a low end PC) . The textures look so real, and the faces and lip synching 
 make it look like you are watching a CGI Movie fresh from Hollywood... they are so life like. The 
 landscapes are awesome too, the only fault is that the mountains (when viewed from far away) are 
 flat and bland... but you hardly notice this.
  
  The gameplay is great, easily customizable difficulty, a good skill and levelling system, and a 
 good interface. Some of the small things that are flawed with the interface can be fixed with player 
 made Mods. The AI is the best I have EVER seen in a game. Period. The NPC's eat, sleep, battle, 
 sell things, converse with each other... and whether you choose to interrupt them is up to you... 
 and can have some pretty interesting results. The game also carries a system of whether people 
 like you, and it effects how much information you can get out of them, how they treat you, how 
 low their prices are (if they sell things) , etc.
  
  The main quest leaves a bit to be desired... overall it had a good plot and storyline, but it is 
 very short and the character development isn't as good as other games out there. However, the 100+ 
 other quests you can do in the world make up for this. My favorite part of the questing is that 
 you don't need to even start the main quest to enjoy the game. For the first 20+ hours I hadn't 
 touched the main quest at all, I was busy exploring, joining guilds, and doing jobs for NPC's. 
 
  
  Overall, Oblivion is AWESOME. It is like a powerfull drug though... you will be addicted for a 
 while, and it will slowly ware off... but for the amount of fun this game has brought me, it was 
 worth every penny at the store.
  
  Note: I recomend the PC version of the game over the XBOX 360 one because the PC version won't 
 get boring- you can keep making or downloading mods to expand upon the massive amounts of things 
 to do in the game.
  
  Oblivion gets a 9.4 out of 10
  
  Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that may not be one of those most innovative, but there is alot here 
 in the game than just a linear storyline, its just too bad this didn't have a multiplayer component.
 
  
  After playing through most of the side missions, and alot of the storyline I am in agreement with 
 most this is one of the best games of 2006. The game offers more than just a pretty face, it offers 
 a great storyline alot of side missions, guilds, and a choice what are you going to be?
  
  Graphically with all options set to maxium, (as long as the PC can handle it) , offers scale and 
 beauty, at the same times offers the hideousness of the creatures you face as well. OVerall everything 
 offered visually is excellent, and very, very well detailed.
  
  The setting offers, alot for a person to do, want to be a mage and join the mages guild? Go for 
 it! Its not an easy task, because to join any guild you must go through a string of sub quests 
 to get into the guild once in you got to go out and do more for the guild to incease your rank.
 
  
  Money can be made in any way - Sell your pirated booty, sell your services as a body guard, or 
 how abut you do some farming a pick up alchemist materials of the off beaten path. Of course you 
 could always go tomb rading...
  
  For me this game has not had one stability problem, and works great at max setting at 1440 X 900 
 resolution. I only wish this game did have an official online component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I guess you could call me a rabid fanboy of Morrowind. I've got all the expansions, all the epic 
 weapons, I even put so many mods on it that it eventually broke down and I had to start all over 
 again. But that didn't matter, because I've always loved Morrowind since the very day I first found 
 it in the discount bin of an EBGames.
  
  Folks, this game ain't no Morrowind.
  
  Even years before it came out I followed Oblivion mercilessly. Scrounging forums, looking high 
 and low for some leaked footage. I was practically obsessed. I actually believe that it was this 
 that lead to the reason why I didn't like it as much as I could have. 
  
  After reading all the hype and the technical stuff and all the different gizmos and wizbangs and 
 whatnot, it all started to become routine. Radiant AI went from "revolutionary", to "cool", and 
 all those graphics went from "mind-blowing", to "pretty". 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I like the graphics, in fact, they're some of the best graphics to ever grace 
 the earth, but that comes at a price. Your PC. Since I first got it, it seemed Oblivion was going 
 as slow as it could go. I could hardly walk around in a forest without coming into major framerate 
 problems. And don't get me wrong people, I've got a pretty good machine here. It's not top-of-the-line, 
 but it is good enough for what I need, games like Quake 4, Doom 3, Fear, and lots of other PC hogs, 
 but just trying to do the same things in Oblivion, with the same settings on, and I slow down to 
 a snail's pace. (In an almost ironic twist, I encountered almost identical errors in Morrowind, 
 which caused me to lose interest in the game until I upgraded to what I have now.)
  
  I really feel that the sound department is lacking the most. True, all the voice actors are very 
 good and professional, all 5 of them, and yes, there are a lot of nice little things, like the 
 crackling of a nearby fire, but I just can honestly say I did not care for the music. In Morrowind, 
 I felt the music really sucked you in. Just at the very title screen, you were met with a little 
 ditty that I still remember to this day, and hum often. It also gave me a sense that this was roleplayer's 
 territory. I could tell just by the title music that Bethesda wasn't making this game for money, 
 they were making this game because they wanted to make a truly good roleplaying game. I feel like 
 a lot of that has changed with Oblivion though. In fact, I hardly ever noticed the music anywhere. 
 I don't know if it was too quiet, or maybe it was just never playing the right song at the right 
 time, but where the music in Morrowind sounded like a bard recollecting my adventure, raiding caves 
 and saving people from villainous monsters, the music in Oblivion was just, you know, there. It's 
 not like it did anything special. If there was action, it would get a little louder, a little deeper, 
 but it still was just backround music. Voice acting was really nothing special, and I felt it would 
 have been better the way it was. With only like, five voice actors, all the characters seemed really 
 stale and transparent, but with a game with so many thousands of people, I guess it's unavoidable, 
 but I still would have preferred Morrowind's dialogue to Oblivion's.
  
  I'm sure that many people will confront me in the future saying, "You can't compare Oblivion to 
 Morrowind! The two are completely different! If you wanted Morrowind you should have just stuck 
 to it!" and I guess in a sense, they're right. Oblivion's no Morrowind, but I ask you, is it wrong 
 to wish for greatness? Is it wrong to wish for, even if it's almost the exact same game as Morrowind, 
 with only improved graphics, an honestly good game? I'm sure many people will spend many hours 
 playing Oblivion and love it, but it just feels so mainstream now. It feels like Bethesda decided 
 they got all the fanboys they need from Morrowind, now they can start making games for cash.
  
  In the end, Oblivion is a technical triumph, but just lacks that, special something that made 
 its predecessor so great in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratung
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda has almost got it right with Oblivion. Great graphics, open-ended game play, and good 
 character generation and progression. 
  
  After being fed up with games that force you to progress through the game in a linear fashion. 
 It is nice to be able to go and do whatever you want, whenever you want. 
  
  The storyline is good and the side quests are fun also. I love the ability to mod the game and 
 have added several to my install.
  
  And, although I choose to hoof it, the fast travel is great.
  
  Although near perfect and a 
 definite improvement in gaming, there are some things I would like to see changed. First, I am 
 not a big fan of having the difficulty adjusted for the level of my character. Some areas should 
 be too difficult for certain levels. Second, I would like to see tha ability to hunt or camp certain 
 creatures.
  
  Even though I do not play EQ anymore. Those were the things that made EQ fun. The ability to say 
 I want to go hunt giants for awhile and try to get (fill in the blank) and know that you were going 
 to have to cross through areas that were too dangerous for you level but doing it anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahilpatelbc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I got to say that this game is amazing. If you have a high end computer then you are in for a blast. 
 For more info on specs check out my profile. This game has amazing visuals. The scenery and people 
 look almost real. Sometimes I just love looking at the mountains from far away. Same thing with 
 the sound. All the characters have unique speeches. There are sounds for everything. Simply it 
 is just amazing. The character customization is very detailed and easy. The game play is easy and 
 fun. I enjoy how they added two new guild, The Dark Brother Hood ( my favorite) and the Thieves 
 Guild. In total there are four main guild with many many semi-guilds. After about ten to fifteen 
 hours this game feels very repetitive. Simply you talk to someone, they give you a quest, and you 
 do it. This was when the addictiveness wore off. Currently this game is on my shelf not being played. 
 Simply this game is worth for about twenty hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kireiyami
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I am a rabid fan of the previous game in the series, Morrowind. I have to say that the game threw 
 me off a bit at first, but once I got my feet wet, I began to greatly appreciate what they've done 
 with this game. I expected a prettier-looking Morrowind, but got much more. The new way they've got 
 the skills set up is definately better balanced and less frustrating than Morrowind. Honestly, I 
 have only three complaints about the game. One, When you reach the edge of the world map, you're stopped 
 by an invisible wall. I do not like that, as it lacks realism. Two, I wish they had kept in the ability 
 to become a werewolf. Three, they should have kept the unarmored skill in the game.
  Those things aside, I recommend this game to anyone. It's immersive, addictive, and flexible in gameplay. Its 
 great that they kept in the freedom of Morrowind, which is what truly got me into the game, and the 
 new additions to the game really make it shine.
  
  To those unfamiliar with Morrowind, or its predecessors, it could be frustrating to set up a character 
 that you're satisfied with, but those familiar can jump right in and build exactly what they want. If 
 you are new to the series, experimentation is in order when building your character (s) .
  
  All in all, this is an excellent game that anyone with the system that can run it should own.
 
  
  I've got to go back and play some more.... I'm addicted!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Oblivion are amazing. Graphical features include such things as high-dynamic range 
 lighting (which simulates how the human eye adapts to suddenly changing light sources and simulates 
 light brighter than your monitor can display) , procederally generated fauna (Randomly generated 
 trees and plants) and per-texel lighting. 
  
  As a result of those features and more, the graphics in Oblivion are nothing short of impressive. 
 However the game's programming in this department leaves a lot to be desired. First off, Oblivion 
 does not scale well on the PC. If you do not have the latest and greatest hardware, you will suffer 
 from long loading times and low framerates. 
  
  It is understandable that Oblivion cannot run in all it's visual glory with anything less than 
 state of the art hardware. However, even with graphical settings turned down, it is very difficult 
 to get the game to run at an acceptable speed on slow hardware. Half-Life 2 and Valve's source 
 engine demonstrated that you do not have to sacrifice the ability to run on older hardware in order 
 to have state of the art graphics. 
  
  Furthermore, on nVidia graphics cards, the afforementioned HDR lighting cannot be used in conjunction 
 with anti-aliasing (a video rendering technique that smoothes out the rough edges of lines) . This 
 is partially in part due to architecteral limitations of nVidia's current graphics cards, but also 
 in part due to limitations in Oblivion's coding. 
  
  There are ways to allow anti-aliasing and HDR lighting at the same time on nVidia's cards, Bethesda 
 has simply chosen not to make the effort to do so. A third party has already demonstrated how to 
 do HDR that works with anti-aliasing using a program that consists of 50 lines of code. It is appalling 
 that Bethesda could not have taken the time to do such. 
  
  One new feature that Oblivion has is full voice-overs of all dialog. In Morrowind, all dialog was 
 text based. This does add realism in some cases but it also limits the amount of interaction with 
 other characters in the game. Whereas in Morrowind, the average character had 10-15 topics of conversation, 
 in Oblivion there are only 4 or 5. Furthermore, only a handful of voice actors were used so everyone 
 sounds the same. 
  
  The gameplay in Oblivion is another mixed bag. In someways, the gameplay has improved but much 
 has been sacrified in order to make the game more mainstream. 
  
  For starters, there is the quest arrow. Whenever you got a quest in Morrowind, you were given directions 
 by the character who gave you the quest and it was up to you to find the location. In Oblivion, 
 an arrow appears on the compass to guide you to the quest location. In theory, this is a pretty 
 good idea. In practice, it's overdone to the extent that it's more like a constant hand-holding. 
 For example, there is more than one quest where the player is given the task of investigating something 
 such as a murder and the arrow guides the player right to the people they are susposed to interview. 
 I do not mind the arrow guiding me towards directions given by another character, but I do not 
 like the idea of having it solve puzzles for me. 
  
  Another area where the game has been "mainstreamed" is combat. Morrowind had a complex combat system 
 with multiple damage types, not only for spells but weapons. In Oblivion, each weapon only has 
 a single damage type and there are a lot less spells. The combat system has gone from a statistics-based 
 system where your characters skill determined how much damage you did and if you hit to a twich 
 based system. 
  
  One of the most irritating aspects of this new system is the recoil. Every so often, when your 
 character gets hit by an enemy for anything over a moderate amount of damage, your character recoils 
 and gets thrown back. In first-person mode, this effect is very disorienting and can induce motion 
 sickness in some people. Bethesda has provided no way to turn it off. 
  
  Furthermore, theres the skills. In Oblivion, the total amount of skills has been reduced. Instead 
 of short blades and long blades, you simply have blades. There is no medium armor, just heavy and 
 light. Enchanting has been reduced to a benefit of being a member of the mages guild and is useless. 
 By reducing the amount of skills, Bethesda has taken a lot of challenge out of building a character 
 that has a well rounded set of skills. 
  
  Finally, there is the main quest. In my opinion, it was too short and too repetitive. Without getting 
 into too much detail, a good deal of the main quest involves the player "closing down" Oblivion 
 gates, which are portals into the Elder Scroll's equivilant of hell. In order to close down the 
 gate, you must venture into it and to the top of the tower inside the realm it leads to. It was 
 fun the first and second times. The concept started to get old around gate 5. By the end of the 
 main story, I had closed down 10 Oblivion gates. The main story does have great voice acting, courtesy 
 of the likes of Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean, and it does have a great ending. But the story itself 
 was too short. 
  
  In it's own right, Oblivion is a good game. However, as a sequel to Morrowind, it fails on many 
 levels. If one forgets the fact that Oblivion is susposed to be a sequel to Morrowind and plays 
 it for what it is, then it can be a very enjoyable experience. However, if one plays it as a sequel 
 to Morrowind, it will most likely be a let down. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, Oblivion is a great game. But it could have been much more. Bethesda joined 
 the recent industry trend of focusing more on vanity such as graphics and voiceovers than on actual 
 gameplay. However, graphics are not what make a game. Content and gameplay are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindMILITIA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about one month ago and I still haven't beaten it. There are so many quests to 
 complete, so if you are stuck, pull off a few quests and come back. The sound quality is great, 
 and the graphics are pushing my card to the limit. My gaming rig is very new, so it says alot about 
 how much power this game needs to run. Facial details are great, and people react realistically. 
 I gave this game a ten not because it is a game that will attract everybody, but because it excells 
 at what it tries to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tute_fruy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  game overall. One word comes to mind when I think about this game, and that one word is "solid". 
 This game is pretty much technically perfect, and along with that, pretty fun too. The graphics 
 are astonishing, even if you do not have them set on the highest settings, and the gameplay is 
 that of something like an MMO. A great number of quests, fun to do, many characters you can interact 
 with, and a great system of hero/villain going as well. You want to be the hero? Go on and save 
 the world then. You want to be the theif? Go on and steal (just don't get caught, or the soldiers 
 lets just say won't be all too friendly with you, nevermind the citizens) . You can also change 
 your ways. Tired of living the life of crime? Well, you could always serve your time, or pay the 
 fine. You want to be a villain? Well if murder and glee is your game, go on and join the Dark Brotherhood 
 and take part in their murderous tasks to fulfill your blood-thirsty spirit. You can be anyone, 
 anything, and have fun doing it. Oh, and while you are out there being hero or villain, why not 
 become the most legendary warrior and become the grand champion at the arena? I mean, you might 
 aswell. Great game, great gameply, great graphics, great everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up at the local Best Buy because of seeing the ratings for this game.. so I go on..
 
  
  I was just blown away with the impressive detail put into the game at almost every turn in the 
 world, from the NPCs to all the choices for your character and the variety of weapons, armor and 
 accessories.
  
  Not only the main quest is lengthy (60+ hours myself) , but all the side quests with the guilds/factions 
 and other things keep you hanging on for more.
  
  The modding community is pretty much flourishing, with this game which seems to extend the life 
 of the game... I do recommend several mods if you want seemingly original gameplay: No Psychic guards 
 , MerchantPlus , Martigen's Monster Mod and Life .
  
  You need a really good computer for this game of you want to squeeze as much detail for this game.
 
  
  I strongly recommend buying this if you are into RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought WOW the intro to the game is sooo great :) What first let me down is how small 
 the cities and the actual map is. In the previews it was made out to be sooooo big but actually 
 i found the world to be boring and small.
  
  THe story is great and i can't fault it and i love the whole mythic dawn thing :)
  
  Gameplay:
 
  
  I can't fault it other than annoying features like vampirism.
  
  Graphics:
  
  They look good if you have a high end machine but when their turned down it looks horrid. I personally 
 think the faces are horrible too.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound effects are good but the city ecology isn't upto scratch and you often hear random convo's 
 that make no sense.
  
  There's just tooo little music in the game, seems to often repeat the same stuff over and over.
 
  
  Value:
  
  Great value for 20 (UK) 
  
  
  All in all it's a good game but i wanted more and wanted it to feel more epic. The world id boring 
 and looks all the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fons1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  this game is sooooo goood, the graphics and the sounds are amazing, soo much details, the choice 
 to expand it with mods. ive played this game for over 400 hours and it still isnt borring, its 
 soooooooo big. the level-based drops of monsters and level based power of the monsters are a goooooood 
 thing becouse it makes the game more balanced. the only thing that i miss is a multi player option 
 but they wanted a single player game, and they made a real good 1 :D if you want a good game buy 
 this 1 it will keep you buzy for a long long time :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoPirate
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I just don't understand what everybody sees in this game. In my own opinion, and I'm a huge RPG 
 fan, it really isn't so great. Though its much better than Morrowind in almost every way, its still 
 not too appealing to me. Morrowing had three colors, Brown, Grey, and Darker Grey. I'm proud to 
 say that they found out about some new colors, such as white, green, and red, significantly improving 
 the graphic appeal. The music is more of ambience than anything, though I see how people could 
 like that. Morrowing was pretty boring in all aspects, especially the fighting. The battles weren't 
 exciting or engaging or anything. In Oblivion, the fighting system has been improved greatly, and 
 you can actually have some fun fighting, though its still not the best I've ever played. So basic 
 review is... Much like Morrowind, but better fighting, colors, and graphics. Its a large improvement, 
 but it'll have to go a lot farther until I say I like an Elder Scrolls game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luchofeio
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  first i would like to say im from Brazil, so my english wont be perfect, but i feel its good to 
 add some vision from people outside the US.
  
  When I first saw this game coming out i didnt put much hope for it. I tough it was going to be 
 another Hack and slash rpg.
  Of course I was wrong. For anyone that got tired of clicking and clicking battle this is the game. 
 I never saw any game that has this kind of battle system, as you must control your actions facing 
 an opponent. Blocking, slashing, going back, and to the sides. 
  The graphics are perfect, but you need a good system to run it.
  Now for me the best part of 
 this game are the options within it. This reminds me of Ultima Online, because you can be whatever 
 you want, from thief to an alchemist. And the game lets you be this way. Millions of options to 
 interact with the world. And I must add that the thief system is the best i have ever seen in a 
 game.
  Worth buying it, Worth wasting your life time in it. Its the best RPG game ever.
  I just wish they make a MMORPG like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsfan22
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  For fans of rpg's, you will love this. The world is amazingly deep. You truly feel like you are 
 in a living, breathing world. Having said that, there were a couple things that caused me to become 
 bored with the game.
  
  Graphics: yes the world looks amazing. BUT, the spell effects do not. Everquest has better looking 
 spell effects not to mention all the new MMORPG's that have amazing looking spell effects (everquest 
 2 and City of Heroes/Villains come to mind)
  
  Gameplay: Quite frankly, its kind of boring. Just keep clicking the left mouse button then block 
 when needed. Too simple for me. And the interface only allows 8 spells to be hotkeyed (thats not 
 the bad part) .... the bad part is that you quickly forget which skill is where because the hotkeys 
 are not even on the screen. You have to push a button to bring up the circle of spells. Any MMORPG 
 figured this problem out years ago.
  
  Those two problems keep me from playing this game and if I hadn't difitally purchased this game, 
 it would be sold by now.
  
  Thats not to say this is a bad game but if the fighting and spell effects had been better, this 
 would have been a 10.
  
  The score I gave says a 6.7 but I think its more like a 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishmail6
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  wow, this game is incredible... it would be insane if it were online though. everything about it 
 is perfect, the graphics, the gameplay, the sound, it's complexity is incredible. i love this game, 
 it may just be the greatest rpg or even game i have ever played. you need a great system to run 
 it on full graphics though and it doesnt support hdr with the x850. it is really long and even 
 when youre dont the main quest, it doesnt get boring, there are just so many things to do and so 
 much to explore. if anyone wants a great rpg, i suggest getting this. you wont be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dottyspring
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The Very beginning, with customizing your char is gr8, you instantly make YOU. You are instantly 
 thrown into the gameplay and as you proceed you become immersed. There is great freedom in this 
 game with the vast explorable world with snow on th mountains and the swaying bushes with detailed 
 interactable characters with voices. This Game is without doubt worth buying as it is the only 
 game in a long time I haven't beat in a weekend, I've literally been playing it for weeks. Some 
 criticisms however are the similarities in races at the start that don't make much difference, 
 the maybe 10 voice actors the have doing all the chars is a big let down as seems repetitive. The 
 use of Sean Bean as voice of Martin was good casting and truly adds to his char. These slight let 
 downs with voices and character creation are truly out weighed by the quality and Quantity of gameplay 
 to be found in Oblivion... A must buy for RPG fans, without doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trukosh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  It's like... the largest game I've ever seen. You can do everything (well , except a good looking 
 orc) . If the action sequences were more like the ones in Fable it would be the perfect RPG. Let's 
 hope that Fable II has something to say after the arrival of the new king!
  
  Great missions, the customizable characters are soooooo cool, great action, lots of quests, a giant 
 world, excellent weapons... fun guaranteed.
  
  The only thing that broke my heart were the graphics. It's just so prev gen that it hurts.
  
 
  I widely recommend this highly addictive game to everyone who has the patience to sit down and 
 enjoy a colossal RPG. Sports fans... you should pass this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jolandir
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a great example of a quality game. It's game play, under lying 
 story, graphics, options and modify-ability is top notch. The diversity of characters and the ability 
 to creatively design your own character and class is great. In this department I would have liked 
 more variety and more "elfish" looking faces, as well as more variety of rather than nuances of 
 differences in facial and body features and colorizations.
  
  The story is great and the true depth of side stories, with the option of playing a great game 
 without having to even finish the primary story is wonderfully well thought out story lines and 
 design. Add to this the ability to add mods of such a wide variety makes this game truly playable 
 over and over again without having to think well I have been here and done this already several 
 times. In fact entirely new worlds can be designed and played through its game world design utilities, 
 but be sure to at least play through the game once as is with exception of bug fixes of course.
 
  
  If there is a major warning it is that, as usual, the Elder Scroll games are very graphic intensive. 
 So you can't really play this game on a low end system even after tweaking down all the graphics 
 to gain speed, you still will not be able to truly play this game well.
  
  It is certainly not perfect, but it definitely out shines the vast, vast majority of games pushed 
 out. If game producers and designers would ever learn that it is quality and depth that make great 
 games then they will some day make billions more dollars over what they are even currently making. 
 It is a shame that so many games are truly not play worthy and are real waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAngelox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Well here it is, my first review, and how else could it be about the latest RPG by Bethesda Softworks: 
 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Although some think it is not as good as its predecessor Morrowind. 
 I cant really decide. Oblivion fixed some major flaws in Morrowind: Like enhanced combat, AI, 
 ragdoll physics, Havok physics and of course new stunning graphics.
  
  Ill be reviewing the game through the points given by Gamespot:
  Game play.
  I find Oblivions 
 game play amazing, Ive also played Morrowind and I must say the game is somewhat dumbed down. 
 Usually its just follow the arrow. Also because the dialogue is spoken (which I find great) the 
 descriptions of the quests arent very long, not leaving any space for in depth quests. Still I 
 find the quests most amusing to play, especially the Daedra Quests. The Combat however has greatly 
 increased, while in Morrowind it was just hack n slash, Oblivion changed that entirely with even 
 an option to yield. Overall I give Oblivions game play a 9. I would have liked a bit more depth 
 and thinking involved. 
  
  Graphics.
  A huge leap forward from Morrowind, face animations, trees waving with the wind, and a lot of different 
 small details that make this games graphics amazing. Also with the Make it Pretty pack you can 
 make the world look even more beautiful. I cannot play the game at full detail but already the 
 graphics amaze me, Ive seen some screenshots of the game with everything on high and it looks 
 brilliant. I give this Oblivions graphics a 10.
  
  Sound.
  I must say I liked the Morrowind music better. I dont have a lot to say about it, but the sound 
 is also a great feature of the game. The voice acting has been done brilliantly however I would 
 have like a bit more variety in the voices in the game, 1 person per race just isnt enough! Also 
 much of the taunts recur. Also here I would have liked a bit more diversity. I give Oblivions 
 sound a 9. 
  
  Value
  What can I say about Value? The game has an amazing value, I got the Collectors Edition, and the 
 bonus material (which I only got round to watching when the pc being able to run Oblivion occupied) 
 is great stuff to watch. And you just gotta love the your own Septim. The game itself also has 
 great value, you have endless possibilities of creating your character, and also the ability to 
 built mods and expand your game with them are giving the game great value. I give Oblivions value 
 a 10.
  
  Tilt
  I dont have a lot of things to say about the tilt of the game. Buy the game and experience it 
 yourself. I give Oblivions Tilt a 10.
  
  This brings Oblivions total rating to 9.6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a MUST for any serious gamer looking for fun out there! This game has it all man! Huge... and 
 i mean HUGE world to explore. Beautiful graphics and lush environments and a whole lot of content. 
 There are tons of things to do in this game like becoming the most famous Grand Champ Gladiator 
 to ever live in Cyrodiil, to becoming the most infamous assasin to ever grace the shadows. Hell, 
 if you wanted to, you could rob every single person in the game just for kicks or maybe even get 
 caught doing somehting against the law and get sent to jail so you could break out a couple of 
 minutes later... AND ALL JUST FOR KICKS! Seriously, the only problem of this game is it pretty much 
 needs the top of the line hardware to run it or else your gonna get on a train to LAG CITY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing!!! Superb graphics and sound, excellent replay value and many many 
 quality hours of good fun! Oblivion is such a special game because it is the first one that manages 
 to capture sound roleplaying with fast paced action all in one package! It is entirely up to the 
 player how he wants to approach the gameplay. That unique trait of Oblivion makes it the success 
 it is! The replay valu it offers is tremendous, because of the variety of characters you can create 
 and therefore the various playing styles that you can adopt. As my first character i had a rougue 
 mage who specialised in stealth and magic. After that i went through the game with a straightforward 
 warrior. It felt like i was playing an entirely different game and both times the experience was 
 immersive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jard13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  It is what you would expect from an rpg (fps view is mehh . . .) but with beutiful graphics.
  Need a good PC for it to be fully expirenced.
  So many mods it is hard to find the one you want.
 
  I predicte that es5 will take out wow, and be a mmorpg . . . 
  Now I am randomly rambling so I have to get back on topic.
  The game has a lot of hidden lil 
 stuff, but you can beat the main story quickly, a lil 2 quickly . . . 
  Now I have to have 100 words to create this review and that limit is pissin me off . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most addictive games I have ever played in my life. The world is 
 just so much fun to run around in, the customization you are able to do with your character. The 
 list goes on and on.
  
  The graphics in this game, have got to be some of the best I have ever seen come from a RPG, they 
 are just stunning, the only down side is that if you do not have a good computer then the game 
 runs like crap and you dont even want to play. I personally run a Sapphire X800 XT PE, and I have 
 to run the game at High detail with the draw distance down, that way I get the nice looking textures 
 but the only downside to the draw distance is that you can see things popping up 60 feet in front 
 of you.
  
  This game has good sound, and it really helps to have 5.1 surround-sound, without it you might 
 be getting attacked by a rat or crab and be looking all over for it, and you will be able to hear 
 people sneaking up behind you.
  
  As I have told many people it takes quite a bit of getting used to, for instance I do not read 
 manuals so what happened was I was picking things up and the tutorial does not tell you how to 
 drop items, so I got overweighed and could not move. I quickly ran over to Google and looked it 
 up and it was one of the last things I would have thought of, Hold Left-Shift and Left Click on 
 the item you wish to drop. So there are some game play things that take a wile to get used to 
 but after a wile you get really fast at it, I say it took me about an hour to get used to how everything 
 worked,
  
  The map is huge, without a horse and the fast travel feature you would spend hours just walking 
 to places to do quests. The fast travel works by brining up the map and if you have been either 
 told where a location is or you have already been there then you are able to click on it and then 
 select fast travel, the game then simulates the amount of time it would take to get there and adds 
 it onto the clock, then you are spawned in the new location. This is a very great thing for all 
 those that played number 3 and got annoyed with all the walking.
  
  The one downside as to any single-player game is the fact that you and your friends can not team 
 up and fight the forces of evil. I would definitely like to see them have some multiplayer co-op 
 in the 5th one. This would make this game the greatest RPG of all time. The only reason I can see 
 them not having it is the server would need to be a super computer to keep track of all of the 
 items in the game.
  
  There are just so many things you can do, from putting cheese and bread together to make a sandwich 
 to heal yourself, to buying a house, to buying a horse. If you want to do something in the game, 
 chances are you can do it.
  
  Just pick yourself up a copy of the game, but be sure to read the system requirements for the game, 
 and make sure your computer can play it. If not the upgrading you will need to do will probably 
 surpass the price of a Xbox 360 and if that is the case then you should pick one up for this game. 
 It is defiantly worth it.
  
  An IcIrIs Must Own product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treeves80015
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is an immersive, well designed and engrossing role-playing game that should set the standard 
 for all such games for years to come. Simply brilliant! If you are looking for an open-ended yet 
 structured environment within which to lose yourself for days on end, you've come to the right 
 game! The depth and creativity make every other RPG on the market seem simplistic and antiquated. 
 There is Oblivion, and then there is PONG. You choose!
  
  As for the playability, I can attest that it doesn't take the reflexes of a teenager to excel in 
 this game. The controls are intuitive and quickly mastered and fighting is a VAST improvement of 
 the previous version of Elder Scrolls which was an element which had quickly turned me off. The 
 developers knew what they were doing every step of the way and I couldn't be more pleased. Oblivion 
 gets my highest rating to-date! Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  In Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, you assume the role of a courageous hero. This game has so many 
 things to do, it will blow you away! You can explore, do side quests, play the regular campaign, 
 join a guild, complete tasks for your guild and go up in rank, explore the spacious world that 
 your hero lives in, or just mess around. While the game is not an MMO, it more than compensates 
 with its player-like NPC's. I would recommend it to any one with a good computer. Since Oblivion 
 has such lush graphics and scenery, it requires a vast amount of space and a very good computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oz_tim
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the game now for more than 110 ten hours. It is the best game I have ever played. 
 The annoying things like a map that is too small and colourless are all simply fixed by installing 
 some mods. A must have game and I recommend it to everyone! I normally only play First person shooters 
 and never roller playing games. This game is just great-looking and huge! The freedom of choice 
 in everything that you can do is really appealing to me as well. Recommended mods: BT-mod, key 
 chain mod, color-map mod, natural environments mod, lod replacement mod, DEJ harvest mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofblade
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game, but in my opinion, overrated. It allows you to do millions of things 
 that can either be fun, or just annoying. Lock picking was great fun, as well as sneaking. However, 
 due to the fact you are constantly doing it, repairing armor was not. Also, while many people enjoyed 
 the character customization, I always just pressed random until I got a face I liked. Really, I 
 don't think left cheekbone complexion will effect my game that much. But the huge amount of glitches 
 in the game, did. And that is why I think it is overrated. The designers spent time working on 
 completely unnecessary additions to the game, when they could have spent that time instead smoothing 
 out the glitches. Twice now, I have had to delete a character due to a glitch that made playing 
 impossible. Also, the game is constantly freezing, and while some glitches are funny, others are 
 annoying.
  The game has nice soundtrack, but quiet. You only get to hear a great, dramatic sound twice, and 
 then it becomes more like a buzzing noise in the background. The guilds were probably the funnest 
 thing to do in the game, and the storyline was mostly just a long quest. It ends quickly, but luckily, 
 you can keep on playing to your heart's desire after you beat it. Vampirism can be annoying, and 
 it is impossible to get it cured if you have beaten the game due to a glitch, but overall the realism 
 in the game is fun. Oblivion is a great, fun, game that you can last the rest of your video gaming 
 life. You could create an Argonian archer, a Nord paladin, and so on. You are offered countless 
 possibilities, and the game is only cut short of perfection due to its constant glitching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Sure oblivion is great and I loved it while it lasted. I guess that i just wish the quests kept 
 coming but unfortunately they don't. Its graphics are awesome and the world is quite big. With 
 this said, oblivion could have been much more epic. There is a lot to do, but it seems so repedative 
 after a while. There are many different weapons and clothing but all of these feel the same, sure 
 the stats on a elven armor are better that iron but other that that and a different color, or at 
 least shade of color, they look the same. And the magical items are just the normal one with different 
 magical abilities. Plus you only get to use a item so much before it must be recharged.
  It is cool how you can create your own magical weapons but it seems too restricted. As for the 
 sound, other than weapon clanging, they should have added more of a lord of the rings style music 
 background.
  Now, other than the repetative caves and houses, this game does show a great start to what could 
 be an outsanting game. add a lot of value and mix things up a bit and this would be worth a lot 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigjeffery82
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game is truly astonishing. The visuals are very impressive and i'm only running a 6600gt. 
 The gameplay is great too. If you get a little tired of following the main campaign which is very 
 indepth, you can wonder off in any direction exploring the huge world of Cyrodiil. You can do everything 
 from buying a house, to starting a war. There is allways something new to look for and explore. 
 They say theres over 200 hours of gameplay and i don't think there exagerating. Most of the reviews 
 say this game is a masterpiece but can be even better with a high end rig. It was this game that 
 made me think about upgrading my pc. So my measley Athlon64 3000+ 1 gig of RAM and 6600gt can go 
 to my brother and i'll wait for my new Athlon64 3800+ 4gb of RAM and a 7900gt to arrive. I'm so 
 looking forward to playing this game on high settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andz5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - First person view or 3rd person view, highly recommended that you use the first person 
 view because... well... buy the game and you will understand. Its basically a FPS but with melee, 
 you control a character like you would in an FPS, except being a FPS its a very long RPG. You don't 
 need to focus on leveling or anything at all though, because everything around you adjusts to your 
 own character. You could be level 1 throughout the entire adventure and still go through the entire 
 game normally and beat it, although the only way to do that is to not go to bed in game forever, 
 which is almost impossible. This game is just very opened ended, you could join guilds and get 
 to the highest rank at which where you own the guild. Or just stick to the main quest line and 
 go for it. Whichever path that is picked are both definately fun.
  
  Graphics - Amazing... just... amazing...
  
  Sound - Ehh. Good
  
  Value - Worth every penny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Hydra_X
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the hit RPG of the season, which isnt suprising judging on the competition, but since 
 morrowind , I believe the game has lost many of its key features.
  When you come to starting the game you have many options on the appearance of your character but 
 the actual races and classes are very indiverse, as now im a level 21dark elf", that I had originally 
 set out to become and archer. However I have a staff that hits more than my bows, and doesnt use 
 up arrows.
  It is far too easy just to become into a tank, or staff tank, with on my cases i know of people 
 getting , umbra and full ebony ( very good armour, quite easy to attain) , using umbras soul capture 
 to fill soul gems, and just tanking. Enchanting all of the ebony armour and enchanting a claymore. 
 With alot of strength and endurance , not dependant on class or race, it is too possible to tank. 
 
  That said , there are many mods out there to improve the game, and hopefully patches , but it would 
 work alot better if Bestheda offered a system to download mods, or etleast had a site dedicated 
 to them, and hand picked the best, as there is very many on the internet.
  In conclusion , with enough mods, patches and playing dedicated to the way you set out to be , 
 not diving into the main storty and finishing that immediately oblivion can be alot of fun, offering 
 some very stylish gameplay and graphics, but it seems to be slightly dumbed down , probably due 
 to the fact it came out on x360. 
  Better or worse than morrowind? If you can be bothered to download mods and play it the way its 
 meant to be played better, a masterpiece, if not , an average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  There's so much in this game that you will love that you can't stop playing it. I have played for 
 more than a hundred hours and there's still so much more to explore.
  
  Buy it and play it today if you haven't already. This game is almost better than life itself. (Would 
 be if there wasn't any good games like these to be played in the real world - I don't know what 
 i'm saying)
  
  Everything in this game is as close to perfection that you can get. I mean forget all those other 
 games just focusing on one thing that mostly don't live up to your expections. Here is a game with 
 alot of elements and which suceed in all of them while looking better than anything you ever saw 
 and tasted better than anything you ever tasted.
  
  Get it now and let your life fall into oblivion where it belongs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_chokolate
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I think that I've found a game that actually has enough depth to get me hooked. Now, I'm not exactly 
 going to categorize this game because it falls under more than one category. It's both an RPG and 
 an Action game, but it does a great job of mixing them together. 
  First off, the graphics are insane. If you have a good Video Card you won't be disappointed. Get 
 some DDR too (Ram. And you should have at least a gig and a half or 2 gigs.) This game is within 
 the top three best-looking games of all time. The eye candy is everywhere and this is the first 
 game that actually makes trees realistic looking.
  Storyline is this game's only major flaw. It's too short to keep you hooked. I mean, honestly, 
 it's not exactly a "classic" storyline.
  
  It's got an emperor who gets assassinated. Big surprise. 
  A hidden son. Woohoo. 
  And a series 
 of obstacles keeping you from destroying your enemy. That's nice. 
  I've seen worse, but it's the only major deduction to the grade. 
  
  It had enough depth to 
 keep me going for a while though. I've played for more than 60 hours now. The guilds are pretty 
 interesting, especially the Dark Brotherhood. They've got some characters to keep your interest. 
 
  But there is something that I don't get.... why the hell would anyone want to put a universal levelling 
 system in a game of this caliber??? It kind of screws the whole point of the game. You can kill 
 a pretty tough creature right? And then you come back 10 levels later and you think "Hmmm... looks 
 like a piece of cake" Not exactly, it still takes the same amount of hits to kill as it did when 
 you were level 1. This really sucks. 
  Let's look at the bright side some more though: This game has virtually no limits to what you can 
 do. You can rob a house if you want to, you can kill a random person, fight in the arena, join 
 a guild, follow the storyline, look for berries and crap to make potions, fight random creatures, 
 treasure hunt, explore the map with hardly any limits. 
  All in all this game deserves recognition. But let's not kid ourselves. This game is definitely 
 NOT the BEST RPG or action game. Period. It's great and it's worth the buy if you want something 
 to do for 50+ hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsKing
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest RPG of all time! It's firstperson/thirdperson adventuring in the making! Exploring 
 the new world with sword and sheild in hand. The new aim, hit, block attacks with sheild battling 
 is AWSOME! The graphics are as smooth as a babys bottom, no I'm not a perve I just couldn't find 
 somthing better to say. This game will make you feel as though your living in this world! The NPC's 
 are amazing! They talk and say wat eva and do wat eva, the lock picking system is better too. I 
 recommend a graphics card of about 256mb or higher to really get the feel of this game. Nothing 
 more can be said, but to try it for yourself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalarr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has come out as one of the best single player RPGs in the past couple 
 of years. Not since Neverwinter Nights has a game been so warmly received and anticipated.
  
  However, even after a patch from Bethesda, it still suffers a few little issues that tend to 
 take away from the enjoyment of the game. Some quests are not entirely fixed and other issues (such 
 as loading times) not really dealt with entirely.
  
  Graphically this game is amazing. There isn't a single GPU available at the moment that this game 
 cannot take full advantage of with spectacular results. The realism of the environment and the 
 attention to detail the developers clearly spent a lot of time on, just makes for a game you could 
 easily get completely lost in and fully love every minute of being lost. Its almost a shame there 
 is a map to help you find your way or to 'map jump' to the place you want to go.
  
  The central storyline is very engaging. If you never go off exploring, the central story line is 
 definitely enough of a reason to have this game. The fate of the world rests in your hands and 
 the choices you make. Will you save the Empire? Or will you let it fall in to darkness?
  
  Or you could just ignore it entirely and spend hours upon hours doing nothing but explore and wander 
 the country. The open ended-ness of the game is probably one of its biggest selling points. The 
 fact that you can extend the game with new stories or new items and more also adds to the games 
 longevity.
  
  The adaptive difficulty is a little disconcerting to get to grips with. If you just go straight 
 in to the main storyline and grow your character that way, its not a problem. But if you take off 
 and explore the country some before returning to the main storyline, you might find that the game 
 has become a lot harder than you anticipated.
  
  Some things do make it difficult. To level your skills you must sleep, but if you get things like 
 Vampirism, you can go for days without sleeping, and thus almost ignore some of the effects of 
 being afflicted. However, this limits your ability to advance your character.
  
  Character progression I think should have been a little more thought out. There is a lot of emphasis 
 put on time in the game. Traveling anywhere takes time and the game reflects this. However, exhaustion 
 that forces you to rest might have been a good idea. Or removing the emphasis on resting altogether. 
 For example, have vampirism progress based on the game clock, not on when you rest. Little things, 
 but they would've definitely added to the dynamic of the game.
  
  All in all, Oblivion is a great game with very few set backs. It cannot be denied that this is 
 definitely one of the best RPGs to be released in recent times. Definitely one of the best single 
 player RPGs available today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Right time re review and now I have completed the little tosser I have come to the exact same conclusion 
 I came too before. Pretty much. If you want fun and laughs and straightforward kick ass then go 
 buy serious sam. If you want boring easy to reload and dull then go for this.
  
  I'm serious, this game is dull. Duller than ditchwater. I mean yes it's very pretty. Yes there 
 is loads to do, yes it sounds great but let me put it to you like this. Lets say we have Fred and 
 Mike. Fred is a really good looking mate, he's got a voice to make girls minds melt and he is always 
 got something to do. But he is so boring to talk to and never says anything funny. Then theres 
 Mike, who ain't a looker, girls aren't too keen on, generally repeats what he does and sounds like 
 a sparrow. But he is the funniest man this side of the eqeuator. Every little thing he says has 
 you in stiches. Who would you rahter spend the day with?
  
  Thats the problem I have with this game. It isn't fun it's not engaging, it doesn't ask anything 
 of you. Just keep going. A game like this is going entirely of technicals. I mean I had to make 
 my own jokes. I made a spell called naughty touch. It would send people to sleep and allow me to 
 steal all of their clothes thanks to a handy mod. How depressing is that. I got so bored I needed 
 to make myself laugh. Something I couldn't stop doing on some gloating enemies touching them in 
 naughty ways!
  
  You start off in pison and are asked pretty please to save the world. But you can do what you want 
 in that time, so life becomes pretty easy going. And thats it. Theres no real deapth to missions 
 or story really. Just build up your character. THe fighting was dull and you know what I recon? 
 if we say stuck this on the wii with the fighting with the wii mote then say chucked in some jokes 
 and a painfully deep story this game would be infinitely better. Oblivion team, hire Eddie Izzard, 
 Jack Black, Jimmy Carr, Steven Fry and the cast of whoose line is it and I'll play every game you 
 make afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshooter101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  As I said in the title, Amazing is an understatement for The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. It draws 
 you in during the opening scene in the prison where you get to play with the physics a bit and 
 get your first things to put into your inventory. In the game there's so much you can do like climb 
 the ranks in a guild to the point where you're the boss, You can put together ingredients and make 
 a potions, you can eavsedrop on other people's conversations and get quests from what you hear. 
 You can play the game for hours without even touching the main quest. The game world is also the 
 most beautiful thing I've seen in a game thusfar. It's a huge environment that you can traverse 
 on foot, on horse, or you can fast travel by clicking points on the map. An improvement that is 
 in this one is an arrow on your compass telling you where to go. In Morrowind, the people just 
 told you what to do, and nothing else. It didn't give you very good directions. Another point of 
 interest is in the ambient AI. They notice each other and will strike up a conversation amongst 
 themselves. You can listen and if they say something about a problem, you can talk to one of them 
 and get a quest from it. They also hear news. You can overhear them talking about your triumpths 
 in other places such as closing Oblivion gates, saving cities from attack, or helping someone in 
 the city. Also, every NPC across Tamriel has their own personality. No two are alike, even though 
 they are voiced by the same person, which brings me to my next point, the voice acting. The voice 
 acting is top notch employing stars such as Sean Bean and Patrick Stewart lending their voices 
 as the emperor (Stewart) and his son (Bean) . Even though there must have been like 5 voice actors 
 for every NPC, they are still done beautifully. It is funny to go through and be attacked by someone 
 and have someone in town with the same voice talking to you about the weather or someone in town. 
 The graphics engine is also out of this world. It is amazing to walk through the forests in the 
 world because it is just what a forest would look like. Not just flat ground with trees placed 
 on it. My computer won't run it at it's max detail settings, and it still looks amazing. I can't 
 wait to see what it looks like on full running it for myself. The voice acting is also top notch. 
 With all of those highs, there have to be lows wouldn't you think? Well, of course you're right. 
 There are only two things I could think of are the fact that Oblivion gates seem to pop up every 
 two steps and the fact that it requires such a powerful machine to run (I refuse to get an Xbox 
 360 until i am desperate (like when Sonic The Hedgehog comes out) ) . All in all, The Elder Scrolls: 
 Oblivion is an AMAZING game that is sure to be a classic that is easy for newcomers to the Genre 
 to pick up and have fun with as well as veterans. If you're looking for a game to get that's fun, 
 addicting, and not linear in the least, you should get this game NOW.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novafluxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I was anticipating this game ever since I heard they were working on it. Early 2006, I really started 
 looking into it, remembering it was due late 05 - early 06. I upgraded my PC, just for this game 
 (granted, there are other benefits too) . I bought two copies, one was a pre-order that I couldn't 
 wait for, so I went to the store and bought the 2nd to last copy for PC they had.
  
  I popped it in, and after a few hours of play. I was bored. I had come to see EVERYTHING was leveled. 
 No matter what I did, there would be no challange I could not face, nor any loot/reward worth much.
 
  
  It took a while, but I slowly learned to appreciate the game, and there are mods out there that 
 remove the autoleveling system. I've come to learn its a great step forward in gameing, in RPGS, 
 and for Elder Srolls. I trust Bethesda will learn from Oblivion and the next release in the Elder 
 Scrolls series will keep the amazing live vibrant world, the awesome AI, the almost-photo-realistic 
 graphics of Oblivion, but go back to giving players a sence of acomplishment.
  
  All in all this is an amazing game, easily GOTY, or RPG of the year. I had to learn some things 
 to get more into it, but its well worth it.
  
  I say difficulty is Easy, mainly because everything from enemies to loot and rewards are leveled 
 to you.
  
  Learning curve is hard to describe, to lean how to play is easy. However to lean all about the 
 magic, and specifics of certain things takes time. I'm still learning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Im not a huge Role Playing Game type, Ive only played a few, Never Winter Nights, and Fable comes 
 to mine. I also spent a fun fill month playing WOW, but I dont believe in paying $50 for a game 
 then continue to pay for it each month. 
  The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion is one of those games like WOW that even a amateur like myself can 
 get into pretty quickly. I first played my buddies 360 version and loved it right away, though 
 I have a 360, I didnt want to pay $59 for the game so I got it for $39 and saved a few bucks at 
 the same time. 
  This game just takes my breath away when you finally come out of the sewers and see the world of 
 Oblivion. On a high in PC, or a 360 the game is amazing, but to really enjoy it you may want to 
 turn it down a bit, just so you arent playing Slide Show Oblivion, because this beast is a real 
 hog. I have a 3.2Ghz dual core PC with a ATI X1900 and I still had to turn the grass down to its 
 lowest level to be able to ride my pony through this amazing word. Without a doubt this is one 
 of the most amazing visional that you will see in gaming today, but the real beauty of this game 
 is the open ended, free roaming, game play. You can go and do just about anything you want to in 
 this game. I just love to ride the countryside and find new towns and visit old ones. If cruising 
 on the horse isnt your thing, there is a excellent plot to fellow, though I had to admit, being 
 a beginner it took me a bit to get use to it, but with Gamespot Game Guide I was up to speed in 
 no time. There is a pointer and maps that will help you with anything you need to know. The inventory 
 system is well done, though seem a bit cumbersome at times, the Xbox may have that down a little 
 better the PC, though its still better then most. The other truly awesome part of this game is 
 the sounds, and audio. The voiceovers are very well done, and numerous. You meet tons of people 
 on your quest and they all seem be able to speak about something, very nicely done. Though Im 
 still trying to feel this puppy out, I already know I will be spending many hours enjoy Oblivion. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netty500
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  I haven't been an Elder Scrolls fan for as long as many others (Started at Morrowind) . But, after 
 playing Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, I'm sure I'll be a fan for years to come. The Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion is a great RPG, a good choice for Game of the Year, and, simply, a fun and addictive game. 
 I have spent over 70 hours on this game, and will probably dedicate another 70 soon. 
  
  You start as a prisoner. You can customize your character, with a huge variety of things to change 
 to his face. This can lead to hours of trying to create the perfect character for you. however, 
 most beginners will get thier character done in less than five. You can choose from a selective 
 amount of races, including Orcs, Elves, whatever. Each one has something they're really good at. 
 Some can resist desises, some have an increased amount of magicka. Anyway, it appears the emperor, 
 Uriel Septim VII, is being pursued by assassins, and the only way out of the imperial city safely 
 is through a secret exit, which happens to be in your cell. You meet Uriel and he claims to have 
 seen you in his dreams, and says you're the one that will save them all. After about 5-10 minutes 
 of dungeon crawling you can choose a certain sign in which you were born. Each of these signs give 
 good abilities or stat boosts, like the Warrior gives you +10 strength and +10 endurance. A little 
 more killing and you witness Uriel being assassinated by an enemy that comes out of nowhere. Poor 
 Uriel. But, before he dies, he tells you of an heir, who was kept in hiding and is safe (Mind you, 
 all of Uriels sons were also assassinated) . He sends you on a quest to find him, and then you choose 
 between certain classes. You can be a theif, mage, warrior, knight, battlemage, whatever you can 
 think of! All of them have specific and unique abilities. Hell, you can choose to create your own 
 class with it's own unique style if you can't find the class that best suits you. Finally, after 
 a little sewer action, you make it out and enter the world of Cyrodill in all of it's glory!
  
  First off, let's talk about the graphics. They're beautiful. But, great graphics come with 
 a price. A huge price for upgrading. If you want the game to look good, expect having to upgrade 
 your computer, or expect crummy FPS. If you have a crappy computer, but have an Xbox 360, go for 
 the Xbox 360 version of the game. You'll get good FPS and good graphics without having to worry 
 about all the computer mumbo jumbo, but you lose the mods. But more about the mods later. The graphics 
 themselves are beautiful, though. A great thing to behold as you can scope out the province of 
 Cyrodill from high atop a mountain. Just looking at all the cities from a distance is, in a way, 
 orgasmic. One great thing to behold is, while you're just exploring the world, you can stop and 
 admire the trees blowing, the grass, the sun, whatever. Oblivion is just a great game to look at. 
 The NPC faces look like they've been beaten with an ugly stick, sadly. 
  
  Full voice overs have been added into the game, including voice overs from Patrick Stewart, and 
 Sean Bean, so no more text reading. This can be either a good or a bad thing, depending on if you 
 liked the Morrowind style a lot. Either way, you'll find every character has his own unique personality. 
 From nice guys to **** Some even may have a quest or personal matter they may ask you to take care 
 of. There are four factions in this game you can join. Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves guild, 
 and The Dark Brotherhood. Each has a certain major attribute. Example, Thieves is all about stealth, 
 while Fighters is all brute force and strength. All four have many quests that you need to take 
 care of. Of course, if you feel like finishing the main quest before doing all this, you are free 
 to do so. There's also an Arena you can join, where you fight other warriors in a battle to the 
 death, and eventually become grand champion.
  
  Let's talk about skills. You have a huge amount of skills to choose from, but only seven major 
 ones. This includes Light Armor, Heavy Armor, Blade, Blunt, Athletics, and many others. What I 
 liked about Oblivion when compared to Morrowind is how they shortened the amount of skills you 
 had. I mean, Medium armor? Short blade? It all got annoying after awhile. The inventory is a little 
 awkward, showing only 6 or 7 items at a time, but that's okay. You have an awesome map that allows 
 you to fast travel to all the other major cities or places you've discovered. It makes walking 
 around easier.
  
  You have many weapons and armor to choose in the game. Swords, Blunt, Axes, Staffs, Light armor, 
 Heavy armor. Half the fun is going around looking for them. All the characters in the game have 
 a disposition. Disposition is an awesome system that depends on your personality, fame and infamy, 
 and maybe a couple of other things. You can play a little mini-game in which you attempt to raise 
 the disposition. this can effect how cheap you can buy items. The higher the persons Disposition, 
 the better.
  
  The combat system has been updated a little bit. You can now block whenever you want to, where 
 as in Morrowind the Block was judged by your blocking skill. You now have a power move where if 
 you hold the mouse button instead of a normal combo your character will make a powerful slash/thrust. 
 Depending on how high your blade/blunt skill is, the cooler moves you can pull off where, eventually, 
 you can knock down an opponent or disarm them. This is cool for a little while but after awhile 
 it can get a little redundant. You can also cast magic on the fly where as in Morrowind you had 
 to switch between fists/weapon mode to an open palm magic casting mode, which could get annoying 
 during intense battle.
  
  One of the best parts of this game is the fact that you don't have to follow the main quest. Heck, 
 you don't even need to do any quests if you choose to. Your entire time can be dedicated to dungeon 
 crawling, or exploring the world. You can be a theif, just going around and stealing for fun. The 
 great part of this game is the freedom given to you right from the start. This game will have you 
 satisfied for a good 100 hours or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operationman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited TES4: Oblivion has finally arrived!
  
  The story is very rich and fullfilling- you actually feel like you are part of this world and conflict, 
 and that everything you do, has an affect. The graphics are outstanding, the animations, textures, shadows, 
 lighting- all breathtaking... that is if you have the system to run it. When I first got thru the 
 initial 'prison' part in the beginning, I thought to myself, Hmm, Main quest or maybe the guilds? 
 Or should I help the townsfolk, or go find a dungeon?" There's just SO much to do in this game, 
 it's almost too much. Also, the character creation is amazing. I found that some of the character 
 face models were a little bit sketchy and 'fake looking' but the fact that you can literally be 
 anyone you can dream of. Warrior, thief, assassin, monk, wizard, ranger, and tons more! OR you can 
 just make up a custom class! Also, the world is just breathtakingly huge! There's also a beatiful 
 soundtrack, especially the first song you here at the main menu. But, I found that the AI at certain 
 times in battles, would act a bit strange, such as run the wrong direction, or just stand in one 
 place. Also, I believe that Bethesda used about 10 voice actors....? One cosmetic problem that 
 I also found was that why can't you attack while being on a horse? There's also a few minor problems 
 that aren't very noticeable.
  
  All in all, Oblivion is a great game that should not be missed by PC Gamers and RPG lovers alike! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: map0002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of the Elder Scrolls Games. The first one that I played was Morrowind with the tribunal 
 expansion on PC. I thought it was one of the best games I have played, it was not the gameplay 
 that hooked me or the kick-ass looking weapons it was the depth that the game went into in the 
 fact that the quests weren't just "go and do that and i will be happy" it actually meant something 
 when you finished a quest. It had a purpose and the were concequences for your actions.
  
  It is the same with Oblivion, is had most of the good bits from Morrowind with a lot of new things 
 that you can do. One of the things that I found very good about Oblivion was the lockpicking and 
 the bribing/persuading where you could actually do it your self. It was just another hands-on thing 
 in the game. I like the way that they fixed up how you block. In Morrowind it was an auto block 
 that you had no control over, to where it completely relys on you doing it all your self and I 
 think it works well.
  
  What I would have wanted in the game would have been a bit more length because in some rumours 
 I heard that the game would be 200 hours+ but I doubt it was over 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Story-You are in jail for an unknown reason when the Emperor comes into your cell and goes through 
 a secret passage allowing you to escape and take part in a plot that involves Daedra Assassins 
 killing the emperor and now you have to save the world by finding the emperors son and the amulet 
 of kings to relight the dragonfires and stop and invasion from oblivion
  
  Of course thats just the main quest, theres also hundreds of side quests that have their own completely 
 different story
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models look fantastic, environments look almost lifelike and have tons of detail, weapons 
 all look different and great
  Cons-Not enough variety of enemies, some enviroments get repeated over and over again
  
  Sound: Pros-Music 
 is great, lots of dialogue, all other sound effects are solid
  Cons-Not enough different voice actors, not enough music
  
  Game play: Pros-Variety of genres 
 used well (Stealth, Action) , lots to do and loads of ways to do it, combat system works and feels 
 good
  Cons-AI can be stupid at times, some quests can be tedious
  
  Replay Value: The main quest easily takes you 40+ hours to complete and all the side quests will 
 keep you busy for months.
  
  Overall: It's a far superior game to its predecessor and ends up being on of the best RPG's of all 
 time but it isn't flawless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuX182
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Forced me to stop playing cod2! First time I got to play a game from The Elder Scrolls series. 
 Like the idea that you can do whatever you want apart from the main mission (and believe me, there's 
 a lot of quests) . You can't just run around and kill stuff, you must actually think and read throughout 
 the game otherwise you are in trouble! Can't remember the last time a RPG made you feel as part 
 of the game as Oblivion. Only thumbs down: those freakin crashes (especially if it happens while 
 you try to quick save) . Get it, take some time off playing all those boring (by now) ww2 shooters
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukedeutsch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say, this is probably one of the best RPG's I have ever played. Though this game is 
 not without its flaws, (some technical issues and glitchy gameplay that a few patches would fix) 
 the good FAR outweighs the bad. 
  
  The gameplay is surprisingly good, everything that was wrong with Morrowind's combat system has 
 been fixed accordingly, an accomplishment well met! The gameplay does have issues though, the spells 
 have the same graphics and some glitches steal away the 10.
  
  The graphics are awesome. Bar none. The world is massive, and you need a top end machine to run 
 them; either that or an X-Box360. 
  
  I was, however, disappointed with the sound in this game. The Musical score is wonderful though, 
 don't get me wrong on that... the music is great. Its the voices I don't like. It seems like they 
 only have 1 voice actor for an entire race of people, the only notable voices in this game are 
 that of Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean, which are wonderfully done, but more voice actors would 
 have been great. 
  
  The game has a reletively short main quest, but there are dozens of hours of sidequests that make 
 this game well worth it. I dedicated well over 12 hours of my time with the Dark Brotherhood quests 
 and I still haven't completed all of their missions. This game is worth every penny.
  
  Overall, I wish that the score would have come out higher, but alas, the sound killed this game. 
 I hope they have patches for it or something to perfect it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  It's been years since Morrowind came out. I won a lot of fans because of the good looking environments, 
 large variety of weapons and armor, huge endless landscapes, and of course the Construction Set. 
 One of the problems was the character models. They were like wax dolls and didn't interact with 
 the environment, plus all of them were ugly looking. Another and probably the most aggravating 
 of all flaws was the combat. Having to repeatively hack my enemy to death made my wrist hurt. Oblivion 
 is different, the character faces are better looking, the combat's smoother, and the environments 
 bigger and nicer looking. In other words buy Oblivion, it will change the way you feel about RPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jawwath
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game when i read al the high scores, i checked the game, played for a hour or 3 and 
 placed another game. This game is so boring without any action. The grapics are not that nice as 
 people said it is. Even a couple PS2 games are looking even beter. Where are the real next gen 
 games? Its not about pretty grapics, its about nice different gameplay that make u feel u are in 
 the game. And thats not in the game Oblivion. And whats the deal with the loadtimes? Is a next 
 gen game not able to cut the loadtimes? I love RPG'S but this game is not the RPG that i have expected 
 of. Pretty shame if u ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion sets a new standard in RPGs. There isn't a lot of difference between 
 the PC and 360 version. Just make sure your PC is loaded or you won't enjoy the same crisp, graphic 
 resolution. There is so much to do in this game and the interactivity of the AI makes it seem like 
 a massive online multi-player experience. Expect months of fun and adventure. There is so much 
 to see and do in this game that you could wind up playing it for months - and it's not as dry as 
 most lengthy RPGs. This game is loaded with action and adventure. Even if you've never played an 
 RPG before this one won't bog you down unless you choose to read all of the books that give you 
 a back history to the story. There's a natural flow to the gameplay that makes it seem like real 
 life. You can go straight to the main quests or you can branch out into hundreds of different paths 
 and experience all that the game has to offer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: houtx1836
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  You can read the story line and premise anywhere. This is what I thought of Oblivion sorted by 
 what I call facets.
  
  Game play and Mechanics: The game has near flawless game play and mechanics. I love the fact that 
 you can play 1st and 3rd person views. More games should be like this. The player moves are very 
 precise, predictable and intuitive.
  
  Graphics: At the time of it's release I found this game to have the best overall graphics to date. 
 The wilderness details were awesome. Sound: The sounds were dead on with strong voice acting. The 
 music score also contained well composed pieces. The only complaint, and it really isn't a complaint, 
 with the sound is many voice actors are used over and over. So, many characters share a voice with 
 many others. This is easy to overlook due to the sheer number of characters and the quality of 
 the voice acting.
  
  Creative Control: From character creation to quest selection - I have never played a more open 
 ended game where one has the opportunity to affect the game's progress and direction. I really 
 loved this most about Oblivion
  
  Originality: I can't say this theme is original but Bethesda sure did it great. The originality 
 cam in how the game as a whole was assembled and allowed to be played. It is called Part 4 for 
 a reason.
  
  Surprises: There are so many stories, Many are predictable but some just twist around in a satisfying 
 perplexing way. The main quest could have used a little tweaking. Story Line: The main quest has 
 a worthy storyline that is interesting. The really beauty of the story line is that you write most 
 of it yourself. As discussed above, the main story line could use a bit of tweaking.
  
  Challenge Factor: The size and magnitude is challenging in itself. The difficulty could be adjusted 
 on the fly if the game became overly weak. Oblivion also does a good job of adjusting to your character's 
 strengths as you level up.
  
  Replay value: One of the beautiful parts of this game is to totally design your own character. 
 This allows you to return to the game and experience it with a whole different perspective. Technical 
 Glitches: None found 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creswellh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  1st RPG that I bought and must say it is well worth it! Game play is amazing and totally addictive. 
 The manual helps a bit for the finer points in advancing your characters skill and level, but who 
 want's to sit and read if there is a whole new world to explore? With graphics like this you might 
 get lost in the beautiful country before you realise that you are suppose to be on a mission! Talking 
 about missions, the map and pointers are great in order to track the people / locations that you 
 need to get. The battle / fighting is amazing and so much to learn and improve, makes your character 
 an endless possibility of improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stpersonshoot
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  i have to say, i was really impressed with this title. never having played elder scrolls games 
 before, i actually used my friends copy and a cd crack SHHH dont tell. so right there the games 
 good, first because it was free ;) also, i had recently been looking for a game that was more immersive 
 than the standard fps game (which is all i had at the time) but didnt want to get into an mmo, 
 what with my loathing for wow and whatnot. so here comes oblivion. of course im interested. id 
 read the reviews, i saw the screens (holy crap) and then played it at my friends. upon recieving 
 the game and purchasing a new gpu (my old one got oh about 3 fps w all low settings) i started 
 to play. right away, i new this game was gonna be good. it had pretty much all the elements i love 
 in a game. i was first pleseantly surprised with the fps perspective, bc i love shooters so much. 
 also, i love great stories. this one's definately got one. another thing i (wierdly even maybe) 
 love is ragdoll and interactive objects. ever since i first was introduced to havok with medal 
 of honor pacific assault and then half life 2, ive been hooked. to see these physics in a game 
 of this size is incredible. take that gta! and last, but oh so definately not least, are the graphics. 
 they. are. awesome. so awesome, i bought a new graphics card. to say the least, my father, who 
 is not so much a fan of video games... at all.... was impressed, so to that at least i say congrats 
 bethseda. i just love the feel of this game: the immersion i experience which is second only maybe 
 to half life the first time i played. in short, this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastycrumbs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  this game was supposed to be the Next Gen RPG and you know what? it was!
  now the game play was terific! you could do anything you wanted to do and then some. the game world 
 is a ug place with tons of city, caves and people to meet. the ai is defently a steep up and the 
 vocie acting adds a sence of reality to the game.
  
  now for the graphics, the are great, if you have a high power system. But even that was easy to 
 fix. with my ancient Geforce FX 5200 it was at fps 0
  but i did some serching and found oldblivion it looks better and runs better than it on low settings.
 
  
  without the sound this game would be nothing. a great musical selection and some GREAT vocie acting. 
 the music changes from when you are walking a long a path and the it changes to a darker, quicker 
 tune you pull your sword and prepare for a quick battle. 
  
  in closing i have one thing to say... GO AND GET THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draftcooky
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  BEST RPG iv ever played on the market, the looks are better then jessica simpson nude. its orgazm. 
 BUT even with an AMD 3700+ 1.5 gb or ram and the best vidcard out there (a Nvidia 7600 256mb SLI 
 ) i still cant get thos shadows out there
  BEST RPG iv ever played on the market, the looks are better then jessica simpson nude. its orgazm. 
 BUT even with an AMD 3700+ 1.5 gb or ram and the best vidcard out there (a Nvidia 7600 256mb SLI 
 ) i still cant get thos shadows out there
  BEST RPG iv ever played on the market, the looks are better then jessica simpson nude. its orgazm. 
 BUT even with an AMD 3700+ 1.5 gb or ram and the best vidcard out there (a Nvidia 7600 256mb SLI 
 ) i still cant get thos shadows out there
  BEST RPG iv ever played on the market, the looks are better then jessica simpson nude. its orgazm. 
 BUT even with an AMD 3700+ 1.5 gb or ram and the best vidcard out there (a Nvidia 7600 256mb SLI 
 ) i still cant get thos shadows out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalSonic89
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has often had a reputation of delivering a solid RPG experience. This 
 installation doesn't fail to please those of you who've played previous Elder Scrolls Games.
  
  Graphics and Appearance
  Well, if you've seen the screenshots, you can get an idea of how 
 the game looks. Its pretty and helps gives the atmosphere of the game. There are some odd graphical 
 glitches, such as some textures not placed together quite right, and floating objects. These are 
 rare though. Unfortunately, the graphics for the Distant LOD textures (The textures for far off 
 objects and scenery) look pretty cruddy, but there are mods out there that'll change that. Keep 
 in mind though; some older computers may have trouble running this game due to the scale of the 
 graphics. Oblivion is in the province of Cyrodiil, which will probably not be as alien like Morrowind 
 was, since it gives off a much more Mediterranean/ Roman feel. 
  
  Sound
  I'm never too big on sound, but the music is more or less acceptable. The music fits in with the 
 setting fine, and isn't too annoying. Also, you can insert some of your own music by renaming them 
 and replacing the ones there (you may want to back them up though) . There's also voiced dialogue, 
 but I feel it takes away from the immersion, ironically enough. In Morrowind, there was text dialogue 
 with a hyperlink-like format. Voiced Dialogue should've really only been kept with generic dialogue 
 between the NPC's and in the Main Quest. The rest should've been like Morrowind's dialogue. The 
 money spent for all that could've gone some where else.
  
  Gameplay
  Here's the vital element in every RPG. The combat is vastly improved from Morrowind, and you can 
 now control your blocking. As you advance in the skills, you'll gain access to special combo attacks. 
 Some examples of these are being able to disarm your opponent, knock them back, or paralyze them. 
 Some weapons have been taken away, such as the spear and throwing knives. 
  
  Archery has also become a bit more interesting. As with Morrowind, you can collect some of the 
 arrows you've used. Also, say if you shot your arrow into the ground, off a rock, or into some 
 wood. In Morrowind, due to engine limitations, the arrow would disappear. Now, you can go ahead 
 and recollect them. For those of you who like crossbows, they've been taken out, unfortunately. 
 I'm not sure if it'll be added in an expansion like with Tribunal in Morrowind, but a modder might 
 take a shot at it if it isn't.
  
  Magic in this game is more or less the same with Morrowind, with the exception of some dropped 
 spells (Levitation, Mark & Recall, and Divine Intervention) . Also, magic recharges now. The only 
 really big difference is that enchanting has been changed. In Morrowind, you could enchant on your 
 own if you had a high enough enchanting skill and a soul to work with, or you could pay some one 
 to do it if you had a soul and an item ready. In Oblivion, the "Enchanting" skill has been dropped, 
 and you can't do enchanting with out using an "Altar of Enchanting", a thing you can use if you 
 join the Mages' Guild. Or like in Morrowind, pay someone else to do it. I miss the way enchanting 
 was done in Morrowind, as it all it requires now is a big enough soul, a good item, and cash (You 
 have to pay for the altar) . Like in Morrowind, items that have an enchantment other than "Constant" 
 have a charge, but it Oblivion, it doesn't recharge. In Morrowind, these items would recharge slowly 
 over time, but in Oblivion it doesn't. As with Morrowind, the only way to recharge it is to use 
 a soul. Also, Mages' Guilds have Mages who will recharge your item, for a price. But aside from 
 that, the Magic system is entertaining and useful in any field. Combat based warriors may consider 
 specializing in restoration, and Stealth classes (Thieves, assassins, etc.) But like Morrowind, 
 it'll be a challenge to use a character purely based on magic.
  
  NPC's- They help to add to the atmosphere. The NPC's come with "Radiant AI", but there really isn't 
 anything too amazing to it. Its more like a schedule system than anything. You'll see NPC's talk, 
 eat, drink, read books, sleep in books, and other things. But thats about it. Its interesting 
 to hear them talk, but sometimes the dialogue gets real messed up and many times, repetitive (You'll 
 hear about mud crabs alot...) . But, if you listen carefully, you can hear about news in other areas 
 of Tamriel, including the fate of the character you played in Morrowind, the Nerevarine. Don't 
 expect the NPC's to truly be living a life, but its a vast improvement over Morrowind's NPC's 
 standing around.
  
  Sneaking is much more improved in this game. Now, there is a special feature in the stealth mode 
 which gives you an idea about how stealthy you are. NPC's will be aware of any noises you make, 
 and wearing things like heavy armor will make you more noticeable. Lock picking also comes as a 
 mini-game of sorts now (Those of you who've played Thief will probably recognize the interface- 
 A developer of the Thief series helped out here) . Thievery is much interesting now and encourages 
 you to take advantage of the NPC's schedules. You can try to rob a house when the owner is out, 
 or come in when they are sleeping. A difference now though is that you can not sell stolen items 
 to shopkeepers now, only to fences (Which can only be used by members of the Thieves' Guild, unfortunately) . 
 When you go to jail, you can sneak away a lock pick, which you can use to break out with. As with 
 Morrowind, stolen items that are confiscated can be found in the evidence chests.
  
  The MQ of Oblivion is excellent, although it may be short for some of you. It doesn't involve as 
 much talking and running off to far places as Morrowind did, but I prefer the ending and action 
 of this one much more. I won't spoil anything for you guys.
  
  Morrowind had alot of factions and quests, and Oblivion unfortunately doesn't. There are 5 guilds 
 which you can advance through, the Fighters' Guild, The Mages' Guild, The Thieves' Guild, The Dark 
 Brotherhood, and the Arena. There are also factions like the Blades which you can't advance through, 
 and are mainly there for perks. There is a knightly order which involves killing bandits and returning 
 their bows as rewards, and a vampire hunters' guild, in which you kill vampires for money. Once 
 again, you cant advance in either of these guilds. The quests in Oblivion are very well thought 
 out and scripted, and have interesting story lines. Unfortunately, one may finish them quickly. 
 Also, for those of you who played Morrowind, you may recall the advancement requirements- some 
 missions completed and certain skills at a certain level. In Oblivion, you can advance by just 
 completing some missions, which I feel takes away from the feeling of achievement. But in this 
 game, you do get some perks for being at top. 
  
  SPOILER ALERT
  
  In the Fighters' Guild, you can have three choices to do, which will affect what you will get as 
 a monthly salary- Getting more contracts, which means more cash. More Recruits, which means some 
 loot. Or you can focus on both equally. In the Mages' Guild, you can have an apprentice follow 
 you around or gain access to a chest which will clone alchemical items (It is worthless unless 
 you are an alchemist buff. But if you're like me, you can use it to clone valuable ingredients 
 or the vampire dust you can turn into the Vampire Hunters' Guild, which are taken at 250 apiece) . 
 In the Dark Brotherhood, you get a salary and access to NPC's which you can have follow you around. 
 The Thieves' Guild gives you a powerful item, the Gray Cowl of Nocturnal, which has some nifty 
 powers and allows you to do all sorts of crimes. When you take it off (Preferably when you have 
 the guards' off you) , you won't have the bounty or infamy you got from your actions. Its kind 
 of like an alternate identity. The Arena gives you a good piece of armor at the end, and offers 
 weekly matches with creatures based on your level. At the peak, you can fight 1-3 Minotaur Lords, 
 and get cash.
  
  Anyways, Oblivion's quests and factions are interesting and fun, though in short numbers unfortunately.
 
  
  But with any game, there are problems. For lore buffs, you might notice right away the "emptiness" 
 as opposed to the cosmopolitan and grandeur that we were told in the lore books. The Imperial City 
 isn't as big (But still, its nice) , and most noticeably, there isn't a jungle (Ironically, this 
 is one thing people bash the game over, treating it like a surprise, though it was well known it 
 was this way from the screenshots) .
  
  The biggest problem, IMO, is the Leveled Scaling system, which levels NPC's you fight, guards, 
 and creatures based on your level. It also affects what loot you may find in dungeons. The concept 
 is good, as it allows you to always have a challenge and will respawn bandits, vampires, and other 
 baddies, but the way it is executed is bad. For one thing, it doesn't make since for bandits to 
 be wearing rare armor like Daedric Armor. It also makes certain creatures disappear permanently. 
 Also, I feel it damages immersion to the game as it takes away the feeling of achievement and superiority 
 you get over some creatures for being stronger and having good loot.
  
  Another issue that bothers me is the lack of unique loot in dungeons, which I feel may discourage 
 some from exploring. In Morrowind, you could find all sorts of unique artifacts, but in Oblivion 
 you'll usually find the basic stuff and some enchanted forms of it. The unique items are obtainable 
 only through quests.
  
  In General
  
  Pros
  + Likable environments coupled with good graphics.
  + Good Gameplay
  + Different styles of 
 play available
  + Good MQ, Factions, and quests, though not as numerous as Morrowind
  + NPC's have lives
  
  Cons
  - Voiced dialogue cuts down on how much one can talk with an 
 NPC
  - Leveled Scaling takes away from a sense of achievement
  - Lack of factions and quests compared to Morrowind
  
  Oblivion is an excellent game, though 
 I must stress that it might not appeal to every RPG fan and/or TES fan. Each TES is different from 
 the other, and caters to different tastes. I played Morrowind and Oblivion, and I love them both. 
 Some may prefer Morrowind over Oblivion, and vice versa. Though if you are a gamer who likes to 
 jump from one game to another, or likes multiplayer, this game may not be for you. 
  
  Don't listen to other reviews saying this game is an utter failure, it really isn't. This game 
 is a welcome addition to the TES series and RPG games (Which BTW, are a dying genre as a result 
 of MMO's) . In fact, its good that a game other than an FPS has gotten such praise in the PC market. 
 I suggest though not buying Oblivion right away. Wait until some expansions come out and the modding 
 community begins creating wonderful mods.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is excellent. Its not perfect, but then again, what game is?
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanman31
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Elderscrolls Oblivion IV is one of the most splendid and exciting games I have played in a very 
 long time. The story starts off a little slow but eventually starts to open into a very exciting 
 world. The player characters are created to the players exact detail. The player classes are good, 
 but would be nice to have more to chose from. The graphics in this game are really cool and immersive, 
 if you have a descent video card. I have been playing this game almost 60 hours and have made a 
 very little dent in the game. The creatures in this game are exciting and plentiful to say the 
 least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is an action-RPG game highly worth playing. Having said that, I can't help feel that it 
 has some serious flaws.
  
  Pros: 
  
  1. Generally nice graphics if your PC rig can handle it (though many PC's that could happily run 
 Doom 3 and Far Cry will crawl trying to run Oblivion) .
  
  2. Lots to do, lots to explore, and lots of faction to join in the game
  
  Cons:
  
  1. 
 Virtually everyone seems to agree that the leveling system is particularly wonky. The even greater 
 irony is that after about 10 hours of play, the odd leveling system stops mattering because you 
 will be able to kill just about everything with your cool weapons, spells, and armor. Great single-player 
 PC RPG's like Baldur's Gate 2 never had this problem: there was always a proper challenge and there 
 was always truly unique and rare equipment if you went looking for it. 
  
  2. The dungeons start to look the same all too quickly. This for me was a disappointment about 
 20 hours into the game. Now 20 hours is a lot of gameplay so this isn't a game-breaker. But it 
 killed my interest in going to any more dungeons after a point in the game. I suspect many others 
 feel the same way. Bethesda really should have varied the looks of the dungeon more. 
  
  3. The main quest / story is the weakest part of the game. The Oblivion gates are tedious and you 
 have to do about a dozen of them. All you get for your troubles at the end of this long quest is 
 some armor that isn't that great. Now, the other quests and factions are better, but its a shame 
 that the main quest is so underwhelming. I never want to see an Oblivion gate ever again.
  
  4. Loot auto-leveling. I wouldn't mind the loot-leveing so much if there weren't better rare 
 artifacts to obtain. Unfortunately most of the Daedric artifacts are just more powerful versions 
 of armor and weapons you can get out of a boss-level treasure chest. It doesn't help that most 
 of these "rare" artifacts are in fact quite easy to obtain. 
  
  5. It makes no sense that your character can become "master" in every skill. A wizard should not 
 be able to be master of both stealth and swords. I mean what kind of RPG is this? Bethesda has 
 made sure you can have any character you want but part of what makes building your character fun 
 is that you have to make hard choices about what yoru character WONT be good at doing. 
  
  ***
  What I'm saying is that there are some serious design flaws in the RPG elements of Oblivion 
 that become highly apparent after some time playing the game. I dont think any user-mod can fix 
 these flaws. Its a great game but truthfully as RPG's go, Baldur's Gate 2 still easily beats Oblivion. 
 I played BG2 several times thru with different character types. It was fun everytime. In Oblivion, 
 I have no interest in doing all of those same-looking dungeons again with a different character, 
 especially when my current character is already master is virtually all skills.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_real_apa
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  I can't understand how this game got 9.6 by gamespot. The graphics are outstanding but nothing 
 more is. The animations are sloppy and the fighting system is just so bad. Even though I do not 
 like Morrowind it's way better than Oblivion. They have stripped down all elements that made Morrowind 
 playable and what is left. Not an RPG, but a boring action-adventure game. The worst part about 
 this game is that it's just so shallow, no interesting characters, no funny side quests and the 
  This game could'nt be more un-epic. If you want to play a good 
 RPG then pick up Baldurs Gate 2: Shadows of Amn or maybe Planescape Torment, this game is just 
 so lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: math007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Ive started oblivion, on weekend, the first what wired me is the way to level up, you have to increase 
 your mayor skill and then go to sleep and its quiet difficult to understand first. what I hated 
 was that my weapons breaked and I even now dont know how to repair them without the f*c*ing hammer.
 
  
  I also looked for a place where to buy weapons armor, like the other game like diablo, there is 
 simply missing this, they should have added a blacksmith and indicate him with a special sign on 
 the map so you can find him easily. whats next, I have played for about 18 hours now In this game 
 is jsut boring me, it doesnt matter which hero you pick you will end with a heavy armored tank 
 with 45% that does all there arent any specialisations.
  
  The spell details are also very poor: lightning spells have every time the same animation, a lightnig 
 that is casted toward the enemy, under lightning storm u understand that the sky gets gray and 
 lightnigs falls donw the sky this would have been more fun, the same for blizzard, ice beam, ice 
 storm, every time the same a blue "dust" casted toward the enemy that kills. Under blizzard they 
 should have made the floor get frozzen and maybe your enemyes you should see frozen particles htting 
 the enemys with ice storm you understand a real istorm but its just the same as blizzardafter the 
 huge graphic details this game had i would espect some nice animations forr the spells.
  
  The thing that I most hated was that there areonly afewmosters to kill, first the tutrial newer 
 explains you the metoth of fast traveling, (clicking the city on your map) I got to the first city 
 walking and enterd some dungeons, but outside there are only wolves and there is simply missing 
 some action in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geogo3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one of the best single player Fantasy RPG's to date. The moment 
 you start out in the world you feel involved in a massive storyline that captures you and keeps 
 you coming back to get farther into that storyline. The gameplay and style is revolutionary and 
 unique that no other game has except its predecessors. No games out of my personal experience even 
 match up to the impossible odds of this fine piece of art. I find myself having trouble typing 
 this article at the moment because I want to go farther into the storyline and world of Tamriel. 
 Put simple Oblivion is the biggest and greatest sandbox style RPG to date.
  
  Let me start off by talking about the visuals, the visuals are absolutely stunning and with the 
 proper settings and the "Make it Pretty" pack that Gamespot put together made it even more stunning. 
 From the moment you enter the prison to the moment you get out to explore the world of Tamriel 
 the visuals, world, scenery, practically everything is picture perfect. Nothing is un-included 
 in the world.
  
  The music track is great as for the combat sounds, they may get repetitive. Ambiance in Tamriel 
 is quite good and impressive.
  
  Cut short, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a must-have for any fantasy RPG fan/gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordash
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game really adds alot to the RPG world, it's combat gameplay is skill based and fairly fun, 
 funner then other RPG's, but the coolest thing about the game is the environments, and the engaging 
 storyline, if you are a fan of RPG's this will be a dream come true. The graphics are amazing and 
 will leave you breathless. Only quirky things are really the animation, and the absence of a crosshair 
 in thirdperson view : (. Other than that this game is a must have.
  Excellent and revolutionary RPG fun! Graphics are superb, engaging storyline, freeform movement 
 and lifelike characters
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentKnight89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is probably the most immersive game I have ever played. When you first eneter the world 
 your so confused and dismayed on what to do first! Do you stick with the story or set out into the 
 world exploring... join a guild the list goes on and so do the many tiresome hours spent on a game! When 
 all is said and done Oblivion is worth $60 as it will run you through a good month to thoroughly 
 beat and enjoy the game. This game is of course not perfect and does have its flaws here and there. It 
 can get repetetive and some may fint the combat blan but for the rest of us its a fun filled game 
 that will drive those around you insane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshywaa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I found Morrowind to be a great game, though extremely tedious after a while. 
 The game had no real direction, it lacked a certain substance, and it just really felt like you 
 were wandering aimlessly through the land of Morrowind with no real sense of purpose. All of that 
 missing "substance" has sure been added to Oblivion, and man, did they add a lot of it. The game 
 starts out quite similarly to Morrowind, both having the feeling of imprisonment... More so in Oblivion, 
 I guess, since you start in a prison. But the way it takes off from there is SO much better, and 
 much more satisfying. 
  
  The main story is Uriel Septim, the ruler 'round those parts, is murdered (right in front of you, 
 no less) and you are set out on a quest to find his heir, and defeat those who assassinated him. 
 Sounds quite simple, right? Wrong. Oh baby, "simple" is not a word you want to associate with Oblivion. 
 Once you exit the prison where Septim is murdered, the game just completely takes off. You are 
 taken to that very familiar menu where you choose your class, name, appearance, etc. Once you exit 
 the prison where the game starts, these words may be uttered from your mouth "Oh.. my.. god.." Which 
 leads me to the graphics...
  
  Man alive! These are some of the most beautiful graphics ever to be seen in a video game. The characters 
 look magnificent, the facial expressions are really something to behold, and their mouth movements 
 when they talk arent random, their mouths synch up with their dialogue, which was impressive, 
 I thought. The environments steal the show, though. One of the coolest things about the game, is 
 walking through a beautiful area of land, and coming upon an opening and just looking around, seeing 
 the far away cities, endless acres of trees. It's really something. 
  
  This game isnt exactly the most "noob-friendly" game out there. It's one of those games that helps 
 with you've played the previous games, so that you kind of know where its coming from, at least. 
 If you have never played any previous Elder Scrolls games, this may be a challenge at first. Heck, 
 if youve never really played a game this massive before, it may be extremely overwhelming, and 
 you may feel like you have no idea where to go or what to do, but the game does an admirable job 
 of dealing with this in the form of your Journal that you can access, which is MUCH better then 
 Morrowinds journal. The main reason it is better is that whenever you click on a task or mission 
 in your journal, an arrow appears on your map, so you have a clear idea where to go, and dont 
 just wander around aimlessly.
  
  I cant really say which map was larger, Im going to go out on a limb and say Morrowind had a 
 larger land mass, but Oblivion has a much more alive environment. The things you encounter around 
 the land make it feel more lifelike, encountering deer, wild horses, travellers (thanks to a mod) , 
 and some ferocious beasts, and other not so ferocious beasts. 
  
  Oblivion features some breathtaking musical scores, orchestrated to perfection. I love it when 
 Im walking around the Jerall mountains at night time, and a soft piano score comes on, it really 
 sets the mood. The voice acting too is masterfully done. The actors all give off powerful performances, 
 the only complaint that could be made is that lots of the voices are recycled between many characters 
 throughout the game.
  
  The sheer amount of possibilities in this game is probably its best feature. You can join guilds 
 (Fighters guild, Thieves guild, Mages guild) which give you many extra quests to perform besides 
 the main quest. You are probably better off not just following the main quest continuously throughout 
 the whole game, there are tons, and tons, and tons of side quests to do. All of this adding to 
 up to an astounding, memorable, incredible experience which should not be missed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and, quite frankly, I was blown away. The graphics are amazingly good and 
 the scenery is fantastic. I am not much of an RPG lover, but this game is a major exception since 
 a lot of the gameplay is not turn-based and leveling up is different from the classic "kill stuff, 
 get experience". A few minor gripes are that the faces are ugly, and the voice acting can get weird, 
 especially when talking to beggars and when ending the dialogue, their voice becomes all old and 
 different. Also, it can be extremely annoying when trying to fast travel and the screen says "You 
 cannot fast travel when enemies are nearby", even if you killed them all. Sometimes the game crashes 
 too, but this rarely happens. Otherwise, the amount of content in Oblivion, and the open endedness 
 of the whole game is great. There are 4 guilds with separate storylines, I am part of three. If 
 you are looking for a stunning Action-RPG this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  That is right. I sold my PS2 for the Collector's Edition. But my dog broke it anyways (no seriously. 
 Chewed the AV Cable useless) . Ok enough of that time to move on...
  I don't think I really need to tell you but the graphics are great. If you have a 360 or a PC without 
 this game you have to get this game! You do not know what you are missing. The SFX and music is 
 great. Jeremy Soule strikes again with his awsome music! Ok now the gameplay. I really want to 
 give it a 10/10 but I can't. If I do, I will get dragged down the gates of Oblivion. With the biggest 
 world to roam, great controls, great music AND great graphics, you will have the greatest gaming 
 experience... IF YOU HAVE THE RIG TO ENJOY IT. Unless you are paying big money for a good T. V. 
 and a 360, prepare to spend hundreds of dollars to get a computer good enough to run Oblivion at 
 it's maximum. You will flame me because of the crappy score but running Oblivion with a mere $9.99 
 (from TigerDirect. com with rebates!) nVidia GeForce FX 5200 will make anyone scream with frustration. 
 And why am I bringing the score down just because I can't play it? Not everyone has a super graphics 
 card that cost $100,000 to run Oblivion or a MicroSoft XPS (the new one, not the old one) . But 
 still, I don't care that I'm running the game at 3 fps just to look at the goodness, it is awsome. 
 If you are going to not buy this game just because of the imperfect score, you are making the biggest 
 mistake of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was my first Role-Playing game. The fourth game in the Elder Scrolls franchise is simply 
 stunning  the graphics, the gameplay, everything. Its not like most other games which you pass 
 once and dont want to play again. The game has freedom lots of it! It will take you hundreds 
 of hours to pass it all  there are tons of main quests and side quests to complete. Not to mention 
 that the world map is sixteen square miles in size!
  
  At the very start of the game, you will have to create the main character, choose his race, and 
 birth sign. Kind of like in Sims, youll get to choose the characters eye size, nose size, complexion, 
 and more. Once youre done, the game starts with you being locked inside an underground prison. 
 I wont tell anymore, see for yourself, the main quests great. Anyway, if you get bored with it, 
 you can attempt side quests. Like I said, there are lots of them. Where to go to start one? There 
 are quite many ways  you can join a guild, overhear a conversation, etc. You can start as many 
 quests as you want and finish them later. When you complete some quests, you get money as a reward, 
 or some kind of a special item. Each city has guilds. There are many types of them  the Thieves 
 Guild, the Mages Guild, the Fighters Guild, and more. If you dont know where to find one, check 
 your map. You can be in as many guilds as you want. They all offer you different quests. When you 
 complete a number of them, you advance to the next rank in the guild.
  
  In Oblivion, you have skills  Athletics, Light Armor, Marksman, Security (lock-picking) , and more. 
 All the skills are split into Major and Minor. Upgrading a major skill advances you to the next 
 level. When you upgrade one, an icon appears in the HUD. Find a bed and sleep. When you wake up, 
 tadaa, youre in the next level. Now you get to choose three abilities you want to improve  strength, 
 speed, agility, etc. This isnt the only reason you have to level up  some quests require you 
 to be in a specific level to begin. Skills are pretty easy to increase  jump around like a psycho 
 and youll increase your Athletics skill, unlock some locked doors using your lockpicks to higher 
 the Security skill, and so on. Increasing skills makes you better at them. For example, if you 
 break the lockpick while trying to unlock something, all the picks reset, meaning you have to start 
 picking all over again. However, if you increase the skill a bit, only three picks reset. The better 
 your skill is, the better you do.
  
  Your journal has all the info you need  quests, items you have, the map, your skills, level, and 
 more. The heads-up display shows your health, magicka, and fatigue, your current weapon, spell, 
 and a compass. Your magicka decreases when you use magic, fatigue  when you run, jump, and swing 
 your weapon. Keep in mind that when your fatigue is low, your weapons do less damage. If its low, 
 wait for a minute, because both magicka and fatigue restore after some time if you dont use them. 
 However, if you dont want to wait, you can drink potions. There are potions that increase your 
 health, magicka, and fatigue. Some potions drain them. To drink a potion, simply access your journal 
 and click on it. Potions can be stolen, bought, or MADE. Yes, by combining various ingredients, 
 you can make potions. This increases your Alchemy skill.
  
  Like I already said, the world map is huge. It can take some time to go to an other city, especially 
 on foot. Again, use the journal. Select the location on the map and tadaa, youre there. It doesnt 
 work when going to some specific locations, i. e., caves, for the first time. Once you travel to 
 them manually, youll get the ability to fast-travel to them later. If you fast-travel, youre 
 not risking to be attacked on the way. Its not a big deal, but imps, trolls and wolves are annoying. 
 There is a huge variety of enemies youll meet in the game. Citizens and guards wont go anything 
 to you, unless you steal from them and get caught, or attack them. However, be prepared to fight 
 against some zombies, ghosts, and other creatures. When you step into a fight with someone, a curved 
 bar appears on the crosshair, showing the enemys health status. Once hes down, you can acquire 
 items from him. Of course, you can pick-pocket NPCs, too, but youre risking to be caught.
  
  Stealth plays a huge role in the game. Its kind of obvious since theres a Thieves Guild in 
 the game. You can sneak, pick-pocket, break into houses and steal things! When you enter the sneak 
 mode, an eye icon shows up on the crosshair, indicating your visibility status. When someone sees 
 you, the eye becomes bright. To pick-pocket, enter the sneak mode, get near an enemy, and press 
 the use button. Make sure he doesnt see you, though. I would also recommend you to save the game 
 before pick-pocketing. Stealing is obviously the easiest  make sure no ones looking at you and 
 grab everything you see! If youre going to steal at night, prepare your lockpicks. People lock 
 their houses at nights.
  
  You can customize the look of your character  add armor, boots, clothes, rings, and more. There 
 are tons of different items you can pick  various weapons (blackjacks, daggers, swords, etc.) , 
 fruit & vegetables (for potions) , and more. Some items dont do anything  dont pick them if you 
 dont want to waste space. If youve too many things, you can store the unnecessary stuff in drawers, 
 etc. Id recommend storing them in a house, though, because if you put them elsewhere, they can 
 disappear after some time.
  
  Talking with NPCs can get you valuable information. When you get to one, a list of topics appears 
 on the screen  people can help you get more info on the quest youre doing, or just spread rumors. 
 However, sometimes they just wont talk. You can either change their mood by telling them a joke 
 or something, or by bribing them. The second option is easier, obviously, but if you dont want 
 to spend money, you can try changing their mood. Later on, youll increase your Speechcraft skill. 
 The ears of cities are beggars  they know most of the info you need. It isnt hard to find them. 
 Spare a coin!
  
  The visuals in Oblivion look amazing  both indoors and outdoors. Youll need a pretty good PC 
 to see it in its full glory, though. Theres HDR, and other effects. If you want to make the game 
 look even better, there are modifications available to download. Not to mention hundreds of other 
 mods that add weapons, quests, and many more things to the game. The reason I gave 9 for the VALUE 
 is because there were some bugs in the game that got me really nervous. For example, bugs where 
 NPCs don't talk with you, not allowing you to finish a quest, etc.
  
  Oblivion is a superb game thatll keep you busy for a long, long time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spookydan8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  you hear people talk about RPG's like their nothing, all about where people stand around waiting 
 for the enemy to attack like they've got all the time in the world and no-one will come and stab 
 them in the back just because most RPG's are actually quite rubbish but then oblivion will come 
 along and it boasts about its uniqueness, its lasting hours of fun, its gameplay and especially its 
 graphics, believe those boasts because when you shove yourself into this game your not throwing 
 yourself into an RPG, your throwing yourself into the life of a hero. think about if you went back 
 in time to when swords were used as weapons, horses weren't rode by cart and when kings and queen 
 were the rulers, that is oblivion of course for all the dungeon and dragon fans there is things 
 like goblins and griffins but even if you hate RPG's to death you will still sink your claws into 
 this as it doesn't even seem like an RPG at all its more like an action/adventure/stealth game 
 where you simply get better as you practice because you can choose from so many things to do. you 
 can follow the main and close the jaws of oblivion, be a simple thief to break into people's houses 
 and nick their stuff, be a crazy orc and slaughter everyone you see, follow the side quests (which 
 are very hard to count because you will find them everywhere) , join one of the 4 different guilds 
 which are not just your average 1 or 2 missions their about as long as the main quest. sure so 
 it has some flaws but then doesn't every game? it only has a few however which can always be fixed 
 by mods if you get annoyed by them. now about the mods, if you try to record how many there are 
 in your head you will lose track and get bored at 20 because the amount of them is so overwhelming 
 most of them are fixes for the game itself because it does have its flaws as i've said although 
 still about at least 10,000 (!!!) of them add or replace something in the game, it is amazing to 
 go through the lists and see the sheer amount of things people have made of course you could always 
 add your own things if you must with the official construction set. last but not least is the biggest 
 problem (as in the reason why i didnt give it a 10) as this game is SO hardcore it does have a price 
 that price is that you need a really good computer to run this just fine, apart from that oblivion 
 is the best game i have ever seen and have played and i would recommend it to anyone even slightly 
 interested in any genre of game (ps. this is my first review so think it sucks if you want to) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beedubaya
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I've started this game 3 times, played 3 different characters leveling up and doing quests, hoping 
 I would get into it. I bought this game hoping for a single player RPG that I could get addicted 
 to like i did Baldur's gate or Knights of the Old Republic, two of the best games I ever played.
 
  
  Instead, I got a rather mediocre game with a lot of bling. The game got rather boring pretty quickly 
 for a variety of reasons. For one, the cities are dead, very few people in the streets (how realistic 
 is that?) . Second, when I go into a tavern, I would expect to find a crowd of people drinking and 
 a band, but instead there's a bartender and one drinker. No NPCs with problems for the character 
 to solve. No upbeat tune you would hear in a tavern either, just the same bland music. One of the 
 big aspects of the atmosphere of an RPG for me is the music and how it relates to the environment 
 you are in, and Oblivion was a huge miss in this area.
  
  The dungeons get rather bland after a while. You fight the same enemies over and over again, they 
 rarely change it up. Once youve been in one dungeon, youve seen them all. There's no dual-weapon 
 fighting. Its all just slash/block fighting. If they are going to do it FPS style, they should 
 have at least taken after the Jedi Knight series and have different swordfighting moves. The leveling 
 up is a hassle. The game is way too hardware demanding. This is just the tip of the iceberg concerning 
 the problems I have with Oblivion.
  
  I think the reason people love this game so much is because of the pretty graphics, which is the 
 one thing Bestheda did right in this game.
  
  Although my voice doesn't mean much against the millions of people who are in love with this game 
 and its immersive graphics, I want to say that its a bit overrated and if you want a real RPG, 
 take a look at Baldur's Gate, Neverwinter Nights, or the Knights of the Old Republic series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  When you first start off in Oblivion you are introduced to a huge world and tons of different choices 
 that range from customizing looks to choosing many different classes. The tutorial in Oblivion 
 is straight forward and lets the player choose what they want to do or what to use which is a universal 
 theme throughout the game. After you jump into the tutorial I noticed the amazing graphics which 
 are uncommon in most RPGs, though they are nice eye candy Oblivion requires a higher end PC to 
 get the best of them. There is loads of weapons and classes in Oblivion and it can also be modded 
 to add to the 100+ hours of gameplay provided. The 100+ hours isn't just go here and kill this 
 missions but fun quests that take the turn to the unexpected and always keep the player on his/her 
 toes. The gameplay makes you feel as if you are in the game and delivers well with its open play 
 that lets you do what you want. The gameplay lasts longer than other games and also is highly replayable 
 with different skills and different ways to finish quests. Oblivion also boasts 1000+ NPC with 
 Radient A. I. that gives them a daily schedule. An example would be if you follow an Imperial Guard 
 Watchman all day you will see him patrol the city streets but then at night he will switch the 
 watch, head home, eat a dinner of ham or venison, and go to sleep. If you were assigned to kill 
 this person you the daily schedule is also a help so you can poison there food or wait to they 
 lie in bed to slit there throat. Finally, Oblivion has a nicely composed music selection along 
 with professional voice acting and a well written story that is very memorable and fun. Oblivion 
 has few faults such as constant crashes for lower end PCs, A. I. glitches, many loading times, and 
 Official Plugins that cost. If you can look past Oblivion's few misshaps then your $50 is worth 
 the memorable and entertaining gameplay that Oblivion provides that will have you playing for months 
 maybe even years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikewrencher
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  So, you've got and hour to kill and you have a hankerin to do some dungeon crawling.... not really 
 enough time to get a group together on WoW to knock out the Scarlet Monestary. But what if there 
 was a game that created a world just as big, with entertaining characters, items galore, and the 
 ability to do absolutly anything you want.... welcome to Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion.
  As in the other Elder Scrolls game, you start out as a nobody, in this case, a prisoner, much like 
 in Morrowind. You are quickly tied up in a plot to kill the Emporer, and before you know it, you 
 are entrusted to help save the world from powers that are not of this world...
  And from there, what you do is up to you. The game world is approximatly 16 square miles in size, 
 enough for a number of cities, hundreds of dungeons and forts, and quests galore. Like in Morrowind, 
 every object is something you can touch, feel, pick-up, and, potentionally, steal. There are hundreds 
 of characters to interact with. Just exploring the Imperial City, the seat of power, took me a 
 good couple of hours.
  The game lets you do pretty much whatever you want. You do not need to do the main quest if you 
 do not want to. You can take up quests with guilds (fighters, mages, theives, and the dark brotherhood) , 
 go for a dungeon crawl, look for random quests to help people, do errands for the Daedra gods (a 
 kind of demon) , or just wander around and see what there is to see. You can sneak into houses and 
 steal things, while avoiding the guards of the city, or you can even commit murder, which is a 
 permanent thing in this game. If you kill a character, they stay dead through the rest of the game 
 (characters that quests rely on cannot be killed, so don't worry about that) .
  In fact, there is so much to do, its almost overwhelming. Just doing the quests alone can take 
 about 100 hours, and there will still be tons of places to explore. And with the number of mods 
 being created by the community, you will almost never run out of things to do.
  The characters are highly customizable. You can choose exactly what you want your character to 
 be like, or if you're lazy, you can choose from the premade character classes. The skill classes 
 act just like they did in Morrowind, and the character movement and combat is also the same, with 
 the exception that you can cast spell while you have weapons equipped.
  There are a couple of faults. Your inventory does not really hold enough. You are constantly having 
 to make choices about which item you can hold onto, and still have room to pick up items to sell 
 off. The graphics are great, but they are real system hogs, so don't expect a great looking game 
 unless you have a high-power system.
  Overall, this is probably one of the best RPGs to come out in years. A definate must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh0st_sn1per
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I was completely new to the Elder Scrolls franchise. After hearing some of the hype 
 from gaming sites and checking out a few videos and images, I decided to get it. Most games are 
 just that... hype. But this was different.
  
  I've never been a huge fan of RPG's. Typically, I find them to be boring, despite the caliber of 
 game they might be. But Oblivion adds just the right combination of RPG and action to make a deep 
 title that still feels fresh after the hundredth-or-so hour.
  
  You start off in a prison cell, awaiting sentencing for a crime of some sort. As you're standing 
 there, you hear a commotion heading your way. The emperor, it seems, is in trouble and is being 
 escorted out of the Imperial City through a secret tunnel, which as destiny would have it, is located 
 in your cell. He recognizes you from a dream and tells you that your paths are linked and that 
 you will play an important role in the events to come. Shortly after the tutorial period of following 
 the emperor and his escorts through the palace sewers, he is assassinated by unknown individuals 
 from a secret organization. You soon learn that all of his known heirs to the thrown have also 
 been killed, leaving no one to take the title of emperor. The main quest of the game is to seek 
 out an illegitimate son of the emperor, unravel the mysteries surrounding this evil organization, 
 defeat the bad guys and crown a new emperor.
  
  Now, I picked this game up with high hopes, and it's met and exceeded every expectation I had as 
 a veteran gamer. The plot is laid out in a very compelling way. The lore is deeper than Bill Gates' 
 pockets. The graphics are simply amazing. And the sound is vibrant and full of life, making it 
 seem like you're in a world of your own to explore. And speaking of which, the land you have to 
 trek across is quite vast (16 sq. miles) , with hundreds of landmarks and points of interest, including 
 caves, mines, cities, villages, Oblivion gates, and more. Though not quite as big as the previous 
 Elder Scrolls titles, it's a great blend of size and graphical innovation. You'll also meet an 
 insane number of NPC's (in the neighborhood of a thousand) , whom all have their own schedules and 
 lives to live out. You can walk in on them while their eating or working, or disturb their slumber. 
 The game is also extremely open-ended and non-linear. Much like the Grand Theft Auto games of late, 
 you have a main quest which progresses the primary storyline of the game. But aside from that, 
 you have a living and breathing world to explore. You can do things in any order and in no particular 
 frame of time, making the game very enjoyable whether you're killing a whole day at the keyboard 
 or picking it up briefly right before work or school.
  
  Now, with all the amazing stuff that this game brings, there are also a few downsides to it. For 
 one, to even hope to enjoy the full immersion that this game brings, you need to have a fairly 
 decked-out rig. That means the real deal. No four-year-old, ghetto graphics card will suffice. 
 If you don't have a monster machine or the money to get one, put this game down and wait until 
 you do, or get it for the Xbox 360. Also, even if you do have a high-end PC, this game is not without 
 its fair share of bugs. As with previous Bethesda titles, this game does have a good amount of 
 glitches. Some have been addressed with a recent patch and I'm sure others will be addressed in 
 the future. However, this does cause some minor annoyances for some and worse for others. As well, 
 Bethesda seems more content selling add-on content that could've easily been included in the initial 
 game release, rather than really getting down and fixing the current crop of issues. I, myself, 
 could not get Oblivion to load for almost a week after I purchased it, because it constantly crashed 
 at startup. I eventually fixed the issue, but I was pretty cheesed for a while. I almost just resigned 
 to wait until the patch came out.
  
  However, despite its flaws, Bethesda has released, in my opinion, the best game for any genre to 
 ever come out for any system... ever... any... and ever again. And once played, providing your 
 system is up to snuff, every negative thing I've mentioned will become negligible, even if the 
 game still crashes every so often.
  
  Between the PC and Xbox 360 versions, I would definitely recommend this game for the PC. Sure, 
 you need to have a gamer's proverbial wet dream-of-a-system to even pull the disc out of the box. 
 And the Xbox 360 version has quite a few less bugs with it. But having played both, one major difference 
 that sets the two apart is... MODS. If the game were to ever bore you in the least (and I'd have 
 to slap you if it did) , there is literally a ton of user-created content out there for Oblivion. 
 Having only been released a mere few months ago, I could easily find somewhere in the neighborhood 
 of 3,500 different modifications. Some ranging from simple retextures to full-blown conversions 
 and everything in between. New ones are coming out daily, and the community of modders continues 
 to grow, as well.
  
  So there you have it. Every reason why you need to pick up this game. I can't believe I took this 
 much time from playing it to write a review on it, but I think you deserve to know the truth behind 
 this incredible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazorco
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is emense in graphics culture and fun but, i have a few complaints. for starter after 
 you finish the main quest you are left open ended and do not know what do or really were to go 
 so you head to a guild or too and after that then were do you go get the point. Although it got 
 quite borring after atleast wo weaks there really was always something to do and find and many 
 things that you must discover on your own so it is a good game and for someone who may have it 
 on the 360 it is a good idea to buy it for PC for 1 good reason MODS!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiterabbit36
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  There is so much emphasis placed on the art, game play, unique look, etc. -- why were more people 
 not hired to read the script ? It is the one aspect, I think, that tends to undermine the effect 
 of being immersed in and experiencing another world. 
  
  Things I wish were different: Having the option to change the character's style of hair or look 
 anytime. (There is code for this, but it takes away a lot of the skill advancement already attained. 
 ) As well, I wish books could be placed deliberately on shelves, and mugs and other stuff on tables 
 rather than just dropping them wherever, or having them put away in a hidden inventory.
  
  Overall, I love this game, and am probably playing it way too much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  What amazing complex of graphics and sounds and story these are the feature that Im going to talk 
 about them in this review:
  GRAPHICS: above perfect its deserve 11 of 10 because it just so perfect of model detail and effects 
 like HDR.
  SOUNDS: great sounds with superb music. 
  PHYSIC ENGINE: not so good but you cant notice this feature because you will be having a great 
 graphics and sounds.
  GAME PLAY: this is the most powerful feature because there is above 200 secondary quests and they 
 also big as main quests.
  THE BAD: not even close.
  THE GOOD: everything from graphics to game play.
  MY LAST WORD: if you love RPG games you must 
 have this game in your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  For me reviewing Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion is no easy task. I've played RPG's (both single player 
 and MUDs) in many styles and on several systems, but had never been exposed to the Elder Scroll 
 series. It's also the first game to really push my computer to the breaking point. With that said, 
 before reading this let me give you the main break down. Don't buy this game unless: 1) Your computer 
 really can pass the recommended stats, or you don't mind sacrificing incredible graphics for just 
 okay graphics to get some better gameplay speed; 2) you have lot's of free time on your hands 'cause 
 it will suck every last bit of free time you have; and 3) you're okay with the idea that hack n' 
 slash will not always work, that patience really can work to your advantage, and being an OCD freak 
 with a nearly endless amount of potential to mold your own world is actually a good thing. Out 
 of the box this game is good; put some MODs on it and you may just have your perfect dream game. 
 So to review this game, I looked at it by playing without any MODs, and then with a few turned 
 on.
  
  Review Out of Box: (with at least the recent patches, unless you like bugs and crashes) .
  Graphics: 
 9 
  Even when playing on low to mid graphics options, with only bloom lighting, the environment is 
 just incredible. Yes some distant areas look blocky, and the clouds get pixlated at times, but 
 you take what you get when you have to sacrifice some quality visuals for framerates that actually 
 allow you to move at a decent speed. On a high end system, the graphics will look incredible just 
 like all those screenshots you see. Go lower on any part of the system hardware and you will suffer 
 visually, but its either that or spend several hundreds of dollars to upgrade. 
  Sound/Music/Voice: 8
  The sounds all fit in well to the genra. The music is good but does get 
 repetitive at times. The voice acting is a definite plus. Granted the same voices are heard all 
 throughout the land, but I'm sure if even one more paid actor was hired we may have been looking 
 at higher shelf prices. Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean were great additions, though I wonder if 
 their pay checks could have gone to more voice actors to make the world a bit more distinct?
  Gameplay: 9
  Granted the level system is very funky, in fact hard-core RPG fans are going to 
 be lost for the first few hours, I know I was. The good part is with some research on the net or 
 just experimenting with the skills yourself, you can get used to it and create some incredibly 
 powerful combinations. Sometimes even a powerful character can emerge in the very low levels. The 
 key to playing this game is patience and diligent planning. You can easily blow through the main 
 quest and most of the side-quests without too much effort. But with laying out a good character 
 at the beginning and watching how you move through the game, you can build a single character that 
 will keep the game interesting for hours and make it last so much longer. Having enemies level 
 up with you is a massive pain however. Since you will "never over power an opponent" as the designers 
 say, it will leave the game interesting but at the same time make you feel like your level 30 warrior 
 is a pansy as he/she gets chewed up by a big dino. But there are ways of getting around that... 
 (hunt for level changing MODs)
  Stability/Game Issues: 9
  With the recent patch installed, I have yet to have the game crash on me. Afrer exiting I do tend 
 to get an error message and for some reason the uninstall program has a major defect (it won't 
 uninstall unless you do some tricks to coerce it into working) . In game you do see a few strange 
 actions like people walking through doors, NPCs falling into walls, and suicidal allies (lava swimming 
 anyone?) . Just step back from an opening door in cramped quarters is my best advice. Somehow a 
 gate knocked me through a wall, down into a sewer basement, and into it's very deep water hole 
 which I didn't wait round to find out if it had a bottom. Save often and be ready for oddities 
 now and then, but otherwise the game is stable.
  Overall: 9.5
  There is a lot to do in Elder Scrolls 4, and so many ways to go about doing it. I'd be very surprised 
 if this game doesn't become a cult classic that lasts well into the days of Windows Vista, and 
 the much anticipated graphics cards that support it. Granted there is going to be something in 
 the game that each person doesn't like. The leveling system and equal enemy leveling comes to mind. 
 The best part of this game doesn't come from what was initially laid out by the programmers. The 
 best part is listed next.
  
  Review with MODs
  All: 10 
  I say 10 for all because the ability to change the game to meet what you want is by far the best 
 thing any programmer can give a gamer. You don't like those clouds in the sky, then change it with 
 this MOD. Level up system stinks? Change it to the classic exp system with enemies that are at 
 set levels. Granted either you have to know how to do it or have to go looking for it, but with 
 just a few months of life to this game the modding community has already turned out some incredible 
 options. Every component of this game gets boosted so long as you have the imagination and the 
 drive to do it. If you're programming incompetant and lazy like me, just look around on the net 
 and you're bound to find something you'd like to use. Bethesda has even been working on their own 
 official MODs that you can buy for $2-$5 dollars. And there's always the possibilties of expansion 
 packs if this game follows in the footsteps of every other PC RPG. Honestly, if you do buy and 
 play this game and find it lacking in anything then just improve it to fit your critieria. Keep 
 that in mind when you read any reviews that have low scores. If there is a complaint or noted deficiency, 
 go see if some MOD has already been made to correct for it. You may just find the fix plus 100 
 other things you never thought could be done before! Happy hunting all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan416
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  You might have to pull out a rag for this one, because when you see it's graphics you'll drool 
 all of your desk. Can you say physics? This game can. It's got great physics that look realistic 
 no matter what the heck you're doing. Whenever I'm just kicking it while running around the world, 
 I like to throw random stuff while I'm passing. Just be sure not to do that in shops, the shop 
 keepers will kick your @$$ if you do (you'll probably hear something like "Thief!" amidst the clang 
 of steel on steel and a nice, soggy pool of blood on the floor when you're through with the shopkeeper. 
 Woot!) . 
  Apart from the graphics, you'll be immersed in a fairly short storyline. Of course that's not a 
 problem, with this humongous world who needs a storyline that much? I'm not saying that this game 
 has a bad storyline of course, it's actually pretty good, just a little short. There's always some 
 fun assassination missions to contend with anyway, so storyline isn't too important. There's so 
 much to do in this game that it's not even funny. You could go fight in the arena in Imperial City, 
 go join a guild, work on the main storyline, do some side quests, rob a store, kill a random person, 
 go collect ingredients for a potion, piss off an old lady and much, much more! This game will keep 
 you occupied if you're an RPGer or an action gamer. My personal favorite thing to do is to rob 
 the stores in Imperial City. 
  
  The only con of this game is that you're going to need to have a pretty high performance system 
 to run this game very well. At least 2 gigs of RAM and better than a 6800GT for your vc. 
  
  All in all this is the best game that I've ever played and the only thing that I see that can 
 rival this in the gaming world is possibly Halo 3 or Crysis. So good luck with this game and I 
 just hope that you can kill all the crap that you ever run into. Happy hunting! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AROWRAJA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I think it is 1 of the Greatest games ever for real when u start playing this game u wont stop 
 playing it
  its well designed with 
  Kickass Graphics kickass sounds and cool gameplay techiques 
  when u go to a town there in the 
 game
  u will find many ppl each 1 of them doing something different from the previous time as if they 
 real they go for walk they go to inns and have fun
  and they work
  and always got more to say if u know how to make them tell ya
  fights is cool 2 u got many swords 
 axes bows daggers just choose 1
  and armors elven mithril dwarven steel iron Glass watever u want and some exclusive parts from 
 quests 
  GUYS THIS GAME ROCKS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the best game I have ever played in my life. Every little detail added comes together 
 to create a world better than any rpg setting before. The size of the world and the depth of each 
 quest combined with the ultimate player creation system make this title the must own game of the 
 year, if not this decade. My only problem so far has been crashes, which are unfortunately frequent, 
 and with the patch, causes system crashes instead of just program ones. I sincerely hope they are 
 worked out so we can enjoy Oblivion as its true potential. I would have given it a 10 in graphics, 
 but it doesnt look that good on my Compaq. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Oblivion really is not that much everyone has been talking about. The graphics rocks but the physics 
 are broken and very boring. Everything is very woody and dull. The story also is not that much 
 and the ending of the main game is not interesting. The game is not hard to play you just need 
 to get in the curve. Combat is very broken and woody too. It was fun to play but i almost stopped 
 playning it becouse of the woodynes and physics. I did not like upgrading, and at the end i was 
 only level 10. Quests are somehow interesting and hard at the end. I liked the guilds and factions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markman002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The last time I couldn't stop playing a RPG, even with FPS games in my library was with Baldur's 
 Gate. Problem is that my wife misses me. it isn't so big a world that you spend all your time traveling 
 through it but big enough to offer a variety of things to do.
  
  The plethora of mods lets you tailor it exactly to your liking. I am not a serious gamer but I 
 can add a companion to assist me in my fights, or get saddle bags so i can carry more stuff since 
 I am an idiot and can't decide what to leave behind. (I think I will need everything) .
  
  Get hooked into another world. If you want a taste of what playing an MMORPG would be like, this 
 gives you that taste without ending up totally disconnecting from reality. Just partially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav_have
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has more than enough to provide you with 100+ hours of gameplay. It is well developed, 
 and interesting. Each character has a different personality which can have an input in your gameplay. 
 Everything in the environment interacts, I love it! The graphics are great, but if you have an 
 old video card it may not work. The landscapes are very realistic and enjoyful, I can stare at 
 it all day. This game is a big improvement from The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind and its expansions. 
 This game has been great up to now and will be forever. I can not wait for the Elder Scrolls V. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor11293
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Man, I never thought I'd wind up playing Oblivion. The first time I saw an ad for it I thought, 
 same old, same old. I rarely played RPGs and never had seen a good one (except Morrowind) . I was 
 so wrong it hurts just to think about it. I bought this game on a whim, and wound up playing it 
 literally 23 hours a day. I now have a level 30 char with100% daedric equipment lol. I managed 
 to beat my addiction, but i still love TES Oblivion. If you don't like this game, you're completely 
 insane (or perhaps deaf, blind, dumb, and mute) because this game IS THE BEST GAME I"VE EVER PLAYED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realistgamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I have never played any of the elder scrolls games until now and its safe to say, i'm a fan and 
 will be waiting for the 5th one. If i was to describe this game in one word it would have to be 
 addicting. you could be playing this game for years to come, i know i will. It has great content 
 and great ai system with gorgeous graphics even on the lowest setting. Very well made quest with 
 lots of massive land to explore, i mean u can spend hours exploring half of everything and still 
 not see everything. Overall one of the best rpg i've played in a while and its for sure on my list. 
 So if u have not got this game yet, go and get it u wont be sorry, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game have the depth to bring some of the latest hardware to its knees, but 
 with the latest patch can be turned down significantly to allow for play on lower end PCs. If you 
 find yourself on the lower end of this spectrum, you will quickly become addicted to this game 
 and be in search for new hardware.
  
  Gameplay is well thought out and most everything within the environment is interactive adding a 
 real sense of realism to game. The ability to switch between first and third person views is great 
 for different situations in the game.
  
  As far as RPGs go, this game offers a well balanced system for leveling up without requiring the 
 player to perform too many mundane and pointless tasks.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to anyone interested in the genre and to anyone not into RPGs, this 
 one will be the hook! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDog007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion:
  
  I remember that I was reading about this game in the PC GAMER magazine, I also remember that when 
 I first read the preview of the game in the magazine, I was locked on a target - I had to get Oblivion.
 
  
  Last month (May, 2006) I ordered the collector's edition.
  I received the order after nine days.
  
  The game's quality cannot be described in words, because 
 Oblivion is much more than a simple rpg.
  In Oblivion, you get to travel and do almost whatever you desire in the fantasy world of Cyrodill 
 - A gigantic part of the Tamriel Empire.
  
  The game is hard to describe, it's so good, that it hurts.
  The graphics are really good, from 
 the inside of the buildings, and the huge open areas with the beautiful view... Of course, there 
 is no such thing as excellent graphics without high system requirements - The game has really high 
 system requirements.
  I have Intel P4 2800MHz, 512MB RAM and Radeon 9600 256MB, and if I want to run the game really 
 smooth, I need to decrease the resolution to 640x480 and low graphics settings, but still, the 
 game looks great at low :|
  There is much to do in the game, from seeking treasure in caves and dungeons, to joining guilds 
 and fighting in the Imperial Arena to become a Grand Champion.
  There are four guilds in Oblivion - Fighters Guild, Thieves Guild, Mages Guild, and the infamous 
 Dark Brotherhood.
  Each guild has a lot of missions and quests available for you, and it will keep you playing for 
 a lot of time, without considering the main quest.
  The music is beautiful, and it will stick in you mind for a while (I found myself buzzing the music 
 while I was taking a shower :) , the voice acting is superb, especially by Patrick Stewart, who 
 gives his voice for Uriel Septim..
  
  After all, Oblivion is an excellent game, that no gamer should pass on.
  There are a lot of thing 
 to do, and the game will suck you into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, I thought RPG's sucked and were only for geeks. They I wanted to see what all the hoopla 
 was about with Elder Scrolls, so I bought it thinking I would probably return it in a day or two 
 when I saw it sucked. Darn, I got sucked in this thing so quick I did not know what hit me.
  
  Gameplay: Immersive, so well done it's mindblowing. Endless hours of free play, do what you 
 want quests etc.. The game's STRONGEST attribute
  
  Graphics: Truly a beautiful game and awsome graphics
  Sound: Voice acting is A+, rest of music 
 is a little forgetable
  Action sequences: Rock, true FPS hybrid type of play
  
  I stand corrected with RPG's. Elder Scroll's: Oblivion is everything everybody says, true gaming 
 Nirvana 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hare18
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Co do tej gry to poprostu brak mi slow. Az nie wiem od czego zaczac. Moze od grafiki ( ktora jak 
 to zwykle bywa brana jest pierwsza pod uwage ) . A wiec sprawa jest bardzo prosta - piekniejszej 
 i bardziej dopracowanej grafiki absolutnie nie znajdziecie w zadnej innej grze ( o czym mozna sie 
 przekonac chocby po screenach czy trailerach video, ktore mozecie znalesc tu, w GameSpot ) . Swiat 
 przedstawiony w grze jest tak realistyczny, ze czesto zastanawiam sie czy ja gram w gre, czy to 
 sen najawie. DALEJ - dzwiek. Tu sprawa wyglada niewiele gorzej od szaty graficznej. Piekna, nastrojowa 
 muzyka zmieniajaca sie w zaleznosci od akcji. DALEJ - grywalnosc. Fakt Faktem, ze nieco slabo urozmaicony 
 wybor interakcji z otoczeniem moze troche zanizyc ogolna ocene gry ( lecz w zadnym wypadku nie 
 obniza grywalnosci ) . OGOLEM - jezeli lubisz ten rodzaj gier to jest to OBOWIAZKOWA pozycja w twojej 
 kolekcji. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game was so much fun! Between the gameplay and the races and classes. It's highly enjoyable 
 with many different quests and missions to play. It's a very interesting experience that is sure 
 to have anyone enjoying it. Though there have been mixed reactions about Morrowind in comparison 
 with Oblivion. In my opinion the graphics sound and gameplay exceed Morrowind. But the wide open 
 playability and variety, I admit are not as frequent as in Morrowind. It's a great game that does 
 not lack playability and fun. So in my opinion I think you should try this game out as a great 
 counterpart of Elder Scrolls: Morrowind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxxchurchxxX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the ultimate RPG in terms of size, gameplay, graphics, and sound. The size of the world 
 leaves travellers walking for hours, in search of rare, hidden paths or treasures but at the same 
 time has a handy fast travel button if your looking to get somewhere on the double. The gameplay 
 has greatly improved since the days of Eldar scrolls III: Morrowind, Skills are easier to learn 
 or get the hang of, loads of quests, twists and random encouters to suit who ever the gamer may 
 be, and not to mention an excellent story line which has it's "epic" moments. Lastly, the graphics 
 and sound always set the mood and blend in perfectly making this an RPG to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipefitterrome
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  So far I'm about 6-7 hours in, and I can say that without a doubt, this game rocks!! Not only are 
 you given beautiful graphics and an awsome story, but the fights and gameplay are unmatched. Ever 
 since I picked this one up, I have loved it. NOTE TO GAMERS THINKING ABOUT BUYING THIS GAME: You 
 should have at least 2GB of RAM for ultimate performance, as well as a video card like the GeForce 
 6200 or better... Remember now, the better the card, the better it looks. Go for the gusto, you 
 won't be sorry. Anyways, the battle system and equipping screens are extremely easy to use and 
 require almost no RPG use prior to this. The other thing I love is how open this game is to exploring 
 and going your own way!! You are not held to the storyline of this game, you can explore the world 
 for yourself and develop how you want to. By far, no words can describe how cool this is, buy it 
 and love it... INCREDIBLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  While many of the expectations were met, there were also some disappointments. The graphics are 
 stunning. While standing on a mountain in the southern part of Cyrodiil facing north you can see 
 several smaller mountains and hills around you, with trees spread out over the landscape and green 
 grass covering the ground under them. In the valley between the mountains lies a lake with an Ayleid 
 ruin on the beach, far far away from you. The whole scene is roofed by white clouds moving across 
 the beautiful sky. Everything is lit up by the rising sun. And you know that if you move across 
 the valley and get up on that mountain just ahead you could see the White Gold Tower surrounded 
 by the walls of the Imperial City. All this has it's setbacks, however. The demands on the graphics 
 card are huge. Even the most recent cards have some difficulties running the game at top settings. 
 And while it really isn't necessary to play with everything spiked to the top it should be an option 
 for more players than it is today. Setback number one.
  
  The character creation process might take a while, mostly because it takes a few minutes just to 
 learn where to go, as you have the possibility to change basically everything, from hair to eyes 
 and chin, ears and nose, body build and length. There is a limited variation of everything, however, 
 and every member of each race tend to look very much like each other.
  The gameplay is relatively easy and should not present any greater difficulties even for completely 
 new players. You learn the most basic controls in just a few minutes, enabling you to get through 
 the intro of the game. The hardest part was learning the interface and a few hot keys, but this 
 does not really slow things down to much. Since the story starts off pretty much right away you 
 don't get much time to explore the various controls and menus in depth right away, but it should 
 not take more than an hour before you have got the hang of it.
  Dialogue is kept very easy to control and does not really have a learning curve. What it does have, 
 however, is a pretty stale voice acting, possibly because of the very basic dialogue system. The 
 voices used tend to recur with the races and faces of the NPC's. This has a tendency to break down 
 some of the credibility of the plot. The were only two unique voices used. Guess where? Setback 
 number two.
  Most other game sound effects are all in the right place, with believable imitations of real life. 
 (well, we might not have many fireball spells or metal boots, but we are pretty much sure what 
 they would sound like, right?) The music is toned down most of the time, but sometimes it still 
 does get in the way of overhearing a conversation any further than a few inches away. It is very 
 hard not to get spotted when creeping around just under someone's nose.
  
  There is so much to do in Cyrodiil, that you could easily go on for two or three weeks straight, 
 especially if you choose to travel by foot, or riding a horse. There are the guilds, Mages and 
 Fighters, Thieves and Assassins, and a number of smaller, almost insignificant factions that you 
 get as a reward for specific missions completed. And of course there are a lot of strewn out missions 
 that has nothing to do with any faction. But wait, there is more! You can also spend time gathering 
 plants and bones and other ingredients to make potions to help with the missions, or make enchantments 
 to improve your items. You could also travel around the country, meeting with all the trainers 
 in the different cities and raise every skill you have.
  
  It is a very good game, but because of high system requirements and somewhat tedious voice acting 
 the score is lowered. It is taken back up a little by the fact that even though the PC version 
 isn't very well put together, it comes with the possibility of modding. And by the very beautiful 
 outdoor scenery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vader54321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  If you're not an RPG fan. GET IT. If you're not an action fan. GET IT. If you're not a first-person 
 fan. GET IT!!! This is a absolute must have game. What ever kind of game you're into. PLAY THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!!!! The graphics will fool you to think you are really in another world. The gameplay 
 will mezmorize you. The sound will amaze you. Hundreds of hours of gameplay will entertain you. 
 All in all, this will forever change how other games are made, graphic wise, sound wise, and gameplay 
 wise. Thank you Bethesda and every who helped make this game become very possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertleva
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Easily one of the best roleplaying games ever made. Visually stunning, the game seamlessly blends 
 action and roleplaying in to possibly the most spectactular gaming presentation ever. Huge main 
 quest, near endless side quests, and completely freeform gameplay make it truly an amazing experience. 
 I spent about 30 hours exploring the world before I even started the main quest, and I could have 
 easily spent 5 times that. 
  
  Not that it needs more perks, but the user mods that are free and easy to install really take the 
 game to another level. My recommendation would be to play through a good chunk of the game without 
 any mods just to get the feel of it. Then add some of the user mods like Oscuros Oblivion Overhaul 
 and get ready for a gaming experience that no other game can rival.
  
  Bottom line: Its probably the best role playing game ever made. It sets a high water mark in so 
 many areas I cant even begin to list them all. Stop reading this and go buy the game. If your system 
 cant handle it, upgrade your system then buy the game. Do it, do it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is freeform. You can be good or evil or somewhere 
 in between depending on how you play the game, there is not "right" or wrong way to play the game. 
 There is a main story but you don't have to do it at all, previous stories in Elder Scrolls games 
 weren't all that good but suprisingly this one is pretty good. The gameplay is sooo much better 
 than its predecessor "Morrowind" the Combat is not boring anymore its actually very cool and intense. 
 Plus they use the Havok engine a lot so stuff flys around and theres good ragdoll and stuff in 
 combat. There are also hundreds upon hundreds of quests and there all pretty good (so far) . Also 
 this game has tons of content as the world in Morrowind was 10 square miles the world in Oblivion 
 is 16 square miles (but it may not seem like it at first but thats because theres over 200 duengons 
 so alot of the world is hidden) . Yeah theres so much more to say about the gameplay but it would 
 just take me soo long to say how great it is. So ya the gameplay is amazing!
  
  Graphics:
  The Graphics in the Elder Scrolls Oblivion are awesome! Plus it even looks better 
 on PC. But the graphics are just amazing when you talk to NPCs youll notice that you can see every 
 little wrinkle and detail in the NPCs faces its amazing! Also the draw distance is very impressive 
 (but the detail decreases at a distance) . Yep but the graphics are really perty xD you have to 
 play the game to understand the awesomeness.
  
  Sound:
  The game has amazing sound too. Every single NPC in the game has a voice and the voicework is REALLY 
 good too. But the thing is they don't have enough voice actors so alot of the NPCs sound similar 
 (thats why the sound is a 9 and not a 10) . Also all the sound effects are very good and real soundiing. 
 Even better all the music is REALLY good too!
  
  Value:
  If you buy this game it's possible you will still be playing this 2 years from now! Ya it's that 
 large and good! Depending on what race and class you make your character and just how you play 
 the game completly changes the game expierence! So it's worthit to have 2 or 3 characters. Also 
 every few months they release a $2.00 to $3.50 add on! So youll probaly never eveeerrr run out 
 of content to mess around with.
  
  And the final score is 9.8 Superb! ya BASICALLY you neeeed to play this game if you enjoy role 
 playing games and even if you dont! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chichan123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the game that i can play again and again! Its highly addictive!
  If Morrowind looked and played good, Oblivion is much much better than morrowind in almost every 
 aspect. The graphics are rich, the sound is fantastic and the gameplay is unlimited fun.
  Apart from main quest, there are side quests in many forms. Freeform quests, city quests, mages guild, fighters 
 guild, dark brotherhood, thieves guild..... the list goes on. And then are countless weapons, items, magic 
 spells. Not to mention the fast travelling source Horses!
  Oblivion puts an end to all the complaints of morrowind. The combat is improved, the quest log can 
 be used easily this time. And the fast travel helps to avoid unnecessary combat while travelling 
 long distances.
  So is the game perfect? No complaints at all? Well this is perfect in all department, except the 
 fact that it is shorter than Morrowind. The main quest could have been more interesting. And the 
 game demands high system requirements. Yes i have low end ATI 9500 card, and the game freezes frequently 
 while loading the game from main menu. So restarting the machine is my only option. But having a 
 low end card is my mistake and not the game's.
  Be warned though this game will suck you in and kill your valuable time. This game should not be 
 missed! Go for it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brian_WCU
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  The only real down side I can complain about this must have single player RPG is the music, It 
 seems lackluster to me, at least compared to the overall effort made in this game. The complete 
 experience and control of your character's destiney is what makes this game stand apart from anything 
 else that is out there. Infact its just a shame that it is a single player game, and not both, 
 single and multi-player (ok i know that is a stretch) !
  Graphics are outstanding (if your machine can handle it)
  Gameplay has its bugs, but thats what 
 patches are for. Jumping seems crude on pc compared to 360 version.
  Hands down the best game of 06' so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Where can i begin.
  
  Lets start with the graphics. they are beautiful. Even and exaggerated low they are superb. It has 
 i high very high replay value and the quests are very great put together even the sidequests. There 
 all few armors and weapons but if you raise your skills there will be no need to get new weapons 
 and armor.
  it sounds great the NPC talk very realistic but they don't look in panic because their world is 
 falling because of the deadra but i can accept that for the price that it has i it very worth it. So 
 i conclude that this game is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OceMyLot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Oblivion, I was amazed by the sheer graphical force raining down upon me. It 
 was as if a God had shown me the light- a light I was destined to follow. Playing through the dungeon, 
 I realized this was a masterpiece. But when I got out of the dungeon? I realized it was god-send. 
 
  
  The audio, the gameplay itself- and definetly the improvements it has over the Elder Scrolls 3 
 is amazing. Invisibility is actually useful in this one. The Thieves Guild is rewarding- and the 
 Dark Brotherhood is full of complete bad-assery. The Arena is wonderfully done- and I couldn't 
 even bootlick by starting to describe it. 
  
  Problems? High-End PC is pretty much required for this game for it to run. If you have a 360 or 
 a High-End PC, then by all means- buy this game. However, this game might be a bit costly if you 
 are in a dire need of an upgrade for your PC. If you have a lower-end PC, or have troubles playing 
 it- just buy the 360. It's a lot cheaper then upgrading your PC with new RAM and a new graphics 
 card anyways.
  
  Great job. I can hardly wait for expansions or further plug-ins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  If you like games that get you "in the game" and you play it like you would do if you were actually 
 there, which is basically just like "living the game," then this is the game for you. Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion is just that game. It's probably the most immersive, action-packed, best RPG to date, 
 and should definately be in your game collection.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is almost everything in a game. For old schoolers, this is Wonder Boy in Monster 
 Land x10 when it comes to graphics, and x2 when it comes to gameplay. I have never gotten so involved 
 in a game and willing to figure out what's next and how to do most of everything in this game (besides 
 maybe F. E. A. R.) . If you like these kind of games, get Oblivion. What I love is just traveling the 
 lands freely and openly and fighting the monsters in my way. Along with that is going to towns 
 and looking at the townspeople and having them tells rumors to me, etc. The only problem is the 
 fact that you can "quick travel" to cities and that takes the fun out of traveling.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not what GameSpy says, "To call the graphics 'amazing' is an extraordinary 
 understatement," is a complete understatement itself. I mean, the graphics are good, but far away 
 they're still "pea soup." Even though I loved being in the rain somewhat in the beginning of the 
 game, looking at the big main city, the "Imperial City" looking from the southeast. And then looking 
 at the bridge over Lake Rumare with the forest in the background. Also, this game doesn't eat mcahines 
 like most games with big environments do; so maybe that is why the textures from afar are "pea 
 soup."
  
  Sound: The sound is good, especially when you take out a sword or something of that fasion. I love 
 when you're in a group after you're done with the Gates of Oblivion trying to take Kvatch back. 
 The only problem is when it's raining, some sounds don't get processed, but that's no big problem.
 
  
  Value: This game will have you playing hours on end, and have you wanting to keep going without 
 stopping, and I love that. This game is well worth $50.
  
  In conclusion, I say you go out and get Oblivion just because of how good it truly is. And you 
 know what I say? I say critics who don't like this game need to appreciate how good this game really 
 is.
  
  Get yourself a copy, you wont regret wasting 30min or less to go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonakicurass
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great followup to morrowind. I myself dont have the greatest computer so I can't 
 see it in all it''s glory, but i have seen it in HD videos and such and it is a buetiful looking 
 game. Also the main plot is interesting but not to overwhelming. The openendness is so extreme, 
 you could if you wanted do all the sidequests in the game get to the top level and never have done 
 the main quest. There is plenty of weapons and dungeons to crawl. The great part of this game though 
 is the open gameplay, at the beginning there is a large number of pregenerated classes and if they 
 don't satisfy you, you can make your own class which is great. It allows for so many different 
 approaches, you could be a hammer wielding orc, a fire throughing high elf, or a little bit of 
 both as a battle mage. The game has everything to be a great game and more, not to mention the 
 player created stuff from mods and the things that the company is adding to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The most important category in rating RPGs, and Oblivion scores a bulls-eye with the seemingly 
 endless quests which are each designed to fit any level of player, whether you're a first time 
 gamer, or a veteran first person shooter. There can be much said about the good things from Oblivion, 
 but I'll concentrate on the downsides, since there's simply too much to enjoy about Oblivion.
 
  Perhaps the most annoying fact about the gameplay is the physics engine in the game. Even first 
 time players will notice this glaring problem with the character's inability to walk or jump over 
 small boulders or even semi-steep inclines. For most games nowadays, the player could and should 
 be able to climb up steep hills and jump up to boulders. However, in Oblivion, you'll often get 
 stuck halfway up the hill/boulder. The weird part is that you seem to be walking smoothly up the 
 hillside, then just as the gradient shifts a few more degrees, your character seems to have hit 
 an invisible wall and will be unable to continue another inch up that said hill. Now, this may 
 seem trivial at the moment, but if a monster is chewing at your leg at that time, or your mission 
 goal is just 10 feet away from you, you'll be feeling much more passionate about this "glich" than 
 right now. For those bunny-hopping fans out there, you're probably thinking you'll just leapfrog 
 over the hill, but unfortunately, this "glich" is complete in the sense that there is no way around 
 it. You could jump all year, and all you'll accomplish is increasing your acrobatics skill... and 
 still be 10 feet away from your goal. Even horses face the same problem, as they'll hit that invisible 
 wall just as you do.
  
  The next problem in Oblivion is the auto-levelling of enemies. So if you're a Level 1 character, 
 most of the enemies you face will be levelled so that you have a chance at beating it, while if 
 you're a Level 20 character, most of the enemies are in the range of level 15-25. This can have 
 both good and bad results. 
  The good is obviously that you'll get a challenge throughout the game without the problem of you 
 overpowering your enemies late in the game with your level 50 character and vice versa for the 
 monsters.
  However, this brings about the problem of not having any incentive for the player to level up! 
 I mean, why in the world would anyone want to level up above level 16, when at level 16, all the 
 loot is already maximized? If it wasn't for the better loot, there wouldn't even BE any reason 
 to level up. So by auto-levelling foes, Bethesda has created an environment where you seem to be 
 doing things very repetitively; at level 1, you need to smack a goblin 4 times to kill it, and 
 at level 30, you STILL need to hit for 4 times. That, I don't understand the concept of.
  
  Amongst all the good parts in Oblivion's gameplay is the intricate network of triggers in the game. 
 What I mean by this is that quite a few of the quests are interlinking, so by completing a quest, 
 you may change the reactions of some of the computer AI characters towards you. For example, before 
 you join the figher's guild, and you talk to figher's guild members, they'll treat you like a weakling, 
 but after joining, and advancing in ranks, they'll treat you with respect. The spinoffs from this 
 are great, as you can tell. For instance, you can use this newfound respect to tease out some extra 
 juicy info from those mentioned figher's guild members after joining the guild.
  
  Another great feature accompanying Oblivion is the difficulty slider. It lets you instantly change 
 the difficulty of the game, even in mid-swing of your sword. This lets novice players get through 
 the more challenging parts of the game without dying 15 times, so it helps keep the flow of the 
 game while still allowing expert players to slide the difficulty right to the end, so that even 
 a rat takes 3 blows to be vanquished. This slider is innovative in the sense that it doesn't give 
 you only 3 degrees of freedom as most games do by giving a choice between "easy", "medium", and 
 "hard". Instead, it is a freely adjustable slider that can suit ANY player's standards. Thus, the 
 difficulty of Oblivion can be nothing but "just right".
  
  Graphics: 
  Nothing much needs to be said about the graphics simply because they're the best graphics in an 
 RPG in the present era with the exception of Half Life 2. However, the sheer variety of weaponry 
 and armor that you get to see equipped on your character and on enemies make up for the lack in 
 pure video quality. Also, the world graphics are truly amazing, especially with the "make it pretty" 
 mods available through this very site. The sky changes colours, clouds appear and disappear with 
 the time of day and region in Cyrodiil, and even the shadows lengthen according to the sun's movement. 
 However, you do need a top-of-the-line video card to view Oblivion at it's max settings. I have 
 a Radeon 9600 XT, and even that only gives me low settings on the auto-setup.
  
  Sound:
  Great soundtrack that really captures the mood of the player whether it is during a peaceful gallop 
 around the countryside, a fierce battle with a Dremora lord, or a suspenseful nightime stalking 
 of an assassination mark.
  
  Value:
  With a game that comes with so many quests, value isn't even an issue. Oblivion easily generates 
 at least 50 hours of gameplay on the first run, even for those veteran players who are used to 
 first person fighting games. To add even more value to the game, Bethesda has continued on with 
 Morrowind's create a player attribute selector. So even after one playthrough of the storyline, 
 many will be tempted to restart a new character and try out new abilities and strengths. The beauty 
 of Oblivion is that no one character is complete, so if you're a melee warrior mage the first time, 
 you'll still need to experience the suspense of being an archer thief in order to feel the complete 
 Oblivion experience. As well, after one playthrough, you'll most likely be yearning for more gameplay 
 experience that lets you explore Cyrodiil to it's limits (all 16 miles of it) while the spectacular 
 Oblivion soundtrack strums out from your speakers.
  
  Pros: Amazing game length, huge variety of spells, weapons, armors, and attributes, great soundtrack.
 
  Cons: Poor physics engine, auto-levelling, resource hog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Yesterday I received my collectors edition, and I have been impressed ever since. The game has 
 the best graphics I have seen on any PC game I own to date. For anybody with a monster PC rig can 
 turn all the details up and drool on your keyboard. The world seems 3 times larger than the previous 
 Morrowind, and the gameplay has really stepped up.
  
  The game starts out not by just dropping you into the world, but rather integrates a storyline 
 into the tutorial and makes you think the tutorial is actually the game off the bat. After playing 
 through the tutorial you are taken to a last gate where you can change your race, appearance, class, 
 and birthsign for a final time. This is an excellent point to save as you wont have to go through 
 the beginning all over again. After that you are given a push into what direction you need to go, 
 but as with the past elder scrolls you are given the freedom to do anything and everything you 
 want.
  
  The game is extremely graphics intensive and will take some serious power to run the higher end 
 settings. If you can run the game though at full view distance and high resolution then you will 
 be in love.
  
  The character creation offers tons of choices and would rival the character creator in Everquest 
 2. You can change everything from age, to bone structures, and hair + skin colors as well.
  
  As far as the classes go. There are a lot of upgrades that should be loved by all. The thief 
 classes now benefit from shadows when sneaking around. Mages will notice that all spells have gorgeous 
 effects and fun to use. Do not think they forgot about the warriors either. There is a all new 
 fighting system. Blocking is no longer done automatically but rather with holding down the right 
 mouse button. You can actually be staggered backwards by a direct blow from the enemy, and you 
 can be knocked around making the combat seem realistic. There is also rag doll physics added in 
 so a blast from a spell might send an enemy flying down a flight of stairs or knocking over a table.
 
  
  Dungeons now have booby traps and secret entrances. I almost cried the first time I stepped on 
 a pressure plate only to have a huge swinging spiked log swing and knock me down almost killing 
 me. This causes you to be more cautious in dungeons. (you can lure enemies into traps or set them 
 off with weapons)
  
  Npcs also have set schedules now and are no longer predicable and just always standing in the same 
 spot.
  
  There is also fast travel by using the map, or you can buy your own horse. Tired from Morrowind 
 of having to kill someone just to use their house. No worries, just purchase your own.
  
  Everything from the last game is in there too as far as professions go (armorsmith, alchemy, enchanting 
 etc.)
  
  There is so much more to this game that I cant even explain everything cause I am missing out on 
 play time right now.
  
  If you loved Morrowind, or even just love open ended rpg's than be sure to pick this one up.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmodai777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the new intro to www. morrowind. com I almost fell off my chair. THEY'RE MAKING ANOTHER!!! 
 A year later it was mine!!! As you do when you get a new game I went upstairs to play it for, oh 
 7 hours. I loved it. TheyGraphics are amazing. The people look like real people (only problem is 
 real people are ugly :P ) the terrain and the weapon detail is just unreal. The combat system was 
 greatly improved from Morrowind. Being able to cast magic without having to put away your weapon 
 was the best. I spent about half an hour running around after a deer trying to hit it with the 
 fireball spell you get at the beginning. I loved everything about it. Only problem was i then began 
 to compare it to Morrowind. I'm one of these sad people with no life and completed more or less 
 every quest on morrowind. And i kept noticing things on Oblivion that just weren't good. The compass 
 took away part of the fun of quests. Wasting your time talking to everyone in a town just to find 
 one person is part of the fun. I was shocked that there was no levitation spell and I nearly lost 
 all faith in the game when i realised just how small it is. Only 4 guilds (5 if you include the 
 arena) and the main quest is so short i did it in 5 hours. However spending more time on it i discovered 
 the leveled system and was drawn back in. I saw past all teh faults and realised just how amazing 
 this game is. If it's your first eldar scrolls game then you'll love it. If you found morrowind 
 hard then you'll love it. However, if like me you got so addicted to morrowind and loved every 
 part of this then you will find a lot of faults with it to start with. Just play it until your 
 about level 15. The dark brotherhoods quests did it for me. They are by far the most creative things 
 that bethesda has ever done. And the daedric shrine quests are a very close second.
  
  I know this hasnt made much sense, its my first review but i hope it helps anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I have played dozens of RPGs, some bringing in some new mechanics, but for the most part, they 
 were all alike: turnbased, linear, and EXTREMELY boring. Every now and then theres a very good 
 one, such as Knights Of The Old Republic or Heroes V, but they all seem to similar in gameplay. 
 The Elder Scrolls series brought massive freeplay ability to the single player audience, especially 
 with the immensely successful Morrowind. Bethesda studios has done it again with the 4th iteration 
 to the series: Oblivion. This game brings every great mechanic that Morrowind had along with every 
 great one that it didn\'t have. Intense 1st person sword fighting, vast, lush and fully explorable 
 world, thousands of en-depth missions, mind-blowing graphics, fantastic sory line; this is the 
 greatest RPG ever !
  
   I would give this game a 10, but gamespot\'s stupid attribute rating 
 system takes me to a damn error page !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creatre
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  First comes the graphics:
  
  The graphics are at the top of their game. This game makes other games graphics such as Everquest 
 2, and Call of Duty 2 look bad. Personally, my AMD 3700+ with 1500mb RAM and 9800 pro wasn't enough. 
 Still couldn't even throw it on half graphics without lag. Upgraded to a x1600 (all in wonder :) 
 ) from Radeon and maxed graphics out! Looks amazing, no one can complain how amazing this game 
 looks. I found one problem with the graphics, there seemed to be some glitchy graphical error that 
 occurs at random after long amounts of gameplay. There's like a cylinder of lines that blur the 
 graphics and it moves along with your character. Happened to both my friend and myself during gameplay 
 (2 seperate computers, dif specs) . Another thing was, there can be no lag, what-so-ever or your 
 screwed in this game. With the click and swing technique that comes with all the Elder Scrolls, 
 it seems there can be no lag, or your going to be drenched in blood.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Simply amazing, hundreds of thousands of quests, huge world, many different routes. Just simply 
 amazing.
  
  Sound:
  
  Music from Elder Scrolls 3 may have been the reason i liked it so much. In this Elder Scrolls it 
 takes that to another level. The music keeps you in the game, with the perfect rhythm's during 
 the situations you need them. I can't explain how much i just love the sound effects and music 
 in this game.
  
  Value:
  
  I believe its a game everyone gets, however the value was discounted in my review because i had 
 to go out and get a new graphics card. It seems that most everyone i knew that got it for computer 
 had to do the same. I know i could have gotten it for the 360, but this would be the only game 
 i'd play on the 360.... talk about a bad value..
  
  All in All:
  
  Great game. A game everyone should play. A game that everyone will talk about in 10 years. A game 
 that may have changed RPG's forever.
  
  -Creatre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonygrech
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  For me Oblivion is the alternative gaming experience to most other games which are usually fast, 
 frenetic and zap your energy.
  
  It's the kind of game you should play in the evening with the lights down low. It super chills 
 me and sucks me in and 2-3 hours later I really am living in this virtual world. The graphics, 
 sound, and musical score, are of a really high quality (the muscial scores is exceptional for a 
 computer game!) . There are many subtle, wonderfully imaginitive ideas that have been put into this 
 game - I love listening to folk sharing news and stories, and how people react to me depending 
 on what I've done in my adventure so far.
  
  Oblivion is not without it's faults. Things do go wrong from time to time. It's a such a massive 
 game with so much in it, with so much to be impressed about, it's easy to to forgive it of it's 
 flaws. There is a new official patch out now so hopefully it has addressed most of the issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmaster246
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  The review deck says it all, I think this game is absolutly brilliant, the gameplay, the graphics, 
 everything is just perfect. I love the way u can change between 1st person and 3rd person to get 
 a better view of the surroundings.
  
  Graphics
  
  I love the amount of detail put into the game, take the faces for example, when you create your 
 character, the amount of things you can change, from the size of the lips, right upto the race 
 and the colour of their skin. Also, if you pick up a weapon that is classed as "Ruined" you can 
 acctually see the chunks taken out of the weapon.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, for each quest, there are hundreds of possible outcomes and I dont lie 
 when I say that the designers have thought of every little detail.
  The AI of the enemy NPC's could have been a little better, but it is nothing huge, and at every 
 corner you a bombarded with new enemy's (and some old) and new skills.
  
  Overall
  
  Overall i think this is an absolutly fantastic game and a must have for any PC gamer with common 
 sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bushido797
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Patrick is the man. The Voice of the Emperor. The story is great. Leaves plenty of room for a sequel. 
 You've got to play it to believe it. Make more! Please! Expansions or something.
  
  Graphics are amazing. Beautiful scenery.
  The world is small to me. I want more land, more cities.
 
  The sound is good.
  The story is awesome.
  Voice acting is great.
  Vampirism sucks, don't ever do it. You'll cry. Big hassle.
  Plenty of room for a sequel.
  
 
  Wish the downloads from their website were free. But I can understand the necessity. Afterall, 
 it took time and effort to create each download and 1 dollar isn't that much. Just don't like giving 
 the credit card.
  
  Definatly a lot of replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelHH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a game that not only has flash, but also has a good deal of substance to it. Even once 
 you have played and completed the main quest series, there is so much more to the game that it 
 is nearly impossible to want to set it down.
  
  The RPG gives you many different quest series to choose from. The different quest lines are extremely 
 distinct and there are hardly any 'kill X number of baddies' quests. Oblivion's main storyline 
 is solid and well put together. There are some minor glitches with some storylines and quest items, 
 but for the majority of the quests they are fine.
  
  The graphics on Oblivion are amazing. The only problem with having such amazing graphics is that 
 anyone without an amazing PC will not be able to feel as immersed. A middle of the line PC sometimes 
 will only give you 10 - 15 FPS in some sections of the game and this really starts to take away 
 from the overall enjoyment.
  
  Fighting in the game is a real treat. There is a chose between ranges, melee and magic combat. 
 The characters in the game are extremely customizable so, for instance, if you want to have a little 
 bit of melee and a little bit of magic you can make your character have these. As well, there are 
 many skills in Oblivion. The more you run, the higher your athletic skill will go up. Things like 
 this make it fun to try to progress your character.
  
  The music in this game is good, but not all that amazing. The main theme to Oblivion is very well 
 done, but some in game music and sound effects is not that great. The game definitely wants you 
 to look at the graphics more than listen to the background music.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is easily one of the best games to come out in 2006. With hours 
 and hours of single player RPG enjoyment, Oblivion is an excellent game to purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  When you start off in this game, you just start to learn the basics of the land you are placed 
 in. Tamriel is what I believe this iscalled. You are just dropped into the plot from the beginning, 
 and will always be involved with it too the end. After you are done with the tutorial/plot review 
 you are technically free to do what you want. You can go around killing small creatures and learning 
 the land, or go straight into a city or village and do some quests to gain money. I first followed 
 the plot. I am not completely done with it but I love the fact that you can set aside the main 
 quest and do any other quests unlike such free-range games as GUN or the critically acclaimed GTA 
 series. You would not want to waste your 7$ to rent this, because you'll want to give it back! 
 This is the best game I ever played and will be remembered forever in gaming communitys, at least, 
 until the next one comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Entering into the bright, open world of Tamriel from the dark, gloomy sewers you are introduced 
 to a stunning display of the massive landscape. An exciting experience filled with intense sword 
 fights and mystical creatures awaits you. Become a thief, killer, mage, hero, become whatever you 
 want, there is only one thing that is certain: you are going to enjoy your stay in Tamriel. Oblivion 
 is filled with remarkable discoveries that will keep you intrigued for a long time By just walking 
 throughout the nearby Imperial City you are sure to pick up a couple of interesting side quests. 
 This is just the beginning, delving deeper into the game will just uncover more quests and abilities. 
 
  
  When you load up a new game you are treated to an interesting cutscene that has the king speaking 
 of his impending doom and the approaching destruction of Tamriel if something isnt done. Early 
 on in the game, you will encounter the king who stops by and gives you your free ticket to the 
 vast land of Tamriel.
  
  Shortly after exiting your jail cell you will be asked to do simple tasks such as shooting a bucket 
 with your bow, while these tasks are helpful, Bethesda doesnt hold your hand through the whole 
 thing. Those who played Morrowind will feel right at home with Oblivion; those who arent used 
 to the Elder Scrolls series will feel comfortable with all the menus and controls with just a little 
 practice. As you continue your journey out of jail you will do a lot of hacking and slashing, but 
 Bethesda keeps it interesting by putting in awesome traps that you can use against your enemy. 
 Traps usually activated by disturbing a rope that stretches across the path, the trap will unleash 
 a dangerous projectile tied to a rope that falls from the top of the shadowy cave. If the trap 
 is activated at the correct time you can watch in satisfaction as the unsuspecting enemy is destroyed. 
 You will be faced with the decision of what class you would like to be, if you want to you can 
 even create your own, which is a great feature. You will also have the power to tweak every aspect 
 of your characters looks. Although, Bethesda offers one of the most detailed character creation 
 systems ever, while playing in the default first-person-perspective, youll rarely have the chance 
 to view your own character. While this adventure through the sewers is an entertaining trip, once 
 you go out the door to the outside world, thats where the true game begins, thats when you have 
 complete freedom.
  
  In this ten square mile world you have the freedom to do just about anything, but you never feel 
 lost without anything to do. Thanks to the enormous number of quests there are in Oblivion your 
 current quest menu will quickly fill up and probably never shrink. Although at some points during 
 the main quest the story just felt clichd and it didnt keep me hooked, luckily Oblivion has engrossing 
 side missions that will keep you interested. A good amount of the side quests in Oblivion have 
 rather complex plots, which contain little unexpected twists and tough choices. Even the side quests 
 that give you a little task to do usually have unique rewards, so every side quest is worth your 
 time. Side quests arent the only way to make a bit of dough, the four guilds in Oblivion offer 
 an exciting way to complete quests, make some cash, and rise to power. These guilds include the 
 Thieves guild, The Dark Brotherhood (assassins guild) , the Fighters guild, and the Mages guild. 
 Guild quests get harder as you rise higher in the hierarchy. Eventually, after many quests and 
 perhaps frustrations, you can become the leader of your guild or guilds. If you plan on making 
 it to the top, you are going to need the equipment.
  
  Thanks to the almost endless amount of loot that can be obtained during your adventures, no two 
 characters will be the same. Sometimes you will find things that are useful, such as a strong potion 
 of healing that will instantly repair the damage that you took from the tough boss battle. Many 
 times you will find things that arent useful at all, such as tongs, shovels, or even love notes, 
 while none of these objects are technically useful, theyre always good for dropping on peoples 
 heads from above. Oblivion may be the best RPG in years, but it also comes with its own share of 
 small flaws.
  
  Under the slick coat of polish, youll come upon a couple of rusty nails. Such as the tedious mini-games 
 that end up being more annoying than fun. First off, the communication mini-game (used to make 
 a person have more respect and trust for you) ended up relying a little too much on luck and it 
 is obviously less effective than bribing. With a bit of spare change you can simply bribe another 
 character into liking you better so they can let you in on a couple of secrets theyve been holding 
 from you. The other mini-game involves lifting up on pins using a lock pick and clicking to keep 
 them in place, if a pin comes down while clicking your flimsy lock pick is snapped. The more difficult 
 locks which contain more pins will make you want to slam a fire-axe into your monitor each time 
 you hear that sad sound of breaking wood and when you run out of lock picks you have to go scrounging 
 around for more. The lock picking felt more like a chore and the persuasion mini-game isnt very 
 useful for trying to befriend an NPC. Each non-player character follows a simple routine, occasionally 
 having a short chat with another NPC. Although, unlike many other features in Oblivion, the NPCs 
 could have used a bit more time in the oven to truly take shape. The NPCs conversations are clunky 
 and the NPCs seemed to be more like robots meant to take part in some quest than actual people 
 that are there to add to the great atmosphere of Tamriel. Listening to the NPCs conversations 
 is fortunately never too painful due to the wonderful voice acting.
  
  Many people say that quality is more important than quantity; luckily Oblivions voice acting gives 
 you both both. With over 1,000 lines of dialogue recorded from such people as Patrick Stewart who 
 acted as Captain Picard in Star Trek voices the emperor. The voice acting matches the characters 
 perfectly and the tone of the voice usually reflects how much a character likes you. Although, 
 the yells that pour out of a characters mouth each time they get hurt will probably get on your 
 nerves. 
  
  Oblivion hits another homerun with its magic spells and potions. With tons of really impressive 
 spells and the ability to create spells in the Arcane University, Bethesda has ensured that even 
 hardcore RPG fans will be left speechless. To be offered the opportunity to create spells at the 
 Arcane University you will have to do a bit of work. You will need to get recommendations from 
 each Mages Guild Hall which are scattered all around Tamriel. To get these recommendations you 
 will need to do exhilarating side quests that will require you to do a various number of unique 
 tasks. There are also a good number of neat potions and right from the beginning you can create 
 your own with the mortar and pestle from the food you have collected. Creating potions is actually 
 quite useful, blending a Daedra Heart, Venison, and a Carn Bolete Cap will make a useful potion 
 that will restore your health in an instant in a fierce battle, but it will not quench your thirst. 
 While potions are almost necessary for success in Oblivion, the magic spells can even be used to 
 just observe the beauty of Oblivions graphical power.
  
  Simply put, Oblivion is pretty; merely just looking at this game on highest settings will make 
 your mouth drop to the floor. The medieval buildings look like they came straight out of a Lord 
 of the Rings movie and the wilderness is just as enchanting. The lighting effects are incredible; 
 at noon the sun will shone upon the great architecture of Tamriel, making it look as if the buildings 
 are glowing. You will notice stunning detail in the faces of the NPCs and in the armor of your 
 aggressive foes. Your sword and shied will glimmer in the sunlight making you involuntarily stare 
 at your monitor. Lighting a torch in a dark cave will light up a short distance around you, letting 
 you see the impressive detail put into the rocky wall. While this is the PC game the graphics are 
 still completely next-gen. 
  
  Even on a high-end computer Oblivion does encounter frame rate problems when put to highest settings, 
 which is why you may want to consider putting down the extra 10 gold for the Xbox 360 version. 
 Although, even without Oblivions gorgeous graphics, the game still delivers silky smooth gameplay 
 that makes it worth every penny on the PC. I very much recommend this game to anyone who has the 
 time to be sucked into the extensive land of Tamriel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunatic321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game that not only lives up to but raises the bar that has been set by previous 
 Elder Scrolls games. I have both the PC and the XBOX 360 versions. I love them both. However being 
 a PC gamer that I am I have to lean towards the PC version of the game. In order for you to be 
 able to enjoy the PC version to its fullest however you have to make sure you well exceed the minimum 
 requirements. If you do not have the capability to run the PC version to its fullest I recommend 
 that you get the 360 version. Frankly running the at anything less than max would be an injustice 
 to yourself. The graphics are outstanding. One of the strenghts of this game is the way that it 
 draws you into the world. I cant begin to count how many times I have sat down to play for a few 
 minutes and it turn into a 5+ hour marathon. The sound is also spectacular. Some of the controls 
 can be a little quirky but you can easily get used to them or download one of the many mods out 
 there that make menus and some of the controls more user friendly. I have read some forums where 
 people are suffering random crashes. I myself have not had that problem. Overall I highly recommend 
 this game if you are a fan of RPG's, and if your not give it a try this game might just make you 
 convert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralphieboy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I dont know where to start so let's begin at the begin: First u must make ur character, u can be 
 an: Nord, Breton, Imperial, Redguard (Human) High elf, dark elf, wood elf (elves) Orc, Kajiit and 
 a Reptile with a very hard name. Then step 2 Birthsign: some of 13 choices or some and finally 
 class and that was in 1 word...... uh... well... i dont have a word for it but lets explain: There 
 r like 30 "normal classes" and u can also make a custom class, and the BIG of it is HUGE!!! Then 
 u come in the game as a prisoner blablabla emporer dead blablalabla interesting story blblbalbalblabla 
 amulet of kings etc... First I did was to the Arena for some fight and money and a bet... but u 
 can also do mission... or hunt wild..... or go shopping.... so the world is just HUGE and very 
 free. I just cant explain it in a simple review, its just 2 big, i need at least a book of 450 
 pages or some. But now excuse me i got to play again......... and that not a joke................ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series of games has come a long way since its debut and its predecessor, Morrowind. 
 In this game, graphical technology has been brought a step forward thus propelling PC gaming to 
 the next generation platform.
  
  The game sets you in Cyrodill, where King Uriel foresees a darkness that is coming to Tamriel. 
 As King Uriel's death draws ever closer, he appoints you to find his forgotten son to help rekindle 
 the Dragonfires and to stop Oblivion and Mehrunes Dagon from ever taking over Cyrodill.
  
  Like a typical RPG, you get to customise your character's statistics. However, Oblivion has taken 
 character customisation to a new level ala The Sims, unfortunately that only applies to the face 
 of your character. The game plays fluidly with a large and user friendly interface that everything 
 you do feels seamless and intuitive, even though you might be a new player of the RPG genre. Combat 
 generally feels realistic, typical for a first person RPG. Oblivion has added quite some depth 
 to swordplay with different hitting styles which give variety to how you attack your enemies; from 
 side slicing to a strong knockback attack, swordplay really feels true to how you want to play 
 the game. Besides melee combat, there is also ranged combat which typically means you're gonna 
 depend on your trusty bow and arrow to take out your foes. On top of your normal shots, Oblivion 
 allows you to enter 'Sneak Mode' which gives you a stealthy advantage over your enemy by giving 
 them a sneak attack thus dealing critical damage. This adds to the gameplay which may get repetitive 
 after a few hours into the game. And of course, any medieval RPG can't go without magic. Oblivion 
 has included tons of spells and charms, you'd be spoilt for choice. Relating back to character 
 customisation, unlike typical RPGs, your character isn't limited to certain spells and abilites 
 based on class type. Rather, Oblivion gives the player much freedom on how he wants his character 
 to develop based on his choices. With this freedom, players have an almost limitless choice and 
 style they'd like to play the game. 
  
  Besides combat, Oblivion also brings back popular aspects of the game such as sneak/stealing and 
 alchemy. Sneaking is an interesting aspect which allows players to utilise the environment and 
 objects to their advantage, such as shadows, rocks and even the boots your character is weaing. 
 And as mentioned above, sneaking gives players advantage in combat with sneak attacks as well. 
 Sneak also has an alternate usage, specifically for stealing. According to your gameplay style, 
 stealing can be an extremely useful skill to pick up to assist you in quests. Alchemy, also brings 
 in yet another compelling aspect to gameplay. By mixing different ingredients and alchemic skill, 
 one can produce potions to assist you in the game and most of the time, turning the tide of a battle 
 or duel. Oblivion also applies a real life notion of 'Practice makes Perfect'. In game, the more 
 you use a certain skill, ability or spell, the better your character is. For example, the more 
 you use swords, the better your blade skill would be. Even by simply running and jumping around, 
 your athletic skills will also increase. With such realism, it's no wonder why players around the 
 world are completely absorbed by such excruciating likeness to life. 
  
  Besides all these amazing character development aspects, the story plays out well with the main 
 quest of stopping Oblivion and relighting the Dragonfires though relatively short on its own. However, 
 the countless number of side quests do provide hours upon hours of gameplay time you'd really think 
 it blends so well with the main quest, eventually extending the value of the game.
  
  Artificial intelligence in this game is somewhat disappointing, considering guards know that you've 
 stolen or killed someone even though no one has seen you do it. At times, NPCs can seem idiotic 
 despite boasting seeming intelligence to converse with each other autonomically.
  
  Oblivion deserves amazing credit for its graphical work. This game boasts one of the most amazing 
 graphics to date by utilising technology such as high dynamic range lighting and bump mapping thus 
 adding astounding realism to the game. With all the settings cranked up in the game, the game looks 
 absolutely, down-right gorgeous. However, you'd need quite a beast of a machine to run this game 
 despite meeting the recommended requirements. Forests in this game are amazingly realistic with 
 animals roaming around, plants and herbs growing and the overall feel simply brings you into a 
 world unlike any game ever released. Scenery on the whole is comparable to picture postcards. The 
 amazing sunset over the horizon, the majestic sight of the Jarrell Mountains to the simple yet 
 elegant Lake Rumare. All these really is a treat to the eyes. Though amazing, no game is without 
 its graphical flaws. Oblivion has some really nasty shadowing problems that can make characters 
 look more horrible than them without shadows.
  
  The tweeting of birds, the flow of water, the clang of metal clashing or the rhythmic galloping 
 of the horse. Sound effects (both ambient and action) reflect everything in the environment with 
 such accuracy and realism, when paired with a good set of headphones or surround sound system, 
 immerses you into the world that is Cyrodill. Moving away from environmental effects, speech has 
 been rather well done, considering how NPCs interact on the go (means they're really talking with 
 scripts, unlike other games) . Though revolutionary, at times it can get annoying, repetitive and 
 down-right stupid. NPCs may repeat the same thing over and over again despite having said it before 
 or even respond incorrectly. For example, from a friendly tone then might suddenly respond in rage 
 for no apparent reason. With these aside, Oblivion does have a rather disappointing soundtrack. 
 Though music that changes according to the situation is a nice addition, when you're just walking 
 around, the music can get hypnotic and at times nauseating. 
  
  As the game is rather lengthy, it sure is very well worth its price. But what is a game, though 
 long but boring going to prove? Nothing I'm sure. However, Oblivion has hit all the right notes 
 on this 4th part of the Elder Scrolls series with such replayability it would feel like a seemingly 
 endless game, in a good way.
  
  Overall, Oblivion does a good job over tried and tested gameplay from Morrowind and even improving 
 upon it. With so much to do and in so many ways, the game covers many gameplay aspects well without 
 being too complicated. What I have covered in this review is only the surface and there's much 
 more to discover in this game that even I have probably yet to find. And with such amazing eye-candy 
 (provided you have a decent machine) there is simply no reason to avoid this game even if you aren't 
 an RPG gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychotron007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Charcter animation in this game is of top quality. The musical score is excellant and complements 
 the games medieval fantasy setting. Depending on the environment, you will get cherry daytime adventure 
 type of compositions, tense battle music and ambient, unsettling string arrangements for dungeons 
 and ruins. Sound effects are equally impressive with crisp metal clangs for clashes in battles 
 and eerie, otherworldly audio for magical happenings.
  
  Even if you choose to concentrate in the main mission it will take you 20 plus hours to complete 
 it. Another good feature of this game is the difficulty level faced. It is paced to increase the 
 difficulty settings as you get more powerful in terms of the foes that ypu come up against. If 
 you feel that the game is giving you a whipping then there is a sliding scale that you can use 
 to downsize or up the ante.
  
  The game outdoors scenes are gorgeous. It has a very good level of detailed system that ensures 
 smooth gameplay. A noticeable feature of this game is that it replaces objects like trees in the 
 distance with low quality versions and as you get closer to those objects, it adds detail to them. 
 While this system has been prevalent in earlier games too, it has been implemented in a larger 
 scale in OBLIVION.
  
  On the whole, OBLIVION is an enjoyable experience and has an excellant replay value. You will keep 
 coming back to this game again and again and again without ever getting bored to it. You would 
 be hard pressed to find a game that looks as good, plays as well and just plays for as long as 
 this one. YOUR INTEREST WILL NOT WANE.
  
  Against: High System Requirements
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batledroid321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  If you loved morrowind, you will adore this game. The world is huge. I've had it for months and 
 I am still finding new features and locations. The game is enormous. However, you need a monster 
 of a computer to fully experience it. If there was a bigger and better RPG than oblivion, the gaming 
 world would fall apart. This is amazing. You can battle goblins, forest animals, bandidts and even 
 Guards. There are four guilds the legal Fighters and mages guild and the illegal dark brotherhood 
 and thieves guild. You can breeze through the main quest or do everything but the main quest. There 
 is no pressure to beat the main quest immedieatly. Although, it might be best to get it outta the 
 way before u start the guilds. But thats what i did. Every1 plays oblivion differently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneakymofo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  There is absolutely no doubt that Oblivion is indeed a great game. The graphics are breathtaking 
 and the storyline is solid. The part where I star to feel a little disapointed is in the gameplay. 
 In a world as large as Cyrodil there should be a little bit more to explore, esspecially in the 
 western half of the province. I feel there should have been a few more cities and smaller towns. 
 Some of the quests in the game can be a little dull esspecially after you have finished the dark 
 brotherhood quests which in my opinion was the best. I definentely think this game did not quite 
 live up to the hype it was given. All in all its a pretty good game and if you have a decent graphics 
 card for your PC I think it is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flproject13
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  I like this game, but I am extremely disappointed with the total lack of support from the developers. 
 If you own an Xbox and plan to play this on it, dont. Bethseda has offered little support for 
 the Xbox. The game is great, probably the best RPG to come out in a long time. The problem is that 
 Bethseda tricks consumers into thinking that Oblivion is some kind of upgradeable game. The patch 
 released this June doesnt work for current games in progress. The newest patch for the Xbox doesnt 
 fix problems for games already in progress, meaning its perfectly acceptable to Bethseda that 
 the customer start their game over completely (and when your 100+ hours in, trust me when I say 
 you dont want to start again) . Aside from the major shortcomings of the developer, Oblivion is 
 a great game. The quests are fun, however, they do tend to get repetitive. And new content on Xbox 
 does cost money, something I also find to be ridiculous. Bottom line is buy the PC version for 
 3 major reasons. 1.) User-created content is free 2.) Bethseda seems to provide a bit more support 
 for the PC although its still poor and 3.) It looks as if Bethseda is going to abandon support 
 for the 360. Their developers didnt do a good job of developing a hot-fix system and this is really 
 unacceptable for the types of bugs that the game has. This isnt a rant, its a review with a warning. 
 Be prepared to face major bugs throughout the game and dont expect them to be fixed quickly, if 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion  Review 
  
  The torch light flickers on the wet cave walls as you creep up on the Goblin Shaman. You unsheathe 
 your Daedric dagger and raise it to strike. Your dagger plunges into the back of the Goblins neck. 
 As its limp body slinks down to the damp cavernous floor the protective enchantment the Goblin 
 had cast fades. Little good it did him. 
  
  But, maybe the silent assassin isnt your type of character; maybe you prefer the heavy armor and 
 bloodied axe of an impatient Orc; or the fiery wrath of a necromancer. In Elder Scrolls IV you 
 have a great deal of freedom in terms of gameplay and character selection. Combine that with some 
 astounding next-generation visuals and audio and youll find a magnificent experience in nearly 
 every possible way. 
  
  The gist of the main storyline is simple, and in Elder Scrolls fashion, taking part in it is completely 
 optional. You can play this game for well over a hundred hours and not even touch the main quest, 
 considering the sheer joy youll find in simply exploring the world. Also in Elder Scrolls fashion, 
 your character starts out a prisoner, only this time in the cell that just so happens to have the 
 secret passage the Emperor of Tamriel needs to escape through. Coincidence or destiny!? You decide. 
 The Emperor spares your life for unclear reasons. Then making your way through the depths of the 
 Imperial prison hidden corridors you learn that the Emperor (voiced by Patrick Stewart from Star 
 Trek) has seen you in his dreams and knows that you will accomplish great things in the future. 
 The heirs to the throne have been assassinated, and the Emperor seems to accept that he wont survive 
 much longer. Yet, he is full of hope. He believes you have the power to save Tamriel. 
  
  When creating your character the selection of races is large and varied. Choose from the several 
 elves, High, Wood, and Dark. There are numerous humanoid races as well, from the Breton who specializes 
 in magic to the Imperial who is the run-of-the-mill human. The Nord is a tough, grungy, and hardened 
 race who can stand the bitter cold of the north. Whereas, the lizard-like Argonians have the ability 
 to breathe under water and have full resistance to poison. Lastly, both the Orc and Redguard races 
 are geared toward the kill first, ask questions later playing style. The character-building system 
 is robust and detailed, but unfortunately your character will almost always be ugly. The people 
 of this particular fantasy world just arent that good-looking -- no matter what race you pick. 
 
  
  Once youve begun your quest, youll quickly become familiar with the easy-to-use menus. As you 
 pick up a variety of items, weapons, and armor. You can view them in your inventory, which is separated 
 by type of item. You can find your armor, clothing, and defense-boosting trinkets in one slot, 
 whereas youll find ingredients and potions in another slot. Flipping through the pages of the 
 menu, youll find a map that allows you to teleport to any found location. The inventory system 
 is straightforward, as any good menu should be. The level-up system in Oblivion is difficult to 
 fully understand. Near the beginning of your journey youll choose seven Major Skills, causing 
 the remaining to be Minor Skills. This system, if you mean to level-up properly, can become especially 
 complicated and tedious. The seven Major Skills have a profound effect on how your character will 
 level-up. Using Major Skills, not Minor, will cause you to level up. The game has you think about 
 how youre playing instead of just hacking away at enemies for experience points. 
  
  When you gain a level, your enemies (and NPCs) will increase in difficulty; treasures will appreciate 
 in quality and worth; and increasing certain skills will become harder. If you level-up as fast 
 as you possibly can, without paying heed to the nuances of the system, youll quickly find yourself 
 outmatched by your adversaries. The system is complex and intricate, but in practice, youll be 
 surprised how quickly you pick up all the little details and put them together, even if the game 
 fails to properly explain these details. Luckily, every other part of the game is compelling enough 
 that you will look past the annoyances of this system. 
  
  The world of Tamriel is beautifully realized, rich in quests to complete, enemies to defeat, and 
 people to meet. Walking through the woods as the sun shines through the trees and casts shadows 
 on the moist forest floor can keep you occupied for hoursespecially when fending off bandits, 
 harvesting ingredients, and discovering ancient ruins. Youll want to explore to the ends of the 
 world. The forests are greener, the water is bluer, and the sky will leave you in awe. And once 
 you step into your first Oblivion Gate youll witness the hellish world beyond and fear it. The 
 simple act of exploring has been perfected, with a vast, detailed, and breathing world. 
  
  Youll find plenty else to gawk at, including, but not limited to, the character models, weapons, 
 spell-effects, physics system, and wide variety of animations. The character models for many NPCs 
 are recycled, but in such a huge world with literally hundreds of people to meet, this is a minor 
 imperfection. Theres nothing like killing a Daedric Lord, picking up his scorching Claymore, and 
 then using it against his kin. The spell-effects are, for lack of a better word, glorious. And 
 the amount of items is equally impressive, as each item has full physical maneuverability. So yes, 
 you can pick up books and throw them at people. 
  
  You need to be careful though, since your actions usually have consequences. If youre in the local 
 weapons shop and you pick up an item that isnt yours while someone is watching hell call the 
 guards on you. The people of Tamriel arent so big on the try before you buy philosophy. Once 
 the guards arrive, with unnatural speed, youll be presented with three choices. You can pay for 
 what you stole, and lose all other stolen items. The can go to jail, and attempt to escape and 
 recover your belongings. Or, you can resist. Obviously, the last option is the most entertainingbut 
 early on in the game youll simply get obliterated by the guards and barely have a chance to scratch 
 their heavy armor. The problem is how cautious you have to be. Even if you move an item that isnt 
 yours, youll get in trouble. In other words, everyone in Tamriel needs to take a chill-pill. 
 
  
  Luckily, the people of Tamriel also have plenty of things for you to do. Youll be spying, murdering, 
 acquiring lost items, finding lost friends, helping to lift curses, stealing from authorities, 
 defeating evil (or good) , and generallykilling things and getting gold. The majority of quests 
 are enjoyable, especially those youll acquire from Guilds, which include sweeping storylines similar, 
 although not as dramatic, to the main quest. Many of the quests you will get in the wilderness 
 arent as diverse or interesting as the Guild quests, but will still keep you occupied and give 
 a good change of pace. You may have to save some villagers stuck in a cave full of trolls, or you 
 may have to discover the whereabouts of a lost family treasure. Youll always have quests available 
 to you. 
  
  Once you get to that cave and find those nasty trolls, there are numerous ways you can dispose 
 of the vile creatures. The fighting system proves to be straightforward, and easy-to-master. Plus, 
 the artificial intelligence will always keep you on your toes. Pull out your dagger, sword, mace, 
 or axe, and you can whack that nasty troll to kingdom-come. Clicking once will swing your weapon, 
 and holding the button as you move up, down, right or left, will give you special attacks, provided 
 youve leveled-up your skills enough. The fighting is always intense, and the hit detection is 
 usually spot-on. The combat, especially with multiple opponents at once, can prove challenging 
 and youll need to use all of your abilities in order to succeed. Carefully plan your strategy, 
 because each special attack you use will take a chunk out of your stamina bar, and it takes time 
 for it to refill. If youre dead tired and backed into a corner, youll find yourself in trouble 
 very fast. 
  
  Long range combat is likewise enjoyable. Pulling out your long bow, equipped with poison-tipped 
 arrows, and landing one right in between a nasty Ogres eyes is extremely satisfying. There are 
 literally too many types of arrows to count, and many have magical effects. Or, equip a spell to 
 one of the eight hot-keys, and watch your enemies burn, freeze, or fry, accordingly. The most 
 satisfying type of magic is Conjuration. Theres simply no substitute for the pleasure of watching 
 your own animated zombie go at it with another zombie. However, the most significant kind of magic, 
 and something nearly every sort of character will need, is Restoration. Having a healing spell 
 handy at all times is imperative. 
  
  The sound effects, sweeping original score, and bountiful voice-acting make Oblivion a fine sounding 
 experience that you wont forget. Walking through creepy, zombie-occupied crypts has never been 
 so immersive. Youll hear water dripping behind you, moaning victims around the next corner, and 
 the clinking of your chain-mail. All the while, foreboding music plays in the background. As soon 
 as you start the game you will be treated to an enchanting and memorable theme, and the rest of 
 the music is of equal quality. The voice-acting is also excellent, and also has a couple, big-name 
 actors playing main characters. As mentioned, Patrick Stewart plays the Emperor. And Sean Bean 
 plays Martin, the lost heir to the throne, and gives a compelling performance. As Martin makes 
 each decision, you feel his fear and uncertainty. Unfortunately the rest of the voice-cast in Oblivion, 
 although competent, is composed of about ten people. Youll hear the same voices for many different 
 characters. Its a minor gripe in the end, considering just how well written the dialog is. 
  
  The world of Tamriel quickly enchants you and you wont want to leave. It will take at least 
 100 hours for you to complete the bulk of quests. Then you can access the dozens of player-created 
 moderations for the game and extend its life even further. The world isnt just huge for the sake 
 of being hugeeach city offers something new, as you meet different people, witness their way of 
 life, help them with their problems, and even buy your own property, you will feel connected. Youll 
 feel like youre a part of a living world, with a crisis that only you, the hero of untold powers 
 can help avert. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has its own set of flaws, but largely the game consists 
 of amazing presentation, fun gameplay, wonderful audio, and a level of immersion that youll probably 
 not find in any other game. Oblivion may not be the perfect game, but its hard to complain. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista_bozz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Amazing, compelling, challenging, visually-rich, extremely diverse... The list could go on. Simply, 
 this is the most complete and most detailed RPG to date. Considering the gargantuan and growing 
 Oblivion community, superb modifications appear on a daily basis, fixing flaws and adding just 
 that extra umph which push this magnificent gaming experience even more forward. Thus making this 
 game worth every last penny. Basically, It is a sin for an RPG fan to neglect this game. For non-RPG 
 gamers this game will quite possibly open them up to this genre. I congratulate Bethesda for their 
 masterpiece and eagerly await their new works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  As if the gaming community would expect anything less than excellent from the sequal to Morrowind. 
 This game, though delayed, was released with wonderful results. The graphics are beautiful and 
 the gameplay lives up to it's predecessor. While the game does have changes from Morrowind that 
 in some ways increase it's potential, and in others make things a little more difficult, I believe 
 the changes were for the better in all. You no longer have to run across the entire country, catch 
 a boat, or find a guild guide in order to travel to the far side of the map. The quick travel system 
 allows you to instantly travel to any place you have already been. This was a big plus in my book. 
 However, I do miss the journal which was present in Morrowind. Sometimes you ran into situations 
 in Oblivion were you were told to go and see one of multiple characters in the guilds. However, 
 it did not give you a map marker, and unless you remembered exactly which city the particular contacts 
 were located in you had to start hitting the guild hall in every city in order to find them. This 
 game is deserving of the name Elder Scrolls and it definitely has replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasya7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  In ancient times, when the knights fights against evil and sword and magic are the strongest weapons 
 the hell you might have fantasised of has come to reality. It is called the Oblivion.
  You start at the Imperial Prison and work your way out to fame. In strugling times when the Emperor 
 dies right in front of you Cyrodil has asked you to help.
  This game was the most exciting RPG I have ever played. At the start I was the sword master but 
 then I found the equilibrium between reality and magic. My first spells were Night Eye and Flare 
 but as I advanced further I learned the greatest spell: Fire Column Damage. Some people might disagree 
 with me but I was impressed by how much damage it did, 1000 pts! And my other friend was the Blades' 
 Kathana (sorry if I misspelled) .
  I loved the story line. I enjoyed fighting deadra. There was a down side of the game though. It 
 was to easy too cheat. I passed the game with TGM (god mode) . You could also unlock anything except 
 for the War Gates of Oblivion and etc. Some cheats helped too, besides godmode, there was one like 
 MOVETOQT which helped a lot to go through the boring parts.
  Anyway, the game was great and recommend it to anyone who likes to live another life in ancient 
 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boo68
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  Thought at the begining was slow like Morrowind but after a couple of weeks, like all games it 
 proved a true testament to the Elder Scrolls series in that it listened to the players remarks 
 on the previous versions and made a true RPG better than any other to date. I'm pissed with dudes 
 bagging a game after playiing it for one week. Go back to PacMan litle minded FPS's, this game 
 is for the real adventurer and brings into a world unlike no other. I believe this game deserves 
 at least a 10. Why you ask, you feabile minded pile of horse dung that has festered to the point 
 of no return!? well my face points away from my arse so the crap doesn't poor into it.! As a coder 
 / maper I'm amazed by the amount of work that has poured into this game. ACE, by far the best.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: talos4talos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  High performance PC with the latest and greatest Graphics Card. a must in order to fully enjoy 
 this work of art.
  
  The Mod system is an excellent concept
  
  Message to Gamers and those that make them: get ride of the expansion packs and instead have MODS
 
  
  Message to Bethesda: start cranking out more MODSmy wallet is your Bread and Butter 
  
  XXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXXX XXXX XXX XX XX X XXX XXXX XXXX X XXX XXX XXXX XXXXX XXX XXX XXXXXX 
 XXXXXXX XXXXX XX XXXX XXXX XX XXX XXXXX XXXXXX XXX XXX XXXXXXX XXXXXX XXXX XXXXXXXX XXX XXXXX XXXXX 
 XXX XXXXXX XX XXX XXXX XXXX XXXXXXX XXXXX XXXXX XXXXXX XXXXX XXX XX XXXXX XXXX XXX XXXXXX XXXXXX
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj108
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing the graphics are top knotch and only pull you in even deeper. The story is 
 great from start to finish, plus all of the other side quest you can do. The world is massive and 
 gives you enough places to explore and things to do on your own, besides the main quest. 
  
  The voice overs are great, each and every character actually speaks to you even simply when 
 passing them by. The only thing i didnt is that some of the townsfolk look a bit alike but that 
 would require somone to make uniqe faces and voices for over a thousand people.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone that is a fantasy fan. Just make sure you have a system 
 that will run it if you arent using an Xbox.
  
  This game is sure to keep anyone busy for quite some time, and maybe even some replay value to 
 come back to it and try new things as you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEdmondsR
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion just might be the best role-playing-game on the computer to date. It 
 definatly has the best graphics. No matter where you are in the game you never stop being amazed 
 by the stunning visuals. Even thought the AI faces might look a little emotionless or "fat", that 
 shouldn't affect your gaming experience. On to gameplay. It is just fun. Swingin your huge sword 
 while shooting some fireballs at a couple goblins is realy stisfying. The sound is very well done, 
 however could use some more musical numbers. The controls work just right, but there could be a 
 better spot for the "cast" command. The replay value is incredable. As my heading states, say adios 
 to your family. Im going ot compare it to GTA because it has the same free-roam feel to it besides 
 the city limits. On Oblivion you can spend 40+ hours doing quest or beating up monsters in dungeons 
 without even touching the main quest! Overall, this is definatly a top of the line game that will 
 be one of the first in great next-gen games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Oblivion doesn't have the depth needed to be a good RPG, player can't affect anything, dialogue 
 options are non-existing and missions and story-line are very linear.
  
  Oblivion is closer to an action game, but even at that it fails because of too many compromises. 
 The play area is the size of a not so small city, and the player can roam it freely. BUT, roaming 
 it freely is somewhat pointless since all cities are basically the same, leveling is somewhat useless 
 since the opponents level at the same rate as the player.
  
  Combat system is good, but gets very repetitive very quickly. All fights follow the same pattern; 
 Block - attack - attack - block - ect. With the aid of enough health potions all opponents are 
 easy to defeat, especially since they are scaled down to players level.
  
  Missions are pretty much the same everywhere, go kill that and that guy, and thanks to huge map 
 most of the time goes travelling to locations. Missions aren't that rewarding either, don't expect 
 to find rare treasures and powerfull weapons from your dead enemies corpses or chests, all you 
 find is few potions and coins, and at best, the same weapons you already got. Neither does completing 
 a guild story line offer anything astonishing.
  
  Not only are all cities basically the same, but they are also relatively empty. There's usually 
 more guards that normal people in the streets. About 98% of all NPCs consists of guards, guild 
 members or shopkeepers. And they all say the same things with the same voice, and are all in all 
 less lively than in many older games. They don't react to bodies lying around or infernal oblivion 
 gates around the city. 
  
  Worst thing in Oblivion is the lack of freedom, in otherwise so free game world. For e. g when I 
 got mission to stop this shopkeeper to sell stuff underpriced, I thought, well, I'll just kill 
 him. But whad do you know, he won't die, just gets knocked out for a while. And the best thing, 
 after I beat him unconscious, he still smiles to me and offers his goods to me, I guess the customer 
 IS always right, at least in Oblivion. 
  
  But then what makes this game at least average then. Well, there are few good things. Graphics 
 are very nice, and with some tweaking you can get it to run nicely even without $1500 harware. 
 The gameworld is very big, unfortunately it hasn't been utilized in the game itself. Combat system 
 is ok, despite the compromise between rpg and action game.
  
  So, all in all very average package.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pink_Bunny42
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  With such amazing graphics, it's hard not to fall in love with this game. The graphics are amazing, 
 and with the ever increasing list of mods to enhance the visuals another step further... Who can 
 complain? The sound is just perfect for the setting in which the game takes place. Music matches 
 each situation perfectly, from exploring plains and forests all the way to the deepest of dungeons 
 and caves. Controls are easy to learn, and customizable. Oblivion is a pick up and play game, for 
 those who need some quick fun. Character creation it self is highly addicting. For any one looking 
 for a pick up and play game, I highly recommend Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cclark1979
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a must own as there is so much content available. It also has some great mods available 
 for extended gameplay. http://planetelderscrolls. gamespy. com/ and http://www. tessource. net are 
 two good sites for mods. The game also feature several races to choose from along with a great 
 level up system. Also in addition to the great story line is the superb graphics available. This 
 game is in my opinion the new benchmark for pc graphics. The only part of the game that could use 
 some improvement is the caracters look a little weird in comparison to the rest of the graphics 
 when speaking to them. Other that that this game gets a 10 out of 10 when it comes to graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  What to say about this incredible game with more depth than you will find probably anywhere else... 
 It is truly a masterpiece in every respect. Let us begin where everyone else does, the visuals. 
 While running it on a heavy machine (3.4Ghz processor, 2 gigs DDR2 Ram, Ati x850 xt 256mb pci-express) 
 the game looked brilliant. I was able to crank up every visual effect. It is so beautiful, at times 
 I found myself at the top of a mountian just looking about 2-3 miles into the distance. Somthing 
 like this can really bring you into a game and captivate your senses much more effectively. With 
 this power, also comes a few drawbacks. given the insane draw distance of the game, coupled with 
 just about every other visual effect; the framerate in areas can be gruesome at times. Granted 
 everything is turned all the way up, on my beast of a machine I drag almost to a halt when engaging 
 enemies around the oblivion gates. That tends to be the only place that I really have any hang-ups. 
 
  Game-play I suppose is the most important... even in a game as gorgeous as this one. The game couldn't 
 start any better. They get you into the action right away (in morrowind you were just sort of thrown 
 in) , and this also serves as a nice little tutorial. The story feels very urgent and you feel as 
 though what is happeneing on-screen is really happenening. This is really what I like to get into 
 about a game. The way it draws you in and makes you feel about the world is really the clincher 
 for me. The best example I can think of is the Gothic series. There is a world that feels very 
 alive (as dated as the graphicsd are) and characters that you really care about or absolutely hate. 
 I actually remember being driven to level up just so I could kick some jerks ass that was bullying 
 me in the beginning of the game. It is stuff like that that take a game from good to great. Oblivion 
 has plenty of this too. As you progress your deeds are seen by many, and the word-of- mouth spreads 
 quickly in Cyrodil. Many times you will over-hear the residents of many cities talk about you with 
 their friends. That is another thing that brings you into the game even further, the NPC's. I won't 
 go into it too deep, but they have a regular schedule and carry out daily tasks. Though it is fairly 
 obvious that they are on some sort of a regular schedule, it is disguised well. The battle mechanic 
 that has been a huge topic of conversation when it comes to Oblivion has been immensly improved 
 upon since the last installment of The Elder Scrolls. I love the block when you want to strike 
 how you want to design. Though while dealing the damage it seems fairly intuitive, though sluggish 
 at times, when taking the damage this is a different story. I found myself several times trapped 
 in a corner by a small beast (clanfear) and everytime that I blocked, he would simply knock my shield 
 down and cause me to stumble. After about 40 seconds of this I was dead and fairly pissed off. 
 Though this is a rare occasion, and i assure you that it is, it was bothersome especially considering 
 the creature i was pitted against. 
  The amount of content is also massive in Oblivion. I have already played for over 40 hours and 
 I am only about 6-7 missions into the main quest. I have been getting side tracked with so many 
 things. Whether its helping out random NPC's, doing quests for the many different guild (the thieves 
 guild in particular has some awesome quests) , or curing my vampirism (also very cool... but be 
 warned... an incredible hassle) ; there is always somthing to do. Also, for the PC version, there 
 will eventually be downloadablee content. This was a real plau for Morrowind and I'm sure it will 
 be even better with Oblivion. 
  All-in-all, this is a brilliant game. Though it does contain a few glitches here and there, it 
 is deffinitely one of my favorite games to date. I'm sure there are quite a few things that I did 
 not cover, but if I failed to then you can make the assumption that they are top notch as well. 
 I give you my word on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevorkcr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games out for the pc yet. It has something for almost everybody, from close combat 
 to long range magic. The only drawback that is obvious is the need for a high end pc, although 
 the game can be played without it you will be missing out on the best part of the game. As far 
 as game play goes you will have no shortage of something to do with an extreme amount of quests 
 to do and dungeons to explore you will never feel bored. This game is the best RPG to come out 
 on the PC so far and is possibly the best game that ever will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomtoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Morrowind : elder scrolls seemed to spaced out, a very large world, but boring to no end to travel 
 through it, even for qick trips.
  
  Elder scrolls, there is transportation available rom the main map, which definatly cuts useless 
 travel time down alot. 
  
  If you do decide to travel, you can ride a horse, collect herbs and plants to make potions, and 
 even hunt wild deer, or cash in on wolf pelts. 
  
  This game has enough gameplay packed into it to last a very long time. The graphics are beautiful 
 at times, and besides shadows on faces, looks very nice.
  
  Al in all, if you're looking for a single player RPG game that rocks, this is the one. Not as addictive 
 as diablo, but more interesting and holds your attention longer. Definatly a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksd
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  ... And a few months ago I was looking forward to buying this game : ( . What a letdown. 
  There are a few good things about this Elder Scrolls game like the graphics or the grass. But eye-candy 
 shouldnt be the reason you buy a game. I was hoping the story line and depth of it were going 
 to 1-up Morrowind. Was I disappointed? What do you think? 
  
  Lets start here:
  
  1: The first time I played all the way through Morrowind I hadnt scratched the surface of the 
 side quests. There was SO much stuff to do; hours spent walking, discovering new quests and finding 
 caves it was much more fun then clicking on your map and BAM, youre there. Within the first 4 
 hours starting a new game in Oblivion, I had become head of the fighters, mages, and thieves guild; 
 head of the Darkbrotherhood, and finished a lager portion of the main quest. Wheres the depth? 
 Cause I cant find it. 
  
  2: The eye-candy. Great when I stand in the sun my sword lights up, wo-ho. I do like the grass, 
 its one thing that makes the game a little more bearable. Other then that the graphics are the 
 same or better in Morrowind; the buildings, weapons, and basic land is better in TES; III MW. Then 
 in conversations youll have the NPCs lips flapping and hear the words a second later. 
  
  3: They Speak! Well kinda, the voiceovers are ok. I know the producers were crunched for space, 
 but come-on there are only a few different voices. Every-other person you come across has the same 
 voice. And the shops! In hopes of making a Realistic RPG the Game was the first thing to go 
 flying out the window. Its great the NPCs follow a schedule but its annoying. I like the fact 
 that the NPCs roam but then your stuck trying to find them, or waiting all day for the NPCs to 
 open shop, or go to a meeting spot. Hello! Does anyone else feel this way? If you do please let 
 me know so I know Im not going insane. 
  
  4: I forgot about the leveling systemWhat leveling system? When I think of RPGs I think of leveling 
 up; the advancement of skills, going from a nobody carrying a sword, to be coming Aragorn or going 
 from some fat wood elf thief, to Quark. Do you see what Im saying? I dont think of getting better 
 that way life gets harder. Like I want to start the game where Im a novice boxer, and have to 
 train and hone-in my skills that way I can step up and beat the livin day-lights out of the next 
 guy who challenges me, NOT find out that the next guy is a changeling. Whats up with that? The 
 reason you get better in the first place is so the game gets easier and YOU feel that your actually 
 getting somewhere. Also in Oblivion when you get to about level 15 the NPCs, bandits, vampires, 
 arena combatants, and quest related characters have the best armor and weapons in the game. How 
 much gold does a bandit make? Not that much? In Morrowind bandits had cheap armor and rich folk 
 had nice armor. It made you feel like you were looking at a bandit or a rich folk. In Oblivion 
 theres Rich folk with the best armor and bandits with the best armor that I cant even afford.
 
  
  All in all its an OK game not worth buying and wasting precious time you could spend playing Morrowind, 
 watching StarTrek, getting fat and happy or moving on with your life.
  
  Thats Just my two cents worth.
  
  aksd, Over and out 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  So what have I done with the last month of my life you ask?? Played Oblivion thats what. The latest 
 in the Elder Scrolls series is back and better than ever. Imagine taking Morrowind and fixing what 
 ailed it and packing a fantastic new story, more features and amazing graphics and its easy to 
 see why so many have spent the first days of summer inside.
  
  You begin your journey in the land of Cyrodil and find yourself in a jail cell. You quickly find 
 yourself trying to assist the emporer and the Blades in escaping some unknown assassins. I wont 
 go into any more details, but things go bad and you must make your way out of the sewer and into 
 the Imperial City, the center of the land. Thus begins an amazing story of oblivion gates, evil 
 forces aligning to retake their old land, and endless amounts of side quests. I mean seriously, 
 a butt load of side quests.
  
  As with most RPG's, you begin by creating a character. Oblivion takes this exercise to a whole 
 new level. Choose between an orc, nord, argonian (lizard like race) , Dark elf, etc. Each class 
 has special powers and some weaknesses, so choose wisely. Next choose a birth sign to complement 
 your race and choice of character class. You can even create your own hybrid character class if 
 the ones available dont suit you. The choices are endless. Next you get to customize your characters 
 look. Ever play Tiger Woods golf? Well the face options are amazing and no two characters will 
 look alike. Seriously, you can spend an hour just creating your character.
  
  When set out on your journey you might feel slightly overwhelmed. There are so many people to talk 
 to, so many shops to visit and as you wander and talk you pick up tons of side quests. This is 
 essentially how you begin your characters developmental cycle. Wander around, find new areas and 
 pick up side quests. As you tackle challenges your character finds new weapons, armor, items and 
 more importantly skill increases. The cool thing is your character levels up by actually using 
 his skills and as you increase your core skill units, you gain levels. When the level up icon appears 
 you get to choose from three skills to level up with varying degrees of +'s depending on your character 
 class. The great thing is the game adjusts the difficulty of enemies to your characters level. 
 So no matter how powerful you become, the game is not easy.
  
  The amazing aspect is in the details of the game. The interaction with NPC's, choosing when to 
 tackle the main quest and how many side quests to do or not do. The graphics and sound immerse 
 you into the world of Cyrodil and you will often find yourself wandering the countryside looking 
 for new caves, forts and mines to explore and empty of baddies. Of course one of the biggest improvements 
 from previous installments of Elder Scrolls is the ability to fast travel to places you have already 
 discovered on the map. This will save you tons of time, which is something you spend a lot of playing 
 this game. Dont want to skip around, buy a horse to help speed travel. The only downside to the 
 horse is you cant fight on them and they often die if you are not careful about placing them in 
 the midst of a battle.
  
  So you might ask if the game has any downsides? Well only one word sums it up... glitches. This 
 game has some pretty major glitches. As of today and official patch was released to help fix some 
 of these problems. They dont ruin the game by any means, but they can be frustrating. Stuff like 
 crashes to desktop, frozen screens coming out of saves, and minor graphical problems as you traverse 
 the wondrous land of Cyrodil.
  
  Like many PC games, this game has mods galore. I mean seriously, anything you could hope to gain 
 from this already amazing game, you can find it. Want some extra quests, done. Want some new armor 
 or weapons, done. How about some spiffed up graphics, sure thing. Just be cautious because some 
 of the mods may cause additional problems with your goldmine of a game.
  
  GO PLAY THIS GAME  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Games_Analyst
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was a highly anticipated sequel to Morrowind. It promised to offer the open ended RPG 
 experience that the Elder Scrolls series is known for. However, those who have played Elder Scrolls 
 III: Morrowind or are familiar with it, will be saying after a few short hours of Oblivion, "Where's 
 my Elder Scrolls III CD?"
  
  Let's start with the good things in Oblivion. Simply put, the graphics are great. The environments 
 are rendered in a rich 3D setting, and animals/humans/monsters look decent. Although the faces 
 are not great in Oblivion, they are miles above Morrowind. Oblivion also adds in some extra fun 
 features, such as horses. Instead of running everywhere, you can now have your own horse and ride 
 around. Other neat features are an arena where you can fight random npcs and gain ranks! 
  
  Unfortunately that's about all Oblivion offers over Morrowind. The sad thing is, let's take 
 a look at what Oblivion takes AWAY:
  
  1) No longer can you place items where you want. Remember in Morrowind when you had your house 
 or cave and you can lay candles/bowls/knives/etc. anywhere you wanted to? In Oblivion it's gone. 
 You can no longer create your own library, dinner setting, weapons rack or anything because the 
 only way you can dump items, is to do so in a chest or body. So what happens if a weapon or item 
 over-encumbers you and there's no chest/body nearby? You're stuck! Have fun reloading the game!
 
  
  2) Remember when there was all those neat skills and different class types such as medium armor, 
 short/long blade, blunt weapon, axe, spear, etc.? Well they're all gone. Now it's more streamlined. 
 I really enjoyed having a short blade option in Morrowind because it was meant more for thieves. 
 And now 33% of the armor options are gone since medium armor is no longer present.
  
  3) Love to POWER through things and exercise your high level dominance? Not going to happen. The 
 world levels with you. So even though you're level 10 and have all this godly armor, when you go 
 back to the monster it took you 3 hits to kill 10 levels ago... it will take you still 3 hits. 
 What's the point in leveling?
  
  4) Morrowind was great because you could kill ANYTHING. If you killed a very important character, 
 the game world literally said, "You cannot advance the main part of the quest since you killed 
 this character. You are advised to reload." Still... killing an annoying king, vivec, or random 
 npcs was great. Too bad you can't do that now. They simply go unconscious. 
  
  5) Thieves are nearly useless. So let's say I steal something from Seattle. And then I fly to Colorado 
 the same day and try to sell it. Apparently everyone in the world knows that I stole it and I get 
 arrested. That's Oblivion. You really can't steal anything and attempt to sell it. In Morrowind 
 you could steal and sell the stolen item, but just not back to the original owner, which made PERFECT 
 sense. Such is not the case here.
  
  6) "We want to waste your time even though it's not an online pay to play!" That should be Bestheda's 
 new motto. This game literally wastes your time. And granted all RPGs do, but Oblivion does it 
 in a pointless manner. For example, npcs/trainers are open only at certain times of the day. That 
 means you have to wait around to go in the store and sell something. So you hit the wait button. 
 The hours slowly tick back from 10 to 9 to 8 to 7... etc. In Morrowind the hours just rattled off 
 quickly and away you went. 
  
  7) Then the leveling. Again in the aforementioned game (which I'm using a lot) you could train 
 all day and all night. Go to a trainer, pay them gold, and they could train you from 1-70 instantly 
 if you had the money (Master trainers provided more) . Now you can only use a trainer 5 times per 
 level. Since you need to level roughly 30 areas to get the max attribute bonus (10 allows for a 
 5 increase. 10 x 3 (different attributes) = 30) that means you're left to training the other 25 
 on your own. Most are pretty useless and just require repetition. Example, Restoration - just simply 
 spam it a few times. Wait, spam it a few time - level up! Yay! Simply lame. So if it's going to 
 be something that stupid anyway, why not let the trainers just train you? Instead we have to wait 
 around now.
  
  8) Lack of items/fun things. Morrowind was FULL of them. Daedric weapons could be found in random 
 dungeons. Cool uniques could be found, fun arrows, awesome items and the like. What's great is 
 you could go get them whenever you wanted to! Now you HAVE to advance the quest to get certain 
 weapons or other lame things are required. Just doesn't make sense.
  
  9) Guilds/factions/clans. They're all gone now. You're stuck with the warrior, mage, and thief 
 guilds. Woohoo! Way to go!
  
  10) Traveling is now useless. The greatest thing about Morrowind was the fact that it was so open 
 ended, that you had to find your own transportation methods! You couldn't just teleport anywhere 
 unless of course you used the console. This meant that each town had a sort of taxi (called striders) 
 and that you had to use them, or walk/run. The maps were big, but with proper equipment and striders, 
 it wasn't too bad. Now in Oblivion you just teleport everywhere free of will. While it's a somewhat 
 nice touch (borrowed from Guild Wars) it doesn't add to the realism I believe Oblivion was shooting 
 for. It also tempts players to use the console to teleport more. Finally, everything is just given 
 to you as a flat out blueprint. If you accept a quest you just look at the map, teleport to a nearby 
 city (which are all preset) and away you go. I remember in Morrowind having to lookup locations 
 and think about how to get there.
  
  AND finally, the graphics. I did mention that they were a neat feature, but they're not so great. 
 There's really no different environment. Everything is trees, water, and some mountains here and 
 there. In Tamriel (Morrowind's continent) there was beaches, swamps, mountains, deserts, valleys, 
 crazy water towns, marshes, volcanic regions. So much more.
  
  What should Oblivion have fixed that it didn't?
  
  The stupid, "I am now godly in every category" 
 syndrome. Eventually you'll level in EVERY single category and be flat out godly. So even though 
 you're a ninja or samurai, you are a master arch mage. 
  
  Oblivion doesn't deserve the high score, Morrowind does. Morrowind is what set up the high score 
 for Oblivion. I'm sure Microsoft compensated Gamespot some too since the X360 sucks and needed 
 some sort of game recognition. Oblivion falls short of being an RPG. Like so many current X360 
 games, all the gameplay and RPG elements have been thrown out for graphics, which in my opinion 
 aren't THAT hot. 
  
  Go buy Morrowind and the 2 expansion packs for $19.99 and save yourself and Bestheda the money 
 and embarrassment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprekdog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Has some issues with slower computers. I only wish they could have made combat a 
 little more fluid. I can only hack with a sword, swing with a sword, and spin with a sword so many 
 times. I wanted to play as Drizzt, but with no backflips, speed kills or "fun" swordplay, it just 
 didn't work. I had to play a mage /archer /thief to make it realistic. I couldn't play this as 
 a tank. No fun to run around hitting stuff. I have to mix it up. With over a hundred hours in this 
 game, I deserve to see more fighting animations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramileous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  After the first few hours of playing, I did not like the interface because it seemed odd from other 
 games I had played (neverwinternights, COH) However the sheer awe and beauty of the game won me 
 over. I found myself not wanting to quit playing, yep one of those all nighter games, gotta love 
 it when a game grips you with that much enjoyment. Well as I played more I grew accustomed to the 
 interface and that didn't bother me anymore. The size of the open ended single player world is 
 plenty enough to keep me curious and happy to say the least. The graphics are simply amazing, especiallly 
 in caves and mines, I mean holy crap I never played a game that made me jump before, caves become 
 so realistic in a way.
  
  I am sure I will learn much more about the interface to make the game more fun. For now I am just 
 enjoying the first few days, riding horses, hunting deer and goblins and feeling like a kid again 
 with this virtual world as my playground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  So Ok everybody is going to start thinking that I am a negative dude who just criticizes games 
 to pass the time, the truth is that beyond the fuss the videogame press seems to make about a game 
 like this there is always too much excitement and everybody wants to love the game when it comes 
 out because thinking otherwise would mean being an idiot.
  Like everybody I wanted that game really bad. Even though I have never been a great fan of RPG's 
 I eventually fell in love with a few of them such as the classic Neverwinter Nights, the great 
 System shock series or again Deus ex.
  Those games had an appeal that made me want to explore the game further every minute and discover 
 new areas, weapons, or enhance my character in a strategic way.
  The problem I have with Oblivion is that even though the realization is great, the game play open 
 minded, and the possibilities exponential, I got bored with it after a while. The reasons? Well... I 
 find the quests rather Dull for most of them. It's often just a question of go there do that... kill 
 that guy and come back for a ridiculous amount of gold that won't buy you any exciting weapon. 
 The dungeons themselves are always the same, same design, same patterns, and once you've explored 
 a few of them you quickly realize that it's going to be the same over and over again. What's annoying 
 as well is the fact that your enemies and the loot evolves at the same pace as you. You will not 
 come across a dungeon where you'll find that enchanted blade or this frightening type of enemy 
 that you haven't seen before. Well... it happens sometimes but it a 1/100 ratio. What annoys me 
 for example is that the stealth bit was an exiting aspect of it. Imagine the thrill of lock picking 
 a house in the middle of the night creeping in the house and kill or loot its occupant. The problem 
 here is that no matter who you loot, would it be a king in his palace or a tramp in a shack, you 
 will hardly find anything else in the drawers and dead bodies than junk and a few coins.
  You see that the kind of thing I was expecting to do. Wander off in the woods for ages and stumble 
 upon that crypt, castle, cave where I can fulfill my destiny and enrich myself by taking real risks.
 
  It's not to say that I didn't have my moments of blissful happiness, and wow. 
  This game is great by any means, and the philosophy behind it well thought. But I would have really 
 enjoyed finding a few many different types of dungeons and more exotic locales. Such places do 
 exist off course but they come up as the coating where they should really be the core of the game 
 play.
  The progression of you character as well should give you access to new areas where the monster 
 was too tough before. This should be the motivation behind getting new abilities or new strength. 
 But this doesnt happen here, or rarely. Instead it's often the opposite. The more you progress 
 the tougher it gets to do anything. 
  Well, I would conclude this by saying that off course Oblivion is a great game, and a revolutionary 
 RPG. The graphics are great, especially when you wander off in the nature and stumble upon a old 
 ruin of a fort.
  But somehow, it doesn't excite me as much as a game such as Bioshock 2 did when it came out.. The 
 main quest for exemple is very linear and doing anything else to get more experience before that 
 one won't help you much for that matter. 
  So here is my opinion: I was amazed and dazzled for a while at the huge potential and the graphics 
 of this game. I thought that I was really going to live some epic moments and did a few times. 
 But after a good while the repetitive quests, dugeons and the lack of really interesting loot got 
 me bored and I can't find it in me to play this game anymore after 2 weeks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinuvix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  It is as a many layered prismatic gobstopper, in that no matter how many times you take it from 
 your mouth to take in its wondrous hues, you quickly put it back in, if for no other reason than 
 to find out what the next color is going to be. 
  
  I have, by now, uninstalled the game from my hard drive at least 5 times, but I keep coming back, 
 just to find out what happens next in the free form adventure that Oblivion allows me to create. 
 Wielding my flaming sword, I wander the land on my armored charger fighting lies, injustice, and 
 the evil undead zombie way. The best part is that you could go in a totally different direction 
 than what I've chosen. Even though I've so far ignored a good 2/3 of the dungeons on the map, I've 
 still played for at least 100 hours. There's so much content, and all of it is totally engrossing.
 
  
  Which is why it's such a shame that the designers not only chose to leave in some of the more jarring 
 elements from the previous iteration, but also managed to introduce some brand spanking new ones 
 as well. If you get niggling enough then there are actually a ton of little things, the sort of 
 things that detract from the fantasy atmosphere, that you could complain about, so I'll just mention 
 the two that pissed me off the most. 
  
  The first, the old, is the lack of functional windows. You'd think they could at least do some 
 kind of low rez 2D pre-render of the adjacent environment as the window dressing or something.
 
  
  The other, the new, is the godawful dynamic NPC conversation system. After about the fifteenth 
 time hearing the exact same conversation about the political situation in Morrowind or about how 
 totally awesome Glarathir is at wearing light armor, it tends to wear on the suspension of your 
 disbelief.
  
  To be honest though, like I said, these are pretty niggling points. On the whole, Oblivion is a 
 wonderful and absorbing game that grabs you and doesn't let go, or at least not for very long. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellipad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since Elder Scrolls III. I should clarify. I have been waiting 
 exclusively for this game since I played its predecessor. It's the only game I've looked forward 
 to at all. The Elder Scrolls mantra seems to be "epic and flexible". Morrowind was a real freeing 
 game experience and publicly underrated next to the GTA 3 explosion. Moreover Bethesda has been 
 delivering this type of free form game interaction for FOUR games that only come out every three 
 years or so. Thats over a decade of "open-ended" game play so kudos to Bethesda for rock rockin' 
 it before the gangster games took over.
  Therein lies the ultimate rub with Oblivion. Instead of improving upon the options and accessibility 
 of open-ended gameplay, the game makers shrunk options and improved graphics. No, no, no, no. Your 
 every next step is pointed out for you by a little directional arrow. The option of turning this 
 off would have been nice. What is the point of all the voice acting and plot if you don't even 
 have to listen to it? No, no, no, no.
  Secondly the game developers eliminated flying and free roam. I understand the decision to eliminate 
 flying because there are multi level dungeons and puzzles that would be rendered moot if you could 
 fly and there are areas they just don't want you to access. No, no, no, no. I know that the developers 
 would take umbrage but that's just lazy. Your goal is not to remove options but to improve upon 
 them; to expand freedom, not to limit it. I feel like if my lock-pick is high enough I should be 
 able to unlock the door to Vivec himself (aka Morrowind) or go tearing ass through the yellow team 
 arena (bummer Oblivion) . 
  This links to another issue with Oblivion and that is the level scaling. The difficulty of this 
 game depends primarily on your level. Again I should rephrase. If you are a lowere level character 
 the game is tailored to be within your reach no matter what you attempt. As an unknown factor this 
 could trick the gamer into a very rewarding time, thinking that they've mastered each puzzle and 
 each mission just right and with only the tools at their disposal. I see this argument and I agree 
 with its merit however, it eliminates the freedom discussed in the previous paragraph. If you scale 
 the game, shrinking and growing it to the user then you take away the potential to get in too damned 
 deep. And that's fun! When I broke into Vivec's tower in the middle of the night after sneaking 
 running and flying my way past all the guards, I walked right up to the god on earth of Morrowind. 
 He told me to bugger off and just to be cocky I took a shot at him. I was leveled. I could not 
 trick up enough cleverness to overcome Vivec at 26th level or whatever.
  On the other hand this does present the delema of the player character becoming too powerful and 
 destroying Vivec before he can play a roll in the story leaving you with the "dead world" that 
 Morrowind became if you killed a major player. Isn't finding the tricks in the game and the cracks 
 in the system part of the fun? 
  Don't get me wrong, Oblivion still offers loads more options and customization than any other game. 
 I am simply disappointed in the new fences that corral the game. As far as actual in-game borders 
 go I liked the Island idea better - although Morrowind is apparently no longer an island judging 
 by the Oblivion map.
  The Visuals are incredible, you can now ride horses, the cities have great character and the new 
 personality system (by which I mean the NPC scripts) make the world feel more alive than ever. 
 Combat is fun and can be approached from a variety of angles. Thieving is great because people 
 actually sleep and there's lots of secrets and good, fleshed out stories. The Thieves guild missions 
 are particularly fun, I've found so far.
  The world of Tamriel excites the imagination and can be yours to conquer or serve at your will. 
 It takes planning and patience sometimes but can also easily be breezed through if that's what 
 you want.
  Besides my gripe that games are still not free enough to suit my taste and the steps backwards 
 with this Elder Scrolls installment is a nuisance but overall this is the best fantasy game available 
 as well as the best RPG and the best adventure game. Go forth and enjoy but it'll only leave you 
 dreaming of more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadmanX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  I've been an Elder Scrolls fan for a long, long time. I thought that Morrowind was flawed but more 
 than worthy of play, especially since there were no real competing single-player RPGs out at the 
 time of its release. I was hopeful that Oblivion was going to be even better, and it was. Why?
 
  
  Well, for one thing, Bethesda actually LISTENED to our feedback from Morrowind. Since Cyrodiil 
 is even bigger than Vvardenfell was, it was vital that the players be given new tools to ensure 
 that they didn't get lost. Between the Fast Travel option and the fantastic map and compass, that's 
 not a problem in Oblivion.
  
  The other problem with Morrowind was that it basically just dropped you off from the boat and said, 
 "There you go, have fun!" Which left some people wondering where the plot was. Again, not a problem 
 in Oblivion. You start on the plot, and you'll always know where the plot is, but once you've escaped 
 from the opening dungeon you are free to follow or ignore it however you wish.
  
  The game has a stupid huge amount of content, just as an Elder Scrolls game should. By the time 
 I finished the main plotline I had completed over 100 quests and I know that there are tons more 
 out there that I missed.
  
  The graphics? Well, I am fortunate enough to have a good computer with a great video card, so I 
 was able to keep the detail setting fairly high, and at several points while playing I just had 
 to stop and look around at how pretty everything was. You've seen the screenshots, you know the 
 game is gorgeous.
  
  The weakest part of the game to me was the Plane of Oblivion itself, which got kind of monotonous 
 after a while, but other than that, the game is just pure RPG candy. And such big portions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario0707
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  The game Is just lovely , the whole new life . The interiors and exteriors are just like in a dream. 
 Choice of races and all that is connected with is just prime. If you like to be master of magic 
 or a sword it is all the same, the experience is unforgettable. The story line is just long enough 
 to drive you in the world of fantasy , good work .
  Bethesda ; you guys are incredible. The idea of game is just great and the work you put in the 
 game is unpriced and all the money you have earned is not enough for the master piece . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I finally finished it (90%-ish) and heres what i think.
  
  
  DAMN.
  
  Elder scrolls 4 is a FANTASTIC game. Up front i must say that i was a big fan of the 3rd game in 
 the series, but Oblivion takes everything i loved abotu the 3rd, expands on it, and perfects it. 
 Unlike Morrowind, (IMO) Oblivion has a real sense of urgency. Things NEED to be done. The various 
 guild quest lines and the main quest line suck you in and don't let you go until you finish them. 
 
  
  STORY - The main quest in the game is very well written, however, i found myself enjoying the various 
 guild quest lines even more than the main quest. I can't say much without spoiling much of it. 
 But the game is worth playing for the story alone.
  
  GRAPHICS - Look at a screenshot. The graphics are incredible. I didnt notice any graphical glitches 
 anywhere in the game
  
  GAMEPLAY - A much improved combat and magic system over morrowind, Oblivion makes fighting seem 
 like more than just a dicce roll. 
  
  SOUND - Oblivion has an excellent musical score, adding to the ambiance of the game. The 5.1 surround 
 sound is very well utilized and even made me jump a few times when some sort of creature i hadn't 
 yet seen let out a roar. The best use of the sound however, is when it is being used during weather 
 effects. If you have your surround sound turned up at ALL you will be blasted when thunder roars, 
 and in the cold northern mountains, the sound of the howling winter wind will give you the chills.
 
  
  OVERALL - 10/10 
  I found no flaws in this game that i can recall, and if there were any, they werent significant 
 enough to make an impression. I recomend you go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popface911
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  you know what i went to eb games traded in like 11 games returned my brand new copy of mgs3 subsistance 
 and looked around the store for like 1 hour. i could have bought like 4 games with taht kinda money 
 but no i had to by the new elder scrolls game. i asked the guy behind the counter if i could play 
 it on my pc . so he looked on the back and told me the requirements every thing was in order i 
 had the requirements and then some. i have a decent 256 graphic card. so i decided to get the dvd 
 special edition for 60 $ not 50$ 60$ 
  any ways i get home load it up i had cleaned up my hard dirve and every thing 
  its all loaded 
 and it runs as fast as if i had no video card at allll. The next day i get a pc gamer magazine 
 and what do i see in the reader mail i guy who has my same video card and the same problom what 
 dose pc gamer tell him to do .......... buy a new fricken video card . and then i think i dont 
 have 150 $ layin around. so there never actualy got further then the jail cell and my reviw was 
 bassed of a friends computer that i ran the game on i hate you Bethesda you suck you liars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game came with a whole lot of hype then it probably ended up deserving. First and foremost 
 it is a great looking game, though you need a great PC to really get it to run well at it's highest 
 setting.
  However,.. that being said. great graphics can only make a great game better and unfortunately this 
 is only an ok game to me.
  One the bigger problems that is unpopular amonst RPG fans is the scaled encounters. This is that 
 not all,.. but alot of the the NPC's in the world level when you do. The effect of this is that your 
 character almost never feels like he or she is getting any stronger. It can of course make for a 
 challenging game, but I think most people will find it annoying that a shopkeeper can kick you butt. This 
 also effect the equipment they wear too. So it becomes qite common for mere bandits to be wearing 
 and using some the best weapons and armor in the game. Meanwhile Beth has taken great care to make 
 very boring to be a thief in this game as chest are all randomly rolled. Most are filled with nothing 
 useful at all and there is almost nothing left out like it used to be in Morrowind, the previous 
 game. Admittably it was too easy to steal stuff in the last game but the way it is done here just 
 makes it not even worth the effort. Stolen itmes are now somehow magically known by every vendor 
 in the game to be stolen too,.. how? Who knows?
  Probably the thing that makes the game the most boring overall is it's simplicity of pretty much 
 everything. Character classes are pretty much generic and have little meaning since you can pretty 
 much learn everything no matter what you choose. While that may technically be more realistic to 
 the real world sinc ethe obly thing that would stop you from doing thing there is time, it tend 
 to make that part of the game very dumbed down. In the past i have heard arguments for such a system 
 as oppossed to the more structered style of say,.. D&D. But now having alot of hands on time with 
 it I would say that this open style is ok for the casual gamer but if you are a hardcore gamer 
 and lover of real RPG's you find it to be pretty lame, and find yourself longing for the thought 
 and stategy that creating a well made character does when you play something like Neverwinter Nights. Which 
 is still a superior game btw compared to this.
  the combat system is greatly imroved comared to the last game though I'll admit it is nice to have 
 real hits as oppossed to rolls as it seems to fit the style of this game much better. However it 
 is nothing too spectacuar. It isn't like you have a whole lot of control,. or lots of swings or anything. Still,. it 
 works good enough none the less.
  They have kinda thew out the classic rogue sneak that is done in most games where your character 
 becomes more like invisibale and traded it for one that works with real shadows. the game is very 
 dark so this works pretty well,.. however the method that warns you of how well you can be seen 
 isn't that great and I would have preferred something along the lines of the meter like in the 
 game Splinter Cell where you have a nice amount of play between being hidden,.. or not. The one in 
 here can switch rather abruptly. If you can sneak up on something though it is pretty mcuh death 
 as it seems to put the NPC in a stun that is you move quick enough you can keep that way if you 
 keep backstabbing them before they come out of it.
  Magic in the game isn't all that exciting because there really isn; t a whole lot and mostwhne dealing 
 with the defensive spells wear of really quickly. Again much prefer the style of D&D and NWN when 
 it comes to this dept too.
  The game has no multiplayer at all. Which I guess is ok,.. but you get the feeling the game could 
 have had a greater potential had they allowed it for at least fan made stuff. I mean think about 
 this if it you could put up your own persistant MP mod worlds. Even if it only alowed like 2 to 
 4 players and maybe a DM that would have been awsome and added a ton to the game beyonf the single 
 player campaign.
  The overall difficulty of the game varies really. If you play a fighter class you will certainly 
 do better as that is pretty much more or less what the game is designed for. A rogue could become 
 a great toe to toe fighter eventulally because of how the class system works above,.. bu that will 
 take some time.
  I don; t like playing boring fighters myself so I found the level scaling to make it extremely difficult 
 for me at times if I didn; t kill something in a sneak attack,.. or just plain couldn't. So baiscally 
 if it is hard for character at the beginning since the levels will go up with yours,. it always 
 will be hard for you, and vice versa.
  Like all of the problems I mention about the game with the exception of the online stuff can be 
 fixed throught the use of mods. And with those mods this game probably gets at least an 8.0 to 8.5,.. however 
 I will not rate it on what is not included in the retail copy of the game so it gets what you see 
 there.
  I would still reccomend this game. But just don't expect it to be as great as alot of the fanboys 
 out there want it to be. It is,... ok. And if you don't get bored of it you will get quite a few hours 
 of gameplay out of it. If you don't. I was in about 2 weeks myself though. But i have high standards 
 anyways and you may be different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I have put over 100 hours into this game, and explored all the major branches of gameply. I have 
 completed every guild, nearly all the side quests, and of course I did the main quest. I have explored 
 over 50 dungeons, and spent hours roaming the countryside. And I am bored and disappointed. The 
 basic point I'm trying to make is that Bethesda sacrified control and complex gameplay by making 
 a simpler game than those that preceded it and in turn widening the audience and I think that was 
 wrong. Lets face it folks, this is about money.
  
  The BAD
  
  1) Content.
  Oblivion has, in total, 5 factions that offer you quests outside of the main quest Morrowind had 
 11. Each of the factions in Morrowind has larger storylines and more quests than those in Oblivion. 
 And there are 11 as opposed to 5. Each city and surrounding countryside in Morrowind had roughly 
 5-7 quests. In Oblivion that number is about 2-4. Oblivion, however, does have a significantly 
 larger landmass than morrowind, yet I know morrowind has far more dungeons and locations.
  
  note (I wouldnt mind that oblivion has less locations, if only they were unique, like in morrowind. 
 scaling eliminates this. but more on that later)
  
  
  There is no denying it, Oblvion has been consolized. This is not meant as an insult to console 
 gamers, but simply a reflection on a change in who the game caters to, and thier playstyle. The 
 UI is very large and far too cumbersome, taking up valuable space that was never wasted in morrowind. 
 Instead of taking advantage of the multitude of possiblities available for fast travel (horse drawn 
 carriage, boats) Oblivion uses a simpler and jump to it walker speeder upper system. This isn't 
 all bad, but it is definite simplification. Oblivion uses a compass and map markers, showing you 
 exactly where to go instead of letting a person use common sense and follow directions.
  
  3) Lack of Choice
  I feel like, from the moment the emperor tells you to find jauffre, the level 
 of choice you are supposed to have in an elder scrolls game is stripped from you. Very few quests 
 have the choice most if not all quest in morrowind had, and many don't even have the option to 
 refuse them! Its likeyou are living in a world with a bunch of predetermined stories, and you only 
 get to choose When you act out your predetermined role in them. For and elder scrolls game, THATS 
 NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
  
  4) Scaling AKA (Baddies with Daedric)
  Yes, its true, for those of you that havent heard, scaling, a legitimate and usefull tool in elder 
 scrolls games, has been taken WAY too far in Oblivion.
  nearly ALL enemies scale to your level, removing any sense of acomplishment from overcoming hard 
 enemies and enventually beinf abole to own them in one hit. Unigue loot is scaled so that while 
 you mayget the amazingly awesome sword of pwnage at level 5, it will only be worthy of a level 
 5 character. ALL dungeon loot is scaled, so that there is no point in going into dungeons for the 
 loot because it will all be the same, and it will all be mediocre. IN fact, the only reason I visit 
 dungeons is to kill and loot the bodies of scaled bad guys with impossibly good armor, armor that 
 is better than mine. Armor that was unbelievably hard to get in morrowind (unless you killed Fyr) . 
 Yes folks, thats right. Full Daedric on every other baddie post level 30. I think that can speak 
 for itself.
  
  The GOOD
  
  1) Graphics
  The graphics in this game are some of the best I have ever seen. The view distance alone is worth 
 buying the game for. The water, trees, pretty much everything visual about this game is perfect, 
 and if that is the number one thing you care about in a game, I strongly urge you to buy this game 
 NOW. You will not care about anything I mentioned in the last 4 paragraphs, because it is that 
 good. occaisionally the loading of cells looks rather... unnatural against long distance terrain, 
 but usually this is not the case.
  
  2) Sound
  What can I say? Jeremy Soule outdid himself and created a soundtrack on par with Morrowinds, in 
 fact I dare say the Opening title is better. All sound effects are very realistic and immersive, 
 and the voices are very nice, although the lip synching is rather mediocre.
  
  3) Physics
  The new havok physics adds a whole new dimension to combat and dungeons, in the form of traps and 
 weapon exchanges. It truly immerses you in every aspect of fighting, exploring, and even wrecking 
 dinner tables. Unfortunately, it alos makes items a **** to place, which is unfortunate for you 
 house dwellers, especially.
  
  4) AI (radiant)
  While glitchy, and hilariously awkward at times, radiant AI is a a revolutionary step foward towards 
 a beatiful future for NPCs in games. Ultimately, it delivers all that Bethesda promised and serves 
 to futher immerse you in the world. The combat AI is much improved also.
  
  
  
  Ultimately, Bethesda has given thier loyal PCRPGers (and some xbox1ers) a game that is more of 
 an action RPG than the elder scrolls game some of us were expecting. The game delivers superbly 
 on all the aspects I would expect from a good shooter. It has good graphics, sound, physics, storyline, 
 and core weapons and enemies, but it seems to be lacking in the RPG area, upon which the majority 
 of the game is based. A newcomer to the series, unless they overhyped themselves (it happens) will 
 LOVE this game, but only because they never felt the true magic of Morrowind when it was top of 
 the line. Oblivion is great, yes, but it can be SO MUCH MORE. It angers me that the mod community 
 has to what bethesda should have done.
  
  
  
  If you actually read that, let me know, because I respect that kind of patience. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobs1282
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the Elder Scrolls games since Arena and I can tell you they just keep getting 
 better. I don't even know where to begin. Almost everything about this game is perfect. It is visually 
 astounding from the wilderness's to the cities, caves, and dungeons. The music and sound effects 
 are top notch. As for combat, I couldn't have hoped for a better system. The sheer intelligence 
 and aggressions shown by your enemies gives you a real since of being in the game not just controlling 
 a character in a game. Every time a monster runs and jumps at me I can't help but think he would 
 come through my monitor and stab me in the face if he could.
  
  The story of this game and all the side quests and factions can really draw you in. You'll spend 
 countless hours adventuring and not even realize it. The only complaint I have, as small as it 
 is, is that everything levels up with you. I always enjoyed becoming an all powerful god able to 
 crush any one with a simple thought, but alas in this game as you get stronger so do your enemies. 
 With that in mind Bethesda couldn't have made a better sequel to an already great line of games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well,
  
  I will give you some of my thoughts I had while I was playing the game:
  
  1 hour
  
  - Nice graphics and good voice acting. Ok a little too much bump mapping but ok.
 
  
  - Oh there are three soldiers attacking. Hey why does my framerate dip to about 10.
  
  - Ok, so this is the bow. Well, seems it's not a very powerful weapon. It feels like I'm fiting 
 a plastic bow and the arrows flying like 10 meters.
  Bah, I better get back to the sword.
  
  2 hour
  
  - Strange, it's night and I'm outside from the prision and the game runs much 
 smoother.
  
  - Hey there is a foe, let's have a sweet sword fight.
  
  3 hour
  
  Hey this guy has a horse and he's running after a foe, maybe I just hop on the horse while he's 
 fighting and ride away
  
  Ok, so I'm at this village and as I remount my horse somebody yells thief.
  Wtf, how does he 
 know?
  
  ---  Jail
  
  
  4 hour (second day)
  
  Nice sky, nice woods and a little bambi hopping around in the grass here and there.
  But theres 
 really not much else around.
  And there is a ruin.
  WoW! Nice effects- HDR deluxe. And there are two goblins. But wait. how I'm supposed to attack 
 them with 10 fps.
  Man I've a decent machine so why are these framedrops?
  
  5 hour
  
  Gosh, another of this dungeons.
  Oh, a goblin. Well you're no match like all the other foes 
 I came accros so far.
  
  6 hour
  
  What? I can't reconfigure my Hotkey settings.
  Great now I have to move my hand over the whole keyboard to select a spell through a "hotkey".
 
  
  7 hour (third day)
  
  Bah, so this is it?
  Same empty woods and the same boring dungeons again.
  
  8 hour 
  
  Yawn
  
  9 hour
 
  
  Oh well
  
  I'm getting stronger and so do my enemys.
  Not very motivating.
  If I would get weaker they would get weaker also.
  Hmm... so where is they point in raising my 
 level?
  
  10 hour (fourth day)
  
  Oblivion gate....
  
  Ok, let's check it out
  
  11 hour
  
  now that was boring.
  
  Two different enemys and same boring fights over 
 and over.
  
  12 hour
  
  *phone rings*
  
  me: yeah
  
  ric: hey man, we're in World of Warcraft what about you?
  
  me: Yeah, why I'm not?
  
  ric: 
 ...
  
  me: Ok, let me free some diskspace before.
  
  So that was Oblivion for me.
  
  I'm not saying the game is bad or something. But I found it simply boring.
  
  Just check 
 it out for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_kay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, but luckily its a great game to review.
  
  Before writing this review I have played every guild I have completed every side quest I can find 
 and have obviously completed the main quest.
  
  First up Story
  
  You do not need to know anything about the previous games to play this. All the elder scrolls games 
 are stand alone. There are some references for the fans though.
  
  You are in prison, why we dont know, but its an elder scrolls convention. When all of a sudden 
 the Emperor of Cyrodiil the country you are currently locked up in comes a little trip through 
 your cell. Strange yes, but the reason is simple. There is a secret escape tunnel through your 
 cell out of the city, and stupidly the guards screwed up and put you in this cell, which is always 
 supposed to be left empty. Why is the king escaping, well a strange group calling themselves the 
 Mythic Dawn are out to kill him, they have already killed all his sons and heirs and its his turn. 
 In his escape you to can escape but the emperor sees something in you, recognising you from a dream 
 and charges you with the fate of all cyrodiil. No pressure.
  
  The resulting acts of the Mythic Dawn mean that the gates to oblivion (HELL) are opening and Deadra 
 (demons) are wandering the land.
  
  The fate of the world is now in your hands, all you have is the kings amulet and the name of a 
 monk you should talk to...... the rest is up to you.
  
  Each guild in the game have their own little story and objectives to achieve. The mages are sick 
 of necromancers, the fighters guild are worried about new competition in town. The thieves want 
 to get the law of their backs and pull the ultimate heist, the assassins..... well they just want 
 to kill people.
  
  Other people in small towns need your help to, peoples husbands are murdered, sirens are luring 
 men back to their cottage for...... um... you know.... then robbing them blind, Counts are missing 
 countesses are missing paintings (these countesses loose stuff easily huh) cities are under siege, 
 farms are over run with goblins, twins are separated at birth...... the list goes on the possibilities 
 are endless.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The learning curve is quite good in this game. The very beginning level is a tutorial, but it is 
 a disguised tutorial. The opening level has you searching a dungeon learning the story of the game 
 and gradually learning all the basic controls and tricks. Cunningly you also get to try out most 
 of the different weapons and play types (stealth/ gung ho killing) so you get a feel for what style 
 of play you like, and what sort of character youd like to create. This is the cunning part for 
 an RPG, you do all this before you choose your strengths and weaknesses. So you can then pick your 
 personal preference or the game can offer you suggestions based on what it saw you do. Clever huh?
 
  
  Ok so you emerge from the tutorial you know what you want to be. What do you do now? Well heres 
 where the elder scrolls games come into their own. You do whatever you want.
  
  You can go find the person youve been suggested to find, or go a wander round the shops of the 
 nig city, wander the country side and go pick flowers (for hippies or alchemists) or search the 
 various ruins and forts that are spread across the land.
  
  Although this may sound overwhelming its not. If you have a mission to do just select it in your 
 journal and you have a quest marker to point you in the right direction. 
  
  There are several ways to get missions.
  
  1) Join a guild or faction. Some you find others 
 find you based on your actions.
  2) Hear someone talking on the street, or in pubs. Everyone has a story to tell
  3) Ask people 
 whats going on
  
  The open ended nature of the game means you can do what you want. You can spend days never doing 
 a mission at all just exploring the country, and theres a lot of it, you can even ignore the main 
 quest completely.
  
  The unique thing here for an open ended game, is it has a ferocious pace. When you are on a mission 
 you can feel a sense of urgency to push forward. And often missions leave things open for a continuation 
 in the next mission and you find once you start you are compelled to go on. The game draws you 
 in.
  
  As for leveling up, there is no pesky experience point system. If you use a skill, you get better 
 at it. It feels very natural. If you want to skip some levels and you have money pay some one to 
 train you. 
  
  Though the skills have been simplified since Morrowind. For Example Long blade and short Blade 
 ar now just the one skill of Blade. You now only get Heavy and light armour skills. Medium and 
 Un-armoured are gone. THis simplifies the game and allows you to focus more on gameplay, but i 
 have to admit, I miss some of the skills. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Unless you've been living under a rock, youve probably seen screen shots or heard people babble 
 on about the graphics of this game.
  
  The landscapes are pretty, but there is room for improvement. Often in the distance textures are 
 blurry and the water has additional textures that make it opaque and murky. Luckily as TES have 
 always had a strong mod community and Bethseda provide the tools. There are many mods to fix this 
 all freely available. SO Cyrodiil can look as beautiful as you hoped it would. Close up there is 
 no complaints many of the textures are beautifully rendered. 
  
  Lighting offers HDR or bloom lighting so the can look superb.
  
  People however dont look 
 just as impressive. Often they look pretty ugly and it gets hard to define between some of the 
 races. Its now virtually impossible to tell a bosmer female from an altmer female for example (two 
 different types of elf for those whove never played an Elder scrolls game before) but yet again 
 the mod community is stepping up to this challenge and making it better.
  
  Overall the graphics are good, epic at times, but they could have been better, they are just not 
 quite perfect.
  
  Sound
  
  The score of this game is a strong point. The powerful orchestral musics, quite dramatic timpanis, 
 trumpet blasting triumphant music all add to the ambiance of the game. You wont walk away humming 
 any of these tunes, except maybe the main theme, but subconsciously they are there controlling 
 how you perceive the world and your situations.
  
  The voice acting is also good, however there seems to be only a few voice actors for all the thousands 
 of NPC's . This spoils the illusion slightly. But the dialogue is sharp and at times quite witty. 
 Often the occasional of the cuff remarks a character can make, had me in hysterics. Some famous 
 voices also appear in the cast most notably Patrick Stewart in a brief role, and Sean Bean as on 
 of the pivotal characters of the main quest. 
  
  Throughout the game NPC have conversations, sometimes these are quite amusing, but often the sound 
 very strained, as the AI makes up the conversation as it goes along. Sometimes with hilarious consequences.
 
  
  During one mission I had to help a man fake his death then later sneak him out of the city. On 
 the way out, he stops to talk to a local. The start asking how each other are and chat like old 
 friends, while I get impatient. Well then the conversation comes around to the topic of his death. 
 The woman asks him if he believes it was true he was murdered, to which he replies "I couldn't 
 honestly say". 
  
  Also the mud crab conversations will drive you nuts, instead of the weather all the people of cyrodiil 
 talk about is mud crabs.
  
  Value
  
  This is a game you can play for 100+ hours, and with the modding community it just keeps getting 
 bigger and bigger. I'd say thats value.
  
  Plus Points
  
  Good Story
  Good music
  Good graphics
  Horses
  
  Negative points
  Graphics not what they could have been
  Dungeons 
 can look similar and feel repetitive at times
  Will consume your life
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace6301
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  According to my main charecters (I also have a few others) save I have just over 200 hours on Oblivion 
 and i'm not bored yet!
  
  Graphics: The game looks great and the interface doesn't get in the way and this is for me and 
 my 2.5 year old computer (Nvidia 6200 with 1G of DD2) . Oblivion can be graphically demanding at 
 times but the payoff is really quite high. i'm running with the whole "Make it pretty" mod pack 
 and the game is easily the best looking RPG i've played since FF11.
  
  Gameplay: The game has a long tutorial at the beginning that teaches the basics but some you just 
 have to learn on your own. The AI is great (at times it can be goofy but thats RAI for ya) and 
 on the higher difficulty settings you'll find yourself reverting to that autosave quite often. 
 
  
  There is however a balancing issue that takes place at lvl 20 about the time the enemys start dropping 
 awesome armor, with this new armor the whole game gets easier then even at lvl 1 at times. This 
 said enemys are scaled so you wont be getting maimed by a daedric lord if you go the wrong way 
 at the begging.
  
  The story is short but sweet with about 200 side quests to be found also the limitless potential 
 that Mods carry.
  
  All in all this game is well worth the 50 or 60 dollars you will be paying, I would even go as 
 far as to recommend buying an official Mod (although you will hear differnt opinions on that) . 
 Great game great replay ability and awesomely fun... In short BUY THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cman120
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has been known to be one of the most groundbreaking RPGs on the market, 
 and considering this is my first RPG ever bought, I'm pretty impressed.
  
  Graphics - "OOOH. Pretty..."
  
  The graphics in Oblivion are probably some of the best I've 
 seen to date in any game, probably better then Far Cry (FPS) or HL2 (FPS) , but that's just my opinion. 
 The first example would be the world. Sure, the far-off textures look as if somebody just wanted 
 to throw yellow and green paint just to get it finished, but up close, it looks amazing. The character 
 are rendered in high detail and High Dynamic Range lighting (HDR) and look amazing. Not just amazing. 
 Jaw-dropping amazing. (Still just my opinion.)
  
  Gameplay - "Level 1 - Imp. Level 20 - Daedroth. Level 50 - 6 Xivilai?!?!"
  
  The gameplay is 
 well rounded, and is suited to your chaacter's level, although that can sometimes be a little bit 
 too much (I was nearly mulched by three humanoid demons, a. k. a. "Dremoras", wielding claymores 
 and shooting spells at me. Ouch.) It is a little thing to bypass, as long as you have the right 
 equipment and potions ready and at hand. The monsters vary in each area, and usually change every 
 1 - 3 levels. 
  
  Sound - "Hello, sir Dark Elf. Hello, sir High Elf. Wait a sec... You both sound alike!"
  
  
 The sound in the game is awesome, with the music astonishing and the sounds of swords and shields 
 being bashed a sound to rumble your ears. There is just one problem, although you might pass this 
 easily due to Oblivion's immersive world, that some of the races share the same voices. It doesn't 
 seem to bother me, but it might annoy some of you people. The only differing voices belong to the 
 people that belong within the main quest, such as the Emperor, his heir, and the villian in the 
 game.
  
  Conclusion - "THE best game ever? Let's find out"
  
  Oblivion has take Bethesda a good bit of years to make, and the work has paid off. The game is 
 one of the best games ever made, receiving gleaming reviews from game sites and magazines declaring 
 that "Oblivion is a must-buy, get it now." This will give them more access to resources to make 
 The Elder Scrolls 5 even better than Oblivion, such as the ability to travel to other continents, 
 as opposed to the one you have in Oblivion. The price will drop more sooner or later, so if you've 
 got a good machine, and some spare cash lyin' around, get this game. Now. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  I first played Oblivion on the Xbox 360, and loved it. In fact, I almost gave it a perfect score. 
 The only thing holding me back was some minor flaws, and the fact that the game felt a little easy, 
 and incomplete in some spots.
  
  Recently, I played Oblivion on the PC, and discovered that everything I loved on the 360 was even 
 better on the PC. Not only that, but thanks to numerous mods, its a much more complete and fun 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay remains largely the same from the 360, but is more precise using a keyboard and mouse. 
 The problem with accidentally hitting the wrong hotkey is fixed on the PC by mapping the hotkeys 
 to the keyboard numbers. You can also sneak and shoot ranged shots much easier with the mouse. 
 But the biggest improvement is the BTmod that greatly improves the way the menu and inventory screens 
 work. The loading times are also much faster, and less intrusive while on the over-world.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The problem with the graphics on the PC is that you need a high-end PC to get the 
 most out of it. The default graphics arent nearly as good on the PC as the 360. However, I have 
 a high-end PC, so I was able to turn the graphics effects up to max, and got a much better looking 
 game. There are also tons of mods that improve the visual look to the game. Everything from more 
 realistic lighting, to no-tiling for distant textures.
  
  SOUND
  The games sound is one area that is the same on both the PC and 360. It still sounds fantastic, 
 and pulls you into the game. There arent a whole lot of mods that improve the sound in Oblivion, 
 but you can find some that add more random NPC voices. The quality varies, though.
  
  VALUE
  This is one area where the PC version is infinitely better than the 360, thanks largely 
 to the modding community. When you buy the 360 version of Oblivion, thats all you get. Sure, its 
 a huge game that some estimate has 100+ hours of gaming in it. But the PC version is limitless. 
 Theres everything from new dungeons and weapons, to all new quests and even whole worlds based 
 off the Oblivion engine. Theres even a female full nudity mod if youre into that sort of thing.
 
  
  If you dont have a high-end PC, then play it on the 360. But if your PC will support it, play 
 Oblivion on that. To put it in perspective, the 360 version is like watching a movie in standard 
 screen format, while the PC is like watching the same movie on a widescreen HDTV. You just get 
 more out of the experience. The bottom line is that no matter which platform you play Oblivion 
 on, you will be playing one of the best RPGs of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auctionedllama
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game that you can't put down. Its totally addicting in every way you can't stop 
 playing. The graphics and textures are incredible not to mention the actual gameplay. I was never 
 in to RPGs and happened to see screenshots for Oblivion. So i bought it and started playing and 
 immediately became addicted. I like how its playable in first-person and third-person, almost feels 
 like playing Halo 2 only better. The quests are great and always keep you busy (which is nice) 
 and there is so much to do and explore you don't know where to start. The leveling up is setup 
 nicely and there are an extreme amount of weapons and armor you can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  It's hard to even describe how much I looked forward to playing this game. I practically upgraded 
 my entire rig, just to play it.
  
  And what can I say... I wasn't disappointed when I got it.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  Just awesome. 
 This game features a fully living world, a world you can interact with in almost any thinkable 
 way. You have people walking around on the streets, minding their own business. It looks natural, 
 and really makes you feel like a part of the world.
  
  The main draw of Oblivion is the freedom you have in the game. You can do whatever you want, when 
 you want. No restrictions other then the basic laws - as in, don't get caught killing or stealing. 
 And even if you do, it's a short trip to jail, or a hefty fine, whichever suits you better.
  
  There are literally like a thousand quests in this game. You don't have to look for specific 
 NPC-s like you do in most games. You can get quests from everywhere. Though, as you can imagine, 
 a lord of a region has obviously much more tasks to give you, than a simple farmer having trouble 
 with a few goblins.
  
  Differently from other games in this genre, Oblivion uses a leveling system that is much more realistic. 
 You become stronger the more you use a certain skill or magic.
  Example: if you fight with a sword often, you'll become a better swordsman, the same goes for using 
 conjuration magic - the more you use it, the better you become at it.
  
  Gameplay has a few minor problems though. Such as simultaneus creature leveling system. Which means, 
 that when you gain a level - so do the creatures in the game.
  This does provide a constant level of difficulty, but it's highly unrealistic, and furthermore 
 - easily exploitable.
  
  Personally it would have been much more interesting to have the strength of the creatures vary 
 from area to area. In a way, that when you travel miles and miles to a far away mountain, and find 
 an old cave or a ruin there - then you can expect to find the heaviest resistance there.
  I'd just like to grow powerful enough that at one point I'd have to go looking for a fight suitable 
 for me. 
  
  Another problem with the current setup is that you can easily rake in thousands and thousands of 
 pieces of gold, after you have found the strongest armor and weapons in the game. Which doesn't 
 take too long.
  Then you'll be running into marauders and bandits every half hour who wear the same stuff. They 
 aren't very tough, but the things they drop is worth dozens of thousands.
  Makes you wonder why everyone isn't rich in the world.
  
  Graphics - 10
  
  Unarguably the 
 most beautiful game released. With the modding community boosting the visuals even further - this 
 game looks gorgeous. I have stopped playing and just stared at the screen several times. Watching 
 the trees with their leaves rocking in the wind, the rain falling and fog rising. 
  Beautiful... that is, if you have the rig for it.
  
  This game is worth getting when you surpass 
 all the recommended settings. The graphics are just so beautiful, that you won't get the real experience 
 with anything below the recommended settings.
  
  Sound - 9
  
  Beautiful and well designed soundtracks that make the world become even more alive. Fits in the 
 game perfectly.
  But the greatest thing is the voice-acting. Every single line in this game has been voiced. Even 
 the mumbling of the lowliest of peasants.
  And to think that the game has hundreds of npc-s with unique lines, then I'd say that this is quite 
 the accomplishment.
  
  Value - 10
  
  Immense, just immense. Gamespot was right when they said that this game has easily over 200 hours 
 of gameplay.
  I have never seen anything like it. 
  
  And if you are a real fan of the series and in rpg-s in general, then you'll want to try out other 
 characters aswell, and other styles of play.
  You'll be playing this game for years.
  
  Tilt - 10
  
  An incredible masterpiece that is a worth getting, no matter who you are. If not 
 for anything else, then just for saying that you own a game that redefined 3D rpg-s.
  
  Go get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  Where to start...
  
  First of all I have to say something about these fully tweaked Jaw dropping graphics that make 
 your eyes shed tears of joy. 
  
  The Graphics are well what can I say? other than the first step into the next generation for PC 
 gaming, they look Brillant, enough said on it. I'll take whatever I can get in terms of Next Generation 
 PC graphics, considering all the hype for the other NG Console games I like to see PC always ahead 
 of everyone else, which is it by far. 
  
  Anyway, the Gameplay is a overall improvement over Elders Scroll III: Morrowind and the storyline 
 is much more interesting, complex, emotional, and entertaining. than any part of Morrowind has 
 ever had.
  
  The Customize able character options are really elaberate, from changing eye colors to body heigth 
 to changing your race overall, its alot more interesting to see how you can make Great, okay, strange, 
 odd, or even some ugly characters. It really makes you feel like your apart of the world, and not 
 so much restricted like most RPG's are today.
  
  The Combat. while an overall massive improvement over its predacessor, it still lacking in some 
 areas. it still feels too restrictive, and some of the weapons that are used in combat still dont 
 have many offensive or defensive advantages or disadvantages. Like a two handed sword sould be 
 able to block better than a one handed weapon anything (You name it, sword, mace, axe, whatever.) 
 A Axe and a Mace sould be circural in movement, especially since those weapons are designed for 
 pure offensive attacks. However on a positive note for the combat and weapons, I have to say the 
 Archery skill is truely a achivement in any game its fantastic, I feel like I'm actually shooting 
 a Bow and Arrow and doing it right. hitting and killing my target. Also for those who are using 
 one handed weapons and shields, Blocking is manual, and it rocks, and works, it really really works. 
 I must say that.
  
  Overall I love this game, can't wait for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felraiser
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  There are glaring flaws in many parts of The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. There are only so many 
 different voice actors you'll hear, faces and landscape textures can look abysmal at times, the 
 thievery features aren't totally sensible, the game "only" lasted me 93 hours, and so on. But Oblivion 
 is absolutely unchallenged in how much quality it provides - that is, how much time the player 
 will spend absolutely loving their experience.
  
  After all, any game can last a long time. Any developer can make their characters act out a full-length 
 novel or perform game actions in slow motion, but the mark of a truly great game is its ability 
 to make every hour spent in its world honestly enjoyable. And Oblivion does that - despite the 
 minor problems strewn across the game, there is very little chance that one will feel anything 
 but satisfaction with the overall experience after playing.
  
  As mentioned, there are quite a few issues, however small they may be, with the game. Without the 
 proper mods installed, the interface is awkward and odd-looking, and the necessity of selecting 
 and then casting each spell is frustrating. You can only sell stolen items to specific affiliated 
 "fences," and getting loot is difficult enough with the uncanny abilities of town guardsmen to 
 reliably select and search the house you're ransacking. Some may feel that the main storyline is 
 unfulfilling or anticlimactic, and others could point out that any specific character can do just 
 about anything in the game world (my combat-and-stealth-oriented Khajiit Knight, for instance, 
 became the head of the Mages' Guild) . Every character, no matter their skill set, is required to 
 very accurately fire a bow in multiple side quests. And, finally, after a certain point, your riches 
 will become ridiculous in their quantity - you'll be able to fill up your entire item storage with 
 the most lightweight and expensive potions without coming close to bankruptcy if you hoard your 
 gold efficiently enough.
  
  But will the player care? With around 100 hours of great gameplay to get through, I certainly hope 
 not. The game's combat is highly satisfying, the use of stealth (its problems aside) is quite fun, 
 and even the system for conversations is interesting. The quest design and writing are top-notch, 
 too. And even if you're not locked in to one of the game's innumerable storylines, the overworld 
 is vast and rich, filled with creatures and dungeons - surprisingly good ones, considering their 
 random generation - to conquer. Some of the game's best moments are hidden away, such as the Daedric 
 Shrines that must be stumbled upon to be found, but it takes a very long time to run out of things 
 to do. Oblivion pulls you in and just doesn't let go. In addition, the graphics and sound are just 
 as good as the main gameplay. Little things, like the thickness of the grass and the shimmer of 
 golden or glass armor, are just right, and even the ubiquitous screenshots of wide-open vistas 
 don't really do justice to how impressive riding through the fields and hills is. The music is 
 subdued but well-chosen, and all of the sounds (especially those related to melee combat) are plain 
 great. There just isn't any big trouble with the game, and its positive aspects are enough to get 
 almost any player hooked.
  
  Yes, there are bugs. Yes, there are flaws in the gameplay design and audiovisual presentation. 
 But there is no compelling reason not to get this game other than its tendency to addict. If you've 
 got the time, this is THE game to get for the first quarter of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Oblivion takes place in the land of Cyrodiil. You are in jail for some odd crime which you never 
 find out, until the emperor comes with his guards right into your cell to reveal a hidden passageway. 
 The emperor recognizes you from a dream and allows you to escape with him in this passageway. There, 
 you see the emperor assassinated by a devil worshiping cult that is opening portals to a hell place 
 called Oblivion. The beginning may be slow, but it is helpful. And once you finish that, this game 
 kicks A$$!
  
  Gameplay: Oblivion is the normal RPG type game, but the twist is that you're in first person. You 
 can switch to third, but you'll regret it. Melee weapon combat uses the mouse buttons to hack and 
 block your opponents. It is pretty simple for such a grand RPG but it keeps the gameplay simp [le 
 and addictive. Bow and arrow combat uses the mouse button to fire with the other to block. IT works 
 out well and is also pretty simple. The arrows act realistically and it's awesome to nail an enemy 
 in the head with and arrow. However, this brings up something that wasn't as good as I thought 
 it to be. The physics system in Oblivion is decent but sometimes it seems as though something just 
 doesnn't move the way it should. Bodies slides a bit to easy. Mountains seem too hard to climb. 
 It isn't terrible but seems to make the effect of things seem a bit awkward. Character developement 
 in the game is awesome. You can edit their face until you're satisfied, create your own character 
 type with the major skill you want, and pick your own constellation that contributes to your power. 
 You can be any type of character you want and it gives you a great feeling of control over your 
 character. Of course, at first you may not be 100% happy with what you chose, but there's no limit 
 to the number of characters you create. The AI in the game is some of the best I've seen. The conversations 
 between NPCs is pretty awesome and unheard of in most games that I've played. It's also awesome 
 to talk to people and gain quests just by asking about rumors. This makes it seem like you're actually 
 part of the world and adds tons of hours into the game. The main quest in the game was okay. I 
 thought that it wasn't the best I've played and could use some work. For me, it just wasn't interesting 
 enough. It was a little too linear and unoriginal for my taste. However, the guilds make up for 
 it and more. The four guilds are really awesome. The Dark Brotherhood and the Thieves Guild are 
 my favorites. Each guild suites your own taste in the game and gives you a great feeling of being 
 a part of something when you start to advance in the guild. I have played in three of the guilds 
 so far and each has been amazing. The only guild that felt like it was the same-old-same-old was 
 the Fighters' Guild. But all four were definetely worth investing time in. As you can see, Oblivion 
 has tons of depth and I could still right tons more if I wanted to. With only some things that 
 fault it, Oblivion is a great game to play. 9/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are sweet. Of course, you will need at least a geforce 7 series 
 if you want to see good results. As for ATI people, I don't know. The game is a little bit too 
 graphics card dependent, but it's for a good reason. With a GeForce 6800 Ultra, I can run HDR lighting 
 and some other great settings with a steady framrate. I don't know why so many people complain. 
 You should shell out some extra cash to make it look better becasue whne you do, you won't regret 
 it. The people and monsters look awesome. The detail on the hair and all is sweet. The environments 
 are the best I've seen in a game. The amounts of grass and leaves that you can see are awesome. 
 With the light glimmering off it, you'll be glad you DIDN'T buy the 360 version (Since the PC version 
 graphics blow it out of the water!) I am so happy with the results I get from a graphics card that's 
 only mid-range. These graphics are to die for. 10/10
  
  Sound: If you've ever wanted a great game soundtrack, here it is. The amazing orchestrated background 
 music are really well done. Sometimes you'll want to put the music sound just a bit higher so you 
 can enjoy the atmosphere of the game. The music gives you the hint when an enemy's spotted you 
 and when you're in a cave-like area. I was really happy to see a game where the music was taken 
 care of in a greazt way. The sound effects are also awesome. However, I found that a lot of the 
 sound effects didn't match and were used a little too often. Even though they sounded great, there 
 weren't enough to vary what you hear. All in all, the sounds were really well done. 9/10
  
  Value: This game is worth every penny you got. I myself am not the biggest RPG fan, but I loved 
 this game more than some of the great games in my favorite genres. This is a great stride in the 
 art form. Years from now, I'll look back at Oblivion and say those were the good ol' days when 
 an RPG was worth cashing fifty bucks. 10/10
  
  Overall, Oblivion is probably the best RPG you can buy right now. It may not be as groundbreaking 
 as Diablo or any of the great old RPGs but it is a great example of what is created when an RPG 
 is done right. If you don't have Oblivion, you need to buy it. It's your duty. Cause if you don't, 
 you're a total n00b. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull338
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i have ever played. Amazing graphics and gameplay. I love the effect of being 
 able to ride a horse. 
  
  The game is absolutley massive, with side quests the size of a game. Mods released for the game 
 make it more interesting, not that it needed it. 
  
  I loved playing the dark brotherhood side quest. It made me want to play more all the time as each 
 side quest has an amazing story to it.
  
  I also noticed they have gotten rid of some skills, and grouped some together. A good choice although 
 not everyone wants to choose between heavy or light all the time. I used to choose medium as it 
 was more all round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanks14
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  here are some words that can explain how good this game is:
  Extraordinary, good, great, high-quality, first-rate, amazing, supurb, fantastic, out of this world, 
 unbelievable, incredible, astonishing, mind-blowing. basicly its a very good game. the game play 
 is a totaly refreshing expereince for veteran RPGers, but this game is in no way just for die hard 
 RPGers. it has the perfect balance of leveling up and combat. the landscapes are amazing too, i 
 like taking long walks on the beach hacking up mud crabs along the way. as for modding, it has 
 a huge fan base of devoted dorks and geeks ferverently modding away. overall a for sure 14 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexanderStyhr
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  First i want to say that this game impressed me so much when i saw for the first time and when 
 i played it for the first time.
  But after some time i realized that Oblivion isn't that much better than Morrowind. The graphics 
 are stunning, the fighting and the sneak system is really good and the sound, voice acting and 
 music is the best i've ever heard in a game.
  But somethings missing. Many of the good and funny spells like levitate are not in the game anymore, 
 there are too few factions to join and the requirement system in the factions is gone so if you 
 are a fighter it is still possible to be arch-mage with only skill lv 5 in all magic skills. The 
 faction missions is too short, and something a little boring and there is too few missions to do 
 for your faction.
  The AI is not really impressing either. I saw a hunter in Chorrol but he is just standing under 
 the Great Oak. No hunting, no nothing. Just plain talk.
  
  But it is no secret that the game i really, really great and i love it. It have some bugs and i'ts 
 a little too short. You can clear the main quest in just 20 hours and that's not impressive.
  But still in the end it is a good game with many features and many mods which can keep you playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 30, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls has been around for over ten years, and I have played it ever since Arena came 
 out on computer, even though I was very young. The Elder Scrolls series was one of the first experiences 
 I ever had with gaming, and it really caught my attention. I played for hours. When Morrowind came 
 out, I got it for the PC merely six hours after release. I have played it for a grand total of 
 about 600 hours. Oblivion is probably one of my most anticipated games of all time, and it certainly 
 does not disappoint.
  
  GAMEPLAY: To say that the gameplay has improved since Morrowind is a major understatement. So many 
 gameplay features have been enhanced or completely redone in a fabulous way. I'm sure many people 
 have heard this before, but Oblivion's combat system is miles ahead of Morrowind. It really feels 
 like you are in the middle of a tense, dangerous battle, wielding a giant, deadly sword and bashing 
 it into your opponent's face. The main quest is compelling and fun, and stepping into Oblivion 
 (Hell) is just amazing. The amount of freedom is unbelievable. You can invest in shops, explore 
 over 200 dungeouns, buy houses, ride horses, the possibilities are endless. The province in which 
 this game takes place is bigger than the city in which I live. All non-player characters have incredible 
 AI and show a variety of emotions and do so many things. NPCs have dynamic conversations, sleep, 
 eat, read, play... it's really incredible. My personal favorite thing in Oblivion is to fight in 
 the arena. In the world of Tamriel, the arena is essentially the same as the Colusseum in Rome. 
 You go in and you fight people to the death. If you come out alive, you get paid. It's great fun. 
 Oblivion is one of the most fun games I will ever play. Of that I am sure.
  
  GRAPHICS: This game pushes my PC to its limits. The graphics are nearly perfect. Environments are 
 absolutely beatiful, with trees and grass blowing in the wind, birds and bugs chirping about, deer 
 galloping through the woods, and hugh cities with giant towers made out of stone. Water ripples 
 and reflects stunningly. NPCs and enemies look astounding, with incredible attention paid to every 
 detail. One of the most impressive things about the graphics is the character creation system. 
 Seriously... you get as many choices as in a sports game. Every little detail on your character's 
 face can be changed in a realistic way. Blood splatters on the ground, rag dolling effects are 
 beatiful, and the fires of Oblivion gleam and shimmer. The only problems with the graphics are 
 that trees in the distance occasionally pop on and off screen, and the frame rate occasionally 
 drops, but these are very miniscule problems. Other than that, Oblivion has awesome, incredible, 
 beautiful graphics.
  
  SOUND: I can never say much about the audio, as it doesn't concern me too much. But anyways, I 
 see nothing much to complain about with Oblivion. All NPCs really speak during conversations (with 
 some excellent lip syncing I might add) , swords clang and slash satisfyingly through armor and 
 flesh, birds chirp, wind blows, it's all pretty much flawless. The only problem is that, very rarely, 
 you will not hear an NPC speaking, although you will be able to read the subtitles at the bottom 
 of the screen.
  
  VALUE: This game will never get boring. 16 square miles, that's how big this game is. 16 square 
 miles! And all of it is teeming with life and loot and enemies for your enjoyment. There are hundreds 
 of dungeons and quests, thousands of NPCs, and at least 1000 hours of gameplay waiting for you 
 inside this Oblivion CD.... what a game! Also, with the hundreds of mods being developed, there 
 will be tons of variety even for people who have done everything already!
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is a fantastic, huge, gorgeous, unbelievably fun game 
 that raises the bar for RPGs, and for all games. I would say that I can't wait to see what Bethesda 
 does next, but I can wait; I've got Oblivion!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmYourMaster
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  By far one of the most engaging and satisfying games I have come across in my life. I have spent 
 many hours (probably too many, in fact) with this game and each one was better than the last. On 
 a scale of 1 to "one of the greatest games of all time", I give it an eleven. Never before has 
 a game seemless integrated so many parts and ideas while still retaining the strategy of its forerunners. 
 Don't buy into all the hating some elder scrolls fans have been spewing. The game is different 
 from its predecessors but exceeds them in every way. I cannot wait for the next elder scrolls game. 
 As far as Oblivion goes, buy it or else regret it for all eternity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  To the happiness of the fans, Oblivion released on March 23rd of 2006 to bring the world of the 
 Elder Scrolls to life once again. Showcasing some of the best graphics, physics, and sound in any 
 games achievements, Bethesda brought fans a world that you could easily lose yourself in while 
 spending countless hours either completing the hundreds of quests or just walking around the miles 
 of forests exploring the different caves and dungeons to find treasures and artifacts.
  
  Like the Elder Scroll games previous to Oblivion, the story takes place in a different part of 
 Tamriel and is apart of an entirely different storyline than any other game. But, much like its 
 predecessors, Oblivion starts players off in prison where theyre able to customize pretty much 
 everything about their characters look such as facial features, skin color, race, and gender. 
 There are multiple decisions to make even before you begin the tutorial for the game. After youve 
 made these decisions which you can change once again after the tutorial is done, the king and some 
 guards will come to the prison cell where youre being held because assassins have broken into 
 the kingdom and are coming after the king. But, lucky for you, the secret escape route out of the 
 castle is through your cell and they cant very well make you not follow them, and this is where 
 the tutorial begins. Throughout the next forty-five minutes, youll learn most of the features 
 of Oblivion such as short and long range combat, the magic system, a little about the alchemy system, 
 among other things such as the stealth component. During the last moments of the tutorial, the 
 king will perish in an assassination attempt by the Mythic Dawn cult and youre given the kings 
 amulet to bring to someone out near Weynon Priory. This is your first quest handed to you, but 
 definitely not your last. After the death of the king, youll make your way the rest of the way 
 out of the Imperial Sewers and once again be given the chance to change any aspect of you character 
 including their birth sign or character class, among the previous choices listed above. All the 
 different races are back from the previous installment, and so are all the character classes, with 
 a few added for extra fun. Once outside the sewer gates, youre presented with a magnificent sight 
 of the outdoors and this is where your game truly begins. 
  
  From here on out, you play your character the way you want to play. Youre able to bring the kings 
 amulet to the man at Weynon Priory or youre able to just go exploring, its all up to you and 
 how you want to role-play your character. The choices are pretty much limitless after you leave 
 the sewer gates and this is what makes Oblivion spectacular. The ability to do what you want 
 to do. There are around sixteen squares miles to explore and doing so on foot will take quite awhile, 
 but not to fret because youre able to buy a horse to travel on if youd like or if you dont feel 
 like dropping a couple thousand septims out of your pocket, you can always steal one from someone. 
 Again, its your choice. There are hundreds of dungeons and caves to explore throughout the vast 
 wilderness of forested land, plains and fields, muggy swamps, and snowcapped mountains. There are 
 all types of terrain to travel across either on foot or on horseback. From time to time, youll 
 be subjected to thunder and lightning storms with pouring rain or extremely snowy days, but those 
 different climates just add to the realism that the developers wanted to portray to the players. 
 Theres different wildlife including deer, bear, and wolves which youre able to hunt for food 
 and other materials. With Oblivion, youre able to avoid the main quest entirely, scouring the 
 land for different side quests and activities to do for different NPCs. There are literally hundreds 
 of quests to perform while traveling the wilderness. And if that werent enough, there are multiple 
 ways to complete the quests given to you depending upon your character and his/her abilities.
 
  
  Among the multitudes of quests to find in the games sixteen square miles of space, youre also 
 able to join different factions for different quests. There is the Fighters guild, Mages guild, 
 the Thiefs guild, and the Dark Brotherhoods quests to spend some time on. Each guild provides 
 multiple quests to work your way up the ranks of each guild to possible control them. Each quest 
 in the different guilds are unique from each other and some provide quite a bit of entertainment 
 such as the Dark Brotherhoods quest to kill the five other occupants in a house without letting 
 anyone know youre the killer. Most of the quests youre given from the different guild masters 
 take some thinking to complete. These guilds are located throughout the nine different cities youll 
 come across throughout Cyrodil. But dont look at the number nine and believe that its too small, 
 because these nine cities are quite large and you cant forget the multitudes of settlements across 
 the vast landscape that youll come upon while exploring. But dont be distressed by the amount 
 of land you have to cover either. Even sixteen square miles can get pretty long when traveling 
 on a horse. Bethesda has added a feature called fast travel which will let the play travel to 
 any location theyve already been to and players will find themselves using this feature sometimes 
 to cut some time down on travel when theyve explored most of the maps terrain. 
  
  The combat system has been reworked much to the happiness of the fans. Now, the combat becomes 
 more realistic when swinging your sword. If you hit your opponent with your sword, youll do damage 
 automatically, but it just depends on how much damage your weapon does. No more of the lackluster 
 combat system from Morrowind. Although you wont be able to swing and hit specific body parts, 
 the combat still feels realistic when reeling back to bash your club at an enemy. Now, youll be 
 able to block attacks from your opponents with a shield where damage will be contributed to you 
 from whatever isnt absorbed from the shield. The shield can realistically block a hard bash from 
 a maul or stop an arrow from coming straight at your head. The stealth system has also been redone. 
 With a team member on board from the Thief series, the shadows now provide the hiding spots you 
 desire. How much youre hidden from your opponents depends on how much in darkness you are, how 
 much noise you make with your armor, and how intelligent your enemies are that pass you by. Its 
 not as exact as the Thief games, but with the amount of everything else in the game, stealth feels 
 right in Oblivion.
  
  The graphics in Oblivion are phenomenal to say the least. Of course if you want this game to look 
 superb, youre going to need a top of the line system. Oblivion, with everything it entails, needs 
 to have a lot of hardware resource to pull from for power. If youre able to see this game how 
 it was meant to be played, then feel lucky because it truly is a beautiful game. The grass and 
 trees within the forests sway to the windy breeze that adds life to the wilderness while the sun 
 sets and the three moons come out each night. The weather affects are implemented beautifully such 
 as when a lightning storm is going to take place; youre able to see the cloud formations and storm-front 
 move in beforehand. All the different NPCs that you come across are presented wonderfully in different 
 clothes and features and are unique to their different settings. If youre able to find a high 
 perch up in the mountains that line some of the northern territories, youll be treated with a 
 wonderful long distance view of the expanded vastness of the wilderness. 
  
  Also in the game are the latest physics known to gaming. Bodies will fall down differently depending 
 on their situations theyre in. Items will be able to be dropped and handled with different precisions 
 and different items in the world, such as traps in the many dungeons and caves will react to the 
 real-world physics engine that are in the game. A nice touch to the game would be the buoyancy 
 of different objects like if you drop something light into the water, it will float on top, but 
 if you were to drop a suit of armor off a bridge, you better be prepared to take a swim to retrieve 
 it.
  
  The sound within the game is wonderful as well. Jeremy Soule and Julian Soule team together to 
 bring an awe-inspiring soundtrack that keeps you listening for hours on end because youll definitely 
 be putting quite a bit of time into this game. The musical soundtrack switches from track to track 
 in different locations and also in different sequences such as battles and dungeons. And you cant 
 forget the great voice acting within the game. All lines and dialogue spoken throughout the games 
 hundreds of hours of play are spoken and sound fantastic. Patrick Stewart gives his voice to the 
 Emperor and right away in the prison cell sequence in the beginning, the voice of the former star 
 on Star Trek leaves an impression with you that lasts throughout the entire game. Sean Bean also 
 plays the part of the Emperors son and his voice acting definitely provides a level of professionalism 
 that keeps the mood dramatic and climactic till the last scene.
  
  Although there isnt a multiplayer component to the game, it certainly doesnt need one because 
 youll be too busy putting too many hours into the games different quests and missions to care 
 much about playing with someone else. The scope of Oblivion is easily large enough to be a massive 
 multiplayer online role-playing game, but Bethesda has said from day one that they wanted to create 
 a rich single-player experience that will give players hours upon hours of playing time and they 
 definitely succeeded with Oblivion. 
  
  Anyone who had any interest at all in the previous Elder Scroll games should check out Oblivion 
 along with anyone wanting an excellent single role-playing experience. This title should also not 
 be missed by anyone with a top of the line computer if you want to see what next generation computer 
 games should look like. With hours upon hours of gameplay and a huge landscape to explore through 
 many different climates whether youre on foot or on horseback, Oblivion will create a role-playing 
 experience unrivaled by role-playing games in the past few years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autaron
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I have never played the previous Elder Scrolls games I just heard one day that there was a very 
 good RPG game called the Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion, so I decided to try it out even though I never 
 play Role Playing Games. But this game is really significant. It is an enormous game. I mean all 
 the things you can interfere with and the fact that you do not have to follow the main story line 
 is just great. You can just chose to become an assassin in the Dark Brotherhood and just forget 
 about the main quests. This detail is just magnificant.
  The music is good actually. You don't realise that there are music because it just fits so well 
 in the environment it just fits to the game. And then of course the graphics in this game is extremely 
 beautiful. If you run the game in its best quality you can't even describe how beautiful it is. 
 Overall it is just a game you have to try if you like RPG's just a small bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spot2009
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! When I first got in on the PC, I was amazed at the great graphics that this 
 game displays. A while after, I decided to download some mods that would help my gameplay experience. 
 BTMod and some other mods really make this game almost complete. The official Oblivion plugins 
 are also great, but some are a bit too short (e. g. Thieves Den) . This game is extremely long, if 
 you're trying to almost complete the game, and the Main Storyline is pretty exciting, but there 
 are parts in the game, mainly when you close Oblivion gates, when it gets a bit boring. The thing 
 I really don't like about this game is that it has no replay value. Once you complete the game, 
 you feel like you can just throw it away. You don't want to play it again. Other than that, it's 
 absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  When you start Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion, the first thing you will notice is the amazing graphics 
 in the opening cutseen. You may think, "oh, these can't be the real graphics of the game, its just 
 a cutscene." Oh trust me, they can be. The graphics are like that the entire game.
  
  The next thing that happens it a loading screen. It takes almost 30 seconds to get to the create-a-character 
 screen! But don't worry, these long loading screens happen throughout the entire game.
  
  You start out in a prison, where the Emperor and his guards come through your cell, attempting 
 to get the Emperor out of Imperial City. After you come with them to escape, you must seperate 
 from the pack and go fight rats. No kidding. You spend about 15 minutes fighting rats, goblins, 
 and some undead bodies, then you meet up with the Emperor again.
  
  After the Emperor dies, you escape through the sewers (finally!) and get to explore the massive 
 world of Oblivion.
  
  I will say this game is amazing after you get out into the world that seems like it has no end. 
 The game features tons of hours of gameplay and plenty of side-quests to play for hundreds of hours.
 
  
  This game is visually the best game on the Xbox 360, and depending on what kinds of games excite 
 you, this could well be your favorite game on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Hurricane89
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all there is nothing wrong with this game... I mean its almost perfect... just the thing 
 about not fully being able to controle your character and the first person thing going on. But 
 besides that its perfect I will tell you some things about it now.
  
  Graphics: 9.7, It is perfect the characters are Very realistic, I mean if you look at them from 
 first person view they will actualy blink and their mouths would move, the arms of a character 
 can use some work however... BEsides that i would say it is good oh and how the character moves 
 could use some work... I mean irl its not like a pers can freaking turn slowly like that...
  
  Sound: 8.9, Highly great, however it could use some work, Seeing as the people mess up when 
 they talk and the sword sounds are non realistic, No offence to bethesda, but soul Calibur III 
 had better sounds then this does....
  
  Sexuality: 4.9, Not much only the fact you can strip a female character down to her bra and panties 
 besides that there is hardly any, its not like you can have sex with the other characters..... ya 
 know? And its not like the NPC's have sex infront of everyone... ya know?
  
  Violence: 9.0, Not alot of stuff liek halo but for the fans (Like me) We have a notice that it 
 has major blood but not alot like halo... but still it works... ya know? Tons of fighting in it... and 
 all that stuff.
  
  GamePlay: Well basicaly its the same as the rest of the games, however thistime your in the mainland, 
 Cyrodill. You will have to work your way around and complete serious quests, There are sidequests 
 as well. The main quest is to destroy these things called oblivion gates, Which are a way to the 
 realm of oblivion, For several missions for the emperors son, Martin Septium, who is the son of 
 Uriel Septium, Whom if you have played Morrowind you have heard of him, Well thats about all i 
 feel like telling right now hope you have fun playing the game
  
  NOTICE: NEVER BECOME A VAMPIRE IT SUCKS   
::::::

::::::
UserName: YouzY
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I CANNOT BELIVE IT!!!
  
  Another amazing accomplishment from Bethesda. Oblivion's graphics are stunningly beautiful, from 
 the dark, misty, ghoul filled caverns to the flaming, hellish gates of Oblivion itself (Oblivion 
 Gates) . The amount of depth put into this one game is unbelievable. The characters, weapons, skills, 
 and missions you embark on are simply terrific. Well over 200 hour of playing (ive plyed it over 
 5 veeks and atleast 4 hours a day "addictive" XD )
  
  The story is immerse and captivating, and the world of Oblivion is soo massive! The universe of 
 Oblivion really does act as another world, as is you can be involved in a second life. The addition 
 of horseback travel is also another gem to the game play (better than walking) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AManNamedEric
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 29, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game does live up to some of its hype. Namely the graphics, outside of the "pea-soup" 
 in the distance, which is easily fixed through mods, they are more or less on the level with Half-Life 
 2. 
  
  However there were a few mistakes made, namely the fast-travel option. While indeed it is helpful 
 because you can conserve your potions for when it matters, and only fight what needs to be fought, 
 I found literally no incentive to walk and discover like I did in Morrowind. It cuts the scope 
 of the world down immensely. Put it this way, if that game world is supposedly bigger than Morrowind's, 
 I never saw it. 
  
  Another mistake is the storyline. While it is well presented, it doesn't have that epic feel to 
 it. To put it simply, you become an ass-kicking, baby clannfear/scamp smashing, Daedra crushing, 
 tomb exploring, ghost busting.... bodygaurd. Martin steals all of the glory, people just know you 
 as your standard every day hero. For some that might be enough, for me, I wanted to become a god 
 again. 
  
  Scope of the game is something people praise often, not me. There are nowhere near as many factions 
 as the 3rd game. I realize I keep comparing 1 to the other but that is the only way people will 
 understand. In Morrowind you felt like you were thrown into a warring nation. Factions hated you 
 for joining their enemies, and loved you for joining their own. The complex love/hate system was 
 the game's highest point. In Oblivion I saw none of that. You basically have: The Theives guild, 
 The Fighters Guild, The Mages Guild, The Dark Brotherhood (i haven't tried those quests yet but 
 it is new at least) as your main ones. At least those are the ones I have found. The quest lines 
 are relatively short as well.
  
  This is not to say that there aren't highpoints to Oblivion. The combat system is amazing, swing 
 a claymore for the first time and find yourself fearing it because it sounds so heavy. The new 
 security system is interesting as well. It really is based completely on your skill, there is an 
 "auto-attempt" feature but where is the fun in that? I felt like a real security master by the 
 time i had the skill up to 100, able to pick locks with laser precision each time. There does seem 
 to be alot of quests outside of the main quest to do, although good luck finding them all without 
 some sort of guide. Playing the game completely on my own i doubt i have even scratched the surface 
 of what it has to offer. I suppose thats what makes this game great, While the scope of it is not 
 huge, there are certainly many things to keep you occupied, the only question is, will you want 
 to find and do every single random quest?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmann996
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Bethesda Softworks has never been a company that could be accused of thinking small. Their flagship 
 property, The Elder Scrolls series of RPGs, have always been known for their vastness and wide-open 
 feeling. Long before anyone ever came up with the idea for an MMO, Bethesda was hard at work creating 
 enormous artificial worlds inside the PC in which one could get lost. Their last game, however, 
 Morrowind (along with its two expansion packs, Tribunal and Bloodmoon) , went far beyond what even 
 the company's most die-hard fans could have expected. 
  
  Morrowind was literally a world in which you could do anything you set your mind to. Want to go 
 on the main quest of the story? Go ahead. Want to forget the quest and just become the wealthiest 
 merchant in the land? The game could handle it. Perhaps you'd like to join a tribe of werewolves 
 and bring pain and death down on the human inhabitants of Tamriel. The game could handle that too. 
 Morrowind offered the huge worlds of exploration and adventure that make MMOs so compelling, but 
 the experience was personalized for the player, something impossible in an MMO. 
  
  
  
  Even better, an Xbox version of the game opened the series up to a new group of fans. Console warriors 
 who may have cut their teeth on Japanese-style RPGs discovered the very different but no less compelling 
 D&D/Western-style RPG by finally getting their hands on one of the best in breed. 
  
  Once you've achieved something as monumental as Morrowind though, what do you do for an encore? 
 Simple: jump to the head of the line. Rather than just going for the guaranteed moneymaker that 
 would be another Xbox Elder Scrolls, Bethesda is bringing the next game in the series to the next 
 generation of PCs and consoles. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is being designed around the Xbox 
 2 (and the PS3, although the company could not officially confirm any platform besides the PC) .
 
  
  "We've always viewed The Elder Scrolls as a series that presents worlds no one else has ever imagined 
 being done," said Todd Howard, the game's producer. "We love pushing the edge in every respect." 
 According to Howard, when the Oblivion team started thinking about the project in mid-2002, they 
 already had a couple of things they wanted to accomplish in the next game. "We aim to create 'The 
 RPG for the Next Generation,' and this is not just in terms of visuals and platforms." Howard said, 
 "It's in terms of how RPGs are played and experienced. It's time to move RPGs forward and really 
 show how entertaining they can be." In a moment of candor, however, he also admitted that the length 
 of time it takes to create an RPG also factored in the decision. Since the team knew there was 
 no way this game would be complete before 2005 when the current generation of consoles would be 
 reaching the end of their lives, they decided instead to "go big and go early" and create a game 
 that would make a big early splash during the next gaming cycle. 
  
  It's all very well for the Oblivion team to sit down and say that they were going to create the 
 next generation of RPGs, it's another thing to actually do it. Once they had their big target in 
 mind, though, they began breaking it down into the basic RPG activities and deciding how best to 
 implement them. "RPGs, by their nature, have repetitive elements." Howard says. "It's recognizing 
 those things -- combat, exploration, and interaction with the world -- and putting the bulk of 
 your energies into making those great." For combat, the team wanted the player to have lots of 
 options, have it be visually exciting, and really, really deep. For exploration, the team is looking 
 to create a world that is very lush and is always showing the player something new. For interaction, 
 Oblivion will feature photorealistic faces that can show emotion, voice-overs for every line of 
 dialogue and an extraordinary new "living world" system.
  
  Combat
  
  Combat is one of the major gameplay elements that's being completely revamped in Oblivion. Some 
 of the most interesting feedback the team got from Morrowind players concerned the nature of combat. 
 PC gamers are used to Western RPG conventions, most of which are derived from Dungeons & Dragons 
 -- conventions that include behind-the scenes die rolls to determine success or failure. Those 
 conventions aren't nearly as common on consoles, especially in first-person perspective games such 
 as Morrowind. Howard described it this way: "It's amazing how many people played Morrowind and 
 said (to us) , 'Why is my character missing when he swings? The enemy is right there!,' or 'Why 
 did that guy see me? I thought I was hiding.'" 
  
  
  
  "We've realized how much combat people really do in a game like this and made it more of a priority 
 to get it right," Howard continued. The Oblivion team actually developed three entirely new combat 
 systems and did extensive testing on them all before settling on the one that will be in the final 
 game. The basic idea of Oblivion combat is to impart the 'kinetic energy feeling' of guys bashing 
 each other with swords. The game will have a number of special moves available and blocking is 
 actively under player control, not automatic. As a result, timing moves, shielding yourself, and 
 responding to the enemy becomes a key strategy in fighting. The team also didn't shy away from 
 the gore either. It isn't over the top or gratuitous, but it does fall in line with the design 
 philosophy of trying to make the game as realistic as possible. Basically, when you really smack 
 someone with a sword, you expect a certain level of blood to come spewing out, so the team is trying 
 to fulfill those expectations.
  
  Action gamers, on the other hand, won't necessarily have an unfair advantage. As Howard himself 
 pointed out, the combat system in every Elder Scrolls game has walked a fine line between RPG and 
 action. They've all been first-person and players always controlled their sword arm in real time, 
 but in prior games, the die rolls added an extra layer of randomness between the player and the 
 world. While the combat system of Oblivion tries to remove those layers, RPG players can breathe 
 easy knowing that their beloved stats haven't gone anywhere. This difference this time is that 
 the player's stats determine what they can do, and how effective those things are, but they're 
 now in full control of the "when." Blocking a blow is manual, for instance, but the effectiveness 
 of that block is determined by your character's block skill -- things like how much damage the 
 block absorbs, how much fatigues it causes and so forth. Striking an enemy with a sword is no longer 
 random, but the amount of damage caused is a function of strength and weapon skill. 
  
  Exploration
  
  To an extent, all RPGs are about exploration. In fact, one of their greatest 
 attractions is the chance to travel an exotic land seeing incredible sights and encountering bizarre 
 creatures (who inevitably get beaten to death like piatas for the goodies they drop) . Morrowind 
 took this aspect of RPGs to an almost absurd level. The world of Tamriel was beyond huge. Players 
 could wander the countryside for months, coming across miscellaneous generated quests and dungeons 
 that were so elaborate they rivaled the main quests in lesser RPGs. 
  
  The problem was, Morrowind was so huge and free flowing that it turned off as many gamers as it 
 turned on. Many of the people who started playingMorrowind stopped playing because they didn't 
 have a specific direction or they simply got bored. Howard and the Oblivion team acknowledged the 
 problems inherent in their previous games and are working to fix them in the new game. "That's 
 what we want to address," Howard said. "Never let the player be bored, always be entertaining. 
 We want to 'show you the fun,' and always be pointing you to something fun in the game, even if 
 you don't know it's there." One of the major ways that they're doing that is by completely reworking 
 the game's navigation and orienteering tools. 
  
  "Right now we're working on our dynamic compass that will show you how close you are to dungeons 
 while wandering the forests or where the person is that you need to talk to make a quest progress," 
 Howard said. They've also altered the way players travel in the world. Technically speaking, the 
 world of Oblivion is actually larger than Morrowind, but as Howard himself pointed out, Bethesda 
 doesn't want "hundreds of hours of gameplay" to consist of a few minutes of fun punctuated by hours 
 of boring traveling. Instead, the game will include a revised fast travel map that will hopefully 
 eliminate a great deal of the annoying repetitive travel over long distances. 
  
  
  
  Of course, merely having a huge world to explore isn't much of a feature if the world itself isn't 
 interesting. Bethesda seems to have that angle covered as well. First, the game is graphically 
 amazing, not only on PC, where higher resolutions should be par for the course, but the eventual 
 console versions as well. The Oblivion team is currently developing one code base that will work 
 on PCs and next- generation consoles at the same time. "We don't focus on any particular platform 
 and we try to do the best we can on each one," Howard said. "So, Morrowind may have started on 
 the PC, but by the end of the project we were not focused on one platform or the other." With Oblivion, 
 the team has known from the beginning that they'd be doing both console and PC versions, so a great 
 deal of energy has been spent on creating a scalable code base that can be adapted to whatever 
 eventual configuration the next generation of consoles adopts. In fact, one of the advantages of 
 skipping the current generation of hardware should be avoiding the technological limitations that 
 force scalebacks in design and gameplay that have plagued recent games that were developed simultaneously 
 for consoles and the PC. 
  
  A quick glance at any of the screen shots for the game gives only a taste of the kind of graphic 
 splendor gamers can look forward to Oblivion. Expect to see the kinds of light and water effects 
 that were so praised in Morrowind expanded out to cover literally every surface in the game. Dungeon 
 walls will now glisten with moisture. Skin, stone, blood and wood will accurately absorb and reflect 
 light in amazing ways. Specific techniques include normal maps for lighting, diffuse maps for color, 
 specular maps for shininess, and parallax maps for geometry detail. Parallax mapping is a new graphic 
 technique that's similar to displacement mapping, but is much friendlier to video cards and will 
 help ensure that the graphic splendor isn't restricted to the PC version. 
  
  Still, if there's one thing that reveals the game as a next-generation product, it would be the 
 forests. Anyone even remotely familiar with game technology understands why RPGs like dungeons 
 more than forests. Dungeons mostly consist of straight lines; forests, on the other hand, consist 
 of trees -- and trees, with their millions of different sized and shaped leaves, are an absolute 
 nightmare to render with any speed. That's what makes the forests of Oblivion so remarkable: the 
 fact that they look so unremarkable. Looking at a forest in Oblivion is pretty close to looking 
 through a window in Bethesda's office. The technology used to create these landscapes combines 
 procedural generation of the ground based on soil type and years of erosion, places trees based 
 on species and random growth clustering, and make a grass base on regional patterns, all of which 
 create randomized yet realistic woodlands. When combined with full canopy shadows from the trees, 
 Oblivion truly takes you to another place. 
  
  The best part about this new technology, though, is that gamers will be able to get their hands 
 on all of Bethesda's cool new toys. The PC version of Morrowind came complete with "The Elder Scrolls 
 Construction Set," a series of tools that allowed gamers to build their own worlds and tweak the 
 game to their heart's content. In our discussion, however, Howard revealed that the release of 
 the Morrowind tools was more an experiment than anything else. At the time, they weren't really 
 sure that players would want to take the time to learn the sometimes difficult to use tools. The 
 response from gamers, though, went beyond their wildest dreams. A quick glance at the Morrowind 
 Summit page reveals thousands of homemade classes, quests, and modifications available to plug 
 into the game. This time around, the construction kit will be easier to use, have better interfaces, 
 and the code base of the product will have simpler script, object and quest systems that can be 
 directly manipulated by the kit. Howard described the tool kit succinctly, "It's all in the Construction 
 Set. We used it to create Oblivion, see what you can do!"
  
  The Living World
  
  Fans of Morrowind may be a bit disappointed to find out that Oblivion isn't a direct continuation 
 of that storyline. It does, however, begin the way the previous Elder Scrolls game did, with the 
 main character in prison. While you're there, the Emperor comes through your cell via a secret 
 door trying to escape from an assassination attempt. The escape, unfortunately, fails, leaving 
 the player with the dying Emperor who hands over the "Amulet of Kings," the token of the true Emperor 
 along with a charge to find the one person who can "shut the marble jaws of Oblivion." Oblivion, 
 the Elder Scrolls equivalent of Hell, is sealed away from Tamriel only by the will of the Emperor, 
 and with him dead, the land starts to see an influx of demonic creatures bent on destruction.
 
  
  
  
  The player will never find out why they were in prison. According to Howard, that's because putting 
 down a backstory for the main character might hinder that player's freedom of choice when it comes 
 to determining how they're going to interact with the world. So whether they feel like they're 
 wrongly incarcerated for a crime they didn't commit or they're a multiple murderer looking for 
 a little payback, the moral, ethical and lifestyle decisions each player makes is completely up 
 to them. Indeed, how they approach the main quest of the game or whether they choose to pursue 
 it at all is likewise up to them. The beauty of Oblivion is Bethesda's new "Living World" system, 
 which means that the choices you make will be reflected in the world around you. 
  
  "We've really gotten much better at this," Howard says when discussing the living world of Oblivion. 
 "We're really focusing this time on how people in the world react to you, because that's the most 
 fulfilling thing about being good or bad or in-between." The game sports a new "Radiant AI" system 
 that Howard says is best described as a combination of Ultima 7 and The Sims. Rather than following 
 pre-scripted paths, every NPC is given a set of general goals they'd like to achieve, but the details 
 of fulfilling that goal is entirely up to them. If a citizen is hungry, they'll look for a way 
 to get food. They might buy food, hunt it, or steal it, then find a place to sit to eat and so 
 on. This means that every one of the game's 1,000 NPCs follows a full 24/7 schedule that continues 
 whether or not the player is there to witness it. It also means that the NPCs react to each other, 
 so a townsperson who decides to steal a loaf of bread in full view of the guards may find himself 
 under arrest. 
  
  It also means that everything the player does in the game that's witnessed by NPCs is processed 
 and remembered by them, who will then use that information to decide how to react to you. Interactions 
 are governed by what the player has done to them, what groups or guilds they're both a member of, 
 whether the player has messed with anyone in their family and what their general reputation in 
 the Empire is. Players who just watch the NPCs going about their daily lives will often witness 
 townsfolk in unscripted dynamic conversations gossiping about what's going on in the kingdom and 
 what rumors and news is currently hot. 
  
  In fact, one of the interesting problems that the team has had to face came about precisely because 
 the AI is so good. According to Howard, the AI has caused guards to decide to eat and go hunting 
 deer, only to get themselves arrested for attacking something. When they fight back against the 
 arresting guard, the other guards see a fight and try to join in. In not too much time, every guard 
 in the town was involved in the scuffle, which left the rest of the town open to thievery by other 
 NPCs, resulting in empty stores. Much of the team's current effort is going into putting sensible 
 governors on the AI's behavior to avoid situations like empty stores that would result in situations 
 that wouldn't be fun for the player. 
  
  The team is also focused on creating a world that's interesting enough that the player would want 
 to take sides. The game's factions are much more polarized this time around and they include options 
 as diverse as the Fighters' and Mages' Guild who are generally good, the Thieves Guild, which is 
 generally bad, and the Dark Brotherhood, which is really evil. The Nine Divines lets the player 
 become a monk, while the Arena Guild obviously focuses on gladiatorial combat. All of these factions 
 have their own stories and intrigues and contain enough stuff to do that by themselves they'd probably 
 fill a whole separate game. Putting them together ensures that no matter how much time the player 
 spends in the game, there will always be some choices passing by that they'll want to come back 
 and try later. 
  
  
  
  The Future
  
  There has long been a tendency among gamers to decry an obsession with graphics power over quality 
 gameplay. This is certainly not without merit, as we all have a tendency to be dazzled by the next 
 advance in graphic technology. The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion though, shows we may finally be coming 
 to the end of that cycle. Graphic beauty in the next generation will not be in how we display the 
 fantastic, but in how close we get to the ordinary. Oblivion is an amazing harbinger of things 
 to come because the Oblivion team is using their power to create not just spectacle, but a believable 
 world in which to experience that spectacle. With this game as an indication of what the next generation 
 of consoles is capable of, the future of gaming is brighter than anyone believed possible. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goobloogoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 30, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the best graphics and gameplay i have ever had the joy to experiance. But 
 the graphics arn't the only amazing part (GASP!!) , the story and gameplay is so amazing i can't 
 word it, experiance is the only way you'll understand. I can't explain the game in words so just 
 go out and buy it. Don't bother renting it first! Even if you don't like RPG's you'll love this 
 game........ I gurantee it!
  
  The only issue is that a) You need a great computer, I mean realy realy good computer to run it. 
 And b) It freezes occasionly and has occasional framerate issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denroid
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 29, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The first Elder Scrolls game I played was Morrowind. When I first loaded it up and got started 
 I found myself lost in a beautifully alien world. I could do anything, be anyone, and immediately 
 got slaughtered by the guard.
  
  With the release of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the endless choices returned along with a facelift 
 and a new locale. Boasting next generation graphics and superior AI, Oblivion looked to be everything 
 Morrowind was and then some. But exactly how well does it stand up to Morrowind?
  
  Gameplay:
  Oblivion boasted that it would solve the problem of most RPGs, the problem 
 of static and bland AI. It boasted a technology built from the ground up called Radiant A. I. The 
 goal of the Radiant A. I. was to give the non player characters a more fleshed out life. On paper 
 it sounds like a wonderful idea, however in practice the Radiant A. I. fails to really impress. 
 The characters still seem to have a linear path in their lives and the guard insists that killing 
 everyone is the best solution. But it is because of this unique view on life that I think 
 Oblivions A. I. provides a more entertaining game experience than other games A. I.
  
  In terms of action this game brings it on faster and more furious than Morrowind. Right away you 
 start fighting through a dungeon full of killer rats and goblins. The game features enemies which 
 level with you, so that no matter where you go and what you do there will always be a challenge 
 to be found. This can be both a good thing and a bad thing. The good is that the game is constantly 
 challenging, theres never really a time when you just breeze through destroying everything 
 in one hit, this helps the game last longer which I find a good thing. The bad is that you can 
 get overpowered at times and going through dungeons isnt as rewarding as it was in Morrowind, 
 as the loot is based on your level. Really it comes down to opinion, and if you love a challenge 
 and not being able to breeze through fights, chances are youll love Oblivion.
  
  Once you get outside of the starting dungeon you find yourself free to do as you please in a massive 
 map, 16 square miles to be exact. By comparison Morrowind was only around 10 square miles. However 
 the world feels smaller than Morrowind and the main reason for this is the introduction of a feature 
 called fast travel, where you can use your map to travel to any location you have been to before, 
 with the exception of the main cities which you can fast travel regardless of having been there 
 before or not. Of course you can always just foot it everywhere, as fast travel is not mandatory.
 
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics in Oblivion are amazing. Some of the best seen in any game yet. Of course this is 
 a review on the PC version, so hardware must be taken into account. The bottom line is if you havent 
 got a high-mid to high end computer forget about the pc version, this game is a huge resource hog. 
 If you do have a high end pc however, you will be subject to gloriously lush forests, filled with 
 all sorts of exotic flora and fauna, most of which will try to kill you. Lower end machines will 
 have to either put up with frame rate issues, or set their settings lower, but regardless the game 
 still looks fairly good on mid range machines.
  
  Sound:
  Oblivions music rivals Morrowinds. All the music suits your location perfectly and never feels 
 intrusive or over loud. The battle music is lively and the overworld music soft and gentle. Other 
 sounds like drawing your sword and firing off an arrow are spot on as well. Most notable is the 
 games full voice acting; every word is voiced out by well known actors. However because of memory 
 issues, and not wanting the game to take up 10 DVDs, voice files can and do get repeated. This 
 can cause some weird things to happen like when a beggar suddenly starts talking like a wealthy 
 Imperial.
  
  Value:
  Oblivion is great value if you like open ended rpgs. The replay value is huge, because with the 
 huge amounts of character customization you can do, there is no end to the amount of variety you 
 will find. I am on my third character, after completely messing up my first and dominating with 
 my second archer, I am now trying my hand at a mage class. Plus both versions have official downloads 
 which you can buy to get new quests and addons, though if you get the PC version the options are 
 more endless than the 360 version as you can make your own content or free download others plugins.
 
  
  Overall Oblivion is a beautiful game that any RPG fan would do well to add to their collection. 
 The game is perfect for returning fans of the series and new comers aswell and will keep both entertained 
 for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessSpawn
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Yep!
  In my opinion this is the best RPG and maybe the best GAME made...
  With the new better landscape mod and characters, Weapons, Houses, Areas, Spells, cures, and everything 
 else makes this game twice as good compared to starting (without no mods.... and even the starting 
 version is STILL mad good)
  play the demo or better yet own this game... lol
  well thats basically it
  (its like another life with spells and far back in time... too good to 
 be explained by words :D)
  aw man i gotta make this 100 words... umm what else
  ok you can interact with ANYTHING... plants, mushrooms, keys, plates, all the stuff... plus you can 
 have houses where you get deeds for furniture and you can place your sacred items there like sig's 
 from Oblivion gates... Ride horses, steal other peoples stuff, kill em :P, lol tons of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dahui58
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow....
  
  .. this game is massive. The world has incredibly realistic graphics and physics, and you could 
 spend a whole evening exploring the immense mountains and forests, or dark caves, mines and sewers 
 etc.
  
  But what really makes the world come alive is its inhabitants and creatures. Hundreds of NPC's 
 live in the towns and some can be met (or killed) in the wilderness. You'll find goblins and vampires 
 in the caves, and wolves in the forests and plains.
  
  Lots of guilds and factions can be joined which lead to quests which can be very varied. You'll 
 never get bored of this game and you'll keep on playing till the next Elder Scrolls comes out :P. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo431
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best games to come out, ever. Playing this game makes you get into your character 
 and become immersed in the world he's in. There's probably nothing about this game i'd change. 
 But of course, it's always fun to play around with the mods.
  
  The graphics are great, everything is polished and well done. The animations on your characters 
 attacks, spells, spell effects, and monsters are great. And you've just gotta love the physics. 
 It reminds me of Half-Life 2 physics when you defeat something and the body turns into a ragdoll.
 
  
  There are so many different options to make on your character too. You can change the sizes of 
 nose, eyes, jaws, cheeks, lips... the list goes on. Different eye types, colors of hair, you can 
 spend literally an hour or two on designing your character. 
  
  The quests are great, the people in the towns have 24/7 schedules, there are downloadable mods 
 for the pc version so you can trick it out and it can be even better than the xbox 360 version. 
 The game is just so realistic.
  
  Probably the only problem with it is the fact that it seems a little lonely sometimes. Like you 
 can't talk to friends in the game and group with them, so you'll be going on quests by yourself. 
 But that's not too big of a problem, you'll be having a lot of fun anyway, without thinking of 
 any of that. 
  
  Say bye-bye to world of warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is in some ways an astounding achievement, in others a narrowly conceived let-down. 
 
  
  The good: Visually stunning graphics (if you have the hardware for it, that is) . Complex dialogues 
 and quests, a very immersive experience altogether. Beautiful sounds and music, character voices 
 are well done. The world is filled with dungeons, caves and ruins that are usually worth exploring. 
 Oblivion never lets you follow a long trail and then refuses to reward you - there is always something 
 good at the end. The established roleplaying system works intuitively - do what you do best and 
 you'll improve in those areas (why don't all RPGs have this?) . You can basically be anything you 
 want to, from a low-down murderer and thief to a smarmy do-gooder knight to a... yes, a vampire 
 as well. 
  
  The bad: The main storyline didn't really grip me, although it's well presented. Furthermore, it 
 should have been construed to take much longer. You can finish the game in 12-15 hours easily, 
 while being able to spend 10 times that much exploring the world - the drawback being that there 
 is absolutely no motivation for you to continue playing after completing the story. I also think 
 that travelling has been facilitated too much - clicking on a point on the map and beaming to that 
 location somehow destroyed the feeling of being in a large and complex world for me. 
  
  The ugly: First off: bugs, bugs, and bugs, the worst being frequent crashes. Thankfully, the game 
 doesn't take long to start up or load, because I get about two to three crashes an hour while playing 
 (yes, drivers and the like are up to snuff on my machine) . Oblivions biggest failing, however, 
 is its well-meant system of automatically scaling the difficulty to the player's level. The upshot 
 is: you can go anywhere and defeat anything from the very start. No incentive to level up your 
 character, because, although you will receive better and more powerful items, spells, etc., the 
 effect is the same, monsters are just as easy (or as hard) to kill. This seriously dampened my 
 motivation after about 5 hours of playing. I kept on, because the world is so beautifully done, 
 but this massive design mistake effectively cripples the game in my view. Too bad, because it could 
 have been the greatest game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RVCA823
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the fourth entry into the critically acclaimed Elder Scrolls series. The fanbase is 
 large, and so is the commitment to playing the games. Oblivion's predeccessor, Morrowind, played 
 more like an adventure role playing game, rather than the action role playing game it was meant 
 to be.
  
  Morrowind was a very good game, but the action was very boring and pointless. When you attacked 
 an enemy, you would feel no response, the enemy would just jump and kill you. It was very disgusting 
 to me, that game had so much potential. 
  
  Now we have The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. This game fixes everything Morrowind failed at. This 
 game is more of a action oriented game rather than an adventure game. The combat is addicting, 
 the weapons are glorious, and the enemies are strong.
  
  In the very beginning of the game, you start out in prison. The reason you are in prison is unknown. 
 While in the cell, you are bombarded with guards and the Emporer: your objective is to protect 
 the Emporer and escape the prison via the sewers. I'm not going to give anymore away to the fantastic 
 story, but I will explain to you the greatness of this masterpiece.
  
  After you escape, you are set with two options: achieve your objective, or do whatever you want. 
 The sheer brilliance and beauty of this world, Tamriel is remarkable in every aspect. Everything 
 in this game is authentic, as it takes place in a Medieval- type era. 
  
  The country of Tamriel is composed of many different cities which you may go to at any time. A 
 new feature in the game is fast travel. Fast travel is very helpful; after visiting a location, 
 you are able to fast travel. By pulling out your map, you may choose your destination and instantly 
 be at your desired location. Another new feature is your horse. You horse is very helpful in that 
 you may travel quickly, and admire the glorious country. One drawback on horseback riding is that 
 you may not attack while on the horse. This may become very frustrating, especially when a wolf 
 is attacking your horse. In this situation, you need to get off the horse, look for where the enemy 
 is attacking, pull out your weapon, (if you haven't done so already) and attack the beast. Another 
 drawback is that you may not enter city gates with horses. If you do want to enter a city gate, 
 your horse is automatically taken to a stable. (which is outside the city)
  
  In the game, you will encounter "Gates to Oblivion". I don't want to say to much about this, but 
 Oblivion gates are evil, and you must close them. They are composed of fiends, fire, and many dark 
 places. There are about 16 you need to close.
  
  There is a diverse selection of weapons. There are longswords, shortswords, maces, daggers, and 
 other various battle weapons. You also use magic. This magic helps depleted health, restores fatigue, 
 and attacks other enemies. The spells in this game are fantastic, there is a vast selection to 
 choose from.
  
  In Oblivion, there are many opportunities to make money, or help people. There are many non- playable 
 characters (NPC) in this game, well over 500. Each NPC is living his life, eating, drinking, and 
 sleeping in real time! Most NPCs give out quests for you to complete. Each NPC has a voice, personality, 
 and look. This is a very amazing feat for Bethesda to pull off.
  
  In the game, your ability to do certain things is determined by your level. You increase your level 
 by doing what your race is good at. This is also another good feature in the game, because it gives 
 you more reason to play it. There are many races: Argonian, Breton, Dark Elf, High Elf, Imperial, 
 Khajiit, Nord, Orc, Redguard, and Wood Elf. Each race is good at something, and if you do that 
 "good something", your level will increase.
  
  You are given the opportunity to join guilds. Guilds are basically "clubs" or organizations that 
 have a purpose or belief. There are several guilds: The Dark Brotherhood, The Mages Guild, The 
 Fighters Guild, and the Thieves Guild. In each of these groups, you are given many quests. After 
 completing the quests you go up in rank. You are also given special privileges, and rewarded with 
 gold or weapons after each completed quest.
  
  Another exciting part of the game is the Arena. In the Arena, you are give the chance to become 
 a gladiator. You start out small, and rank up to become a heartless warrior. You fight people and 
 animals. I think Bethesda (Developer of the game) should have put more effort in this. The Arena 
 could have been the best part of the game. I don't want to give too much away, but this portion 
 of the game is quite easy, and you do not need a high level to entirely complete the Arena.
  
  In the game, you must eat, drink, and sleep. You can find inns and hotels in various locations 
 of the country. You can also buy a house, and put all of your belongings there. There are blacksmiths, 
 pubs, and other activity filled areas. I think Bethesda also failed at this. I wish they put more 
 "atmosphere" to the businesses; but suffice to say, it's better than nothing.
  
  There is so much to talk about! I can compose a novel about this game, for it would be over 500 
 pages. Speaking of novels and books, the country of Tamriel is scattered with books, novels, and 
 literary works of art. It is extremely interesting to read, for it gives you more insight on the 
 country's heritage.
  
  These are by far, some of the best graphics to ever grace a console or PC.
  
  The sound is 
 fantastic. It has an amazing soundtrack that is quite immersive. The characters voices were extremely 
 well excecuted.
  
  The replay value is obviously high. Some people will never finish this game. The main quest is 
 roughly 40 hours long; but the entire game will take you no more than 200 hours. It took one of 
 my friends two years to totally beat Morrowind!
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic. It is easily one of the best role playing games ever. I reccomend 
 it to any gamer. Even if you are an action aficionado, I reccomend it to you.
  
  I hope you have enjoyed my review, I hope it strengthens your decision on the game.
  
  -RVCA823
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DnFreak
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 26, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a very high-quoted first person RPG that let's you do anything you like to do. From travelling 
 the world while cleaning out every cage house or whatever you come across to become Arch-Mage, 
 Fighter's guild Master, Dark Brotherhoods leader all at the same time.
  People do not need anything to kwon about the previous Elder Scroll games. 
  They will be sucked 
 in right from the beginning. 
  Youll be starting of in a nice little dungeon doing youre time when suddenly the door to your 
 cell opens. The Emperor himself is standing in front of you guarded by his bodyguards from the 
 Blades Order. One of them opens a hidden passage in youre cell and tells you to stay behind. Of 
 course you ignore that order and follow the Emperor and his men. After the initiation where, based 
 on your actions, a personage is formed, you leave the sewers and will be stunned by the beauty 
 of Cyrodiil. When you walk around you see a deer running away from you, and then you hesitated. 
 When I decided to follow it I even hold my breath to avoid being heard. On the moment I draw my 
 bow I realise that I dont want to kill something that beautiful and put my weapon back where it 
 belongs. 
  Somehow later on in the game Ive killed an innocent person in a side quest. I go to bed to rise 
 a level and get back my health. When I wake up I suddenly realise that Im no longer alone. I see 
 a dark man standing beside me bed. When I address me to him he speaks of a brotherhood. Yes indeed 
 The Dark Brotherhood. He tells me that if I want to be part of this Assassin guild I will have 
 to kill another innocent man. He gives me directions and then disappears into nowhere. I suddenly 
 realise Ive found my destiny, why else would I have picked the assassin class? First thing I do 
 is following the path my journal indicates. Then I come across another guild, The Mages guild. 
 When I ask how to join, people refer to a mage in the Mages hall. They explain me how to gain 
 access to the Arcane University, gathering recommendations from Mages all over Cyrodiil. 
  I remember from Morrowind the Thieves guild. Thats why I started looking around for it. When I 
 arrive in Waterside I see a poster of a man behind a mask: The Gray Fox. I give the local beggar 
 a few coins and he tells me to come back at midnight.
  When I do this I see a few people standing around a black man. Initiate for the Thieves guild. 
 We join in a competition and who wins will be allowed to join. Of course I win and I am told where 
 to find a fence to sell my stolen goods to. 
  Now Ive wandered too far of my review on the game. 
  The quest system is very natural, you overhear 
 a conversation on the streets and you have a new topic. When you talk to someone about it, theyll 
 refer to the person where to start a quest. Also the travel system is very advanced. When youve 
 been to a location, you can always fast travel there. Except for the main cities, those you can 
 visit any time you want.
  The graphics look really awesome, this is the reason to buy a new graphic card.
  This is a very 
 great game. Im already addicted to it and I havent played it for a very long time. Have a lot 
 of fun with it, Im going to play along. Any questions can be addressed, and Ill do what I can 
 to answer them. Cya
  A crazy Redguard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DylanDJK
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  I got theis game just recently and Can't stop playing it! I will provide hours and hours of non 
 stop fun. I have 7 hours on it in 3 days! The gameplay is incredible and the boring old "your shot 
 enemy shot your shot enemy shot etc." system is gone. Instead you actually have the control to 
 swing your sword or whatever weapon you choose. The storyline is easy to follow and with the addition 
 of side quests, you will never get bored. The sounds are amazing in its self too, so realistic. 
 Last thing that this game has become very well known for, its Graphics. Obilivion will demand the 
 best of your computer, and really push it to the limits. Even at medium graphics and HDR on, the 
 graphics are amazing, running on an nVidia 6600gt. I can see this game running even better on a 
 6800GT or if you have one, 7800GT. Overall this game has got to be the most fun i have had with 
 a computer game in a LONG time. I'm a racing type person, but this game is incredibly easy to get 
 into and get hooked on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voucker
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  ..... the best graphics....
  anyone who plays RPG of any kind will like this game. Contender for best game ever! 
  I really 
 mean it becuse it a wide open game and all tose mods that come out fore it are making this awesome 
 game even more better.
  I really think that you could play it houndreds of hours and it wouldnt be boring. 
  Thank you 
 Bethesda!! All thanks too you!!!! 
  This is one of the Best Rpg games EVER!!!!! Unparallel Graphics, Superb Story n iImmense Amount 
 of Freedom for a Complete RPG. I spent playing Morrowind For more than 100 hours n still because 
 of its freedom n longevity i sometimes play it . If u thought Morrowind was huge wait till u play 
 Oblivion they are so much things to do u may be playing for months even years. you could just admire 
 the graphical beauty for hours n hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almir_Kurtic
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Ok this is the first time I'm writing a review so i wish those who are going to read this are going 
 to like it. I have just to say one thing. Oblivion is amazing!!!! I I'm playing the game every minute 
 i got and I didn't even finished the half of the story!!! I can't believe it. The graphics are amazing, the 
 gameplay is amazing, the sound is amazing, everyting on this game is amazing! And those people that 
 are thinking for the game you need a mega PC are wrong. I downloded the Oldblivion mod from gamespot 
 and now I'm playing the game with all details and resolution of 1024x748 and the game is working 
 with a Ge force FX5200.
  I'm hoping that i'm going to finish the game in a year :) . That's all about my first review I hope 
 you liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadat87
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Huge, lavishly detailed world offers tremendous amount of action and adventure; main mechanics 
 like combat, stealth, and magic are fun and well designed; impressive artificial intelligence and 
 hundreds of believable characters; outstanding symphonic score, as well as excellent voice acting 
 and sound effects; tremendous replay value, plus gorgeous graphics to make it easy on the eyes. 
 
  
  This is a rare and remarkable achievement -- a huge, open-ended, complex, detailed role-playing game 
 that's fun to play and a pleasure to behold. Oblivion not only delivers everything that earned 
 the Elder Scrolls series the devoted loyalty of a huge following of fans, but also significantly 
 improves on the weaknesses of its 2002 predecessor, Morrowind. Morrowind earned recognition for 
 being one of the best role-playing games in years, but the immersive and long-lasting experience 
 it provided wasn't for everyone. Oblivion is hands-down better, so much so that even those who'd 
 normally have no interest in a role-playing game should find it hard to resist getting swept up 
 in this big, beautiful, meticulously crafted world. 
  
  
  
  Just a Really Nice Game if you have theDREAM COMPUTER" 
  The Sequence ofThe Elder Scrolls 
 III: Morrowindis one of the most impressive game of this year... 
  
  That's not like Baldur's Gate RPG Style... But have a Powerfull gameplay and graphics...
  
 
  
  The sound are nicely too...
  
  But... here is the point... not everyone have the Nasa Computer to play this game...
  
  You 
 will need the best Geforce or Radeon Video Cards...
  
  You will need a lot of RAM...
  
  You will need some lot of HD space too...
  
  You will need some3ghz "...
  
  If you have 
 money to Upgrade your PC, Good Game...
  
  If don't... go play some Diablo or Work to take money.. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I was really second guessing getting this game, but I must say I dont regret it. At first the 
 game seemed really big and untamable. Once I started just going from town to town, I really started 
 to like the world for what it was. Let me first get the things out of the way that brings the game 
 down a notch.
  1. Hardware, doesnt take much to run it, but if you want it to look good you better have a hulk 
 of a system.
  2. The 3rd person perspective is really choppy, and isnt comfortable to play with.
  3. You can 
 walk into people houses and make a mess of the place and as long as you dont steal anything youre 
 ok. You can pretty much just about go anywhere and they dont care as long as you dont take anything. 
 Or brake a law like trespass or something.
  4. The layout of the menu is really annoying and you can tell that it was made for the xbox360. 
 the spell menus are pretty retarded, but at least they are in alphabetical order. And the amount 
 of spells you can short cut is at a depressing 8. I find myself constantly going into the annoying 
 spell menu to fish for a spell that I might need.
  Now to talk about what is good about the game. One of my favorite features of the game is the instant 
 traveling and the fast time option, it makes the game a lot less tedious. The missions are pretty 
 well balanced some are cut and dry kill the guy come back get paid. Others can take you a lot of 
 different directions with different stories and different ways to end the quest. I must say that 
 the quests for the guilds are pretty interesting, they totally took me away from the main quest. 
 Some guilds are easy to get into others are not, and I like how you have to behave by their rules 
 if you want to stay in them. I also like how the world evolves with you. Monsters get stronger 
 and harder even when you go back to the same dungeon. Some things are hard to find like if you 
 want to buy a house, Im still not sure where to buy some of the houses in some towns. If I had 
 one thing to say about this game is with your first character make a mage of some kind, because 
 I didnt get a lot of stuff until I played as a mage. The mage guild explains spells and you cant 
 go through the game on pure power. I tired, I failed. So yea good luck have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sviken
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game in speaking of gameplay, and ofcourse graphics. One of the the most gorgeous 
 games i've ever played. The sad thing with Oblivion is the fact that numerous bugs pulls it down.
 
  
  To start with the graphics, they are gorgeous. Even if you don't have a high-end computer, the 
 game is still beautiful. The day and night cycle, the nature, the towns and cities, it all adds 
 to giving you one of the most lifelike virtual worlds i've experienced.
  That being said, there are some minor glitches, like when you jump in the third-person perspective 
 the character kind of freezes while in midair, until he/she lands again. And a few minor glitches 
 here and there. Also on the bad side of acceptable is the viewing distance. The textures are not 
 loaded until you are close to them. This might of course be a result of the good graphics, but 
 still, it's not good. The big stuff in the background are rendered pretty decently though.
  
  The gameplay is very straightforward. You choose a race, and the game starts with you getting 
 out of a prison. On the way out you choose class and sign. Then you start killing rats and other 
 stuff, and loot it. You get quests etc. The most interesting part of the game is the quests, aside 
 from the main quest. You can choose to do quests for several factions, doing everything from assassinations 
 to saving ppl, thievery etc. It's very rewarding to climb the ranks of the factions, ultimately 
 becoming the head of the faction. It's recommended you do as many of these as you can, as i find 
 them more interesting than the main questline.
  
  Oblivion is a great game with lots of good features. Sadly, i have to bring to attention the negative 
 part of the game. It's buggy as hell! It can crash anytime (thank god for the autosave) , even in 
 the menu before you even started playing. The most annoying bug in my opinion though, is that sometimes, 
 or not sometimes, often, the character locks in a walk, going backwards and left, and there is 
 nothing i can do to fix this, other than exiting the game and starting it over again, often several 
 times, before i can start playing normally again. Many times have i cursed the game and thrown 
 away the headset because of this, though i keep coming back.
  
  All in all, this is a very good game. It's addictive, easy to get into, easy to adjust the difficulty 
 level, and it rocks. If it hadn't been for the bugs, it might even have rivaled WoW when speaking 
 about fun, although it's a bit unfair of me to compare a RPG to a MMORPG. But this is a game every 
 RPG enthusiast should try, and those not very much into RPGs should try this one out as their first 
 rpg, it should be able to turn even the most anti-RPG person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDarkViper
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  All i have to say is that i know this review is a bit delayed, games been out for a small while 
 now, and i know im just getting around to it. But honestly its taken me this long to base an opinion 
 about it:
  
  im sick of it.
  
  I got it the first moment i found it on the shelf, and let me tell you, i was pleasantly surprised 
 that it not only worked on my PC, but with settings fairly high, i was able to still manage a playable 
 framerate. And i got what everyone got the first time they saw it: the initial 'WOW' factor. No 
 not World of Warcraft, and but "WOW, PRETTY!"
  
  The game to begin with is extremely rich and detailed. But only if you have a decent computer. 
 If your mid-range, forget about HDR. O other good stuff, such as seeing the forrest, or unlimited 
 view distance for that mater. The bump mapping becomes blander and blander as the settings go down, 
 like, REALLY noticable stuff. In fact i remember at one point i was playing around with the settings 
 getting optimal framerates and optimal graphics as i could. At one point the game just dropped 
 to 3 fps for me. I started monkeying around with the graphics more, and i finally had found the 
 one last switch that saved my FPS. I had to turn the water down to medium, but i could stil have 
 a See Everything Reflected option still on. Weird how the water looks nothing different apart. 
 
  
  Once you get into the game play you create your character and its off you go! Your character is 
 actually created by your performance escaping prison, which is really neat. Along the way youll 
 be able to use simple spells and near every weapon type to find out which one suits your fancy. 
 At the end the guard gives you a recommended class and from there its all under your control, classic 
 ES style.
  
  The first few missions are ungodly fun to play, even if your not a midevil kind of guy, like me, 
 and they involve raiding an oblivion gate to close it, storming a church to clear it of monsters, 
 saving a priest who is next to be king, and plenty of other extremely fun missions. 
  
  And the side missions, where do i begin with those. The Arena if youve always wanted to be a gladiator. 
 If you kill an innocent your greeted by a messanger of the Black Hand to be a covert assassin, 
 and the list just goes on and on from there. 
  
  But once i got into these side missions i realized that they werent quite as fun to play like the 
 main missions were. And eventually i just started loosing interest. 
  
  From what i did play of it, it was an enjoyable thrill ride and definitly something worth playing 
 again when i get the chance to get back into it. But somehow i found it rather easy to lose my 
 interest, and this doesn't usually happen, even in Morrowind. 
  
  I could still recommend this title to just about anyone thougfh. The game had a nice difficulty, 
 and very scalable by use of a sliding bar, it also featured TONNES of travelable terrain, and the 
 inclusion of being able to near instantly teleport yourself to towns that youve already been to 
 (SpeedTravel) is definitly a breath of fresh air. However the game could have seriously used more 
 wildlife. Morrowind was littered with hundreds and hundreds of monsters every step of the way, 
 Oblivion feels pretty vacant. Which is dearly unfortunate, because thats the fun of travelling 
 by foot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CYclops_1990
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for two months and i think that this is the best RPG I ever played. It 
 has soo many details and soo many quests that you could play hundred of hours and finish only half 
 of them.
  Its really AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  I really mean it becuse it a wide open game and all tose mods that come out fore it are making 
 this awesome game even more better.
  I really think that you could play it houndreds of hours and it wouldnt be boring. Its one of 
 the best games this year!!!
  Thank you Bethesda!! All thanks too you!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donoghu
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is what I call a game for gods... It got good visual, good sounds and a really difficult 
 scripting process... I call it "for gods" since this is a game that was made so that, when you 
 have finish the original game, there would always be new things to find online (mods) since they 
 have release the famour TESCS before the game was release to anouce that this game will be promoted 
 by the mind from the customers!
  
  There are those crashes, those AI problems and lot more of complicated things... (Like the steel 
 2 handed sword when you wear steel armor. It will go throught you shoulder pad... techinicaly, 
 it's ugly...)
  
  The crashes are there because of the complexities of the scripts... Almost all script are open 
 scripts so it need good running machines to run them all at the same time...
  
  The AI problems are there since this game is so flexible that they could only make "walking area" 
 as statics as rocks... Making the AI moving perfectly around obstacles and being able to see where 
 to perfectly go would have improved the complexity of the scripts are, so, the number of crashes... 
 (And trust me, you don't want to crashe during a good fight, do you?)
  
  But all those problems are common to lots of great new games! So it is regular to adapt ourselves 
 to those... 
  
  The game itself is a lot more good one that its predecessor: Elder Scroll III Morrowind since the 
 combat stance, the keys (By the way, the hots key are there, for those who don't know and don't 
 read the tutorial, hold a number (1 to 8) while in inventory and click on the item or spell you 
 want to hot keys) , the physics, the animations, the gravity, the control of difficulty, the story 
 have been improved!
  
  The story isn't going on while the Elder Scroll III Morrowind story... If you hear correctly those 
 famous "randon discutions" between NPCs and read all "news' papers", you'll see that this is after 
 Morrowind's story... and you might even find some clues about what the Hero (You) of Morrowind has 
 "officialy" do in the past... :-P
  
  Well , this game is sure a big freedom into the dept of hell (as the main story goes)
  
  The 
 only fact that I am really disapointed is the fact that some monsters, if you rush a bit into battle, 
 will never appear... Since some need you to be at a certain lvl to "unlock" them, if, in exemple, 
 you close all gates to a place, the monster that should, normally, appear only there wont appear 
 elsewhere... so, by being low lvl, you will not see a lot of kinds of monster (1/3, to be exact, 
 need you to be at least lvl 21) since you need the lvl 26 to see them all! That, when you are waiting 
 for big hard battles, is truly disapointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddr
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is good, everyone will agree, but it lacks depth.
  The graphics, one of the most important feature in a game nowadays, are very good. Some of the 
 best out there actually : great animations, models... But the physics are somewhat lacking : dont 
 get me wrong, they are good but... Well characters, once dead, seem boneless. That you can grab 
 objects is fun... but not as well integrated as in a game like hl2. Alright : to prove my point, 
 just mount a horse, ride atop of a tall mountain and kill it. See how it falls? That's pretty ugly...
 
  The story is absolutly stupid : Dead emperor, lost heir, how cliche... Ok, it gets straight to 
 the point but.... for an elder scrolls game, it's pretty, lets say, basic. Morrowind's story for 
 example was a lot more fun : weird dreams, unfriendly ashlanders, prophecies, nerevarine and GODS 
 !!! I loved the fact that you could see gods : Vivec, Almalexia and Sotha sil.
  Another point that saddened me was how the game was made for, mhm, basic people. Very few skills, 
 Blade, blunt for combat instead of short blade, long blade, axes, blunt wepons and spears. An a 
 lot of weapons disappeared : tantos, there are very few dai-katanas, crossbows, spears...
  Also, there are too few armor types : Very few new armor types : Mithril and Elven, Fur... In morrowind, 
 there were legions of armor : Bonemold, Chitin, Indoril, Royal guard armor, high ordinator armor, 
 I could go on and on. But lets stop comparing the two !
  This game has many good points : You cant become the ultimate warrior that kills everyone in a 
 single hit (though that may have been satisfying, it made the game too easy) , the bow system is 
 a lot better, stealth (though making the game too easy) rocks, and combat is actually pretty good 
 ! : you can block with your weapon or shield whenever you want ! That's a really good point.
  The map is very big, but not very diversified, though the dungeons are a lot of fun, thanks to 
 level scaling, even at levels past 40, you will still be challenged. I happened to run into an 
 ogre infested cave and believe me, killling 5 of them when they are all on you is no easy task.
 
  The citys are big and interesting but, they lack the diversity of morrowind. The guild quests 
 are pretty interesting but they are overally too short.
  The main quest itself is very short too, but it is actually one of the good aspects of this game, 
 because it is pretty entertaining.
  Overall, the game is very good and though it is a flawed game it is still a hugely enjoyage role 
 playing experience.
  If you have only the tiniest interest in open-ended games, buy it, and you will be rewarded with 
 an excellent and huge game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley_vivi
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game doesnt need an introduction when a question like "What is ONE of the best rpg's of all 
 time"? is asked. This game is revolutionary in almost every sense. Immersion, graphics, expansive 
 world, interactivity, characters, dialogue, customization and MUCH MUCH MORE.
  
  This game is endless and the gameplay mechanics is what makes this game shine. You can practically 
 do anything. The immersion in this game is beyond belief. 
  
  The graphics are great too without stutternig and long load times. The open fileds, the foliage, 
 the shine off the armor's and weapons, the characters face animations are all superb. This game 
 was well optimized.
  
  I dont wanna analyze everything so I will conclude that this is by far one of the best rpg's of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine1701
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  You know when you read a book and that book becomes your favorite ever and then they make a movie 
 out of it? Then, when you go in expecting to be awed by the new rendition of one of your favorite 
 stories ever, you walk out feeling like a lot was missing? This was my experience playing Oblivion. 
 Don't worry after my lengthy rant I get to what I think of the game standing alone.
  
  I remember my first time playing Morrowind. It was just an awesome and awe-inspiring game, especially 
 for its time. Just the shear freedom of it was enough to make my jaw drop. Of course this is why 
 my experience with its successor somewhat bitter sweet. Oblivion is a wonderful game. On its own, 
 its up with some of the best *linear* roleplaying games out there. I said linear because Oblivion 
 was short quite a few extras that Morrowind possessed. First, all of the cities are gated in and 
 it doesn't leave much room for expansion there. I didn't mind that so much, being that's the architecture 
 of the area. However, the absence of the pacing system that was in Morrowind can kill your gaming 
 experience. 
  
  In Morrowind, the quest took weeks to finish. Why? Because they paced you. After you did a quest, 
 they'd tell you to rest up and get some more skills before moving on. This doesn't happen in Oblivion. 
 I managed to breeze through the main quest in several days and was left at level 15, which is nowhere 
 near done on the leveling scale. Also, the system for loots is based on your level, so the higher 
 up you are, the better stuff and enemies you encounter in the main quest. However, there's not 
 a lot of obvious choices for getting the experience to level up in that manner. Personally I would've 
 prefered in Morrowind where whatever was on the guy you can take. With the lack of the Houses (Hlaalu, 
 Redoran, Telvanni) or counterparts in Cyrodiil, there was only several guilds and the Arena to 
 advance in. when compared to Morrowind, with the exception of the graphics and the horses, the 
 game is lacking.
  
  However, on its own Oblivion is a wonderful game. Those used to playing much more linear roleplaying 
 games will find Bathesda's take on the genre impressive and grand. The combat is entertaining, 
 the quests are enthralling, and the graphics of the game itself is groundbreaking. If I had not 
 played Morrowind and expected the same amount of non-linear gameplay, I would have enjoyed this 
 game as much as I have its predecessor. Still, I recommend this to anyone who is a fan of fantasy, 
 roleplaying, first person.... hack/slashers, and has a high-end computer that can take the visuals. 
 For those who have not yet played either game in the series that I've spoken of, I recommend playing 
 Oblivion first. If you can handle the non-linear style of gameplay, move on up to Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampaio_poa
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Sequence ofThe Elder Scrolls III: Morrowindis one of the most impressive game of this 
 year... 
  
  That's not like Baldur's Gate RPG Style... But have a Powerfull gameplay and graphics...
  
 
  The sound are nicely too...
  
  But... here is the point... not everyone have the Nasa Computer to play this game...
  
  You 
 will need the best Geforce or Radeon Video Cards...
  
  You will need a lot of RAM...
  
  You will need some lot of HD space too...
  
  You will need some3ghz "...
  
  If you have 
 money to Upgrade your PC, Good Game...
  
  If don't... go play some Diablo or Work to take money.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanvarner
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 22, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is repetitive, repetitive, and repetitive. Graphics and sound are amazing. The peer pressure 
 of saying the game is great is why no one is saying what this game really is. The game environments 
 yes are beautiful, but they seem so repetitive. I guess they couldnt fit a whole bunch of new 
 material on the disc I dont know. I think there is so much peer pressure from everyone to say 
 this game is great, but everyone knows that it wasnt what you were expecting. Maybe, I am selfish 
 I dont know. I think basing a game only on graphics is pathetic. Everyone, playing the game knows 
 better, but just doesnt want to be the one to say it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmil88
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 22, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say ...... a very good game ,well except those ugly crashes during screen loadings 
 and during outdoors fightings ,but i still like it tho .. i started the game as a red guard then 
 the crashes issues made me start all over again (thought maybe its the mods i mixed up ) but still 
 after i uninstalled the game and started a clean no mods game the crashes were there........... it 
 was insane ,coz now without the mods i got an outdoors crashings during the fights bahhhhh...... i 
 really really like this game but enough is enough i thought that after the last patch the crashing 
 issues will dissapear but still no change for me ..... im still playing the game coz i'm still waiting 
 for a crash fixing to show up ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Oblivion rocked my socks playing it. Many complained and whinned about the hardware req but hey 
 i had it at high on my sempron with a nvidia 6600 and it played wonderfully. i even played it on 
 my pentium II at low with a 5500 card in it. so.... o well very nice game. if you hacked it the 
 buy it because, to all the pirates out there, this is just one of those games that is worth the 
 money ;)
  
  ~knux~ kkotd
  
  ps: warning to the wise if you dont have a nice cooling system on your vid card please dont put 
 it on the highest level!!! i had so many calls after this game published for me to go out and replace 
 cards lol even in my own school we had cards frying from teachers playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekingoffoxes
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 22, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Ok, Oblivion the new Elder Scrolls IV (4) game from Bethesda - 
  you start off like any other Elder Scrolls - in prision which you find your way out of to make 
 a life or complete the main quest, or you could do both.
  It's easy to get lost in things to do with all the quests there are, and long ones too!
  the 
 game keeps you envolved untill yourve run out of quests - then the game gets really boring or you 
 come across a quest that you cant beat. the game has a few bugs on the PC which should be fixed 
 by a upcoming patch.
  Origonaly I gave the game a 9.5 but now ive gotton over it and i can give a truthful review the 
 game which i think should be a 8.5
  The game lasted me a few weeks untill i ran out of quests which i had hoped would never hapen.
 
  
  It's a great game and well worth your money either on the Xbox 360 or the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asifx3me
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the Best Rpg games EVER!!!!! Unparallel Graphics, Superb Story n iImmense Amount 
 of Freedom for a Complete RPG. I spent playing Morrowind For more than 100 hours n still because 
 of its freedom n longevity i sometimes play it . If u thought Morrowind was huge wait till u play 
 Oblivion they are so much things to do u may be playing for months even years. you could just admire 
 the graphical beauty for hours n hours. I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND PLAYING THIS GAME WITH ANYTHING BELOW 
 A GEFORCE 7800 BECAUSE U'LL B DISSAPOINTED IN WAT U C COMAPARED TO A HIGH END GRAPHICS CARD. Overall 
 this Game is the Bomb If i may say so i waited for it since it was annouced and it hasnt dissapointed 
 me at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdpunk
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay let me start of by saying, BUY THIS GAME NOW! This game is just so immersive, so amazing, 
 and so addicting that its hard to describe. With this game theres a bunch of things to do. Dont 
 want to do the main quest? Thats great becuase theres about a thousand more things to do other 
 then that. The graphics are the top of the line! The best that can be imagined and then with the 
 first person mode its almost to amazing to believe. I mean really, if your not to happy with how 
 your characters coming along you can just make a new one and remake everything! So all in all this 
 is a game to pick up right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2_maximus_5
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls : Oblivion is by far the best game i have ever played. Everything you could possibly 
 want is laid out to you on a silver platter for only 24.99. Combat is intense, and thanks to the 
 awesome graphics and highly varied sounds you feel every blow. Spellcasting is hugely varied - 
 you could be a master of destruction and roast your foes from afar, or you could focus on alteration 
 spells - like walking on water or unlocking doors. Your character is fully alterable - for example 
 i made an khajiit thats face looked like a traffic light :D. Everything is possible.
  
  Perfection on a stick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cross_mr
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  If you want a shiny game that has no soul, this is the game for you. Bethesda succeeded in making 
 Oblivion one of the best looking games around, too bad they didn't put half this effort into the 
 game play. 
  
  The AI that was so touted prior to release is terrible. Monsters can constantly be manipulated 
 by the environment to be destroyed without taking damage. The radiant AI is nothing special. NPCs 
 have random weird conversations, often repeating things. 
  
  Level scaling is an embarrassment. This does nothing to make the game fun and serves only to make 
 the leveling completely pointless. There is no reward for leveling up as everything you face either 
 levels up or is replaced by a harder version of itself. Only when you've leveled up to around level 
 35 do you actually see any reward as a few areas do put a cap on what they upgrade there. However 
 the bulk of the game, bandits, daedra, etc all level up with you.
  
  The PC version of the game is nothing more than a terrible console port. They didn't even make 
 an effort to allow people to map keys, set up hot keys for spells and abilities, or anything else 
 useful. 
  
  Bethesda made it very clear they designed this for the Xbox 360 and I say let the console have 
 them. They don't care about the PC Gamers who clothed and fed them for years.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcphillipsl
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 20, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Game i have ever played you can do more thing than
  other games like OBLIVION such as you can go anywere you like and have
  over 200 quests to do. 
 And you can buy swords, Axes and much more
  i think this game is for adventures who like role-playing game like
  myself. You don't just have 
 to do your main quest you can do
  little quest that sometimes gets you a lot of money so i give
  this game my biggest Score ever 
 from me so i give OBLIVION a
  9.9 so i hope you will like OBLIVION so Go down to your local game
  store an pic a copy.............. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonen151
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing. I have played most games and this is by far my most favorite. The graphics 
 are amazing. It is easy to learn. The storyline is very very long and will keep you entertained 
 forever. There are so many side quest that I sure no one can count that much. You can buy houses 
 and horses. The only thing I found as a flaw was that I couldn't shoot arrows from my horse. I 
 think there will be a patch coming out for that soon so that will even out the game beyond what 
 it is. I suggest that you join the Dark Brotherhood guild. You will become rich and get a awesome 
 horse named Shadowmere. May he serve you well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Sequel to one of the best RPG's of all time, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion may just take that 
 title itself. This will be a fairly short review because if I got into all of the details about 
 how great this game is, we would be here all day.
  
  The gameplay is absolutely fantastic, the graphics are stunning, the music is extremely captivating, 
 and you could spend 200+ hours playing this game without even beating the main campaign.
  
  To experience the entire thing, you have to buy the game and see for yourself why this is probably 
 the best RPG of all time.
  
  However, one shortcoming I must point out. In one very important quest titled, "The Ultimate Heist" 
 you only get one shot, and if you mess up, you can't continue.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianghost
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  like the title states oblivion fixed all morrowinds flaws. your more than just an errand boy for 
 your guilds, your an essential part of it. The gfx are stunning (so stunning that i can hardly 
 run lowest setting on my 2.4ghz/124mb vid) great story, and alot of dialogue. i don't really have 
 any complaints cuz it is'nt missing anything, the side missions in this game surpass the main stories 
 of alot of games, and the fact that u can become a vampire/werewolf is awesome. i highly recommend 
 this game if you have a PC that can handle it, but only if it can handle it because on a lower 
 strength pc the lag will really take away from the enjoyment, i actually had to turn off the sound 
 because it skipped so much : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 23, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Morrowind is perhaps my favorite video game of all time. Thus, I eagerly awaited the sequel, Oblivion. 
 In most ways, this game either met or exceeded my expectations. The developers took the reviews 
 and fan feedback about Morrowind seriously and have made a game that will likely be regarded as 
 a classic many years from now. Oblivion is by no means a perfect game, but it packs in so much 
 gaming goodness that it's hard to find much fault.
  
  Gameplay:
  Like Morrowind, the concept here is free-form, openended exploration. The gaming world is absolutely 
 huge with tons of stuff to do. Want to explore caves, dungeons, and ruins? Go ahead, there are 
 dozens. Like questing? Join the Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves Guild, Arena, and/or Dark 
 Brotherhood. Or, just talk to the locales who'll have plenty for you to do. The main quest centers 
 around finding the heir to the throne of Cyrodiil, which will require you to visit the hellish 
 realm of Oblivion and close various gates. It's a decent storyline altogether, but nothing as epic 
 or absorbing as Baldur's Gate 2 or even Morrowind. Overall, the various quests in this game are 
 much improved over Morrowind's, and many have multiple parts and interesting background stories. 
 Unless you blast through the main quest (about 30 hours) without doing any other tasks, it would 
 easily take 200 hours to see and do everything this game has to offer.
  
  The controls for the game are typical for first-person shooters, although the game can be placed 
 a bit awkwardly from a third-person perspective. There are several hotkeys for weapons and spells. 
 Combat is very engaging and will require some practice to get used to. Opponents will block, dodge, 
 use power attacks, and generally fight in an effective way. Stealth is improved a bit over Morrowind, 
 with a lighting/awareness system much like that of the game Thief. Also, being a mage in this game 
 is a viable option, and the alchemical system should even appeal to non-mages. And like Morrowind, 
 you can create your own custom classes, and the face generation system is very detailed. The user 
 interface is easy to read and organizes items, spells, skills, and so forth in a logical way. It 
 can't be scaled by resolution, so when it's open it covers the whole screen.
  
  Thankfully, there are many improvements over Morrowind (and most any other computer RPG out there) . 
 Dungeons and caves are creepier and have traps, multiple areas, and lots of loot. One complaint 
 about Morrowind was that it got too easy too quickly. Few people will have that complaint about 
 Oblivion. Most creatures are leveled, meaning that they get stronger as the player character advances 
 in level. This keeps the game challenging throughout, though it still seems a bit weird to have 
 a 25-level warrior with the best weapons and armor having trouble with a goblin warlord or dread 
 zombie. Anyhow, NPCs in this game are rather lively, living their own lives, having somewhat dynamic 
 conversations, all-spoken dialogue, and many animations (eating, sleeping, horse riding, etc.) . 
 And then there are the nice little touches, such as houses to buy, display cabinets for your loot 
 (or to be looted) , a solid bartering system, the lockpicking minigame, and the exhilarating arena 
 matches (you can fight or just bet) . Also, the journal is great and sorts your quests well.
  
  Given all of its strengths, the problems with the game are mostly minor and annoying, nothing 
 major. I would have liked to have seen a bit more variety in the Oblivion plane. Once you've closed 
 one gate, it's wash, rinse, and repeat for the others (you'll have to close at least 10) . It gets 
 old quick. This also goes for the dungeons, caves, and other adventuring areas. The best way to 
 keep things interesting is to do various tasks at the same time -- some guild questing, dungeon crawling, 
 and miscellaneous quests. Otherwise, any single activity can get a bit monotonous. Sadly, the horses 
 are not as fun as they could have been. There are different breeds with different characteristics, 
 but in the end they are largely a cosmetic addition. You cannot fight while mounted, they cannot 
 carry items for you, and they are somewhat expensive. Also, opponents have a knack for targeting 
 your mount, even once you've dismounted. In about 100 hours of gameplay, I purchased over a dozen 
 horses due to the fact that they died so frequently. Ultimately, since there are other fast travel 
 options and since a character with a high Speed skill can outrun some horses, a steed is a questionable 
 purchase.
  
  Graphics:
  State-of-the-art. Period. This is a beautiful game by any standard. Be ready to take a lot of screenshots. 
 It's all there: lush forests, snow-capped mountains, torrential rains, reflective water, breathtaking 
 sunsets, quaint towns, eerie dungeons, and much more. Every item in the game looks realistic, including 
 character faces and animations. The Havok physics engine nicely enhances the experience. All of 
 this, of course, means that you'll have to have a pretty good computer to enjoy the game at max 
 settings. On a 3.0ghz Pentium IV with 1GB of RAM and Geforce 6600GT video card, I managed 1024x768 
 resolution with most settings on medium (Bloom on, along with grass and water reflections) . Unlike 
 Morrowind, this game is very scalable, so people with a wide range of computers should be able 
 to make the game playable. The developers really went the extra mile on the visuals, and I certainly 
 appreciate it.
  
  Sound:
  Well done for the most part. Many of the voices from Morrowind are back, but in much greater quantity 
 since all dialogue is spoken. There are many creature sounds and environmental effects, all of 
 which are appropriate. While I loved Jeremy Soule's music for Morrowind, his efforts here are lackluster. 
 The game's soundtrack is very understated and fails to adequately set the tone in many situations. 
 Actually, I had to purposely listen for the music a lot of the time, which shouldn't be the case.
 
  
  Technical Issues: Fortunately, this game goes against the grain for this particular developer. 
 Up until now, Bethesda had a well-deserved reputation for releasing buggy games. However, Oblivion 
 was remarkably stable on my computer and very well-polished. Admittedly, it did crash about 10 
 times, resulting in a few corrupted saved games. However, most of the crashes took place as I tried 
 to reload saved games, which is not a big problem since I save very often. There were none of the 
 Morrowind-style crashes where you're just walking along and... BAM!!! -- desktop. Ten crashes in 
 100 hours of gameplay is a ratio that I can definitely tolerate.
  
  The game comes with a good manual and a map of the gaming area. The opening sequence serves as 
 a tutorial and is well done. Also, it is much quicker to get into the game than Morrowind, which 
 required you to listen to the opening theme music as the game loaded.
  
  Replayability/Value/: If you buy into the premise of the game (openended exploration and questing) , 
 this is a great value. I've played a lot of games, and nothing quite touches the bang-for-the-buck 
 that Elder Scrolls games have. There is a construction set for the PC version that can be downloaded 
 for free at www. elderscrolls. com. Also, like Morrowind, modders are going to have a field day with 
 this game, which should lead to some quality third-party mods for downloading. Overall, if you 
 liked Morrowind, you should really like Oblivion. If you have never played an Elder Scrolls game, 
 this is a fine one to start with.
  
  
  
  
  im playing the game now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer4ever123
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This has easily become one of my favorite games. The detail of the world is breathtaking. I game 
 mechanics can be confusing at first but you can get use to it very quickly. The graphics are wonderful 
 and the wealth of characters and quests is great. I personally enjoy the open ended gameplay. I 
 like being able to do my own roleplaying, such as being a theif that aslo has a consience. My only 
 complaint would have to be the interface. It can be hard to know what your doing in the interface 
 since there is no easy way to get to it from a menu. Otherwise, this is the best RPG's i have played 
 in ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord888
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a next-gen single player RPG from Bethesda Softworks. The main story 
 in it is pretty simple, the emperor has just been assassinated and you must find his heir and close 
 the gates to Oblivion (kind of like Hell) . The story doesn't end with a main story though it has 
 hundreds of quests and many guilds to join like the Fighters guild, where you do quests like clearing 
 caves of monsters, help find a lost person and return items to there owners. The Darkbrother Hood 
 on the other hand is a lot darker. You must murder someone to join and you job is to assassinate 
 people. Other quests include quests found in each town and village, deadric shine quests and other 
 random one's you find all over the place. Graphics wise this game is by far the best looking game 
 on PC to date with beautiful lush forests, snowy mountains, dark creepy looking caves and huge 
 dungeons.
  Sound is also a high for this game with some great voice actors and even some movie actors like 
 Sean Bean and Patrick Stuart. The swords and shields smash together when fighting with great sound 
 effects and the music score is nothing but brilliant. 
  
  Sadly there are some bad points that hold it down from being a perfect game. There are still a 
 few bugs around that stop people finishing quests and crashing to desktop when trying to save, 
 also the AI is not what it's cracked up to be with fairly dumb combat AI charging at you blindly 
 and switch weapons slowly. The draw distance is also bad with it having horrid texture when looking 
 more than 50 to 100 meter's away which is a shame when Oblivion has so many high mountains and 
 open spaces. Also the level scaling where monsters level with you so no where is to hard or to 
 easy to fight is kinda lame because I find exploring high level areas great fun in RPG's. It also 
 has random items in dungeons which makes fighting in random dungeons pointless because you will 
 never find rare or cool items in them. Finally Oblivion is the worst part of this game, I'm talking 
 about Oblivion the hell like place you can fight in. I found it nothing but a pest to go in and 
 very repetitive with the same "Goto tower, steal stone, teleport back to normal land" objective.
 
  
  Although I have ticked off quite a few bad points the good over rule this game by far with at least 
 100 hours of fun to be had and most likely more. I recommend this game to anyone who wants a fun 
 single player RPG with a great mod community and tons of stuff to see and do. 
  
  Is it as good as the hype says? No but it is still bloody good fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonhunter48
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Its raining. Drops patter down onto the soggy path that leads up to a creaking wooden gate. I 
 open the gate, and lay eyes upon a small building. My map indicates that this is the tavern where 
 I will meet with an undercover missionary out to catch a mysterious wizard. 
  
  I am just about to step inside the tavern, and greet a warm fire and jolly patrons, chatting about 
 whatever adventure each individual character has been on lately, when the telephone rings. For 
 a moment, I wonder what this strange noise could be. Then I remember that the tavern, and its inhabitants 
 are fictional, and I leave the room to answer the call. 
  
  This is the sort of amazing realism that one agrees to succumb to when buying The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion. Warm taverns, bustling city streets, dark caves and ancient glistening ruins are 
 just a few of the many places to explore in Tamriel. The impeccable graphics lure players into 
 a world where they can assume the roles of anything from glorious hero to evil villain to misunderstood 
 vampire. 
  
  The sheer scale of the Empire of Tamriel in itself is breathtaking. I can vividly remember the 
 first time I dismounted my stolen steed and looked out past some decrepit archways onto a huge 
 forest, which led down to a sparkling lake, surrounding the Imperial City in the distance. When 
 buying Oblivion, you must remember to get ready for one of the most immersive, realistic games 
 you will ever experience.
  
  The only criticism of this title that springs to mind is the slightly complicated menu layout, 
 which is easily mastered with relative ease. The easy-to-use manual is very helpful with any problems 
 you might have anyways, so I wouldnt worry about learning curve problems. 
  
  I must admit that I am new to the Elder Scrolls series, although I have heard about Morrowind in 
 the past, and therefore cannot directly compare Oblivion to its predecessors, however I think it 
 is safe to say that this most recent title is most definitely the best first person game I have 
 had the privilege to play in a long time. 
  
  A first class action-packed role-playing adventure with a strong storyline and the beloved option 
 to ignore the plot entirely and do what you want. Grand Theft Auto, but with swords and goblins, 
 and much better graphics. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that makes time stand still. One minute you are tucking the 
 kids into bed, the next it's midnight and you are thinking of the lack of sleep you will experience, 
 and promise yourself never to let THAT Happen again. And it does happen again.. the next night, 
 and the night after that, and the night after that...
  
  I'll start this review by a comparison to the prequel. Skip this if you haven't played it. Both 
 games, when released, blew me away with their graphics. Both were immersive, and both have excellent 
 looking water ;) Where Morrowind fell apart though, was the gameplay. It just wasn't much FUN. 
 Whether you lived or died just depended on whether or not you happened to pick the right dungeon 
 to enter. If it was a "high level" dungeon relative to you, then you would walk in and die pretty 
 much right away.
  
  Oblivion addressed this by level matching any dungeon you enter to your own level. This has been 
 a fairly contentious issue, but I admit I like the idea. It means I can go exploring in the wilderness 
 and wander in and out of dungeons to see whats there. It means I can take quests whereever I want, 
 and do them when I want, knowing that they will still be challenging when I get around to taking 
 them.
  
  Some of the opponents of this system argue that they like to be all powerful, and after levelling 
 up, be able to walk into a low level dungeon and take out anything with one hit. But how often 
 do Level 60 "Hell", Diablo players go to Normal mode to take out a few level 1 creatures?
  
  I have a family, and not much time to play games. Basically when the kids go to bed I get (realistically) , 
 maybe 1-2 hours on some nights to play games. Some nights I'm tired and some I want to spend with 
 my wife. I like a game that offers me the option to head directly for the goal without tackling 
 100's of side quests and finish it in 20 hours instead of 100. 
  
  This said, I'm still doing side quests :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Just to put things in a nutshell...
  The main quest contains about 20 stages, inbetween these stages are literally hundreds of side 
 quests and points of interest. I'm on the 3rd stage of the main quest. I've been playing for 40 
 hours. 'nuff said.
  I'm a hardened top-down RPG fan and didn't enjoy morrowind that much, but this is such a breath 
 of fresh air into the genre that it gets my vote.
  And on top of this is the open ended angle, you can own houses, build relationships and explore 
 endlessly. You literally never ever have to stop playing, once you've maxed out your fighting skills 
 you can become a thief. Once you're a guile filled night denizen you can become a high and mighty 
 mage and douse your enemies in flames!
  wow.
  just wow.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thaddeus_Frump
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 17, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Like many people, I became subject to all the hype that was behind this game. Personally, I had 
 no experience with any prior Elder Scroll games, so I decided to finally give the latest one a 
 shot, particulary 'cause I repeatedly heard it was all that. But wow, what a dissapointment.
  
  First of all, the early moments of the game are incredibly tedious. After the aimless "tutorial" 
 you're simply dropped off into the world. This dosen't help with the steep learning curve. Anyone 
 new to the series is going to have a tough time figuring out how exactly the skill and item systems 
 work. However, the player's guide is very helpful for anyone that is hurting from the complexity 
 of the skills, and also provides some helpful gameplay tips, so it's a good idea to get that along 
 with the game if you can spare the extra money. 
  
  But anyways, that brings me to another point... The gameplay. All in all, it is capable of being 
 entertaining, but most of the time, just misses it simply because of the repetitive nature of the 
 game. All quests seem to be either "Go here and kill this" or "Go here and steal this too." But 
 past that, the game also does have entertaining and satisfying gameplay moments, and regardless 
 of the tedium, there is alot to do... The sense of accomplishment from stuff such as accomplishing 
 a difficult quest helps the game quite a bit. But... One thing that can get kinda clunky is the 
 combat... The AI is pretty lack-luster, as you can often get opponents to run against a wall if 
 you are on higher ground and a marksman can do quite a bit just by running backward and strafing 
 and watching the target haplessly chase after you... Close combat, however, is pretty clunky, as 
 even following the proper patterns still dosen't work smoothly.
  
  Next are the graphics. The graphics are very, very impressive, but I'm going to have to give that 
 a 9 instead of a 10 simply because I feel that the graphics were trying to achieve realism, but 
 I only noticed a lack there of. The graphics are still incredible, but it misses the effect of 
 realism in a few cases, the most apparent being in the over-done, high contrast lighting and also 
 in the human character models... They just don't ever look like a real person.
  
  Finally, is the re-play value. Myself, I have played 3 MMORPG's, and Oblivion seems to try to do 
 what those accomplish -- immerse you into an entirley different world (minus the other players) , 
 but It dosen't just make the cut that great MMORPG's like World of Warcraft. Oblivion has quite 
 a bit of qualities that are found in MMORPGs, but it's single player, and this is kind of a punch 
 in the nose to the game. Just as much as co-op would dramaticaly increase the fun-level of Oblivion, 
 as the game gets pretty boring when you're doing the same thing over and over all by yourself. 
 Besides the lack of multiplayer, the game also has support of it's incredibly long length. If you 
 take the time to do all the side quests this game has to offer, who knows how much time you're 
 gonna spend playing it... That is, if you don't get bored of it first, and trust me, you WILL get 
 bored of it first.
  
  But, I appreciate it when a game is lengthy, and the satisfying moments that break the tedium really 
 boosted my overall score of the game... This game is okay, but don't listen to the hype... If you 
 are a fan of RPGs, you might want to pick it up if you want a distraction, but chances are it won't 
 keep you busy for its entire length. The Gamespot review of "Simply one of the best RPGs ever made" 
 is misleading at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canhtq
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thnkU4thelemon
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome to be able to do anything you want. If you don't want to do quests, you can 
 roam the countryside and kill creatures to get stronger. But like all, it grows old after you beat 
 it. You can try different things though like killing everyone you ever meet, using only magic or 
 something like that. And, the less you play it, the longer until you get tired of it. It was worth 
 the money, but using cheats kind of made it go by too fast for me. It actually does have a good 
 storyline though and tons of miscellaneous quests. After you close all the Gates to Oblivion, you 
 can still journey into a painted world, a dream world, and a special section of Oblivion where 
 you retrieve souls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about oblivion?? It's perfect from the beginning to the end! One of the best rpg's 
 ever!
  
  To begin with, i will talk about graphics! Just awesome! Maybe the best graphics i have ever seen. Of 
 course you must have a very strong video card to be able to play oblivion to it's full capabilities! The 
 environmet is something special, with the trees to move in the direction that wind is blowing! The 
 water effects and the textures are like real! If you look at the sea in real life, you won't find 
 a difference in the sea of oblivion! The swords are extremely well designed, with all the microdetails!
 
  
  The sound is another strong part of oblivion! When you are outside, in the forest you will hear 
 birds, bugs, the sea and every little sound very realistic! The dialogues are well produced with nice 
 voice acting! Another positive element is that when an enemy is nearby, the music change to epic 
 style, which is awesome, and it can warn you!
  
  The gameplay part is really awesome and very simple to learn! With the right mouse button you block 
 and with the left you attack! The only disadvantage i found is the inventory interface! No by the 
 way it's designed, but the way you have access to it! It's like console style! This is a disadvantage, 
 but nothing important that will reduce the fun that Oblivion is offering!
  
  The animations are very nice and smooth! Especially if you kill enemies, the corpses are falling 
 like lifeless things on the ground which is very realistic!
  
  Despite some little bugs that is very reasonable a huge game like oblivion to have, you MUST get 
 this game! You won't regret it! It will be an old time classic game for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illiegal_Kid134
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a well designed game with very much to do, explore the forests of tamriel or loot dungeons 
 and caves. SO much to explore and do. Join factions such as the dark brotherhood and become the best 
 of all. Or destroy oblivion gates to save tamriel. There there so much to do and choose which makes 
 this game incredible. You decide what you wanna do or what you become. Do mission when you want to. Creating 
 your character has billions of things to design your character. There are different races to choose 
 from like the human races impreial, breton and nord, or the elve races wood, high and dark elves. Orcs, khajits 
 or argonians. You choose who you want to be and decide your destiny.
  
  Theres over 1000's of things you can do. Im just happy playing this game as its really addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I have poured hours of time into the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and can honestly say to my fellow 
 gamers that if you do not play this game, you are wrong. Let me preface this review with the statement 
 that I haven't experienced any serious technical issues with game after downloading a missing .dll 
 just after installation. I play on a new Dell XPS notebook with a GeForce Go 7800GT and 2 gigs 
 of RAM.
  
  The Elder Scrolls series has always been about immersion. Hours of real time could pass while I 
 played Morrowind, the third game of the series, and became completely engrossed in the world, the 
 characters, and the politics. The same verisimilitude exists in Oblivion where from the first moments 
 you are thrown whole into the turbulent realm of Tamriel with a quest of utter importance lain 
 on your shoulders by none other than Patrick Stewart himself. The choice to use fully-voiced dialogue 
 throughout the game is a huge leap over the previous titles. Although the large number of NPCs 
 and relatively small cast of voice actors means that you will be hearing the same voices quite 
 often, the game's denizens have a lot to say and it will take a while before their chatter truly 
 repeats.
  
  Combat is much improved in this game over its predecessors. The ability to cast a spell at any 
 time -- even with a weapon drawn in the midst of combat -- is a huge advantage. This also makes 
 it easy to play a hybrid character who uses both magic and melee weapons. Sadly, the continued 
 combining of skills (there are now only 21 skills whereas there were nearly 30 in Morrowind) and 
 the limitations on weaknesses applied to characters means that you can't really specialize in one 
 type of play. Eventually all Oblivion characters become a fighter-rogue-wizard capable of most 
 things, but exceptional in few.
  
  This makes Oblivion's RPG gameplay unfortunately weak. Enemies and items level along with your 
 character so that you will rarely, if ever, encounter a fight that you can't win and must run from. 
 Nor will you likely ever stumble upon a magical weapon or trinket with powers far beyond what most 
 bandits are carrying at that level. This is one of Oblivion's greatest failings. The game simply 
 shouldn't be played without downloading one of the many available user-created mods that alters 
 the lists of creatures and items to give you more of a challenge and a more classic RPG experience. 
 At the time of writing this review, Obscuro's Oblivion Overhaul stands out as one of the best of 
 these mods.
  
  Rest assured that you'll also have plenty of things to do in this run through Tamriel. Although 
 there are fewer guilds than were featured in Morrowind, Oblivion's guild quest lines are brilliant. 
 (I do dearly miss the Ordinators, Imperial Legion, and Imperial Cult guilds, however.) Play as 
 a Dark Brotherhood assassin and you will never regret it. The Thieves Guild also boasts unique 
 and entertaining missions. In addition to the main story line (which features Sean Bean as an emo 
 monk caught up in the center of Oblivion's whirlwind of demonic invasion) you could be occupied 
 by this game for a very long while. So, if you're shipping out to Iraq and can't think of what 
 to buy for that new laptop you plan to bring with you...... Oblivion, soldier, Oblivion.
  
  Once augmented with mods, the game comes into its own and the fabulous graphics and fast-paced 
 combat are reward enough for picking up the box and taking it to the register at your local gaming 
 shop.
  
  Miss this and you fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prshad
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  I have spent quite a few nights playing this game. The graphics are truly amazing. The game is 
 packed full of content and you will have to play it for a LONG time before you get bored with it. 
 It has so many features, like fighting and shopping. For all of you hardcore battlers out there, 
 there is a battledome that will consume a great deal of your time if you want to reach the top 
 of it. When fighting in this game, it's not turn based or anything, it's actually kind of based 
 of skill. You can use the shops that are included in the game to buy better weapons and armor to 
 increase your chances of winning the battles.
  
  The only con in my opinion is that you have to have a beast of a computer to run this game. A recommended 
 setup would be:
  
  2.8 intel or 3000+ athlon (not celeron or sempron)
  1 gig of ram (atleast, 2 gigs lag free)
  at least an x800 video card or 6800
  and a sufficient 
 amount of hard disk space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  When I saw the reviews of TES3: Morrowind, I thought I would love the game. Unfortunately, I was 
 wrong. The world was big, but lifeless, the characters were boring, the combat was awful... It 
 was still a good game, but compared to other RPGs, it wasn't all that superb. Oblivion offers some 
 things the previous part did not - but lacks in many aspects.
  
  Oblivion starts by making a character. Now you can shape your face yourself, and even though most 
 results tend to be quite ugly (or maybe it's just that I'm not good at making faces) that's a major 
 improvement on the system used in other RPGs. The only complain I have is that the beast races 
 don't look like beasts anymore, but more like humans with tails.
  
  Once you finish the tutorial you get to explore the huge world of this game. It's not as big as 
 the one in MW, but it sure is big enough. The engine looks great, stunning even. The role-playing 
 aspect, however, is a bit lacking.
  
  First of all, the fact that all the characters are either angry or happy. A guard captain tells 
 you that hordes of Oblivion just killed his family and set his house on fire with a wide smile 
 on his face. A villager runs in panic, trying to escape those hordes, however when he stops to 
 talk to you, his face shows no emotions at all. Some faces, especially the emperor's, remind me 
 of South Park. You have to see that to undestand what I mean.
  
  You can choose only some things in some quests, most of the time nothing. The quests are written 
 very well indeed, but it's not enough to cover up the fact that devs think "open-ended RPG" means 
 that you can wander around and kill stuff, sometimes listening to what NPCs have to say.
  
  Character development is broken. It's better to take skills you won't use as major. There are mods 
 to fix this, but the problem still remains. Some skills are ridiculously easy to train, some are 
 totally useless, and basically blade weapons are so overpowered that using any other weapon type 
 isn't worth it.
  
  The engine has some quirks, too. Since all the faces basically have the same texture edited in 
 different ways, sometimes you can see greenish or pinkish pixels right in the middle of NPC's face. 
 Yes, there is a mod to fix that, but still. Some might also think the fact that your enemies fly 
 two meters backwards when killed with a bow is unrealistic. Yeah, but it's fun, too.
  
  The music is boring. Jeremy Soul makes it for every single RPG now, and while he is a talented 
 person, only the intro theme of this game sounds great. Everything else is too much of a cliche.
 
  
  Voice acting is horrible. There are only a few actors, and while a couple of dialogues are well-written 
 and sound good, mostly they just read through the lines.
  
  The radiant AI... Well, the cities still seem quite dead, compared to the ones in Gothic 2. Or 
 should I say the one. That's why I can't say Gothic 2 is better in this aspect. But it would be 
 nice to see blacksmiths at work or fishers or the dogs Bethesda once promised. I remember reading 
 about a barking dog and taming it in an interview. Guess that wasn't put in the full version.
 
  
  Oblivion is definitely a good game with top-notch production values, but if you want something 
 more than pure hack'n'slash, you won't find it here. I'd recommend it to the ones with good Internet 
 connections or interested in modding. User mods will make this game much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarotbound
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 16, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a really good First-Person Action/Adventure game, but in my own opinion it's a shallow 
 RPG and not worthy of the Elder Scrolls Series.
  
  (This is simply my own opinion, as such i don't expect people to agree with me, please give me 
 the same respect for my opinion as i would give yours)
  
  The Good:
  
  Graphics and sound: What can i say, there amazing and very detailed the sounds and musical score 
 are top notch and i was very impressed with it, but fantastic graphics and sound dose not a great 
 game make. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Alot has been added to Oblivion, or just outright fixed from the others in the series, 
 namely Stealth and Magic, they have been fine tuned and work incredibly well, melee combat has 
 also been improved and they give you the feeling that your actually part of the experience. 5/10
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Raidant AI and conversations: in some places it needs an overhaul, i've seen some cool things with 
 the RAI, but the bad outweighs the good.... if a NPC staring at a wall for two hours or killing 
 innocent bystandards in front of a large group of people without so much as a twitch from them 
 is RAI, then i think i perfer scripting. 5/10
  
  The conversations not only between two NPC's but between your character is just plain boring, with 
 the same four or five actors/actresses, now either they spent WAY too much on Patrick Stewart's 
 fifteen minutes of dialouge, or they REALLY need to find some better voice actors.... Arcanum had 
 better voice acting. 3/10
  
  Quests: Spoon-fed, the large majority of quest-givers know who, what and where everything is at, 
 on top of that you have a compass that tells you EXACTLY where to go, there is no thought to it 
 at all, no suprises on stumbling onto the quest item you've been looking for since level 3, to 
 me that is the essence of a quest... to find the objective with little help from anybody, to accomplish 
 what seems 'impossible' at first, and to walk away satisfied and with a sense of accomplishment, 
 and what i thought was severly lacking in Oblivion. 3/10
  
  In closing i found Oblivion to be a good Action/Adventure title with little depth, i'm not overly 
 impressed with the way there going with the series and in the future i'll be more careful in purchasing 
 anothner Bethseda title.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStranger
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I have never played an Elder Scroll game before and got this purely based on hype (I've been waiting 
 for a good RPG) , and I am glad to say it lived up to it.
  
  The gameplay is as immersive as it is open-ended with many quests having different endings in a 
 choose-your-own-adventure book fashion.
  
  The graphics are great and this is on low setting on my crappy video card (this game will make 
 you want to upgrade) .
  
  Lastly the game is challenging without being annoying, the quest guides along with the ability 
 to instanly teleport across the map (which I didn't learn until hours in - I mean who reads a manual 
 anymore) makes the game fun and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torchz
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  When I first got the game, after months (heck, years!) of excruciating wait, I was overwhelmed. 
 I could barely keep myself together while it was installing, and than, 20 minutes later... I was 
 making my character! I made me a dark elf (like always) and looked around the dungeon... WOAH! We 
 all know why I reacted like that, as you all probably did... but my hype was from that point going 
 just in one direction, doooooowwnnn.
  
  There are essentially 2 ways you can look at this game: as a descendant or Elder Scrolls and a 
 game as it self.
  As an new chapter in Elder Scrolls, it probably fulfills every dream and expectation an TES fan 
 could ever had. But as a game for it self, well, the comparison is probably obvious...
  Morrowind vs. Oblivion, so widely discussed topic on forums all across the internet. Since I didn't 
 join in on any on those discussions, let me state my opinion here.
  
  First off, graphics. Both games, for their time, have unbelievable graphics. Although Oblivion's 
 graphics are awesome, some things could still be better compared to eg. Quake 4. There's not much 
 more to say about it.
  From what I remember, Morrowind had really immersing atmosphere. Taking a journey through that 
 giant world of windy deserts, lush marshes, forests, frozen islands, mysterious ruins, uniquely 
 architected cities and settlements was an experience like never seen before in a game. I didn't 
 even minded that NPCs have very littly voice sync and that sound effects are scarce. While in Oblivion, 
 at about half-point, I started having that terrible deja-vu feeling. Everything seemed so repetitive, 
 and I actually got sick of same looking dungeons that I finished last 5-10 hours of game with TCL 
 cheat (no collision, you can run through walls and thus cut the trip short) . 
  Finnaly, gameplay and story, two most important parts of the game. Altough, Oblivion's story was 
 good, I just couldn't shake the feeling like I already seen/played/heard/read similar thing before, 
 while Morrowind's kept me craving for more every second of it. And I really fail to see, how was 
 removing hundreds of items from the game (like throwing objects, spears, dai-katanas, crossbows, 
 medium armor, tower shields etc.) could be better for gameplay. Cutting down on players freedom 
 of choice is never a good move.
  
  Anyway, after those words above, you probably think that I hated the game and that it's probably 
 already at nearest garbage dump or just smashed by hammer. But you're wrong, I loved it! Like I 
 said at the beginning, that was the comparison of Oblivion to Morrowind, since it can't possibly 
 be compared to any other game.
  
  Oblivion took a great shot, but Morrowind still remains the #1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADSSSS
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Having played this wonderful game for quite a long time, i can tell it is quite addictive. The 
 graphics are one of a kind and gameplay never starts to bore you. So many quests, so many weapons, 
 and so many choices. The world is no tiny one and is worth exploring. This game might be good, 
 but not perfect. There are still alot of bugs in the game, and so patches need to be released. 
 Also, the animation is not all that great, it needs some improvement. Battling can seem really 
 dull at first but it takes some progress and tougher enemies to actually fight proparly instead 
 of *click* *click* *click* and the guy is dead. The game is quite easy, and is no challenging RPG 
 in my opinion. But it is alot of fun doing so many quests, exploring so many dungeons, finding 
 so many weapons and armor, and killing so many different enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echan383
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  The fourth installment of the Elder Scrolls series is a quantum leap over its predecessors, though 
 I can truthfully say that I've only played Morrowind before this. However, after going through 
 maybe a third of the game so far, I have to say that this is not only the of the series, it is 
 one of the best CRPGs ever created. 
  
  First, the gameplay is wonderful: everything is smooth, the interfaces are pretty well laid out 
 (with the exception of the inventory screen, which we'll get to later) , and it's pretty easy to 
 pick up and play. Most of the situations are completely intuitive, and the ones that aren't, there 
 are helpful tips to get you on you way. Getting started is really qutie simple. You play through 
 an interactive 'tutorial' that at the same time sets the stage for your grand adventure- even choosing 
 a class is easy, because if you don't like the class at first, you can change them a short while 
 later, at the end of the tutorial section. After that, the game is well paced, with side-quests 
 abound and of course, a suitably grandiose main storyline.
  
  The graphics are the next exciting thing about Oblivion. You'll need a pretty powerful rig to run 
 it on max settings (I've got an Athalon64 with an ATI X800 and I have slow downs sometimes!) , but 
 if you do, it's really worth it. No other RPG out there provides such a rich environment- and the 
 purpose of those realistic textures and pretty lighting effects of course, is to draw the player 
 into the game, and it succeeds beautifully at that. The load times between areas is short, and 
 you can zip around from one place to another with ease.
  
  The few flaws that I find with this game are issues with the interface. The quest log and character 
 stats pages take some getting used to, but once you're familiar with them, they're actually quite 
 functional. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the inventory screen, which is essentially 
 a big list of the items that you're carrying, sorted by item type. While it sounds like it might 
 be useful, it's really just ends up with the player scrolling through the list endlessly, looking 
 for a certain potion or scroll. Another issue that irks me (which is related to the inventory problem) 
 is the encumberance system, which, in my opinion, does not allow the player to carry enough items, 
 especially if you're a heavy-armor user. A complete set of steel armor probably will take up 1/3 
 to 1/2 of your weight limit, and your two or three weapons will take up almost the rest, leaving 
 little space for anything else.
  
  Finally, a warning to anybody who may be contemplating purchasing this game: if you want to have 
 a life beyond work, school and this game, stay away! Oblivion has the ability to suck the player 
 in for hours at a time, to finish just one more quest, to win one more match at the arena, or get 
 a little more gold to buy that house (yeah, you can buy your own house (s) in this game.
  
  All told, Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has all the makings of a great game, and it should be considered 
 a standard by which all other CRPGs are judged. Its minor flaws do not detract from the fact that 
 the game features wonderful graphics, involving gameplay and an addictiveness that keeps people 
 coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnedge
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  WARNING !! SPOILERS!! 
  Everything we have come to expect from Bethesda and just that little bit more we've all come to 
 love. The Grapical beauty of this game will leave you running to the bathroom just to so you dont 
 wet yourself. Although, the u may need a power rig to run it in a few years time (like Morrowind) 
 trhis game will be able to be played even on standard budget computers. The sound is so realistic 
 that at time you may be turning your head to see where the bird chirping sounds are coming from 
 your window or the game. The gameplay is very open ended and leave you feeling free to do what ever 
 you want. But the game is lacking in quest lines i belive. There is the main quest line, the Fighters 
 Guild quest line, Mages Guild quest line, The Dark Brotherhood or assassain and this other quest 
 line where u make ... hmmm i guess you could say pilgrimidges to different shrines around Cyrodill. 
 All in all though Oblivion is a great game and an instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbernhard99
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  I am certainly not an RPGer. I have yet to dive into MMORPGs like WoW or Guild Wars. But... since 
 Ultima Underworld back in the early 1990s, I've been a huge fan of solo RPGers such as Neverwinter 
 Nights and Knights of the Republic. I've also dabbled with the Elder Scrolls games in the past, 
 including Morrowind and Daggerfalls. However, the size and scope and aimless wandering involved 
 in the Elder Scrolls titles were almost enough for me NOT to purchase Oblivion.
  
  However, I had to purchase the game to see what damage it could do to my system. Would it bring 
 my 3.0 gHz to its knees? Would it drain my RAM? What would the frame rates be like?
  
  Well, I've tweaked my system such that it CAN run the game and pretty well, too. Most of the graphics 
 settings are at "ultra," which makes for an unbelievable game experience. I've even turned off 
 the subtitles so that I can watch the NPCs emote and tell their stories. 
  
  Anyway, I am a big fan of this game. It DOES require a horse to run it at even bearable levels, 
 so... that's a bit of a drag. But... if you have the juice, this game is a must-have. 
  
  Pros:
  I really like the interface -- the handling of inventory, mapping, magicka, spells, skills 
 and attributes, the way it organizes active and passive quests, and so forth. It all flows together 
 and it's all available with one keystroke (and a few mouse clicks) .
  
  The graphics are awesome, as in awe-inspiring. The way the trees move in the breeze, the sunlight 
 changes throughout the day, sometimes there is snow, sometimes there is rain. It truly feels like 
 a variable, unpredictable world environment.
  
  The variety of spells and magic tricks is only enhanced by the ability to make potions and creations 
 from assorted herbs, plants, materials, etc. The option to spend time mixing rare herbs and seeds 
 into powerful potions is a fun side-part of the game.
  
  I like the variety of quests, although... I found myself eventually giving up on the side quests 
 and just chasing the main quest. I'm about 10% complete with the main quest now, and... well... 
 I think I'll put it on hold for a while and focus on some more side quests. After all, that's about 
 the only way to get the cool prizes, gold, artifacts, weapons, armor, etc.
  
  I like that you can "warp" from area to area in game's world. Very handy for when you want to move 
 things along.
  
  CONS:
  It's a big, big, big world. Big. It will take time to explore things.
  
  It takes some time 
 to get used to everything. I ended up in jail a dozen times before I figured out why.
  
  The game's main quest (so far) is pretty tepid. I wish it were more... challenging.
  
  Resource 
 hog. Big time. But... if you have the juice, it's worth it. The graphics are amazing, the scenery, 
 the landscapes, etc. -- they are easily the best I've seen to date in a PC game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I dont play a lot of RPG games. In fact I don't like a lot of RPGS. Especially, the ones that are 
 a top down view of controling more than one character. I was glad to see Oblivion offered a first 
 person view. And not only that, unlike some other RPG games, the first person view is actually 
 usefull.
  
  Gameplay: The first day I played this game, I was glued to the screen for 7 hours. Ok, a few breaks. 
 But even in that period of time, I barely got anywhere in the game. one thing I like in a game 
 is realism. A lot of RPGS, even this one, give you the option to jump right from town to town. 
 But, Im the adventurous type. I would rather travel from town to town by foot or horse. And that 
 gives me a lot more time to experience the game. Rather than just focusing on the main quest. I 
 recommend to just go with the flow of whatever comes in your way. If you find something happens 
 that might offer a good prize, or if you are caught up in helping someone else with another important 
 task. Im not the type to steal things, even in a game. So, trying to earn my cash to buy a horse 
 is enought to keep me occupied before I can really get out into the world. This isnt a game you 
 want to speed play through. Because were is the fun in that?
  
  Graphics: For a game in development, since I think 2001-2006, the graphics are amazing. Although, 
 you would need a fast computer and the right video card, to get the fullest from it.
  
  Sound: Nobuo Uematsu, the music composer behind Final Fantasy, knows how to put the right music 
 in at the right time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archvile700
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  its incredibly easy to get lost in this game. theres almost an infinite amount of stuff to do in 
 this game. hundreds of quests, hundreds of ways to build your characters, tons of features like 
 lock picking, being a thief, just being a warrior. etc. by far and away its one of the best RPG's 
 to date. the character creation process alone takes about half an hour. this game is going to be 
 around for a loooooong time. also, the graphics are phenomenal! everything looks crisp and clear. 
 breathtaking scenary and incredible details on characters and buildings are enough to make your 
 jaw drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesd9007
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is great for people who likes RPG games with Magic, and also have a beefy machine at 
 the same time. 
  
  If your PC has a Pentium 4 2.4Ghz or below, AMD Athlon XP 2100+ or below, don't even think about 
 playing this game at all, it will be capped under 25 frames/second. If you have anything worse 
 than a nVidia GeForce 6800 GT or an ATi Radeon X800, don't expect to get above 30 frames/second 
 without taking off all graphics options. For PC, this game is a machine killer. So my recommendation 
 is, if you don't have a super rig, forget about upgrading you PC, just get an XBOX 360 and buy 
 the 360 version. It costs less than upgrading a PC, and you end up having a console. 
  
  Now say you have a monster machine. The graphics are truly stunning, but not perfect. Some places 
 low poly-count is very obvious. The gameplay is boring, at least in my opinion. Yes, the game is 
 long and the maps are huge, but after a while and you will notice that the quests are all based 
 on the same structure, go there, give something to someone, or kill someone. Not enough innovative 
 stuff added. 
  
  Value, hmm, it is marked with Gamespot's Editor's Choice Award, and the collector's edition does 
 come with a book, so I gave it 6/10. 
  
  Conclusion is: get the XBOX 360 version if you have just an average PC, much better off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  The GOOD: Good graphics, good sound and awesome interaction... You can interact with almost anything 
 in the environment which is pretty, good map... Large areas to roam in and lots of side quests to 
 get involved in... If you hope to finish the whole game it's guarenteed that it'll keep you occupied 
 for a whole month at least. Good detailed graphics.
  
  The BAD: The main quest is pretty short. The main story is not that good it could be predicted 
 from the start, and the decisions you make to become evil or good has no impact on the main story 
 which is not practical, which games like Fable: The lost chapters have made it a point to include. 
 Many quest are almost the same, get this, and give it to him, kill him sort of gameplay. Many areas 
 such as environments within caves look the same, and the plains of oblivion look alike to. 
  
  Overall the game ok if your looking to kill some time, but it feels like you've played this 
 sort of game before, for a role playing game I thought the graphics were a bit too much, because 
 other RPGs have managed as good graphics pretty well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  (Rockville, MD) October 22, 2004 -- Bethesda Softworks LLC, a ZeniMax Media company, today announced 
 that The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is currently in development for PC and future generation consoles. 
 In development since 2002, Oblivion is another leap forward in role-playing with its combination 
 of freeform gameplay and cutting-edge graphics. Oblivion is the sequel to the best-selling, award-winning 
 role-playing game, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, named 2002 RPG and Game of the Year for both 
 PC and Xbox.
  
  "Since starting this project two years ago, our goal has been to create the quintessential RPG 
 of the next generation," said Todd Howard, executive producer of The Elder Scrolls series. "We 
 looked back at what we had done with the series, and then looked ahead to what the future of video 
 games could be, and we think this is it."
  
  In keeping with the Elder Scrolls tradition, players will have the option to experience the main 
 quest at their own pace, and there will be plenty of opportunities to explore the vast world and 
 make your own way. Numerous factions can be joined, such as the thieves or mages guilds, and each 
 contains its own complete storyline and the chance to rise to the head of the faction and reap 
 further rewards.
  
  Howard commented, "Our games have always been about great depth and variety in creating any kind 
 of character you want and going out and doing whatever you want." He added, "With Oblivion, we're 
 taking the idea of a virtual fantasy world as far as it will go."
  
  Oblivion features a groundbreaking new AI system, called Radiant AI, which gives non-player characters 
 (NPCs) the ability to make their own choices based on the world around them. They'll decide where 
 to eat or who to talk to and what they'll say. They'll sleep, go to church, and even steal items, 
 all based on their individual characteristics. Full facial animations and lip-synching, combined 
 with full speech for all dialog, allows NPCs to come to life like never before.
  
  Oblivion is a single-player game that takes place in Tamriel's capital province, Cyrodiil. You 
 are given the task of finding the hidden heir to a throne that sits empty, the previous emperor 
 having been killed by an unknown assassin. With no true Emperor, the gates to Oblivion (the equivalent 
 of hell in the world of Tamriel) open, and demons begin to invade Cyrodiil and attack its people 
 and towns. It's up to you to find the lost heir to the throne and unravel the sinister plot that 
 threatens to destroy all of Tamriel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief1013
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game was reviewed on --
  AMD-64 Athlon Processor 3500+-2.2GHZ
  Nvidia GeForce 7800GT 256MB
  1GB Corsair-Value Ram
  
  To begin with, i'd like to state that 
 Oblivion is without a doubt the most hardware-demanding game i've ever come across. I get decent 
 performance with my current system, but some features such as Anti-Aliasing have been turned off. 
 I play on modest High/Ultra High settings, with obvious settings turned down. To those of you out 
 there who truly wish to experience Oblivion in all it's glory, I suggest you download the ''Oblivion 
 Beta Driver'', found at www. tweaksrus. com. Also, I suggest you read the tweak-guide for Oblivion 
 as well, found here on Gamespot, or another at www. tweakguides. com. 
  
  Aside from the hardware that Oblivion demands, you could say it is well worth it. The fourth-entry 
 in the Elder Scrolls series, it is also by far the best to grace the gaming industry. While Morrowind 
 was a great game, it lacked obvious features, such as a better combat-system, and a way to get 
 around quicker without having to use the Stilt-Rider, which was not always available for travel. 
 Another thing that made Morrowind tedious was the lack of voice-overs for NPC's. Lastly, and perhaps 
 most aggravating, was the lack of any type of mark on your map to point you to your next objective. 
 Meaning that you'd have to understand the direction's that NPC's gave you, which weren't always 
 as accurate as you'd want them to be.
  
  Luckily, Oblivion adresses all these problems, and adds in a bevy of new gameplay tweaks to make 
 this truly a successor to Morrowind. The improvement that you'll notice right off the bat is the 
 combat, which has been completely over-hauled since Morrowind. During the beginning of the game, 
 you'll have the choice to choose which type of combat-style you wish to use. For example, you'll 
 pick up a bow and some arrows, and try your hand at marksmanship, then shortly after you'll be 
 introduced to fighting with a blade or blunt weapon, which is much, much deeper than Morrowind's 
 blade-combat. You can now block at anytime, using the righ-mouse to bring up your shield or weapon 
 itself if you're using a two-handed weapon. As for bows, it's also improved since Morrowind, since 
 you now have the ability to zoom in and actually scope out your target, which allows for much more 
 accurate shooting.
  
  Another improvement that Oblivion has made is spoken dialogue for NPC's, which immerses you much 
 more into the game than Morrowind did. You will notice however, that some voices are recycled over 
 and over again, and that not all NPC's have their own voice-actor. This is forgivable however, 
 considering the hundred's of NPC's that inhabit Tamriel. NPC's also have spoken conversations with 
 each other, though the actual manner in which they speak is somewhat idiotic. For example, you 
 will likely come across a conversation like this-''Why hello, how are you?''-''I'm doing fine, 
 thanks for asking, bye.''-Hello there!'' Though it's rather stupid, it's better than having a lifeless 
 world, where no-one interacted with one another.
  
  For the most satisfying improvement, and perhaps the most needed, is the ability to fast-travel. 
 In Morrowind, getting to the location needed was an utter bore, which would take you hours-on-end. 
 Although there was some sort of fast-travel in Morrowind, known as a Stilt-Rider, they were hardly 
 of any use. For instance, if the Stilt-Driver did not like you, or if he was dead, the Stilt-Rider 
 was utterly useless. Thankfully, Oblivion now has the ability to quickly take you to the location 
 needed, which means no more fumbling around for hours looking for that Ancestral Tomb.
  
  As for the story, Oblivion features a somewhat narrow main-quest. They usually consist of finding 
 an item, or clearing out a temple or fort of enemies. This is perhaps the only thing that Morrowind 
 has done better than Oblivion, since Morrowind's main-quest was much, much longer than Oblivion's. 
 The storyline is pretty straight-forward, you are an escaped prisoner who must locate the heir 
 to the Septim Throne after the Emperor's assasination. It'll probably take you about 10-13 hours 
 to complete the main-quest, which is rather disappointing. 
  
  This is not a huge ordeal, however. Oblivion has many, many misc. quests to complete, as well as 
 four guild's available to join, which affect one another. The quests for the guilds also have great 
 storylines, so it is worth joining a guild for this fact alone. Each guild also has their own speciality 
 which will suit the player. For instance, one who prefers stealth over fighting will likely join 
 the Dark Brotherhood or Thieve's Guild, rather than the Mage's Guild or Fighter's Guild. 
  
  Graphically, Oblivion is beautiful. Forests, caverns, forts, medieval castles, and near-perfect 
 NPC and enemy models are all included in Oblivion's graphic-department. The only complaint there 
 is with Oblivion's graphics are the ugly, muddy textures that appear off of land when it is distant. 
 Luckily, those in the Oblivion Mod-Community have made several mods to fix this problem, with little 
 to no interference with performance.
  
  As for Oblivion's sound, it is perfect. No more will you hear the same theme over and over again, 
 like in Morrowind. This time you'll be introduced to a powerful musical score, which will change 
 according to the setting that you're in. For example, enter an abandoned fort or cave, and you'll 
 hear an eerie instrument playing in the background, which adds to the overall suspense of the game. 
 The game's voice-acting is great, each character sounds smooth and understandable, though they 
 may sometimes overreact with a certain 'Oomph' in their dialogue. 
  
  Leveling in Oblivon is pretty similar to Morrowind's leveling system, in the sense that the more 
 you use a skill, the more experience you will gain for it. You achieve a new level by gaining experience 
 in major skills, which you may choose to pick during the first sequence of the game. You can also 
 make your own class, and choose your own major and minor skills, which adds to the freedom that 
 Bethesda's been trying to give with the Elder Scrolls series.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a worthy successor to the Elder Scrolls name, and shouldn't be missed by anyone, 
 regardless of which genre you prefer. Oblivion is much more than a Role-Playing game; it is also 
 a stealth game, action game, and adventure game, the choice however, is up to you on how you wish 
 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TPF-Goldmember
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I have seen the light! RPG's used to hold no interest to me, until Oblivion came along, that is. 
 The first person view is what turned me on at first. Lets breakdown what I felt the game was like.
 
  
  +GamePlay+
  The game is smooth and buttery if u can tweak it correctly. The first person view really makes 
 this RPG stand out. The story is set in Cyrodill, and places you in a jail cell at first. Then 
 the King says the escape route (from his assasination) is in your jail cell. You follow, and this 
 serves as an open ended tutorial. At the end, you will be recommended a class, or you can choose 
 or even create your own. The game is highly immersive and open ended.
  
  +Graphics+
  An orgasm for the eyes. Have a high end computer, or bye-bye eye orgasm. Overclocking reccomended. 
 THAT IS ALL THAT NEEDS TO BE SAID. 
  
  +Sound+
  It's an slight ear orgasm, less than above.
  
  +Value+
  Great much to explore and do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  It seems everything that could be said about this game in positive terms has already been said. 
 I'm not into RPG , but this is a mindblowing experience. Graphics and audio are smooth and gameplay 
 is super enjoyable. Nothing not to like about this game. The game itself engages you into wanting 
 to play for hours by gradually pulling you in and the game environment is huge and addictive (it's 
 something I was expecting to see in disappointingly weak GRAW but that's another story) . Definitively 
 try it even if you are not into RPG. Yeah, I know, I can't believe either that an RP game can hold 
 my interest for longer than a few minutes -- and Oblivion I can play for hours never wanting to 
 stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion is the next installment in the long running elder scroll series. 
 These games have been know for three things - incredibly large and immersive game worlds, immense 
 freedom to act in the game, and tons of bugs. I have always been a huge fan of this series, and 
 was easily able to overlook the bugs and crashes in order to enjoy the immersive gameplay of the 
 series. Oblivion, however, shores up a lot of the faults of its predecessors while maintaining 
 the freedom to act in an immersive game world.
  
  For those familiar with the series, Oblivion takes place in the imperial province of Cyrodiil - 
 home of the empire and emperor. As is typical in the series, the player starts off as a relatively 
 unknown character who is suddenly thrust into a series of events that will reshape the future empire. 
 After an intense opening scene in the imperial dungeons, your character is charged with investigating 
 a conspiracy to overthrow the empire, finding the source, and preventing chaos and oblivion from 
 taking hold in the world. In other words, nothing unusual for the typical rpg.
  
  However, the beauty of oblivion is the freedom in which you can play the game. You can immediately 
 pursue the main quest, join and advance up the ranks in various guilds, or simply go out and explore 
 dungeons and ruins on your own time. The decisions are entirely up to you. There is no one path 
 to follow.
  
  Oblivion centers around character development and customization. At the start of the game, you 
 are tasked with choosing the race, class, and appearance of your character. This process can take 
 hours if you so desire, because the options are limitless. Choose your class or if you don't like 
 any of the predetermined classes, customize your own. Your starting choice of class does not lock 
 your character into that profession but rather determines what their major skills are and also 
 which skills start out at higher levels than others. 
  
  One aspect I thoroughly enjoy about the elder scroll series is how your character levels up and 
 improves his/her skills. In most rpgs, you gain levels and experience by simply killing monsters. 
 Kill a goblin, gain a level, and suddenly your thief can hide in shadows better. Not so in oblivion. 
 Skills only improve with use. If you want your thief to become better at stealth, well have him 
 use his stealth skills - sneak up on unsuspecting monsters or citizens, pick pockets, etc. Want 
 to improve your blade skill? Wade into a group of monsters with your long sword swinging. Prefer 
 magic? Then sit back and roast them with a good fireball. It really makes sense and also allows 
 you to further customize your character. The more you use certain skills, the better you become 
 at them.
  
  Depending on your initial choice of class, you have a certain set of skills that are listed as 
 "major or primary" skills. Level these up enough and your character will gain a level. Each time 
 you gain a level, your health goes up and you can increase three of your attributes (strength, 
 intelligence, endurance, etc.) by a certain modifier.
  
  The actual gameplay of Oblivion is a vast improvement over its predecessor, Morrowind. The combat 
 system has been - thankfully - completely redone. It now has collision detection and allows you 
 to perform a series of combos and other moves depending on your skill with the controls and your 
 character's weapons skills. The magic system has become more streamlined and easier to use. As 
 your character progresses in skill, his/her repertoire of spells becomes larger and the cost of 
 these spells cheaper. 
  The alchemy system has also been upgraded and now allows your character access to hundreds of different 
 reagents with a variety of effects. As your skill in this field, increases the potency and scope 
 of your potions improves. You can construct potions to improve your skills or poisons to coat your 
 weapons with.
  The stealth system also has a few noticeable improvements - mainly allowing you to have damage 
 multipliers if you strike an enemy while undetected. Many a dangerous enemy was cut down before 
 they even knew what hit them.
  Another improvement has been the addition of a few minigames for certain skills. Lockpicking and 
 speechcraft both employ minigames every time they are used. As your skill improves, these games 
 become easier.
  
  The plot and subplots of oblivion are very well constructed. They are far more cohesive and thought 
 out than in the prior games. Most of the guild quests have an underlying theme to them, which makes 
 them far more meaningful and involving than the random quests of the past version. The npcs also 
 seem far more interesting and engaging than their droll counterparts from morrowind. One of the 
 biggest points, the developers hype is the "radiant AI." Basically an AI system for the NPCS that 
 allows each of them to react on their own in nonscripted ways. They all have daily and weekly schedules 
 and will carry out their activities independently.
  
  As if the improvements in gameplay and plot mechanics weren't enough, there has been a huge graphical 
 facelift. The environments are enormous yet immersive and gorgeous. You can stand on a mountain 
 a far distance from the imperial city and yet still see its ivory towers rising in the distance. 
 Quite impressive. The sound wasn't as big of an improvement. It is still very solid and employs 
 a few dramatic scores over and over.
  
  As far as performance, I did notice a few crashes here or there, but all in all it was far more 
 stable than morrowind. I rarely had any slowdowns - usually only at times with large battles involving 
 many characters. The game does require a pretty stalwart system to run - it is possible to scale 
 down the graphics and environments to get it to run smoothly on slower machines, but then you may 
 be missing out on some of the best parts of the game.
  
  In summary, this game was a superb rpg experience. It has signficant improvements in both gameplay 
 and graphics than its predecessor and has addressed a number of previous shortcomings. I definitely 
 rate it among the best rpgs I have ever played - and I've played quite a few over the years. Any 
 rpg fan owes it to himself/herself to play this game. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the MOST stunning achievement I have seen to date in the RPG genre. Oblivion 
 might just be the BEST game made to date. ALL aspects of this game have shown me, (and the others 
 who have played) that GREATNESS is made over time. The 4 years it took to produce this game were 
 spent well and the final product was worth every second of the wait. Bottom line: graphics, gameplay 
 and sound are a 10. The few minor flaws are corrected with patches in the PC version, (which is 
 the version I am reviewing) and there are pages of mods you can add from this site. I have NEVER 
 played a game that has placed so much emphasis on attention to detail as Oblivion does. From the 
 detail in the ground you walk on, to each individual NPC's daily lives as well as the cunning that 
 each quest employs make Oblivion an experience rather than a game . I have one issue that is a 
 serious problem though: Bethesda Softworks/ZeniMax did not disclose the full, correct list of video 
 cards usable with this game. The website states any NVidia Geforce FX card can run the game, which 
 I feel is untrue. I had to wait over a month to play because my Geforce FX 5500 256MB video card 
 did NOT work and I had to purchase a new one to compy with their list. Other than this issue it 
 is perfect. I have given an 8 for value, because it cost me, (and most likely a lot of other people) 
 a bunch of extra money to play. If Oblivion does not win Game of the Year honors, something is 
 wrong with the world and the people in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  lets just get straight to the point shall we, this gae rock and here's why...
  
  you start in a cell, things look grim until a man in large robes approaces ad the door opens, it 
 urns out your cell is part of an escape route for te emperor who's sons have been assasinated and 
 his life is now at stake, immediately h ells you he has seen you in a dream and that you asre important.... freaky 
 huh? yet exciting, you have only ust turned n the game and you are already in a position where 
 yo have to basically... save the world.
  as you follow te emperor and his most faithful guards in the sewers you get te chance to choose 
 yur birthsign and class (mage, warrior etc etc) both of which give you certain higher attributes 
 and very much affct the way you play the game. i got for battle mage, just because i want to b 
 able to stick a sword up someones arse while still burinig off their face with a destruction spell. 
 
  things dont look good fr he emperor, he gives yu an amulet just beofre he dies, an amulet which 
 has to be given to a priest and frm there the stry unravels, down in the sewers you learn your 
 basic controls and mehods of fighting etc.... howevet hings are ll a bit gloomy undergound, so you 
 rush to get out, when leaving the sewers you are alolowed to change you birthsign etc before you 
 enter the big wide world.
  once the sewers are bhind you, yu are presented with a eautiful landcape of colours and textures 
 you can only fall in love with nd so it goes on....
  te graphics ae excellent, and with the amount of new texture mods available things are getting 
 even better, b the gamepl; ay is also great, with a mixture bertween 1st and 3rd person views bth 
 combat and lirking around the woods becomes easy and great fun. with 16sq miles to explore you 
 ont get bore either, you have a choice, you can either follow the main quest or you can concentrte 
 on levelling and doing side quest, or you can do both, i chose the seond ption and i found it to 
 be great fun, there are plenty of cities to explore anf things to buy, not mentioning peiople to 
 kill however you must be careful as the imperial guards are right grumpy sods weh it comes to lawbreaking.....
 
  levelling is fun too s you increase stats and powers and can buy new weapons and cast new speels..... there 
 are simply ndless amounts of things to do, if you feel like it you an become champ in te aena or 
 become and dangerous villain ith bounty on your head, bith ays have diferend advantages and disadvantages 
 that you will find out when you do them....
  overall this is a stunnig game, so buy it now and get involved in the saving of the world from 
 those ravenous beasts from olivion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidr0ck6964
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  ok this game is great.. in the game i can spend hours just robbing people.. and fighting the guards.. and 
 normally thats the only fun part.. i find on other games that the quests overlap eachother. that 
 you will do one quest and that will be the same as them all. but not oblivion this game altho the 
 main story is short it has alot of depth.. the guild quests are great.. every guild has a different 
 purpose and each quest is of somewhat a different branch within that same guild type. 
  
  for the time i have put 40-100 hours cause u cud easily stretch it out.. im currently on 20hours 
 and have only completely 20 quests. 
  
  one thing i will say about oblivion that lets it down is its high spec requirements. i have a 3200ghz 
 wit a fx 5500 and 708mb ram (above min requiremnts) and it wudnt play so iwent out and bout a fx 
 6200 and thankfully it works altho graphics re on at low.. but i dont see the hype bout having them 
 on at high cause the graphics i use are very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  After trying to choose a character (which I have to say took me about 20 Minutes) tweaking the 
 nose, no, now the hair isn't right, wait now the eyebrows are too narrow, wait now the chin is..... Anyway, 
 you start off in Prison. By chance the King happens to use your cell as an escape passage. From 
 this point onwards you are off and out of there. After a brief tutorial you of shoot that, open 
 this, kill that. You wind up back with the King, who, upon being slaughtered by the Al Quaida of 
 the RPG world, gives you an Amulet. First thing I tried was to see how swish it looks. Nope, only 
 the true heir to the throne is able to put it on and that aint you pal....... After making your 
 way through the sewers, (where you would be well advised to save the game as you can change anything 
 from this point) , you stumble into a spectacular world of eye candy. I have to say it, there are 
 some games that come close to the feast of gorgeous backgrounds and sumptuous graphics but none 
 quick achieve the shimmering lakes, misty citidels and underground caverns that this does. Make 
 no mistake, if you have not got a UBER PC you may have to drop the eye candy down a tad. 
  My best advice is to wander about. Find those caves, kill some goblins, kill some Necromancers 
 and wolves. Collect gold, grab some sweet weaponry. Advance in skills and get joined to Mage / 
 Fighter or if you do it right the Thieves Guilds. This game is a serious must for any die hard 
 RPG fanatic. Scratch that surface and come on in for the best RPG I have played in some time. There 
 really is far too much to list here but, I am absolutely certain that there are some seriously 
 nasty things in this game to kill and some even tastier loot to grab.............. Join the FUN............ and 
 lose yourself to OLIVION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipn66
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 12, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I used to be only a FPS gamer, but Guild Wars changed all that, and that's the only other game I 
 have to compare it to that is not FPS. Only thing wrong for me w/ Guild Wars is sometimes u need 
 to have the option of using computer hench no matter what the mission to many days wasted with 
 goof ball real players. With that said ,ESIV is not as "pretty" ur underground for most of the quests 
 almost all the dungeons, forts&caves look the same respectivily. I feel though it will raise the 
 bar for the future of it's genre. bottom line if u have the money, a good computer& a lot of time 
 to play this addictive game. It's well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tachajam
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 12, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best RPG game I have ever played. 
  I have been playing the game for a month and its perfect. Graphics of the game is awesome. If you 
 don't have a good graphics card, it can be a reason for you to upgrade a stronger one. Musics and 
 effects are really amazing, you feel yourself inside the game. But, one minus of the game is , 
 I think, the views in the game-play. During combats, views changes quickly, so it makes control 
 harder. 
  You can have this game without hesitating. Congratulations to Bethesda for such a revolutionary 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donbartos
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game is so big you can walk hours in it and it is fun to there are like 100 of ruins and caves 
 in the one you wil find bandits and in the other you mages or other figures. One of the best things 
 is that the city is realy alive.
  they are talking about you to each other. You can be about 20 different born (sort off) monds and 
 you can take the charkter you like first his race and then what he is bieng like a thief ore warior 
 or 18 others. there come an other game soon whats like this it called Gothic 3 that is a rpg too 
 and 1 of the new game gen. this game is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeopardoPT
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  The game is truly addicting, so beware if youre up to the task of trying this wonderful game because 
 you might just wind up sending hours saying let me just do this before I call it a day. The controls 
 are easy to use and easy to learn. The mechanics of the world are truly interesting because you 
 can notice that people have time schedules. Physics are also there, so expect to see a body role 
 down a hill when you kill a foe. The only thing that I would point out is the way theyve organized 
 the inventory, the indication of the items you are wearing, and some minor glitches, besides that, 
 I just love it.
  Now that Ive spent too much time writing this let me get back to this wonderful game
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandabraxisAU
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Well here it is, my review.
  
  After 120 hours of gameplay, I love this game i do. But I most certainly do not love it for being 
 a roleplaying game, because it is not.
  
  I love it for it's deep immmersion, graphics wise and audio wise. Furthermore I love it's expansiveness. 
 
  
  The combat is intense and well scripted. There is a truth to these battles, that is, it is one 
 of the first realistic simulations of melee battle in CRPG world.
  
  Second, it's hugeness and detail. The grass swaying in the wind and the water rippling will make 
 you cry, FFS, take some screenshots of the wilderness.
  
  Alchemy, Archery, Sneak, are all great skills.
  
  Some of the quests are fantastic stories.
 
  
  But all that said I will not rate it over a 9. Why you ask? 
  
  Because it is not an RPG. You are never allowed to Roleplay a specific character, on one hand you 
 can be in the dark brotherhood assasinating innocents and receive the favour of the gods, but the 
 instant you are seen stealing a bread roll by a non-descript peasant, the gods pay you attention 
 at chapels. What happened to omnipotence???????
  
  In addtion there are no choices but following the linear plot laid out in these quests, in fact 
 discussion with the exception of regurgutating quest locations, or quest aims is impossible. one 
 does get tired of repeating "Dungeons of Death", "Staff you need", "suspicious individual who will 
 no doubt be found at the end of the dungeon and located near the staff you mentioned earlier which 
 you in fact........ need".
  
  Despite this it is a great game with next-gen graphics and awesome combat. Play it!!!!!! Seriously! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mwatkins88
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 11, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Having recently left EQ2 i was looking for some stand alone RPG to kill the time. Picked up Oblivion 
 and have to say I was pretty underwhelmed.
  
  The graphics are defenitely nice. I have all the settings maxed and it looks about what EQ2 did 
 so I wasn't blown away but it wasn't a dissapointment either. I like the rag doll effects but the 
 3rd person veiwing really blows. 
  
  What I was really let down by was the game play. It's basically Morrowind all over again in a different 
 setting. I pretty much enjoyed Morrowind but by the end game it was getting a bit stale - it really 
 was too easy once you got about halfway in. Oblivion on the other hand seems to just stay the same 
 all the way through. Since all the content scales to your level - nothing gets easier and nothing 
 is too hard. 
  
  Basically just like morrowind you pick a class (probably one with all the skills that are easiest 
 to advance so you can level in no time) join some guilds do their quests, help out about a half 
 dozen people in each city- bang out the main story (which is pretty short BTW) and then run around 
 clearing out the repetitive mines, ruines, crytps etc.
  
  Same Spell system, potions, repair system, monsters, etc. 
  
  It's really not a bad game and 
 I'm sure people who never played Morrowind will probably love it until it gets too repeatitive. 
 But for me It almost feels like I just went back and played Morrowind all over again with a face 
 lift. ANd to be honest if I wanted more of the same exact gameplay I would have went back and played 
 Morrowind again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdnp2035
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the greatest accomplishment in programming history. It is probably the greatest work 
 of art ever created. It freaking rules.
  
  It is astounding! And the action is basicly unlimited. I've put about 40 hours into it so far, 
 and about the thing is about 7% complete. The difficulty is just right, and the leveling between 
 the character and AI counter parts works so smoothly.
  
  I can not even begin to describe how awesome Oblivion is. It makes Doom 3 look like Doom 1, Civilization 
 4 look like early sim city. To call it next generation, immersive, and rich is misleading. There 
 is nothing to compare this to without invoking low resolution levels of cool that have nothing 
 to do with Oblivion.
  
  If not for the fact that I am at work at the moment, I would be playing it right now. 
  
  And 
 it is not quite as hard on the hardware as I had thought. With a 7800 GS agp, and a dinky ol' P4 
 2.24, it runs well enough with the graphics largely cranked.
  
  There is also a ton of great mods available that work well.
  
  Plus, there are mushrooms all 
 over the place in Oblivion, and they are harvest-able for use in potions. Fun. Oblivion is a trip 
 through and through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikosuavee
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  First off, what an amazing game. To sum it all; its the ultimate role playing game EVER. The detail 
 and immersion that went into this game is undoubtedly on the immense scale. From the landscape 
 to the character development, everything feels as if its all tied up in a very calculated, aligned, 
 and unpredictable gaming masterpiece. Ultimately, words have no real substance in reguarding this 
 fluid art.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Oblivion is by far perfection. No other game to date has reached the 
 detail and quality of a non-linear game. Everything from the rebirth of plantlife or an aging statue, 
 this game sits comfortably at the pinnacle of eye candy... and trust me, you will get that cavity. 
 The game even features realistic physics that totally pull you into the already captivating gameplay. 
 The wate r ripples, seasons change, people have daily taks to complete. The game isnt just a simulation. 
 It puts a characteristic into a game that is considered uncommon, and that breathe. The game lives 
 and breathes. You can even see awe of this when engaged with another NPC; faces conform to the 
 specific dialouge that you choose. And the transition from a button being pressed to the comply 
 on the characters face is the raw essenece a satisfaction. Apparently, development took forever 
 to compose such an epic game. Unfortunately, if your playing the PC version, you'll need a beast 
 to fully enjoy the graphical quality this game has to offer. Xbox360 inhabits the necessary hardware 
 to bore this delight. Although; the PC edition requires that you have the most cutting edge technology, 
 it is possible in small ways to get this version to give the 360 a run for her money. Yet the likelihood 
 of you aquiring a system like this is, dubious. In short, the game cant be touched, unless you 
 have the reach of Dalshim (Street Fighter) , holding a telephone pole, with the ram-rod of Ron Jeremy!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Audio is quite a delight in this game, but im being modst. So let me embellish. This game illustrates 
 sound so flawlessly, the blind can play it (no disrespect to the blind..... wait they cant read anyway) . 
 Your audio hardware doesnt have to be the best, but it has to be decent. If you have dated hardware, 
 dont expect that musical score to sound so refreshing, or the clang of the Umbra to actually "clang", 
 or the ignition of a fireball to ignite. Many gamers undermine how a game sounds can really add 
 to the submersion of the game. Mainly because games really dont apply the essential requirements 
 to create great sound. Example, if you are going to use dialouge, get some credible voice actors. 
 Haha, another region where Oblivion surpasses the normal. Bethesda and 2K games, really laid the 
 smack-down on audio. Whats the point of orchestrating such a visual buffet for you to gobble up, 
 if you dont have the audio for that delicious dessert. WOW, Oblivion is one tasty meal. These guys 
 even decided to cast Patrick Stewart for the emperor himself, and EVERY NPC has something to say. 
 And when they say it; the context is transfered, and recieved in audio heaven. To musical scores, 
 to the rushing rivers, all is heard in the simplest form of auditory. Another 10!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay, to me really prohibits how a game strings together and moves through obstacles. No surprise 
 that the newest edition to Elders Scroll is like Fort Knox...... wrapped around glass armour....... surrounded 
 by a molten lava moat........ measuring 2 miles wide and 30 feet deep. Yeah, nobody can even touch 
 this game. The structural integrity of this game is just as strong as some of the characters it 
 populates. You will never see an arrow go through a globin and cause no affect. If it touches it 
 will leave a mark. The physics build is also a great, and critical addition to the gameplay. Objects 
 topple over if contact is made, try sneaking to fast and you are heard, most likely you will be 
 dead. Wanna jump of a mountain with no acrobatic skill..... splat..... want some syrup with your 
 pancake. All this pluses to what is already a glossed painting. The game is very promising in even 
 correcting any problem you may encounter. With Elder Scroll massing over many years, a gigantic 
 community has developed. Within the community there are many independent modders, and even the 
 1st party developers have threw a helping hand in to further satisfy the game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametime17
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Im not normally an RPG fan. Personally I am a shooter guy and that is part of the reason that I 
 love this game. It plays like an RPG/Shooter hybrid and the formula works beautifully. First of 
 all the game is downright gorgeous. I mean good God. This is one of the prettiest games I have 
 ever seen. I love the customization aspect. It is really welcoming to people who normally dont 
 play this type of game and is very intuitive. The storyline keeps you riveted throughout and never 
 gets boring. I personally enjoy being a jerk and try to get away with crimes. Hehe. Sound is the 
 only problem I have with this game. There are tons of people to talk to, however, it always seems 
 there are only two or three voices for men and women. they all tend to blend together and the acting 
 is unispired. Although do not let this deter you because no game is perfect. Anyone who loves RPGs 
 or just games in general will absolutely adore this game. Pick it up if you can afford to pay through 
 the nose to upgrade your computer. Dont worry though, its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axle126
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing piece of work. When I first started off in the sewers, I wasn't all that 
 impressed. I just thought it would be another hack and slash rpg with a first person perspective. 
 Once I emerged from the sewers however, and I realized I could go ANYWHERE (yes, anywhere) on this 
 vast world I was overwhelmed.
  
  This game has so much to offer RPG fans. It is in depth, there are many quest lines and the game 
 supports mods so there will be more quests to come. Personally, I ignored the main storyline for 
 a long time. There is so many things to do with the guilds that they can keep you entertained for 
 many many hours of playing. Another thing that is fun while killing time until you can complete 
 a quest or just for fun is to clear out a random dungeon (there are so many that I don't think 
 I have even been to them all) . 
  
  As I mentioned before, mods are easily accessible and easy to implement. I highly recommend getting 
 GameSpot's "Make is pretty pack" because you WILL notice the difference, high end computer or not. 
 The colours will be more vibrant, the textures better looking, and the UI will be a lot easier 
 to utilize. Make sure to take a look at their article on making the game look better if you haven't 
 already.
  
  This is a game I will be willing to retry as another character to see what other elements the game 
 can offer (I would recommend starting as an all around warrior like character for the first time 
 through) . I think I am going to make that new character now... hope this review was helpful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Very good sound, vast varaity of paths to folow, HUGE landscape, the PERFECT RPG. I liked that 
 you got to choose from many many clases and customize your abilities along the way. Every RPG lover 
 HAVE to buy this title. The ones who liked elder sqrolls 3 will be thrilled with this sepuence.
 
  A great new feature is the fast traveling wich takes you immidiatly to a place that u visited 
 before. Thats probably the best innovation of this morrowind. It's easier and lasts much less than 
 the previous one, but nevertheless it's still a huge RPG, i've been maniacly plaing it for the 
 past 3 weeks and i still think that i'm way far from finishing the game. The only bad news is that 
 if your system isn't fast and powerfull enough it wont manage to play the game. I've got an AMD 
 2800+, 1Gb ram, and ati radeon X800GTO (wich is very good) and i still can't play it smoothly when 
 i'm in the woods aroung grass not to mention that if a couple of enemies show up in a complex scenery 
 you'll be wanting to smash your pc! All and all if you have a good system it's the best buy you 
 can posibly do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolththrower
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Will have to say now that i'w been playing it for soon two months. It really is a good game, and 
 the thing that players can easily do their own mods to tweak the both visually and from game play 
 perspective its definitely going to bee a game i'll be playing, for quite som time! 
  
  The whole magnitude of the game is a awesome fact. With already three official patches and tons 
 of unofficial patches out its going to be quite some time before you get bored on this game + the 
 fact that their might be even coming patches that expands the gaming area into the naboring provinces, 
 with new quests, items and secrets to explore i can definitely recommend this one to anyone who 
 enjoys fantasy games. 
  
  Also to note is the patches that enhance the in game graphics to a most fantastic level (for this 
 see the article about this: "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Make it PrettyIt's well worth it!)
 
  
  Over all a really good game, the music gets after a while a bit boring when the same thems loops 
 and loops again, but i think there is a mod out for that too (thou im not sure of this) . And as 
 said before with the help of player made mods this game can go on and evolve into the direction 
 u want to take it yourself! 
  
  I definitely recommend that all how like this sort of games and don't yet have this one! GO AND 
 BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarsongLC
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Game and it is very obvious that the game programmers spent a long time thinking up this 
 one, The leveling system is slightly off beat, but once i got used to it, i found it to be more 
 then logical. Also the opponents level up with you, so they are always just as hard. Some of the 
 quests can be touchy, I would look up bugged quests before getting too far and just find out the 
 *right* way to do them. I think the best thing about this game is that you can beat the main story 
 line, and the game is no where near over :) have fun, but if ya can wait, i would hold off for 
 $29.95, it will be there soon :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Eater
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  First things first, this game had a lot to live up to. Having played Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, 
 expectations ran high for this game. When I finally acquired my copy I was amazed. The graphics 
 were never seen before, character creation process, though time consuming offered incredible amount 
 of character customization, and the way that you generated your character through storyline was 
 known from this games predecessor  but still felt quite fresh and not like something seen before.
 
  Going through the dungeon tips popped up just the right times, and the combat system was much 
 more natural than in Morrowind. I also liked the option of redoing your character before you left 
 the dungeon.
  When I finally left the dungeon then my graphics card (Winfast PX6600 TDH GT Extreme PCI express) 
 took the real blow. Fps dropped like stone. This was mostly due to 1280x960 res. And grass draw 
 distance being set to max. Ater tinkering a bit with option I finally managed to get decent fps 
 count- around 20 when outside.
  The game was challenging and the loot was interesting and well balanced, though I noticed even 
 in sewers that rats dropped gold- this was the first awkward thing in the game.
  The Terrain, lay of the land, the amount of space and locations to explore was unbelievable.
 
  Then after about 20 levels things gotten weird. Opponents never kept getting tougher nor easier. 
 This was the time that I discovered unbelievably misplaced leveling system, that should not be 
 in this sort of a game. And this is by far the biggest mistake Bethesda made with this game. On 
 higher levels game starts spewing items considered rare or very rare in Morrowind. That took out 
 the flavor of being a hero.
  This problem was addressed by a mod found on the net: Oscurios Oblivion Overhaul. This is a must 
 for all hard core gamers in my humble opinion.
  And this leads to another major plus to this game: MODS! Seemingly limitless capability of moding 
 is another heritage of Morrowind.
  In my opinion this game though not without flaws, lived up to the expectations- but not to the 
 fullest extent.
  
  I would certainly recommend this game to everyone. This is an experience not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pergatori
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I was all set to hate this game because it took away so many of my on-line friends from my multi-player 
 game but ... (you knew that was coming) I started playing it to see why so many were hooked. Now 
 I know.
  
  The graphics in this game are above average and the game play is well above average. The playability 
 is apparently long since I am still playing it. There are numerous quests quite possibly too many 
 its hard to stay on track. You keep getting other quests along the way pulling you off track of 
 your original goal. But that aside I can see where I will play this for a long time with the availability 
 to start new chars with different outcomes.
  
  I have to add here that the vampirism in the game can become annoying since most of the NPC's either 
 aren't available when you can question them (night you can't stand the sun) or they just don't 
 want to "associate with your kind." This leads to a problem in attempting to find the cure. But 
 I will eventually. 
  
  The way the character moves is nice and fairly easy to pick up. And finally a game that has the 
 movement down while riding a horse it even backs up correctly. Since I am a long time equestrian 
 this was a pleasure to see. 
  
  The bow facet of the game play is a bit difficult to manage (ok lets just say it I completely suck 
 at using the bow to target) . The baddies in the game move to quickly for tracking at least for 
 me, which causes problems for a player with no "gamer hands or gamers dexterity."
  
  Okay so here I am stuck on the game like all the rest of my on-line gamer friends who knew??
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corroonb
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is not a typical rpg, it allows the player to do pretty much whatever they wish. The scope 
 of the game is initially astonishing and perhaps even daunting but thanks to the player-oriented 
 levelling of enemies the game never feels too difficult. The character creation options are detailed 
 yet simple and the game ease you in with a short tutorial section but after this you are on your 
 own. The first thing you notice about Oblivion are the graphics and the amazing landscape. It feel 
 just like walking around a real place, there are lakes, forests, mountains towns and all look spectacular 
 if you have the right hardware. The combat is tactile and satisfy and the bloody weapons and armour 
 really enhance the experience. Both stealth and spellcasting are well implemented and a pleasure 
 to use. Oblivion is not a game that should be finished in hours but takes weeks as the map is huge 
 and full of caves, dungeons and many interesting places. In short buy this game if you enjoy deep 
 and immersive gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DusTech
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 9, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The game inself seems to be good: a stunning graphic, a huge world to explore and many other things 
 to make you think that Oblivion is the best RPG ever made... but it isn't.
  The autoleveling engine remove all the fun to be a high-level player. Every mob has a flat feeling 
 because all have more or less the same level and you NEVER have the opportunity to own your enemy 
 or to be slaughtered by them. Every aspect of the game is good, maybe something have to be fixed 
 but this feature is a HUGE flaw that compromise the entire game driving it to be almost like a 
 Diablo II action-RPG style game.
  So Oblivion is far to be what seems to be... try to think about it: where is the fun if you cannot 
 be a real hero and you cannot make the difference? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a masterpiece. It has a great setting and the graphics are beautiful. Oblivion gives 
 you a variety of weapons and in the beginning of the game; you get to pick how you look. Oblivion 
 is like Grand Theft Auto except it takes place in the past and Oblivion gives the player more options. 
 In GTA (Grand Theft Auto) you get to steal cars while in Oblivion you get to steal horses. Also 
 in Oblivion, you can steal weapons and armor. The game also allows you to have a conversation with 
 a NPCs (non player characters) . You get options on what to say to the NPC and whatever you pick 
 will change what the character thinks about you. Oblivion also has an interesting plot and has 
 a big map which you can explore. In the game you can switch from 3rd person to 1st person which 
 is a pleasure. Overall, Oblivion is great and is recommended to be bought by every gamer with a 
 good computer! The Xbox360 version, I do not know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iAnej
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  but too bad they forgot few skillz from morrowind like unarmored skill 
  and the skills with the stafs and spears and there no fightg staffs in the game and spears but 
 still its a great great game !!!
  
  i really liked what they did with the NPC's at last you dont need to breake your eyes and read 
 about and 10 mins something so they did a great jub 
  
  the main quest is a little boring like its go there shut there gate and there and there mmm too 
 much reapitig it self but still there are lotsss of cool quest in the game and all are made well 
 and + great mods in gamespot that help to make the game even better so if any one didet play it 
 play!=)
  
  espesialy if you are a morrowind fan=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olgert56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV is the latest of the Elder Scrolls series. As in the previous games, in Oblivion 
 you can choose between a variety of races and then you can modify the body features of the one 
 you select. The game starts a little bit slow, but you are introduced to the story immediately. 
 
  
  About gameplay, you can switch between first person and third person view. When you're in third 
 person, you can adjust the view distance of your character by using the mouse wheel. In the beginning 
 your character has low level skills but as you go through the game, the more you practice the higher 
 the skills go. The main quest is very interesting. You have the responsibility to save the world 
 from evil, so by the end of the main quest you are the hero of the game and everyone knows you. 
 Apart from the main quest there are many mini quests that the people give you. You don't have to 
 complete the main quest in order to take other quests. A very interesting feature the game has 
 is the guilds. You can join the Fighters and/or the Mages guild and there you develop fighting 
 and magic skills. Also, there are secret guilds such as, The Dark Brotherhood where you're hired 
 to kill people on contracts; the Thieves Guild where you are told to steal valued objects. One 
 of the best thing about the game is the ability to interact with the environment. You can pick 
 up everything you see and use them afterwards. This is great because it makes you feel more involved 
 in the game. To finish the game completely it will take about 200 hours (40 hours for the main 
 quest) . As you can see the game is very long and it has been criticized because of it, but in my 
 opinion it remains interesting until the very last hour.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. There is not much to say about them. The environment feels almost 
 real. The water is perfectly done, the leaves, the grass move because of the wind. At night you 
 can see the stars and the moon. It also has the different types of weather, rain, snow and clouds, 
 all perfectly done. The game requires a high performance graphic card. I would recommend a 256 
 MB video card, although you can play it with 126 MB (although the graphics won't be very good. 
 But the gameplay makes up for it so don't be discouraged) .
  
  The sound doesn't get old after hours of playing. It also changes if there is a threat present. 
 In combat you can hear the swords clashing. Also, the people speak like they should. 
  
  Overall, the game is a must play. It's one of those games that you never get tired of. Allthough 
 expensive, if you can afford it, you should definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  After 115 hours Ive finally gone as far as I can in The Elders Scrolls 3: Oblivion. Ive run into 
 as many quests as I could without a walkthrough, and finished all but 1. (The arena or Brotherhood 
 quests dont really count) Heres my impressions.
  
  Graphics: So far this is the RPG to beat when it comes to graphics. No other role playing game 
 is this impressive when it comes to visual capabilities. The game detected my settings at high 
 but I had to set them to medium so that I wasnt playing through a side show as the game progressed. 
 What I ended up with was still a solid game with the only thing detracting was the ton of pop-ups. 
 I cant hold it against this game because I have a medium setting computer. Everything in this 
 game looks real gorgeous, from characters to landscapes.
  
  The sound is done just as well with classical pieces playing softly in the background as the adventure 
 unfolds. The music picks up when hostilities arise which sometimes tips you off to danger before 
 you know it. The only thing I would have to complain about in the sound department is the over 
 use of voices and the homeless voice effects. The homeless people are the easiest to pick up upon 
 because when they call out to you, they have the raspiest voice in existence. However when you 
 start to talk to them, their voice can switch to the normal races voice complete with normal sound 
 and proper English. Sound effects throughout the game are solid, from swords and shields clashing 
 to the dozen or so different sound effects footsteps make in different circumstances.
  
  In the gameplay department for the PC, youll hear a lot of people use the words dumbed down. 
 Theres no doubt in my mind that this game has been changed a bit for the consoles. Some of it 
 ends up being great additions, while others detract from the wonders of the Elder Scrolls series. 
 First thing that I noticed was that the world was prettyrealistic. Gone was the surreal experience 
 from Morrowind. This means everything from alien looking landscapes and strange reagents for potions 
 were changed to more mundane trees and items. Gone are a few spells, namely levitation, but this 
 is only because a lot of the games adventures had to do with actually walking up levels in buildings. 
 If levitation was still around, all Oblivion gates would be much easier than they already were. 
 A few skills were also combined and classes were changed. This leads to lower classed characters 
 and a few specialty skills missing. Overall I have a mixed feelings about the additions and stream 
 linings. While I feel that the instant travel is a great addition, its only because the world 
 in Oblivion is far less interesting to explore. While the fighting engine might have been overhauled, 
 it still feels relatively shallow after a long period. Even more so with stealthy characters because 
 of little glitches in the AI.
  
  This brings me to mention AI. While originally boasted to be something totally incredible, the 
 Radiant AI is more of an illusion. It could be because the more realistic an AI gets, the dumber 
 it seems when it makes mistakes. Guards walk by the same dead bodies for days checking them out, 
 surprised each time they see them, people go to work only to rake the same 2 feet of space for 
 9 hours out of the day. My biggest complaint comes from the reaction to stealth characters that 
 ruined the Arena battles and was easily exploited through the rest of the game. Its almost too 
 convenient when you sneak up and attack someone and they dont react to the attack. They stand 
 there only to get stabbed repeatedly until they die.
  
  The storyline has a couple of complaints surrounding it also. The reduction in the amount of guilds 
 and the ability to be the grand-master of all of them takes away from the constant feeling of the 
 different factions conflict that was found in Morrowind. Thankfully though that in this game, 
 all of the guilds have pretty good side stories encompassing the missions. Conversely, the Dark 
 Brotherhood quests seemed to have overshadowed all the other story lines in my opinion. Only the 
 very end of the main quests makes up for the relative lack of adventure that I came across going 
 through the storyline.
  
  While this review might seem a little vague, its only because the fact that novels can be written 
 about this game. I would have been happier if The Elder Scrolls IV kept the same feel as the previous 
 game, but as it stands Oblivion remains a great game in the same right that Morrowind was a great 
 experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason14yr
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  AH, man this game is basically ''THE GAME''! I mean you can do anything with it to your hearts 
 desire, and i don't rate very many 10.0's, but this one is just one of those masterpiece efforts. 
 You will need a souped 'up PC for this one though. It runs perfect on my PC. I run it on an Intel 
 Pentium 4 Processor , 2.8 Ghz, 512 mb of RAM, 256 mb NVIDIA GeForce FX 5500, and with the oldblivion 
 fix, i can run it on distant lands without a problem. I would suggest just buying a PC for this 
 game, instead of spending 550-600 dollars on an xbox 360 when you can get mods and make it look 
 better. Plus i got this dell computer for $900 FLAT, and it only cost $300 more for a top of the 
 line PC. I personally recommend this game for anyone in search of a way out of boredom. Get it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curufinwe8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  System: PC
  
  The game's new features make this much more accessible than its legendary successor: TES III: Morrowind. 
 Oblivion features horses, fast travel, quest logs, maps, etc.
  
  Graphics: Unparalleled, and it will be quite some time before Oblivion's graphics become "run-of-the-mill". 
 The physics engine is marvelous. 
  
  Horse graphics: Horses look GORGEOUS if you use Bloom or HDR lighting. Also, they have animations 
 like real horses, with realistic motion (forwards, backwards, turning) , stopping, and jumping. 
 
  Water: Beautiful, and relatively undemanding on the graphics card (compared to other things) . Underwater 
 is a bit weak, unless you encounter a slaughterfish. 
  Buildings: Ayleid ruins are pretty good, very Romanesque. Seeing the Imperial City and the GOld 
 tower (built by Ayleids) at dawn, sunset, or in the starlight is pure wonder.
  Environment: Seeing waterfalls or the evening light filter through the trees makes the real world 
 feel bleak. 
  
  Graphics card recommendations: All Geforce FX cards ARE USELESS. An Fx 5700 LE is what you need 
 to run this game at low, medium-low settings. I would recommend an ati 1x00 card or nvidia 6000 
 or higher. (go for the 7300, 7600, or 7900 is you can afford the extra 40 dollars)
  
  Gameplay: Fast Travel is convenient for running around a large city, but I would absoltuely not 
 use it to travel inbetween the world. The WOrld is beautiful, and I wouldn't miss an inch of it. 
 Combat difficulty can be adjusted to your liking. Too difficult? Slide the bar to the left, too 
 easy, to the right. That is why it is hard to give the game a difficulty rating.
  
  Sound: For the most part unobtrusive, but there are good moments. The Lord of the Rigns soundtrack 
 is appropriate if you own it.
  
  Characters: Custom and prebuilt class give you superb flexibility. Character creation is by far 
 the most complex of any single-player RPG or online MMORPG (ex: everquest, world of warcraft) . The 
 system is actually a simplified version the developers at Bethesda used to create NPC's. Don't 
 be fooled by simple, you have 3 sliders that affect the chin's chape and size alone!
  
  Computer vs Xbox 360:
  
  The 360 has frequent and long load times. Also, it doesn't have the 
 moddability. PC modders can release textures that bring the world of Cyrodiil up to date. Xbox 
 really cannot as easily. Also, the Xbox still can have corrupted saves or crashing. the PC has 
 more realistic color and graphics customization. 
  
  It should be noted that you DON'T need a 2000 dollar computer to run the game on high or ultra 
 high. 
  
  My computer:
  Pentium D dual core 805 processor, 2.66 Ghz
  256 mb Nvidia 7600 GS vid card
  1 gig of ram.
  
  I can run the game with the ebst texture 
 settings, distant land, buildings, and trees, HDR lighting (best lighting) , best water (with ripples, 
 reflections, splashes etc turned on) , full screen resolutions of 1280x1024 and higher. I can also 
 handle basic anti-aliasing and grass (I ahven't pushed my comp much farther yet) . Even with all 
 those bells and whistles turned on, I get 25-30 FPS outdoors, and more in buildings. I even retain 
 the 25/30 FPS while fighting. ALl together, maybe 900 dollars.
  
  An Xbox360+a SIXTY DOLLAR game, and an HDTV can run you above 1500 dollars. Playing an xbox 360 
 on a regular TV isn't doing yourself a favor.
  
  If your compuiter has trouble running oblivion, look here:
  www. oldblivion. com
  if you want 
 mods, go to www. tessource. com , or http://planetelderscrolls. gamespy. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vAProfessor
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game and I couldn't stop for 2 weeks. I run this game on a 64 mb graphics 
 card with evertying on low and I still think it is the best looking game I've ever played. You 
 can do ANYTHING in this game, be good, be evil, be both, go around helping, go around killing, 
 or just go around picking flowers mixing potions.
  
  This game is one of the best I've ever played but if you don't have lots of time or pacents then 
 don't play because you will be disapointed by all the running and fetch quests. But if you love 
 rpgs lvling up and becoming a one man army BUY THIS GAME!!
  
  The only thing I don't like is no multiplay and the lack of crosshairs in 3rd person but thats 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  After reading many reviews on here from various members, i decided to try this game out myself. 
 I won't lie to any of you (whom might read this) , but Oblivion does take a powerful computer to 
 run it, more to the point a decent graphics card. But there is also other things you can do to 
 get more FPS, like turning of the dynamic lights ( type into the console window slp 1010, then type 
 TLB for a permanent light, as it goes dark without the lighting on) . With these enabled i was getting 
 a decent frame rate, and it made it playable then. Back to the game , hmm well im not sure where 
 to start. Okay well lets look at the character creation, well as all Elder scroll games there is 
 a bundle of custom options to design your character with. He/She can be made to look a circus act 
 or very noble, obviously the clothes vary in-game with loads of armour types and clothing. Now 
 all the NPC's have proper voices (although there accents change odly sometimes, when you talk to 
 the same person) , but they add a decent feeling to the game. The combat is once again great, but 
 for me the biggest improvement is how you use magic now, on the previous game it was hard to use 
 magic, as you couldn't use melee and magic at the sametime, well now you can, which is a great 
 relief to us magicians. This edition still has the same class's or custom class's (if you wish to 
 be known as something else) , in honesty it is very hard to find fault with Oblivion. The missions 
 are interesting and rewarding (in places) , the story is pretty decent, loads of things to see to. 
 I guess the only thing i can fault is the occasional glitch here and there, sometimes it crash's 
 for no reason, but if you quicksave alot , it dosen't really become that annoying, plus with a 
 great Morrowind community , i doubt these problems will hinder us for long with up and coming patchs. 
 I did hear that some saying they can't steal items without being caught, but on a personal note 
 ive stolen loads of goods, i hardly ever get caught (for the delicate stuff i quicksave hehe) . Anyway 
 if your a fan of Morrowind, i reccomend getting this, if your new to RPG's then take a look here 
 to. If your not a fan of Morrowind, then maybe you should wait until it goes abit cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimonimonimo
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I stopped playing the game after playing for 6-8 hours and that's because it's slow which makes 
 it a little boring and more importantly the ideas aren't put in an organized fashion. For an instance, 
 the ideas of joking, boasting, admiring, and whatever the 4th was, weren't very good and I didn't 
 see any results come out of it!!! The game also lacks in hints and in directions. There are also 
 too many shops around which makes the game even more complicated than it has to for over no reason. 
 And what made me stop playing the game was: after I broke into a shop at night of where there was 
 no guard around, suddenly a while after inside the shop, a guard appears from no where (yes from 
 no where) and tries to arrest me. I don't have a choice but either to fight him (impossible to 
 win) , pay in gold which I loose some of my stuff, or just go to jail and I loose many things. Why 
 can't I just bribe him? And if I tried to go out of the shop, where there is no guard around it, 
 the next time I see a guard he arrests me?!??! That doesn't make any sense + I didn't save before 
 I broke in the shop so basically I have to loose my stolen goods.
  
  As of graphics, this game has good graphics but it wasn't programmed well and as a result, it overuses 
 your video card and even with a GF600. I'm getting less than 10 fps out in the wild, that's with 
 no shadows for trees nor for the trees.
  
  As of sound and videos, I didn't hear much of music around and not many of cinematic videos, maybe 
 because I didn't play much of the video game but still not much after playing 6 hours.
  
  So basically I still prefer Vampire: The Masquerade Redemption more than this game. And therefore 
 I rated this game 5.6 out of 10.
  
  An update on Mar 11, I listened to Oblivion Soundtrack and it's good so I guess I didn't play enough 
 or didn't pay much attention to hear the music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarotromundo
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  At the beginning of the game, it does not look all that exiting. After 2 hours of game-play your 
 are really into it. Now there is a lot of options in creating a character. I personally prefer 
 the option where you choose all of your attributes instead of the pre-made ones. The lizard can 
 breath underwater, so have that in mind when crating a character. The missions are not repetitive, 
 they have a constant change in them that makes them all feel so fresh. When your join any of the 
 guilds, watch out for the rules of the guild, killing a member often gets you out of the guild. 
 Watch out when using your lock-picks, its not really easy fining them after the beggining of the 
 game. ENJOY THE GAME, IFS LONG, SO ITS REALLY WORTH THE MONEY, AND ITS FUN!.. ITS ALMOST A BARGAIN! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  I just finished ESO tonight. I had a great time once I got the game going. I liked the characters 
 and the main and sub quests, but I had many bugs, especially lockups after difficult battles. The 
 graphics were great as was the AI. I know some people did not like them. The combat was great and 
 I felt in the game during batles with the exception of my game slowing down. I have a AMD 64 3500 
 and an 6600 gt card. I also had to reset the video card 3 times. The storyline is very thin towards 
 the end. At the beginning, I was addicted to the game. I was less so towards the end. But this 
 was a great time and now I can't wait to try NWN II. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizard_1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Bad Part- Too much performance lost due to the fact that the game is really GPU and CPU hungry...
 
  
  Good Part- If you have the right PC, you'll play in spectacular graphics with HDR and forest full 
 of flora density. The game play is great. Choose your path! You can rob houses, and then join the 
 Thieves Guild to sell your stolen goods for a nice profit. With that, buy some weapons and armor 
 and go in some dungeons and kill a bunch of creatures and maybe you'll find something interesting 
 like an artifact in one out of the 100's of dungeons (Forts, caves, Alyeid ruins) in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I have played Oblivion IV and stopped half way through it, i still have my savegame but id like 
 to review it for you.
  
  **Graphics** - Well the graphics are very well done but i cannot say it's the best graphics ever 
 and certainly the outdoors arent as good as FARCRY in fact Farcry is the master of outdoor, in 
 Oblivion the outdoors are alive and nice but lack a certain feel to all of it. currently 1280x1024 
 maxed out on a Core2Duo E6600 + 2GB ram + 8800gtx geforce the game is pretty smooth and the Dualcore 
 tweaks made a difference practically eliminating any lag, the game will slowdown but never to the 
 point of lag.
  
  **Sound** - This is one of the best things about the game and also one of its weakness..... see, 
 the Acting and music are all first rate, superb in fact, why then i say its a weakness? because 
 lots of the character voices are by the same guy/man/actor and even more funny he doesnt even try 
 to change his voice, he just talks again and again through different characters with his same tone 
 easily recognizable ruining your beliefs in the game a bit...... but you won't care when it all 
 blends togehter it's excellent.
  
  **Gameplay** - i have a problem here, i played the game and was very immersed but on many many 
 occasions i wanted to stop and got tired of the bloody goblins, rats and tunnels, it's very tiresome 
 and if it wasn't because the story is very engaging i would've stopped even earlier.
  said this i found myself enjoying it very much and your character experience and powers will all 
 start to be upgraded, the magic is awesome, the weapons have a certain feel and it just works.
 
  
  Conclusion?
  
  This game is a great game but not worthy of hailing it as the best game ever, the graphics while 
 well done are no match to the outdoors in Farcry, the sound is suspect and the gameplay can get 
 tiresome (even though you may still continue to play) thanks to an excellent story, also the game 
 is very polished and well presented.
  
  I recommend this game and if you ever stop like me half-way because you got bored just keep the 
 savegames, you will be back to Oblivion IV sooner or later, i know i did. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomeo
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 7, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  With all the hype surriounding Oblivion i can't help but be a little dissapointed with the final 
 product. Yes the graphics are amazing, but we all know that great graphics don't make a great game. 
 The story isn't all that original, it basically boils down to demos invading the land and your 
 the hero who must save everyone. The gameworld is very expansive and it's lots of fun to explore, 
 as there are plenty of locations and side quests to stumble upon. Having a horse to ride makes 
 traveling much quicker except that you can't fight on horseback so you have to dismount everytime 
 to fight which can become irritating. I really liked the sound in this game, the music and voice 
 acting is great and adds to the immersiveness. This is one giant game too so it will take you a 
 while to beat but i did start to get bored with the oblivion gates by the end. The amount of content 
 in this game is staggering. There are so many weapons, armor, spells, items etc. in this game that 
 you are always stumbling into new equipment. The inventory system just angers me because it was 
 clearly designed for the xbox360 but its clunky and annoying and theres just no excuse for it. 
 There are some minor bugs i encountered, mostly just annoying glitches so nothing to serious. Overall 
 i enjoyed the game very much its just that i was expecting more from it and I find it frustrating 
 that it didn't reach its full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnon1
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I'll try and give you a quick review as to how i felt about this game .Basically im a FPS'er thats 
 what i enjoy ,now some people are RPGers which is fine if thats the type of game your into .Having 
 said that i decided to pick up this game believing all the hype i was reading about how great it 
 was .Although i was worried as most were about how well it would run especially on my system with 
 a 6800GT and a gig of ram . It did run ok as long as i was inside a dwelling but going out side 
 was a diff. story my frame rate was at about 8-12 fps depending how much jockeying i did with the 
 video settings
  
  Let's get the GFX's out of the way ,the look of the game was impressive up close that is the rock 
 formations and detail were impressive as well as the trees and also the water effects .The one 
 thing i was dissapointed in was the distant landscape ,to look past the nice visuals only to see 
 blurred washed out land fortunately there are great mods to take care of this .The only other thing 
 that i didn't like was the ''popping'' up of landscape as you traveled threw the different towns 
 i also noticed some clipping issues once i actually got stuck inside of a huge bolder on my horse 
 and had to reboot . Now the HDR is nice to have if your card supports it but i did not care for 
 how much of a glare some things had like the old ruins i was always turnig my brightness down trying 
 to compensate for that .The NPC's looked a little funny ,odd faces the only ones that looked normal 
 were the soldiers wearing helmets .Conversating with them was ok ,there voices didn't bother me 
 but they seemed ''too''computer animated and clunkey for the most part .
  
  The game play was ok i treated it like a typical FPS ,i mainly used a bow with sneaking abillity 
 and then my sword for heavy fighting . which by the way had great detail especially the sword . 
 My favorite parts of the game was actually sneaking around in the dungeons with my bow and boy, were 
 the gfx's nice . I never had to much difficaulty with the game i had it set to defualt diff. And 
 beat the game at i think level 6 or 7 which to me didn't make sense ,the leveling up system ,whats 
 the purpose of leveling up if there are no benefites to doing so . But all in all i enjoyed the 
 fighting .And i did start the actuall story right away , it didn't blow me away i guess i never 
 got that emersed in it to begin with, like i said the RPG thing is really not my thing but i can 
 understand for the people who are into it and why they would get so emersed with this type of game 
 .
  
  Now a couple of things that botherd me were when you get a horse and those damn wolves attach why 
 are there so many wolves ?, my horse got chased away never to be seen again i had to keep stealing 
 one which brings me to another problem when you steal something and your traveling to another town 
 how do the new NPC's know what you just did ? 
  Also speaking to npc's can get a little boring i was quickly clicking through the dialogue just 
 to get to my missions . And how about that inventory menu everyones complaining about actually 
 i thought it wasn't to bad but your ''all items'' section can get a little over loaded after awhile 
 .one more thing i fogot to mention was the magic part of the game i did use fire damage and conjored 
 up a few skeleton ghost and it did help me out only in the early parts of the game .Also the map 
 in the game was usefull but not as detailed as i would of liked but the ability to travel at a 
 push of a button was a nice touch especialy for me being that i did not have a horse to ride around 
 on . So over all not a bad game, i'll take H/LIFE 2 over this anyday .But if your a RPGer your gonna 
 love it even more now that there are mods to improve your gaming experience and with all those 
 mods out there this is the time to buy this game ! so much for a short review . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramaveli
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  When I was in junior high, I once played Unreal Tournament for 24 hours straightincluding time 
 for food and other minimal necessities. It was a very consuming game for me and, at the time, I 
 never thought Id find another that would make me want to give up one of the things I enjoy the 
 most about life: sleep. That is, until I found Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. After four days of skipped 
 classes and nine hours of sleep between them, I can honestly say that this game is one of the best 
 role-playing games every made. Perhaps the sheer amount of time Ive given this game has been a 
 bit excessive, but without exaggeration, its a hard game to stop playing. 
  
  Oblivion takes place in the land of Cyrodill, in the heart of Tamriel, one of the continents of 
 the Elder Scrolls universe. Keeping the spoilers to a minimum, the story begins with the death 
 of King Uriel Septim (voiced by the always sexy Patrick Stewart) by assassins of an evil cult who 
 are trying to take over Tamriel by opening a gate to Obliviona derelict and evil land on an alternate 
 plane of existence. Your character is caught in the middle of all of this, and must now find out 
 the truth about the cult, Oblivion and how your fate in the game ties into both. 
  
  For those whove never played an Elder Scrolls game, the series is known for its complete freedom 
 and non-linear design, and this is evident from the very first moments of Oblivion. Your character 
 is almost completely customizableyou have eight different races to choose from, over a dozen pre-made 
 classes and even a few birth signs to chose from that give you different bonuses. For the more 
 experienced, or those who like to experiment, you can also create a custom class, using a seemingly 
 endless combination of feats, abilities and skills. You can also customize the face of your character, 
 though unfortunately you cant change their body-type, disappointing given the detail of all other 
 character traits. Playing a bulky six-foot thief can be kind of obtrusive. 
  
  This customizability works great, as Oblivion actually lets you role-playan element most other 
 RPG games seem to have let go. Instead of giving a fairly linear story and gameplay while giving 
 you the illusion of control by letting you customize limited features of your characters abilities, 
 Oblivion lets you quite literally do whatever you want, whenever you want, however you want to 
 do itand a little under 200 hours of gameplay to do it in. You can be a complete goody two-shoes, 
 never picking a lock or stealing anything. Or you can do the complete opposite; murdering, thieving 
 and being an all-around douchebag. By far my favourite thing so far is catching the Vampire Disease, 
 which, as the name suggest, turns you into a vampire. You lose health, are slower in sunlight and 
 have night vision. The hundreds of NPCs in the gameeach of which has their own distinct 24/7 schedule 
 that varies day to dayreact to every action you take. When you close the first Oblivion Gate outside 
 the city of Kvatch, its inhabitants will hail you as a hero. If you murder someone, rumors of your 
 actions will spread across the land. Theres no end to how immersive this game is. 
  
  This game also just looks incredibly amazing, no matter if your playing it on PC or Xbox 360. While 
 the 360 version looks great in high definition, the PC version can look even better with a high-end 
 graphics card, which youre definitely going to need in order to run this game. There are a few 
 issues however. Theres a lot of pop-in foliage and trees, and really low-resolution textures when 
 viewing far-away places. Also, the facial textures can be seen as weak when compared to games like 
 Half-Life 2. For the most part, however, this game is definitely the next generation of graphics. 
 
  
  If theres one major fault to pick on, its the games AI. While the enemies are smart when they 
 fight you, your allies are unfortunately not so bright. There will be times when youre in a dungeon 
 with three or four allied NPCs and no way to control them, which means when they see an enemy and 
 an obvious trap, theyll run right through it without any heed. Also, the law system is often 
 inconsistent. Theres no friendly-fire in the game, which means you can attack any and all NPCseven 
 your alliesso if you accidentally hit an NPC whos a town guard, youll be arrested without question. 
 However, you can also sneak into a guys house, wake him up, and have a conversation with this 
 person without any consequences. These inconsistencies arent a huge problem, but they do affect 
 the overall feel and experience of the game. 
  
  Without question, Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a game that everyone should play. Theres so much 
 to do here that you probably wouldnt get through it all even after your second play through. Now 
 if youll excuse me, I need to get some serious sleep. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmazza56
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to great looking graphics, fun gameplay and a very impressive story line, games dont 
 come closer than this. When i first started playing this i thought it was going to be some boring 
 rpg that would take me a couple of days to complete. Well i was wrong. The graphics amazed me from 
 the very start, every aspect of realism was put into this game. Even the ai seemed to act like 
 in the real world. The gaming world is huge, i was able to ride a horse across one part of a forest 
 to the other in like an hour!!! I highly recommend this game to anyone rpg fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was easily among the most highly anticipated RPGs around. There 
 was a lot of hype surrounding the title, and fortunately it wont disappoint. With the game finally 
 available, gamers have a lot to be excited about! 
  
  
  Mysterious gates to Oblivion are popping up all over the land, and vicious monsters roam the countryside. 
 The Emperor has been assassinated, and although you dont know why, he entrusted you with restoring 
 order. You must seek out the heir to the throne and close shut the doors of Oblivion! The story 
 to the game isnt exactly breathtaking, but it does the job of tying everything together and will 
 more than likely keep your interest. The game offers so much freedom that youre more than likely 
 going to get distracted from the main quest on many an occasion, but thats more of a testament 
 to the games enjoyable side quests rather than a flaw with the story. 
  
  
  Before you even start your adventure, you need to create your character. You first choose from 
 one of ten different races, from an Argonian to a Dark Elf. The race you choose can have a big 
 impact on the game. For example, the Argonian can breathe under water and the Dark Elf is resistant 
 to fire. Your starting stats are also influenced by your race. While choosing your race, you also 
 get to edit your appearance, which offers a wide variety of options that you can use to customize 
 how your character looks. 
  
  
  A bit later in the game youll also choose a birthsign. The birthsign you choose can give you a 
 wide range of bonuses, from limited invisibility to increased speed. Just after that youre given 
 the opportunity to choose a class, which will greatly affect your character in a variety of ways. 
 
  
  
  Shortly after making these choices, youre given the option of changing your mind, so if you dont 
 do it right the first time, you can correct the error. The more you use your skills, the more powerful 
 with them you will become, and eventually you may move up in skill mastery level, further increasing 
 the skills strength. Increasing the major skills associated with your class will allow you to level 
 up. When you take this all into consideration, you have a lot of options when it comes to customizing 
 your character. Not only can you choose the race, appearance, class, and birthsign, you have full 
 control over how you raise the character's skills. On top of all this, there are hordes of different 
 items, weapons, and armor to pick up, which can change your character's skills and appearance. 
 
  
  
  For the most part, raising a single skill is easy enough. Jumping a lot, for example, will increase 
 your acrobatic skill. Sneaking around before attacking enemies will improve your ability to sneak. 
 However, considering the large number of skills, skill levels, attributes, items, and equipment, 
 there ends up being a lot to keep track of, meaning that building your character can be a little 
 complicated. So, it might take quite a while before you understand things enough to take full advantage 
 of the customization. Still, it gives you a lot of freedom once youve got it down, and most hardcore 
 RPGers wont have any trouble. 
  
  
  Gameplay, for those who are unfamiliar, is in the form of a first-person RPG. Youve got a lot 
 of menu screens that help you with your customization and provide info about what you need to do 
 and where you need to go. You have multiple different map views to look at, and a compass that 
 will point you in the direction of your intended destination. There are also hot keys for both 
 weapons and magical abilities, making using them during combat a breeze. Despite the complexity 
 of the game, Bethesda managed to make Oblivion very user-friendly to play. 
  
  
  Oblivion features beautiful graphics, an extreme level of detail, and lots of interaction with 
 your environment. Of course, these are things weve come to expect from the series. In exchange 
 for this beauty, you unfortunately will also experience a fair amount of loading while venturing 
 through the lands. Of course, the load times generally dont last very long, but when you enter 
 some of the cities and have to sit through load screen after load screen, youll probably become 
 a bit annoyed. Outside of the cities, however, the game runs smoothly, with very little wait for 
 loading aside from the occasional stutter. The cities are relatively expansive and grand, featuring 
 everything from large palaces to tiny little cottages. Each city has a fairly distinct look and 
 feel to it, which youll learn to appreciate as you travel across the entire map. The characters 
 are very detailed, from their facial features to their exotic weapons and armor. Each moves convincingly 
 and interacts with their environment, bringing the world of Oblivion to life. Another thing of 
 beauty in Oblivion is the effects, from the burning of fire to the splashing of water, its very 
 impressive. Im not joking at all when I say youll more than likely pause on more than one occasion 
 simply to admire the beauty of the game. 
  
  
  Oblivion features some excellent voice work, with talents such as Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean. 
 Theres a lot of voice acting in the game and all of it, even aside from the stars, is well done. 
 This is some of the better voice acting Ive heard in a while, but of course, Im a Patrick Stewart 
 and Sean Bean fanboy! Although they may sound and look good, the AI of most of the characters isn't 
 going to impress. However, shooting them in the chest with an arrow to hear them only respond by 
 yelling "Hey, cut it out" made me laugh for hours. Enemies aren't always much better, so don't 
 expect these characters to be winning any spelling bees. 
  
  
  The game also has some very high-quality music. Theres a good deal of variety to the tunes that 
 play, but they all sound great and do an effective job of heightening the experience. The music 
 is never intrusive to the gameplay, and instead only heightens it. 
  
  
  Honestly, theres so much to do and explore that the game can be a bit overwhelming! Of course, 
 you dont HAVE to do it all if you dont want to. Thats what makes the game so great! If youre 
 looking for a game with a lot of options and lots of things to do, then youll be exceptionally 
 pleased with Oblivion. If youre looking for more of a story-driven game, you can have that too! 
 Although, Ill admit, youre missing out on a lot if you choose to skip all the side stuff and 
 go right for the story. Still, it might not be for everyone. Between the deep customization and 
 the somewhat overwhelming world, Oblivion might be a game best for hardcore RPG fans and fans of 
 the Elder Scrolls series. 
  
  
  There might be a little too much freedom for some gamers, though. Despite the strong storyline, 
 its too easy to totally ignore it, making it seem a little bit pointless. Dark creatures are invading 
 the world and you must find a new heir to the throne and close the gates to Oblivion before its 
 too late! But youve got time for a million side quests first, so dont worry about rushing. The 
 game starts out very story-driven, but sort of trails off from there, leaving the gamer free to 
 totally ignore the plot. It certainly takes away some of the drama from the story, but the quests 
 can be a lot of fun, and, like I said earlier, you dont HAVE to do them. 
  
  
  The game is available on both PC and Xbox 360. My experience with the game was on the Xbox 360, 
 so my review is based on that platform. I would also like to mention that, in some ways, I found 
 this a very difficult game to review. The sheer size of the game results in so many different options 
 and things to do that I couldnt possibly cover them all here. Features such as alchemy, spell-making, 
 guilds, enchanting, magic items, and persuasion, I havent even mentioned in the least! While the 
 quality of these features may range, you don't have to involve yourself with them should you choose 
 not to. However, if you do enjoy them, the game will suck even more of your life away. Another 
 thing that makes it a difficult game to review is the fact that the games greatest strength may 
 also be its greatest weakness. The freedom and open-ness that Elder Scrolls fans crave may seem 
 like a lack of direction with a pointless story to other gamers. 
  
  
  Ill admit, I had more fun playing Oblivion than Ive had with any game for quite a while. Traveling 
 across the Kingdom, visiting strange new places, slaughtering the entire population of the occasional 
 village, contracting vampirism it was surely an entertaining experience. Every game has its flaws, 
 and Oblivion is no exception. However, it is a game that I found enjoyable enough that the flaws 
 were easily overshadowed. If youre a fan of the series then its a no brainer that you should 
 pick this game up. If you havent yet experienced the Elder Scrolls series, this is a great place 
 to start! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trooper028
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest RPG game ever to come out by far. I thought that i was addicted to Halo 
 2 but this just blew halo out of the water making this my most played and loved game. I would say 
 if you have the money BUY this game as soon as possibly possible. The graphics is probibly the 
 main part but you cant forget all the items and missions you do. I would recomend being a sniper 
 for the most possible fun you can have. I have tried all and beatin the game 2 or 3 times even 
 though it keeps going on and on and on and on and on. This game is definitly in my top 5 games 
 i have ever played on all systems. BUY IT NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shunney
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 8, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  The performance on highest settings is abysmal at times even on my system (A64 FX57 Neo4 - 2GB 
 BallistiX - 1900XTX) ... 
  
  I got this game after reading lots of great reviews and after playing the game for a few hours 
 i thought i'd bought the wrong one...
  
  What's the point in all the character facial creation if you never get to see it? pointless !
 
  
  The graphics are good not great, the sound score never seems to change that much, although there 
 is some good sound effects and the main story is pretty boring... The npc's share the same 5 or 
 so voices which are mostly terrible and there's stupid annoying conversations going on around, 
 which just makes me want to kill everyone... 
  
  All the caves etc you go into look the same and traipsing yourself back out of a completed cave 
 is also annoying (you can't fast travel from here WHY?) Going into oblivion is just frustrating 
 and repetitive, doing that "aid for Bruma" quest was painstakingly boring.. There's only a select 
 few different things to fight in the game and they're also few and far between (if i see another 
 rat, scamp or demon i'm gonna scream) .. Adventuring out into the wilderness away from towns is 
 mostly pointless because all you see is a big waste of space, killing a few wolves and bandits 
 along the way, oh and mud crabs (rolls eyes) .. The graphics rendering/appearing in the distance 
 spoils what realism there is.... The towns look nice but mostly look alike, so there's nothing new 
 to see after the first one.
  
  The menu system is far too cluttered, which makes it a pain in the **** to navigate.. If you collect 
 everything (potions, herbs etc) your inventroy gets ridiculous to find things. Then there's the 
 other items like (keys, books etc) that stay there even when you don't need them anymore, ok you 
 can drop items but you shouldn't have to... There should be a seperate section in the menu specially 
 for the useless items . I expect more from a pc game.
  
  I haven't finished the game yet and i'm not sure i will because it's starting to really bore me. 
 I've been playing for a few weeks now and have completed most of the main quests and a good few 
 secondary, but it's just plain boring.. I keep thinking it's going to pick up soon, but it never 
 does ! If this is an improvement over the previous installments then i'm glad i didn't bother with 
 them.
  
  I could go on with my rant , but it's not worth any more of my time... To be honest i had a lot 
 more fun playing Dungeon Siege 2 and i'm really looking forward to Neverwinter Nights 2.
  
  Definitely not for everyone, in a word disappointing ! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaimzl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this 
 game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is 
 kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** 
 this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game 
 is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick *** this game is kick 
 * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baris123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  My name is Baris Bolluk, i have been playing roll playing games for a long time now and i reckon 
 you all thing roll playing games are all the same.
  But let me tell you one thing, The Elder Scroll : Oblivion is One Spectacular gaming experience. 
 If you want a game you will not get bord of This game is seriously for you. Think of this, would 
 you save the world from enimes coming out of basicly hell or just mess around and kill guards and 
 still the stuff. in this game its all up to what kind of person you are.
  Personally i took 30minutes just making my Character because of so much detail you can put it. 
 The down side was the hair styles lmao, and the music which was the same music throughout the game 
 : ( But this game really gives a HUGE knockout to all the roll plaing games you guys have played 
 in the past including the other elder scroll games. Thank you for reading my review. Time for some 
 OBLIVIONNNNNNN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: activematx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow... just wow...
  
  I am usually an avid First-person-shooter gamer. I usually play games like Doom, Quake, Fear, Etc...
 
  
  Action games!
  
  When I heard about all the reviews this game was getting I had to get curious.... but, err.... 
 it was a RPG Game.... And I never played a rpg game before, and always was turned off by them.
 
  
  BUT, being the graphics whore that I am, I had to check out the game for the graphics atleast...
 
  
  So I went out and bought the game. Installed it and fired it up. My first impressions of the game 
 (about 1 - 2 hours into it) was "this game is too large and complex for me"
  
  It just had so much stuff to do, and I was over-whelemed. I didnt like walking everywhere and talking 
 to all these random people who were in the "olden days"...
  
  But, I said to myself "hey, give it a chance.... stick it out for a few more hours"...
  
  So 
 I did, and I kept playing... It probably took about 6 hours for the game to finally grow on me. 
 And once it sunk, it I am more deeply hooked into this game than I have ever been in a game before. 
 I am already 30 hours into the game, and feel like I haven't even completed 5% of what there is 
 to offer. I am hooked, because of the sheer beauty of the game.
  
  There is a nice combat system in the game which makes killing bad guys awesome. I can shoot them 
 with my bow and arrow or smash them with a hammer. Or I can slice them up with a sword, or fire 
 a fireball with some magic, or summon a demon to kill them for me.
  
  Not to mention, the amount of unique quests in the game. Some of the quests make me do some humrous 
 things, and some are just downright crazy!
  
  These one guy approached me, and asked me to "spy" on these people who he thought were watching 
 him.... so I did. .... and it turned out they werent watching him.... so the guy, (crazy dude) , 
 then asks me to kill the dudes!!! So i had the choice to either report him, or kill the dudes for 
 $1000.... since I was broke, i killed the guy, and.. well.... i dont want to ruin the quest story 
 for you, but it s houldnt matter.... there are over 500 quests in this game! All scripted, and 
 all voice acted...
  
  this game is defintely going down in history as one of the best RPG' games out.
  
  I am glad 
 that the graphics are so advanced because it will keep this game fresh for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feesbag
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Games have evolved over time. So have nipples. So it is refreshing to see them finally represented 
 in a form anyone can appreciate. Whether sneaking through the winding corridors of a Daedroth stronghold 
 or hitting up the slums of Bravil, there are always nipples to see in Oblivion. In fact, if one 
 were so inclined, one could create a virtual SEA of nipples, across which only the bravest of sadly 
 nipple-less men could cross. Be forewarned, however - such superb nipple rendering is not easy, 
 and one must have a high-end machine capable of realizing thousands of sets of nipples simultaneously. 
 The financial investment is entirely worth it.
  
  Speaking of technical aspects, the GUI could have been better fitted to the personal computer. 
 Your humble author found it infuriatingly difficult to view nipples at an optimal angle, and an 
 "auto-nipple-zoom" function would have been very useful. Let's leave that for third party modification 
 (hint, hint) !
  
  The world is very well thought out. For example, the nipples of an Orcish maiden provide a stirring 
 contrast to the mundane nipples of the Breton, Cyrodiil, Nord, or Red Guard. The azure hue of an 
 Orc nipple creates a sense of sadness and oppression, BEARING the HARDships of their race out in 
 the open where everyone is free to look - assuming that you have been carrying about a consistent 
 metabolic process on our belov'd chunk of rock long enough to have arbitrarily passed around its 
 massive reacting sphere of hydrogen seventeen times. But it is entirely worth it, for nothing is 
 more graceful, more glorious, then seeing your favorite pair dangling the moment you arrive at 
 your homestead in Skingrad. I do believe they called it Skingrad for a reason!
  
  Do you believe in miracles? You really should, for one has happened in Oblivion's nipples. Due 
 to the restraining rating system Gamespot gives user reviews, I was forced to give this game an 
 underwhelming 10/10. So, to ensky this game rightly with all the masterworks of mankind. . .
  
  I give The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion a 37.81451181181 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkoonz1
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been of fan of the Elder Scrolls games since the beginning, having played all of them all 
 the way back to Arena and Battlespire and this is by far the most creative to date. The interaction 
 in the game is far superior to that of even Morrowind. I have enjoyed just exploring the province 
 of Cyrodiil. As a long-time game fan, I find the continuity of the world to be the best part of 
 the adventure. There are aspects of the history that have continued and it is interesting to now 
 play at the end of the emperor's life that I worked at saving many years ago.
  
  Perhaps the most compelling part of the game is the fluidity of the environment and the expressiveness 
 of the NPC's. The reaction of people, while predictable at times, is a good addition.
  
  The music is a big plus in this game. The score is excellent and well integrated. Would be nice 
 if it was available for purchase on CD.
  
  On the downside, this game has a fairly high requirement for hardware. Make sure that you have 
 above the recommended level for video as it makes a HUGE difference. I would not want to play this 
 without the high- res as it really makes the game.
  
  In this reviewer's opinion, this game is a must play for anyone who is a fan of RPG's and a great 
 game for fans of gaming in general. Just keep in mind, you are in for a long time in playing!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion
  
  There are a lot of good RPG games out there. Almost all RPG players can remember the days of Icewind 
 Dale and Baldurs Gate; then came the dawn of a new age with The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind. Almost 
 all RPG players remember the innovative graphic and special effects this game had. It was truly 
 on of the best RPG of its time. This time around The Elder Scrolls has released a perfect game 
 for their 10th year anniversary. Oblivion has only been out since March 20th and is now the # 1 
 game out there. A great thing for you console players, this game is not only available on PC but 
 also on the Xbox 360. 
  
  The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is remarkable and definitely holds up to its predecessor. In Oblivion 
 you are even more in control of your character than in Morrowind; From customizing your characters 
 facial features to creating your own custom character class, this game really gives you the ability 
 to create your very own character with its very own unique skills. The tutorial is amazing and 
 throws you right into the action. Instead of having your standard plain boring tutorial you get 
 to go on an escape mission and find out more about your own destiny in the game. As far as game 
 play you definitely want to READ the instructions the tutorial gives you as the controls will take 
 some time to get used to. The interface itself is rather well made and after about an hour you 
 really start getting the hang of it. 
  
  One of the game play aspect of this game that is really impressive, is that the NPC are character 
 reactive. In other words if you make a young female character you might find your self fending 
 off sexual approaches from other NPC. Same goes with different classes of character, some NPCs 
 are racist against certain classes of characters like one will hate warriors or hate dark elves. 
 This is one of the features I really liked about this game. Also one thing that can not go untold 
 is that this game will definitely not get boring. There are about 40+ hours of game play in this 
 game if you go straight from beginning to the end. That's not including taking the time to do any 
 side quests or getting the best hidden weapons. Take my word, this game would even be fun to play 
 2 or 3 times straight through due to the fact you can make a totally different character and have 
 a different story line.
  
  On a technical aspect, this game has amazing graphics BUT, and I know some players might not agree, 
 the graphics in the sewers or houses or anywhere in the game kind of get repetitive. Just in the 
 tutorial mission it seems like you walk through the same chambers or tunnels 20 times over. They 
 could have done a bit better on the textures of the world, in my opinion. As far as the details 
 on NPCs and characters, monsters and everything else it looks great. The cinematics of the game 
 are nothing but breathtaking. For the PC version you might need to update your system to get the 
 full effects of the game. The MINIMUM system requirements are a 2 GHz CPU, 512 MB Ram, a 128 MB 
 Video Card and about 5 GB of hard drive Space. The RECOMMENDED system requirements are a 3 GHz 
 CPU, 1 GB of Ram and a ATI X800 series, Nvidia GeForce 6800 series, or higher end video card. So 
 if you have a system that runs Morrowind make sure you meet the minimum specs before buying the 
 game.
  
  Overall this game is nothing short of a genius work or art.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tordinn
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, I won't compare this game with Morrowind, as I only tried it once. And I was not amazed at 
 all, actually. So, after Oblivion was released, I decided to give it a try.
  
  To begin with, despite the great graphics, it still has some major performance issues. To run it 
 "just fine" on decent PC, you will have to put all the settings off, which don't improve the look 
 of course. The sound and music are really wonderful. All dialogues are made with such care I didn't 
 see for long time. Music too.
  
  Furthermore, the leveling system, which isn't innovative (I remember it from Morrowind) is surprisingly 
 good. You don't have to hack'n'slash your way trough monsters to get another level-up, there's 
 no standard experience points here. Too bad it does not save you from "level grind"... So, you 
 can gradually improve your character without getting into combat. You will must though, no matter 
 how much you try.
  
  Moreover, you will engage into great back-story, which I don't care. Fans will like it, I prefer 
 Wacraft storyline. Anyway, you don't have to be played the previous parts of Elder Scrolls, the 
 game is ready, adventures await.
  
  To sum up, this is game is a bit tricky for role-playing beginners, the hardcores will fit just 
 right in. Even if you didn't try any RPG games before, give it a try. Just as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok! this game is a good rpg but...
  
  80 hours, it is the time I have spend to finish it. Many hours of fun and challenge. Better combat 
 system than morrowind. You can now use spells and melee skills without to change your combat statue (unlike 
 morrowind) .
  
  The main quest is very short. After 70 hours to doing jobs for the guilds I finished the main quest 
 from the beginning in 10 hours.
  
  The graphics are great, sounds too, but this game cannot beat Morrowind for two reasons:
  
 
  1: Its a game for rich peoples: the monster computer you must own to enjoy the game at its best 
 sounds and graphics is almost a joke! We are not all billionaires. I have a descent computer and 
 some intense combat sequences was like a slide show. For those saying that we have just to play 
 the Xbox360 version, you should think about that:
  
  500$ for the xbox and almost 2000$ for the LCD screen to reproduce the quality of a computer screen. 
 If I would have the money for that, I would upgrade my computer for the half!!!!... 300$ for a 
 mother board, 300 for a amd64 processor, 400$ for a cutting edge ATI video card and 250$ for RAM. 
 And my computer will run perfectly other things than video games... Will I purchase a xbox360? 
 In your dreams.
  
  2: The auto-leveling systems is the plague of this game. A real rpg must to give you the feeling 
 to become stronger as you leveling up, not the opposite! I am at level 46 and I feel myself no 
 stronger than when I was at level 1. What the hell when you don't want to reach a higher level 
 in a rpg because the enemies will be stronger. Morrowind was the best rpg for that because the 
 enemies kept their place in the game and it was an incredible feeling to beat them some hours after 
 they killed you.
  
  But I have to say that despite these mistakes oblivion is a good game. I hope that Bethesda will 
 create another one!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I entered the TES scene at Morrowind, and I enjoyed for about ten or so hours, after that, I felt 
 the story was too overwhelming and I lost track of my progress, and wasn't sure what I was to do, 
 so I spent hours wandering around aimlessly.
  ~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  I install Oblivion on my comp (Specs at the bottom of review) and load it up (now it's modded to 
 kingdom come :) but I'm talking about the original work)
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and very lively, the bushes sway in the wind and so forth, then the 
 clouds roll in and it begins to rain. The first person animations are beautifully done and looks 
 great to boot. The weapons look gorgeous and shine in the light. Lighting can't be beat (Unless 
 your comp has HDR, which mine doesn't, which is odd, cause my card handled the HDR in HL2 just 
 fine) and the night sky is beautiful, this game is the second game where I can stop and stare up 
 at the sky for a while at night and enjoy the stars (The first being Harvest Moon A wonderful life) .
 
  
  The sound is nice and the music sets the mood (though it is fun to add your own music into it too 
 :p ) . I love the sound of my sword cutting through a daedra.
  
  The controls are well done and keeps me playing, the battle system is well done and simple. That 
 was one of the turnoffs I had for morrowind (Still a really good game though) I didn't like how 
 I would face a rat, and click the mouse button repeatedly, doing the same motion and missing 99% 
 of the time, with oblivion the battles are more realistic. The game has some lag, but nothing that 
 would stop me from playing. I run the game with all features (except HDR) on at 800x600 and I'm 
 fully happy with the results. MY framerate takes a few hits sometimes but I don't care, cause they 
 aren't as big as the hits the rats in the sewers I face do.
  
  Bottom Line: Morrowind is a great game with a great story, but I felt overwhelmed and the combat 
 wasn't as great as it could be. Oblivion does what Morrowind couldn't... Keep me playing after 
 15 hours. I reccommend this game to anyone who has a good rig.
  
  MY RIG:
  CPU: AMD Athlon 64 3000+
  RAM: 512MB
  Video Card: Sapphire Technology Radeon x800 GTO 256MB 
 PCIe
  Mainboard: K8N NEO4 Socket 939 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  When you think of Elder Scrolls 4 series, you expect ALOT, Oblivion sure gives you hours of gameplay 
 and will get you addicted to the game... its perfect in every way. I am not a big fan of RPG's but 
 this game is my favorite, its so amazing how good it is... besides, what can you expect from a game 
 that took almost 4 years to make. One of the nicest features in this game is that you can create 
 your own character, and in every detail, from his or hers noze, facial hair, body etc... You can 
 even choose what race you like your character to be, and class. This is not yout typical RPG, its 
 no turn base action, its fast paced and in first person view ( you can use 3rd person view also) 
 You can use magic, bows, swords, blunt weapons and hand to hand combat. You can even create your 
 own potions, join guilds that are rewarding, you can commit crimes by murder or stealing. The graphics 
 are breath taking, but... you will need a high end PC for all the glory, this game is hard on old 
 hardware.... thats the only problem about it, but its worth upgrading for this game. The sound fit 
 well to the ambient, the voices are mostly the same for every character , but its well done. The 
 musical score is awsome, goes well with the fight and scenery. There is too much to talk about 
 this game, i cant say everything because it will make the review so long.... you can see how much 
 content this game has to offer. even if this game would costs $100, i still would buy it.
  
  in conclusion, this game has everything you want in an fantasy RPG... get it now!
  
  Graphics: 
 
  + Breath taking visuals, scenery, special effetcs and more are perfect.
  +character detail is good, could have been a bit better on the faces
  +/- Need to be optimized, 
 current hardware dont do well with those self shadowing.
  - a real system hog, dont play it if your PC cant meet the recommended
  
  Sound: 
  +/- Good 
 voice acting, even tho most of the voices are repeated
  + musical score fits the theme, its theatrical
  
  Game Play: 
  + 100+ hours of gameplay, 
 join guilds, fight to the death in the arena, explore the world of Tamriel etc.......
  +/- does not include multiplayer.... but you dont need it really
  + many classes and weapons to 
 choose from.
  
  Replay Value: 
  + side quests alone can make you play more than 40 hours
  + has alot to offer, combinations in 
 magic, character, and weapons will bring you back.
  + very addcitive... excuse me while i log off Gamespot and play this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: digger158
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I originally purchased this as a time-filler while I awaited the release of Neverwinter Nights 
 II. Little did I know at the time that it would make me forget about NMN II altogether!
  
  I've been playing for about two weeks and have barely scratched the surface. Numerous choices and 
 the vast area make the possibilities seem limitless. Follow the plot or go off on one of the many 
 side quests... or even just wander about the landscape admiring the scenery and wreaking havoc as 
 you see fit.
  
  Even for those who are not fans of RPG's will find this to be exceptional. My girlfriend who hates 
 video games period is always watching over my shoulder enthralled with the detail, storyline and 
 realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the latest chapter in the Elder Scrolls saga, which is known for its open-ended gameplay 
 and countless quests. After playing through the game twice, I can confidently say that Oblivion 
 lives up to and exceeds the media hype.
  
  Gameplay: Oblivion is a hybrid first/third person shooter. The controls are easy to learn if you 
 have played either genre before. While it might be easy to give Oblivion a perfect 10, there is 
 one hitch: the game's selling point, its open-endedness, is also a hinderance. There are points 
 in the game where you will have difficulty assessing what to do because there is so much to do.
 
  
  Graphics: Amazing. The world is amazingly rendered. You will spend hours simply traveling around 
 the game world looking at the landscapes.
  
  Sound: Also amazing.
  
  Value: The game's open-endedness and ability to generate almost any type of character imaginable 
 ensures that you can play the game over and over.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend this game to anyone with the money and a decent PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chwcrisco
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  this game encorperates some of the best aspects of any game, not only are the graphics incredible, 
 but teh gameplay that goes along with it is also inmatchable, ever since i got the game i have 
 not been able to put it down, the storyline is also a good one, you have PURPOSE when going through 
 the game! Despite some bugs and a few glitches the game runs smoother than a baby's bottom!, you 
 also have to have a pretty fast computer to play this, not just any computer will cut it for this 
 one. If you have ever played any of these game and like them, or if you have never even picked 
 one up, it is incredible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GasolineBomb
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a great game. The graphic is excellent. 
  I enjoy playing this game...
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
  You must downlaod it... Or buy 
 it.
  
 
  
  www. InfiniteWarez. com
  HTTP DOWNLOAD
  
  www. goldwarez. com
  
  download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download downloaddownload download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download downloaddownload download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download downloaddownload download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download downloaddownload download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download downloaddownload download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download downloaddownload download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download downloaddownload download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download downloaddownload download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 downloaddownload download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download download download downloaddownload 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download downloaddownload download 
 download download download download download download download download download download download 
 download download download download download download download download 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinseraph22
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those rare games that really delivers on many things that it promises but yet, feels 
 somewhat unfinished. To be fair most games are technically unfinished leaving developers thinking 
 about all the stuff that they could have improved upon . The game itself is a great experience 
 that will suck up hours if not days of ur personal time. the the main stroyline itself is somewhat 
 bland and may be a bit slow to start off but the real attraction here is the huge massive sprawling 
 world it delivers to you. There is so many things that you can do but seems like there is so little 
 time do do them all.
  
  Elder scrolls III morrowind was a great game in its own respect. so many gamers have logged in 
 over 70 and 100 hours and up. But some aspects felt out of place, like not telling you where your 
 objective is, or where to go for a certain item. Many problems that were present have thankfully 
 been corrected, mostly all for the good. Fast travel and the possibility of purchasing your own 
 home are great additions that appeal to some gamers that thought morrowind was overwhelming or 
 let you be a bit more legal. Enemy levels where a factor for various gamers out there so bethesda 
 decided to add a new feature where the enemies are leveled to your own level or close to is so 
 u will never be outmatched, for good or the bad. Ofcourse if you do not like the way bethesda made 
 it, there is a massive community decicated to creating mods for the users that can create a big 
 difference in your experience so you will never be left without new weapons, quests, or places 
 to go.
  
  While the storyline may be over fairly quickly, there are so many distractions that before you 
 know it, so many hours may have flown by, while you were in the juggernaught that is oblivion. 
 dont like the story? then join the fighters guild and make a difference? dont like the noble life 
 style? prove yourselve worthy to join the theives or the assasins guilds with the possibility to 
 take it over eventually. like magic? join the mages guild to gain spells and items for alchemy 
 and otherwise hard to find items. You can even avoid that and enjoy exploring some 12 square miles 
 if not more of open space filled with ancient ruins, temples, shrines to the various gods, and 
 a plethora of mines, all of which are filled with treasure. Not having fun with the game? perhaps 
 the game is too much for you, but for the hundreds and thousands of us out here, we can tell you 
 that this is a game that we will remember for a long time!
  
  Welcome to oblivion, check your life at the door please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissTheJackal
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Best singleplayer RPG ever, ( maybe the only rival will be Neverwinter Night 2) . At first you see 
 the grafics and the fizicks engine.. then comes the story and the gameplay (cool fighting moves) 
 .... a huge world (a lot of NPCs) . Great quests.
  For those who played Morrowind it takes about 5 minute to familiarize with the controls and the 
 gameplay.
  Its a game wich everyome who calls himself a Player have to play it.
  After a few hours of game .. when you think you have seen everything.. there is allways something 
 new you discovere.
  So ots a great game .. and if you want youcan play it fot month ... and still not get bored of it. 
 And if it hapens that you finish it..... you willl want to start it over from thr begining.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nguyenkain
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I have played this game since tonight , but it very impressive me ! The game is very real like 
 the life , and the graphic so nice ! I never play any game like this before . It's different from 
 Fable , and greater than KOTOR , I like this RPG rule , very free and very real .
  The game play , one word to say : perfect ! THis game has PERFECT story , PERFECT rpg style , and 
 PERFECT view (it has many view , like close view , third person view , first person view ....
 
  Sound , it's fine .
  Finally , This is the game for every people . You will fell very poor without this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargod53
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 3, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I was nervous when I bought this game, nervous that it would run badly on my computer when I was 
 so excited about it. However, it has re-kindled my faith in my computer, because it runs very well, 
 on high settings and at high resolution! Result!
  
  The game starts with a helpful tutorial, which allows you to get to grips with the gameplay mechnaics 
 of combat, magic and stealth. The first thing you notice about the game when it loads is how obscenely 
 beautiful it is, however that is nothing. When you first step out of the sewer, and gaze out upon 
 the vast and gorgeous world of Cyrodiil, it is like nothing you have ever seen before. After a 
 couple more minutes fiddling with my settings to get it just right (do this outside, so that when 
 you get it running nicely, it will be great in cities and buildings too!) I was off, wandering 
 around this absurdly beautiful place. That is the great thing about it, you don't HAVE to do anything, 
 you can just wander freely and enjoy yourself!
  
  The quests are brilliant fun, each is fairly long, but I won't tell you anything about them so 
 as not to ruin the suprise! The story is involving and the main quests are very engaging, however 
 I have not done many of the main quests yet. I have spent my time doing side quests, such as jobs 
 for the fighters guild, fighting in the arena and working for the mages guild. There are many factions 
 you can join, lots of them offering quests and rewards.
  
  Sound is also excellent, with a nice score to accompany the meaty weapon noises, and MASSES of 
 recorded dialogue. This is not one of those games where you see lines of text but hear nothing, 
 oh no, every NPC in the game has full recorded speech. However sometimes the accents get a bit 
 samey, because it is obviousely the same actor doing the voice, and this can sometimes ruin the 
 sense of disbelief, however that is a VERY minor concern, and I would rather have it like it is 
 than have no dialogue at all.
  
  Quite simply the game is a joy to play, with difficulty slider that allows you to make it as easy 
 or hard as you want (be warned, the hardest difficulty is REALLY REALLY REALLY hard, and the easiest 
 is REALLY REALLY REALLY easy) . The viewpoints are great, I usually wander about in 3rd person mode 
 to look at my lovely character, and then fight in 1st person, but you can choose either way, and 
 you can flick between the viewpoints with a touch of a button.
  
  Overall this is the best RPG I have ever had the honour to play, and I heartily recommend it to 
 anyone who likes large, beautiful games. Even if you don't normally like RPGs you should try this, 
 becuase it has a lot of action in it and so an action fanatic will like this too, (I know because 
 I am one) it is not a slow paced RPG in any sense. If you DO like RPGs then why are you reading 
 this? Buy it now! You will NEVER regret it! 
  
  FANTASTIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  According to the interview, the stealth system in Oblivion will not be as in-depth as a title like 
 Thief. For instance, firing an arrow at an enemy will not cause then to search around for you. 
 Instead, hitting an enemy with an arrow will either cause them to detect your presence, or if you 
 manage to go undetected, will cause them to enter a ready stance and await your appearance. The 
 flashiness or colors of your clothing will not affect your ability to remain hidden.
  
  In outdoor environments, the foliage will affect NPCs' ability to detect you, so hiding amongst 
 trees and bushes should work. In terms of how the Radiant AI system will work, players will encounter 
 "continuing characters" as they progress through the game. These characters will pop up at various 
 points to help out, and you'll be able to watch the characters as they grow and even influence 
 their own development.
  
  The game will not include cloth physics for everyone's apparel, and it won't be possible to mod 
 in physics either. To go along with that, modders will also not be able to add new weapon types, 
 skills or new fight animations. There have been a number of refinements to the modding tools, including 
 more powerful scripting that will be able to interact with the entire game. Specifically, this 
 means it will interact with the newer features Oblivion boasts like the physics and facial animations.
 
  
  Remember how you could force people in Morrowind to bend to your will through conversation options? 
 Well, in Oblivion Bethesda has taken that mechanic one step further. The interview states that 
 the already enhanced persuasion mini-game we witnessed at E3 last year has been augmented even 
 further, to the point where, "it plays much more like a game now." During the course of a conversation, 
 a sort of pie chart will pop on screen, divided into Joke, Admire, Boast and Coerce quadrants. 
 Each quadrant will be filled with a "wedge" that increases or decreases in size based on how receptive 
 that person is to the option chosen. A higher speechcraft skill will allow you to gain more favor 
 with the person you're talking, and also reduce your losses should you pick an unfavorable option.
 
  
  Players will not see running water in the game nor see their legs if they look down in first-person 
 mode. Water will reflect things like mountains and cities, but will not reflect grass and trees. 
 While these are fairly minor points, they're still good to know, especially considering how scarcely 
 playable this game has been. On an interesting note, yourself and environmental objects will sink 
 in water if heavy enough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: szabig
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  First of all it is a great game but fustrating once you realize that the only way to become stronger 
 is to keep pressing the mouse.
  Completing a quest is nothing no experience points or anything like that. 
  
  For instance 
 you choose some alteratinon magic and hit the button for about 100 times you get a 1 point increase, 
 (so if you intend to use it only in battles it would take forever to increase) , but if you keep 
 hitting the spell you can became a master in a couple of hours. but the funy thing is that the 
 game wont be easier because your enemies are becoming stronger too.
  
  But if you dont level up you wont find any descent waepon or armor.
  for instance i am level 
 39 right now (with hard work of button pressing D, above 100 hours gameplay) , and even the bandits 
 are hanging out in deadric or glass armor so money is not a problem any more...
  
  So its prety skrewd up, i dont what they where thinking this is not an online rpg. Its still a 
 good game but if you play with a rpg you want to become as strong as possible, and the other big 
 problem with the game that it is not a real rpg because it has only 1 ending.
  
  Otherwise one of the best games i have ever played!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladyrosebriar
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has probably been one of the most hyped games I can recall. We've all anxiously awaited 
 its release wondering would it live up. Quite simply, yes. The graphics are stunning and I'm running 
 a pc that meets the lower end of the requirements for CPU and graphics card. There's nothing quite 
 like standing on the top of a mountain and seeing a distant city far below. I love scaring up a 
 small herd of deer as I tramp across the countryside in search of adventure. I marvel at beautiful 
 cascading waterfalls as butterflies flit innocently about. There is a serene beauty in Cyrodiil 
 that contrasts magnificently with the burning wastes of Oblivion and the evil it contains. The 
 nightmarish landscape inside Oblivion with its scores of daedra sent my heart racing. The difference 
 is very much like heaven and hell.
  
  I've been pleased with some of the improvements made in gameplay. Specifically, that you can cast 
 magic spells while still wielding your weapon. The addition of blocking makes combat a bit more 
 realistic. It is now so much easier to hurl spells and effectively defend yourself. I still long 
 for dual wielding capability but I guess I will have to rely on the modding community for that 
 to happen. I feel that the new mini-games to raise/lower disposition and pick locks are much more 
 fun when compared to a behind the scenes check against your skill system. Much has been written 
 about the level of realism and AI that this game features. The NPC's are almost an entertainment 
 in themselves. You never know for sure what they will do or where they might go. I like that stores 
 now close and lock up, that people actually go to sleep in their beds or go sit down at the local 
 pub for a drink. Thieves actually have to fence their stolen goods. Walking down the street and 
 eavesdropping on random conversations continues to immerse you in this world. Fast travel and horses 
 are huge additions for me. I hated the one place Mark/Recall you got with Morrowind and don't get 
 me started on silt striders.
  
  My complaints are few but every game has room for improvement. The Main Quest is just too short. 
 I wanted more! Sure I have played over 100 hours and I still have dozens of places to investigate, 
 but if you follow just the main line of quests you can probably beat that in 14 hours or less. 
 There are fewer factions to join but the depth of the storyline on the guild quests goes much deeper 
 than Morrowind. Quests were more detailed and well thought out. Some have complained about the 
 game "holding your hand" as far as guiding you through the quests. Very simply, don't use the markers 
 if it bothers you that much. Frankly there were times I was very glad to have them as characters 
 move around so much. All in all, this is one of the best games I have ever played. I am totally 
 addicted and immersed in the world of Tamriel thanks to Oblivion. This is a game that every RPG 
 fan should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Yes . . . this game is 'foot-skin altering' shallow on one end and 'OMG i left my floaties home! 
 ' deep on the other end.
  
  First off , a casual gamer will end up playing this life sucking game for near eternity. On the 
 other hand a typical hard core gamer will be master of everything ( including guilds ) within the 
 first couple weeks. You will often see these power gamers running around in their skivvies , looking 
 for traps or high enough towers to push 'fans' off of , ( if you play the game you will understand 
 ) in order to cling to the feeling they had when they sprung their first trap , or crapped a penguin 
 when something snuck up on them.
  
  All-in-all this game IS a must play. Very few titles have the bragging rights that this title has. 
 
  The shallow end of this title are mostly small details that could really have made this a perfect 
 10. One is I would like my NPCs to have more personality and for god sakes . . . why does that 
 orc fighter over their have the same voice as this elven mage ( i think Bethesda could have sprung 
 for a few more actors for voice overs ) .
  The Deep end of this title comes from larger things , like eye candy and Customization options. ( 
 nothing beats being able to go to the northern most part of the map in the mountains and being 
 able to see the main city in all its glory AND beyond ) , 
  
  I recommend buying this title to show your friends that you can be cool too, BUT if you HAVE to 
 liberate your friends only copy like a soulless mooch , then by all means , DO IT NOW !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Overall ~6/10 -- (38/60)
  
  - Gameplay 23/30
  - Story 4/10
  - Graphics 5/5
  - Sound 1/5
  - Effort/Innovation 2/5
  - Presentation 3/5
 
  - Replay Value Medium
  - Monetary Value $30
  
  Preface: All of sudden I understood what every ESII Daggerfall fan was complaining about in Morrowind. 
 It hit me like a truck and unfortunately it cannot be undone. Oblivion is a great game. Make no 
 mistake that it belong up top 100 in ranks. Oblivion makes a shift away from its roots in Morrowind 
 and Daggerfall further into the action/adventure genre. Each iteration in the Elder Scrolls series 
 is more streamlined (dumbed down) than the previous. Each step down the ladder reduces options 
 and customization and moves the game farther away from RPG to something else. It can certainly 
 still be considered RPG but my fear is that the next game may be closer to Tomb Raider than D&D 
 at its current pace.
  
  So what does RPG mean to me anyway? First and foremost, unlike other genres, an RPG has a very 
 intricate story that can be directly influenced by player decisions. The objective of an RPG is 
 to create a customizable character and write the story as the player plays the game. Some RPGs 
 are very linear but the best RPGs are those that allow you to influence the world you are playing 
 in. This is the big problem with Oblivion as an RPG and why it wouldnt be ranked in towards the 
 top for the RPG genre. As a hybrid RPG/Adventure game however it is very good thanks to its RPG 
 roots.
  
  Now on with the review.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY (8/10)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat (6/10) + Options (8/10) + Fluidity (9/10) = 23 out of 30
  
  Oblivion is your basic 1st-person 
 hack and slash game. You have the option to switch to 3rd person view but the camera makes 3rd 
 person very clumsy. The game focuses on 1 character and you will never be able to control more 
 than your main character during the game.
  
  Combat : 6/10
  
  1 point better than Morrowind but still very boring and mostly unchanged save for longer battles. 
 Like Morrowind you have many options for how to deal with enemies. You can be a fighter type wielding 
 heavy armors and weapons, or a mage type with spells that damage, summon, and charm, or you can 
 play a stealth type character that sneaks up on the enemy and backstabs for bonus damage before 
 entering combat. You can play combat any way you like but in the end the best character is one 
 that uses all his abilities rather than rely on just 1 class of abilities.
  
  The combat AI remains a sore point in the Elder Scroll games. It is very simplistic and easy to 
 defeat despite level scaling which I will discus later. The game presents absolutely no challenge 
 whatsoever once you figure out the game mechanics. Essentially, once you figure out the tricks 
 with conjuration, illusion, and sneak the game becomes trivial and combat becomes nothing more 
 than a waste of time easily avoidable whenever desired. You could increase the difficulty but all 
 that does is make battles longer not any more challenging.
  
  Several new special moves were implemented into combat but they are so rudimentary that they didnt 
 even garner a raised eyebrow from me. Basically you have Morrowind combat with a few new moves 
 that are very hard to near impossible to land that really don't add much to combat depth. What 
 does add to depth is the fact that enemies are scaled to your level which means they have more 
 hit points than most Morrowind enemies meaning that fights generally take longer than in the previous 
 game. Nothing new or revolutionary here.
  
  In a complete turnaround from Morrowind, magic is now very convenient in combat whereas it was 
 too much of a hassle to use in the old games. 
  
  Options : 7/10
  
  Where Oblivion improves on many things it took 2 steps backwards in the options category. Character 
 creation remains essentially the same as Morrowind but many skills were removed (streamlined) removing 
 them altogether from the game. Gone are Axes, Spears, Unarmored, Short Blade, and Medium Armor. 
 Why they were removed? I have no idea but they say it was to streamline the game. Anyway moving 
 on.
  
  Like in Morrowind the choices you make during character creation become obsolete and irrelevant 
 over time as all character converge towards excellence in every skill. What this means is that 
 the things you pick in character creation just arent as important as they seem in the long run. 
 This presents a flaw in the system that allows the player to either become underpowered or overpowered 
 depending on the choices of major and minor skills during the initial parts of the game. This appears 
 to be unintended and really takes a lot of fun out of the game from an RPG point of view.
  
  You can specialize in range combat with marksmanship, or you can stick to the tried and true 
 melee weapons such as blades or blunt, or you can try stealth or you can become a magic caster 
 and blow everyone away with spells but dont waste too much timing planning and thinking about it 
 because over the course of the game you will become godly in all categories anyway. You play how 
 you like although there are a lot of limits on spell casting now that you cannot enchant or create 
 spells without finishing certain quests first due to the heavy nerf to enchanting (all armor enchants 
 are now overpowered due to constant effect) .
  
  Oblivion has surprisingly fewer items than Morrowind. Because Medium Armor was completely removed 
 armor options have been cut by 35%. There are still about 10 sets to work with but that's about 
 it. Weapon variety is also reduced due to the lack of throwing weapons, and spears. Ninja and samurai 
 lovers will scoff at the lack of Japanese style weapons and armor in this game.
  
  Luckily Alchemy remains unchanged and has been balanced to avoid the exploits created in Morrowind. 
 
  
  Enchanting was hit hard by the nerf stick. Armor can only have one enchantment max now and all 
 enchantments on armor are now constant effect only. This presents several issues into the game. 
 1st everyone from Morrowind knows how overpowered constant effect enchantments can be. This is 
 why they were limited in Morrowind. By making them easily attained in Oblivion you can create ridiculously 
 overpowered sets of items with almost no effort at all. Things like 100% Shield, and 100% Chameleon 
 are now easily attainable by anyone at any level. But making a balanced item such as 5% shield 
 and 50 feather is now impossible. You cannot even make a cast on use ring anymore to heal yourself 
 with anymore. Even though you have to pay (still not sure who you are paying the money to) for 
 all enchantments you cannot create enchantments from spells you cannot cast. This makes no sense 
 since you are paying for the service and requires a non-mage type character to level up all his 
 magical skills to create decent enchantments. Again, I not sure why all this was streamlined since 
 it was fine before but there is nothing we can do about it now.
  
  You can become a vampire just like in Morrowind unfortunately it just isnt much fun and its mechanics 
 make no sense. A vampire is stronger when he has not fed so all you have to do is not feed until 
 you absolutely have to and you will become godly. Its too much of hassle and is really not needed 
 especially since there are no vampire clans or vampire type quests to do which brings us to the 
 next problem... 
  
  Factions have been reduced dramatically in numbers from Morrowind. Gone are the great houses and 
 clans and all that remains are a few guilds and some silly side factions that you can join. 
  
  You can no longer kill gods (they arent even available to fight against) or kings like in 
 Morrowind since they can only lose consciousness in this game.
  
  Speechcraft, Security, and Mercantile skills have been rendered useless in this game. Speechcraft 
 and security can now be mastered regardless of the character skill since they involve a mini-games 
 that are very easy to defeat. There is no point in having the skills if they are defeated via mini-game. 
 Again not very RPGish.
  
  Fluidity : 6/10
  
  The game is supposed to be bigger than Morrowind but most will agree that it feels small for many 
 reasons. The main landmass of Oblivion is fairly large but has very little variation save for the 
 few places with snow on them. Architecture looks very similar throughout the game and between towns. 
 Dungeons had their designs improved significantly and are now much more enjoyable to explore. Unfortunately 
 exploration is marred by a leveled loot system that makes no sense whatsoever. You go in a dungeon 
 and at the end of the dungeon you find a chest with a very hard lock on it. You proceed to pick 
 the lock carefully only to find a shovel and fork in the chest at level 20 or so. In general loot 
 found in chests and locked places is very badly populated and is overshadowed by items found on 
 silly, easy to find bandits running around the world. This makes going into dungeons somewhat pointless 
 since you can get much better items just looking for random bandits who have full sets of Deadric 
 armor and high price weapons equipped.
  
  There are about 6 large towns & a few small villages to explore all over the place. Within towns, 
 you can essentially go into every house, and every room in the game. You can steal almost anything 
 you see using spells, or stealth & security skills. You can attack almost anyone and you can do 
 almost anything you want but unfortunately doing so makes the game very one sided from then on 
 as you have to avoid annoying guards & citizens where ever you go. Not that they are hard to kill 
 but there will be very little to do if you kill every NPC in the game but then again that is an 
 option. Unfortunately selling stolen goods is a huge hassle since everyone know exactly what items 
 where stolen so they will not buy them from you forcing you to sell them to specific vendors only 
 available to you via quests.
  
  NPCs come in different flavors and sizes from shop keepers, and guild masters, to assassins and 
 thieves some give quests, some attack out of the blue, other are there to provide information and 
 still other are just a decoration. They come from differing factions and have their own dispositions 
 and dialogs. Unfortunately due to the number of NPCs in game you will find many NPC simply repeat 
 the same dialog options and have many share the same voices but I can see how this unavoidable 
 in a game such as this. Luckily you never have to go through all the dialogs with every npc. 
 
  
  The game has no sense of economy and the RAI that was hyped so much turns out to be one of the 
 most un-immersive additions to the game for many reasons. I will not go into them here since they 
 require a lot of detail but lets just say that RAI kills immersiveness when it was designed to 
 do the opposite.
  
  Combat (25/10) + Options (10/10) + Fluidity (9/10) = 24 out of 30 or 8/10
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STORY (4/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  You start 
 the game in jail. The king sees you and it turns out that you are destined to save the world from 
 the bad guys. You don't know why you were in jail. You don't know where you came from. You want 
 to kill the king and his son because you find them annoying and too dumb to listen to but unfortunately 
 you cannot. What happened to RPG?
  
  The story is very bland and takes about 10-20 hours to complete depending on the player. Unlike 
 Morrowind, which was rich in lore and heavy on story telling, Oblivion plays a lot more like an 
 adventure game. Meet this guy who tells you to do something for no good reason aside from saving 
 everyone, and you have to do it specifically as asked or the plot does not advance. Very little 
 leeway is given to the player to chose how and why they should do anything. In my game I had absolutely 
 no motivation whatsoever to follow the plot aside from my own interest in seeing a story unfold. 
 Unfortunately that meant that the story was neither immersive nor interesting in any way.
  
  Ironically, the most impressive quests were from the Dark Brotherhood line of side quests in 
 the game. Unfortunatly however, that had nothing to do with the main plot. It was just a side quest 
 and had no real significance on anything in the Oblivion world. Other side quests such as the mage 
 guild and thieve guild quests were bland and riddled with questions marks. At one point I had to 
 steal something from the Arch-Mage... but I was the Arch-Mage so go figure.
  
  Unlike Morrowind with its plethora of books Oblivion has only a handful of new books with any kind 
 of lore written within. Last time I looked at the construction set I counted 6 (six) books total 
 that had anything to do with Tamriel that were not reprinted from Daggerfall or Morrowind. Very 
 disappointing.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS (5/5)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The best thing about this game is its graphics. They are not cutting edge, and load distances are 
 somewhat strange to see but otherwise things look great. Faces all look unique, and environments 
 look lush almost like paintings. Very nicely done but overkill, more time should have been placed 
 in gameplay.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND (1/5)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  A big deal was made about voice acting in this game but I honestly didnt like it. The voices were 
 fine but after playing for 10 hours you notice that there arent very many of them. The same voices 
 are used over and over on all NPCs. The same NPCs can actually have different voices depending 
 on the topic chosen. The speech in the game kills immersiveness immensely. It is a nice novelty 
 but as many predicted, it was not implemented well enough to make it preferable over plain text 
 where you can imagine a persons voice based on their appearance. Now all NPCs feel the same because 
 they all have the same voice, when asked about the same topics.
  
  Music is almost non-existent. There are a few tracks but you will probably only notice the combat 
 and non-combat background music.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT & INNOVATION 
 (2/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Two steps forward, three steps back. A lot of resources were placed into graphics, and voices at 
 the cost of gameplay and general game advancement. What we have in Oblivion is essentially a modern 
 graphical Morrowind, with better combat but stripped down to the core of options and with a very 
 disappointing plot/lore. RAI was extremely over hyped and its bad outweigh its good. Other than 
 that most everything was carried over from Morrowind including the construction set so no high 
 point for Bethesda this time. +1 for improved combat in general. +1 for new graphics engine.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PRESENTATION 
 (3/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The game comes with a manual, and map. Because there are so few cities in Oblivion the printed 
 map was not very useful. The manual explains most of the game functions well. A section on Enchanting, 
 Soul Trapping, and Spellmaking would have been nice for new players of the game. 
  
  The lack of enemy variation, and item-level scaling make the world very bland.
  
  Lack of lore 
 make the world of Tamriel very uninteresting and not memorable.
  
  The lack of FMV (full motion video) , and character interaction made things a bit boring.
  
 
  The constant loading of areas was a huge drag sometimes.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL (21/40 
 or 5/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  A good solid game but just isnt my cup of tea. I originally purchased Elder Scroll games because 
 they had a strong RPG flavor to them mixed with some action elements that I enjoy. Oblivion makes 
 a complete U-turn on the old Elder Scroll games by being more action oriented than RPG oriented. 
 Say hello to Elder Scrolls IV  Oblivion - Tomb Raider Edition. Sad day indeed.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  On its own, replaying the game offers little benefit. However, if played on the PC with mods the 
 replay value might be worth playing the game again although you will notice that the Oblivion Modding 
 scene is no where near as imaginative or innovative as it was for Morrowind if you compare the 
 type and quality of mods being released. Not that they are bad mind you, the real problem lies 
 in the fact that most mods are game balance fixes. Some might argue that its still too early to 
 judge the mod community and although I agree we have already seen the disgruntled exit of several 
 key (very skilled) moders from Morrowind who at one point were excited about modding Obliviion 
 until they actually played the game.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  $30. A good solid game but not as Rpgish as I would have liked. If you like action/adventure games 
 you might want to add another $10 to value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is much harder to play than Morrowind , because the AI intelligence is by far superior 
 . The gameplay has changed considerably and Bethesda choose to make it harder on the average player 
 . For example resting WILL NOT recharge your magic weapons and only a journeyman of armorer could 
 repair his enchanted armor/weapons . Also some character like Umbra or Wrath spectre are hard to 
 kill , no matter how strong you are and a little work of softing them by arrows or spells cast 
 from a safe position is the best options . The most enjoyable part - for me , anyway - is the possibility 
 to do real sneaking and stealing undetected , essentially through a game where money are always 
 a problem . It will take a while to get used with the new interface , more compact than before 
 , but somehow less appealing and I think the fact that only mages from Arcane University can perform 
 enchanting / spellmaking is a let down in a universe so full of combat opportunities . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  You are the unfortunate prisoner, sitting in your particular cell, wondering just how you got yourself 
 into this troublesome predicament. Across the hall can be heard the snickers of a fellow inmate, 
 hurling insults your way as the guard and his escorts approach. While waiting you calm your fidgeting 
 by playfully moving some chains back and forth, all the while watching that ever approaching shadow. 
 Yet, with each passing second you feel a sense that something is amiss, a wariness that easily 
 tops your own current troubles. The guards reach your cell but rather than focus on you, they tell 
 you to move aside. Confused, you look as the guards are accompanied by none other than the great 
 Emperor himself. As you sit there in astonishment, you watch as the man, clothed in silk and gold, 
 turns to you and mutters an incomparably powerful sentence.
  
  Its you -- the one from my dreams.
  
  With a vague explanation and little comprehension 
 of what he means, a secret door suddenly opens, leading to a misty labyrinth, cleverly hidden behind 
 a stone infrastructure. Suddenly you are fighting side by side with the guards of the Imperial 
 City, warding off hordes of mysteriously clad assassins. In mere moments you find yourself separated 
 from the group, as well as lost in thought. Where do I go from here? Oh, but so much more awaits 
 you within the confines of the dark underground; multiple corridors that lead to lurking enemies; 
 chests with your first set of items; an array of weaponry ranging from a simple bow to techniques 
 delving in the mystic arts. These all leading up to an understanding of just who you really are 
 and what your mission is in this crazy new world.
  
  And this encompasses just the first hour of play.
  
  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion truly is one 
 of those titles that only appear once in a blue moon; in a time where dry points are strewn about 
 the gaming scene. Continuing the impressive mark that carries over from its predecessor Morrowind, 
 the game strives to give you a world that doesnt end until you want it to. Along the way you will 
 take the time to notice the attention to detail apparent in every single corner of the land of 
 Cyrodil. From the breathtakingly high mountains near Lylonadil to the snowy wastelands of Bravil, 
 impressive visuals help provide an incentive to go exploring. Murky caverns, forgotten ruins, and 
 hellish portals to far off dimensions, can all be found within several miles of each other, and 
 show that this is one twisted world youll not soon forget.
  
  What can be forgotten are some annoyances that I had some problems with in Morrowind. For one, 
 in the previous version, there were times when I wish I could simply get to my destination immediately. 
 Bethesda realized this and decided to provide an option for those of us who had seen enough of 
 the landscape already. Fast travel is an option now, giving you the chance to instantly warp to 
 any location on the map. This saves players a tremendous amount of time and helps you get those 
 quests done, minus the sluggish walking from town to town. The feature is merely optional though 
 and if you are the type that likes to take in the lush surroundings, far be it from anyone to stop 
 you. Nevertheless, the game is all about choices, and Oblivion provides a wide array of character 
 classes, each with their own unique combat approach and style.
  
  Speaking of combat, Oblivion definitely made the biggest improvement in this department, allotting 
 a wide array of possibilities no matter what you choose to be. Want to be a burly warrior, clad 
 in full heavy armor, wielding every massive weapon in the book? Be sure to specialize strength 
 and endurance then, focusing on the various weapon skills and of the course, the art of blocking. 
 That's right, warriors can now block using their respective weapon or shield, allowing for more 
 intense duels; especially if it is between two melee based fighters.
  
  Mages now have a tremendous amount of spells to choose from, ranging from the mind numbing powers 
 of illusion to the offensive forces of fire and lightning, known as destruction. And props to the 
 new hot-key system, which lets you assign any type of sword, bow, or spell to a single button push. 
 This saving you from frustratingly pressing the menu button to switch tools during combat sessions. 
 Yet, the most important aspect of the game comes down to picking the best character for the job. 
 And depending on the decision you make, will affect just how well your protagonist will perform.
 
  
  For instance, I play as the tiger race Khajit, with my skills applicable to the very cool field 
 of thievery. Thanks to the agility and speed bonuses provided by my particular kind, techniques 
 delving in: acrobatics, lock-pick, sneak, and security, help me take advantage of my class to its 
 full potential. Just as in Morrowind you level by the amount of times you use your specific skills, 
 rather than each opponent carrying a set amount of experience points. And while skills like acrobatics 
 may feel broken, since jumping continues to raise its level, the other attributes help to balance 
 it out.
  
  Now perhaps you don't want to be a fuzzy cat. Then why not take a pick from over ten other possible 
 character models, each having their own unique background and character traits. From the beer swigging, 
 axe wielding Nord to the intelligent and mysterious Dark Elf, each race provides a different experience, 
 not only in combat or appearance, but in the way people will perceive you.
  
  Taking a couple of pointers from the ill-fated Fable, the people in the world of Oblivion are among 
 the most active non-player characters ever seen in a role-playing game. Try walking into the local 
 inn for a drink, there the citizens of the town will welcome you; recognizing you by the origin 
 you chose at the beginning of the game. You will also notice how they seem to go about their own 
 predetermined schedule, sometimes even bumping into each other for a quick conversation. What is 
 sometimes fun is sneaking up on some unsuspecting duo and eavesdropping what they are saying. This 
 can lead to an understanding of the area you are in, any local missions to undertake, or perhaps 
 just a quick laugh at the convoluted exchange of words that can sometimes take place.
  
  Another thing that might have some people talking is the accomplishments that you put under your 
 belt throughout your progression of the main storyline. As you travel from city to forest; riding 
 over bridges and passing by desolate ruins and landmarks, you will begin to find the Oblivion gates. 
 These nightmarish portals have appeared all throughout the world of Cyrodil, unleashing legions 
 of imps, mutant lizards, and powerful beings known as the Daedra. Your primary objective will be 
 to find these gates, enter them, eliminate the opposition inside, and deactivate the terminal which 
 keeps these fiery gateways open. No matter how much you enjoy the dark storyline of Oblivion, there 
 are times when you just need a break. Thankfully, the game provides a plethora of sub-quests and 
 guilds to join, all which let you deepen the role of your hero further.
  
  I mean, I'm not one to brag, but I've single handedly taken down hundreds of ruthless bandits in 
 my travels. I've become the champion of the Arena in the Imperial City, where hundreds of spectators 
 cheer my name as I enter and leave each event. Whether it be taking down a team of high elf archers 
 or slaughtering a legion of trolls, the outcome is the same. Oh, and it would be foolish if I didn't 
 point out that I have among the highest honors in the thieves guild. Nothing like quietly breaking 
 into a poor sap's house late in the night and making off with the many goods strewn about their 
 shelves and chests all ninja style. I guess I could tribute my success to the fact that I have 
 the eyes of the tiger, allowing me to see into the darkness and help spot those deadly pit and 
 needle traps. Though that's not to say there aren't more career choices out there. The fighters 
 guild and mages guild have made their return from the original, along with a series of hidden clubs 
 and cults that make the before mentioned ones feel like a walk through the daisies.
  
  If there is one thing that has gotten on my nerves though, as I've slowly taken my time with Oblivion, 
 it would be the sometimes exploitable AI. And there is no other class that experiences this flaw 
 as much as the thief. For example, picture sneaking in through the front door of a item store at 
 three in the morning; your shadow silently blending in with the night. Your confidence is then 
 broken as the owner of the store comes downstairs and notices your actions. Que the following silly 
 resultant of my carelessness:
  
  Disgruntled store clerk: Hey! What are you doing here? Get out before I call the guards!
  
 
  [There is a slight pause, but then I notice he's not doing anything but glaring at me. So, I go 
 over to talk to him.]
  
  Disgruntled store clerk: Welcome, I have the finest goods in all of Cyrodil!
  
  Jin the Khajit: 
 ...
  
  Quite the punishment for getting caught eh? A small threat and a chance to sell some supplies and 
 I was off gallivanting in the night again. Luckily, the guards of the game aren't so stupid and 
 will be sure to throw you in jail if you truly piss them off. This of course leads to more difficult 
 encounters later on when you start dealing with craftier people, both human and alien alike.
  
  So, say you are stuck on a difficult boss engagement, where he continues to bind your attacks 
 and slide pass your feeble defenses. Perhaps you should go level up? Unfortunately, that's pointless 
 because the challenge of the game scales with your level. Ah, there is the solution, go into the 
 options menu and slide the toggle down to easy. It's alright, it's only for this fight and then 
 you can slide it back up again afterwards. Probably the first role-playing game in years that allows 
 you to alter the difficulty while you play, Oblivion definitely opens up some possibilities for 
 the casual gamer. Personally I don't care for it because it breaks down any wall that a player 
 would have to improve themselves to go through. It would be like asking someone not to use their 
 book on a take home test. The urge to cross that impassable rift is sometimes a little too overwhelming.
 
  
  Nevertheless, there is always the option of keeping the difficulty at maximum for you hardcore 
 players. On a somewhat similar note, the best relief for that built up tension, brought about by 
 fluent challenges, can be found in the harmless field of sight-seeing. Weather effects that change 
 as you journey from point to point, a time system that affects the sky and the schedules of the 
 people, and fluid character motions all bring together a treat for the eyes; that is even furthered 
 along if you happen to own a top of the line system. Oblivion is definitely one of the more graphic 
 intense titles to come along in a while and will require a moderate system just to run it on an 
 average setting. Those running it on a lower end computer will also notice the occasional dip in 
 frame-rate and some lock-ups as well. So, keep in mind that you get what you pay for when it comes 
 to the PC version. You get better visuals than the 360 version, but it all depends on how much 
 you are willing to spend. Ah, the old double-edged sword.
  
  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion takes the best qualities of an MMORPG and action-RPG and fuses them 
 together to form something special. The improved battle system, brilliant story-line, and sheer 
 depth of the visuals help bring everything together, even better than its predecessor had. However, 
 the PC version suffers from some performance problems that can really only be cured by having a 
 nice system. Adding that to some other detriments is what brings me to give this version of the 
 game a point less than I'd want to. When everything is said and done though, there is just too 
 much to like about Oblivion, and those that get into all it has to offer will enjoy well over 60 
 hours of playtime.
  
  In the end whatever system you decide to buy the game for is entirely up to you. It all depends 
 on whether or not you think it's the right time. The 360 is bound to get some great games (that 
 aren't ports) sooner or later right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teksliver
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 2, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was really well made but I'm getting the feeling it was too well made. When a game gets 
 this deep, it takes so much time and energy out of playing. Rather than enjoying the game, it feels 
 more like a "Here's your new life where you can kill everything you want to since your real life 
 is so crappy (we even made all the atoms so you can develop atomic bombs) " Ande after awhile I'd 
 turn off my pc, feel crappy, and go hang out with my friends before i go crazy. what happened to 
 RUN AROUND, AND PUSH BUTTONS, or at least something that i can enjoy. I feel like Oblivion is a 
 game on... grocery shopping. one of those new brain games from Japan that teach you things, pointedly 
 getting the best deals, and buying the right things. so basically you can do everything the npc's 
 tell you to do or run around aimlessly, space barring every flower you see and seeing just how 
 long it will take for the retarded AI to find out it can't kill you on any difficulty setting. 
 well, thanks for a few hours of fun but i'd much rather do something else than play this game. 
 it's not as exciting to come down to play as something like BF2 or even Final Fantasies. if i want 
 to turn it on, it's because someone is really toasting me in BF2. otherwise it gets an ehh reaction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous! the graphics are brilliant, the only problem is.. theyre almost too brilliant 
 :/ i have 1gb of RAM, 2.8 GHZ pentium D, and a Nvidia X600 Hyper-Memory... and the game is pretty 
 choppy when stuff goes down. i think the issue is either the RAM or video card, but if you dumb 
 down the video settings, you should be fine. and even with the weak settings, the game is still 
 incredible! the characters are awesome and the environments are shaaaweeeeet. if you liked any 
 of the other Elder Scrolls games, you'll love this game. its a great RPG/ FPS/ Adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HighlandKnight
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  I've made mistakes before. Buying a new game and falling under its digital spell, only to wake 
 up with a red-eyed hangover and the feeling I've had my pocket picket by pros. When you pay out 
 for a sucker game, you can see why people hate to pay. Fortunately, I can trust gamespot and a 
 couple of other sources, but even then I can't always predict if the game I bought is THE GAME 
 I want. Oblivion IS the game I wanted! Non-linear, allowing me and my faithful horse to explore 
 wherever whenever. Thanks to good people out there, you have lots of MODs to choose from to suit 
 the gaming experience you want. For anyone new to this game, I'd advise that you don't bring in 
 MODs that make things TOO easy. With some games, you almost NEED to cheat; not with Oblivion. 
 
  
  I've sometimes given ratings way higher than they should have been -- I hadn't played long enough 
 to let the honeymoon wear off. With Oblivion, I waited a bit. Mostly, I waited to rate it because 
 I was so busy playing it. Even knowing parts of the world well, there's lots of replay. Hey, it's 
 a LONG game, so I'm not too worried about replay just yet. Other games were getting boring, so 
 I was going through Far Cry for the third time (a GREAT game, though linear) when I started ES 
 IV Oblivion. At around 60 hours in, I still feel like a newbie in the amazing game world. EXCELLENT 
 voice acting, including Patrick Stewart (too briefly) and Sean Bean, who does his voice acting 
 like he was staking the rest of his career on his performance. Sean Bean is a big enough star that 
 he could have walked through his lines but is AMAZING in this role. 
  
  One picky point: I wish there was more opportunity to follow up friendships with NPCs you encounter. 
 Once their role is complete, that's it for them in terms of interacting (in most cases) . As you 
 can see, a MINOR point. If you want to interact, do multi-player games. Oblivion is just perfect 
 for late nights "living" the way you want. It's a big world, and you're free to roam as you wish. 
 Buy it! You'll enjoy it :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frikadunse
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  All in all, a nice sequal to Morrowind which i enjoyed!
  Seemingly endless world, lots of uncharted land, lots and lots of hidden quests.
  
  Perfect 
 story line, all with speech!
  
  Gentle intro to the universe of Oblivion through simple startup quests!
  
  Cons: You dont get 
 to see the potential of this game, unless you have 2000$ to spend on hardware!
  
  The quests are not to be completed in one go. A lot of the time, you can complete a part of the 
 main quest, and then you have to do som random quests to level up, to be able to complete the main 
 quest next few steps.
  
  The most annoing part: You can only use one spell at a time, and then you will have to go to the 
 menu to change to whatever spell you wish to use next. Becomes REALLY annoing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faust_DWfan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of all time. You can create your own character and choose from 8 different 
 races and customize there faces with a lot of different options to choose from. You should never 
 run out of things to do in this game.
  
  story:10
  The great thing about the story is you can make it whatever you want you can do the main story 
 or you can join the dark brotherhood, thieves guild, and others that will keep you busy for a long 
 time.
  
  Graphics:10
  The graphics are the best I have ever seen in a game every thing is very detailed the grass, walls, 
 peoples faces every thing.
  
  Gameplay:9
  The gameplay is great the fighting is easy to get into and challenging at the same time, and its 
 fun to just go around and slaughter people. Although there are a lot of brief loading times and 
 some little glitches, thats about the only thing wrong with the gameplay.
  
  Sound:10
  The sound is good it has great voice acting and every single character has there own speech. The 
 sound of the weapons clashing is really good too.
  
  Over All:9.6
  If you have a Xbox 360 then I say you should get this game immediately, its the best game for the 
 xbox360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind is perhaps my favorite video game of all time. Thus, I eagerly awaited the sequel, Oblivion. 
 In most ways, this game either met or exceeded my expectations. The developers took the reviews 
 and fan feedback about Morrowind seriously and have made a game that will likely be regarded as 
 a classic many years from now. Oblivion is by no means a perfect game, but it packs in so much 
 gaming goodness that it's hard to find much fault.
  
  Gameplay: Like Morrowind, the concept here is free-form, openended exploration. The gaming world 
 is absolutely huge with tons of stuff to do. Want to explore caves, dungeons, and ruins? Go ahead, 
 there are dozens. Like questing? Join the Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves Guild, Arena, and/or 
 Dark Brotherhood. Or, just talk to the locales who'll have plenty for you to do. The main quest 
 centers around finding the heir to the throne of Cyrodiil, which will require you to visit the 
 hellish realm of Oblivion and close various gates. It's a decent storyline altogether, but nothing 
 as epic or absorbing as Baldur's Gate 2 or even Morrowind. Overall, the various quests in this 
 game are much improved over Morrowind's, and many have multiple parts and interesting background 
 stories. Unless you blast through the main quest (about 30 hours) without doing any other tasks, 
 it would easily take 200 hours to see and do everything this game has to offer.
  
  The controls for the game are typical for first-person shooters, although the game can be placed 
 a bit awkwardly from a third-person perspective. There are several hotkeys for weapons and spells. 
 Combat is very engaging and will require some practice to get used to. Opponents will block, dodge, 
 use power attacks, and generally fight in an effective way. Stealth is improved a bit over Morrowind, 
 with a lighting/awareness system much like that of the game Thief. Also, being a mage in this game 
 is a viable option, and the alchemical system should even appeal to non-mages. And like Morrowind, 
 you can create your own custom classes, and the face generation system is very detailed. The user 
 interface is easy to read and organizes items, spells, skills, and so forth in a logical way. It 
 can't be scaled by resolution, so when it's open it covers the whole screen. 
  
  Thankfully, there are many improvements over Morrowind (and most any other computer RPG out there) . 
 Dungeons and caves are creepier and have traps, multiple areas, and lots of loot. One complaint 
 about Morrowind was that it got too easy too quickly. Few people will have that complaint about 
 Oblivion. Most creatures are leveled, meaning that they get stronger as the player character advances 
 in level. This keeps the game challenging throughout, though it still seems a bit weird to have 
 a 25-level warrior with the best weapons and armor having trouble with a goblin warlord or dread 
 zombie. Anyhow, NPCs in this game are rather lively, living their own lives, having somewhat dynamic 
 conversations, all-spoken dialogue, and many animations (eating, sleeping, horse riding, etc.) . 
 And then there are the nice little touches, such as houses to buy, display cabinets for your loot 
 (or to be looted) , a solid bartering system, the lockpicking minigame, and the exhilarating arena 
 matches (you can fight or just bet) . Also, the journal is great and sorts your quests well.
  
  Given all of its strengths, the problems with the game are mostly minor and annoying, nothing 
 major. I would have liked to have seen a bit more variety in the Oblivion plane. Once you've closed 
 one gate, it's wash, rinse, and repeat for the others (you'll have to close at least 10) . It gets 
 old quick. This also goes for the dungeons, caves, and other adventuring areas. The best way to 
 keep things interesting is to do various tasks at the same time -- some guild questing, dungeon crawling, 
 and miscellaneous quests. Otherwise, any single activity can get a bit monotonous. Sadly, the horses 
 are not as fun as they could have been. There are different breeds with different characteristics, 
 but in the end they are largely a cosmetic addition. You cannot fight while mounted, they cannot 
 carry items for you, and they are somewhat expensive. Also, opponents have a knack for targeting 
 your mount, even once you've dismounted. In about 100 hours of gameplay, I purchased over a dozen 
 horses due to the fact that they died so frequently. Ultimately, since there are other fast travel 
 options and since a character with a high Speed skill can outrun some horses, a steed is a questionable 
 purchase. 
  
  Graphics: State-of-the-art. Period. This is a beautiful game by any standard. Be ready to take 
 a lot of screenshots. It's all there: lush forests, snow-capped mountains, torrential rains, reflective 
 water, breathtaking sunsets, quaint towns, eerie dungeons, and much more. Every item in the game 
 looks realistic, including character faces and animations. The Havok physics engine nicely enhances 
 the experience. All of this, of course, means that you'll have to have a pretty good computer to 
 enjoy the game at max settings. On a 3.0ghz Pentium IV with 1GB of RAM and Geforce 6600GT video 
 card, I managed 1024x768 resolution with most settings on medium (Bloom on, along with grass and 
 water reflections) . Unlike Morrowind, this game is very scalable, so people with a wide range of 
 computers should be able to make the game playable. The developers really went the extra mile on 
 the visuals, and I certainly appreciate it.
  
  Sounds: Well done for the most part. Many of the voices from Morrowind are back, but in much greater 
 quantity since all dialogue is spoken. There are many creature sounds and environmental effects, 
 all of which are appropriate. While I loved Jeremy Soule's music for Morrowind, his efforts here 
 are lackluster. The game's soundtrack is very understated and fails to adequately set the tone 
 in many situations. Actually, I had to purposely listen for the music a lot of the time, which 
 shouldn't be the case. 
  
  Technical Issues: Fortunately, this game goes against the grain for this particular developer. 
 Up until now, Bethesda had a well-deserved reputation for releasing buggy games. However, Oblivion 
 was remarkably stable on my computer and very well-polished. Admittedly, it did crash about 10 
 times, resulting in a few corrupted saved games. However, most of the crashes took place as I tried 
 to reload saved games, which is not a big problem since I save very often. There were none of the 
 Morrowind-style crashes where you're just walking along and... BAM!!! -- desktop. Ten crashes in 
 100 hours of gameplay is a ratio that I can definitely tolerate.
  
  The game comes with a good manual and a map of the gaming area. The opening sequence serves as 
 a tutorial and is well done. Also, it is much quicker to get into the game than Morrowind, which 
 required you to listen to the opening theme music as the game loaded.
  
  Replayability/Value/: If you buy into the premise of the game (openended exploration and questing) , 
 this is a great value. I've played a lot of games, and nothing quite touches the bang-for-the-buck 
 that Elder Scrolls games have. There is a construction set for the PC version that can be downloaded 
 for free at www. elderscrolls. com. Also, like Morrowind, modders are going to have a field day with 
 this game, which should lead to some quality third-party mods for downloading. Overall, if you 
 liked Morrowind, you should really like Oblivion. If you have never played an Elder Scrolls game, 
 this is a fine one to start with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom13
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  This Game is just Great, The World, Armor, Weapons, Details, etc. 
  
  Of course it has some details, for example: Some Horses Run like if they were fat. if you have 
 the right training an the right items you can run faster than they. People in Towns looks sometimes 
 stupid (You can found the same guy at the same place in all the game) , your character jump in a 
 ridiculous way. Make money is hard and spend it buying a house on a town that has zero importance 
 on the game is nonsense, but as i said... only details.
  
  finally, I really dont understand those guys to put reviews with 1.9 or 3.4 when the 98 % said 
 that is a Great game. Dont waste your time reading those Bullsh... reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has been one of the most anticipated games for the PC since it was announced a couple 
 years ago, and guess what? it deserves all the hype and expectations that it gets because it is 
 one of the most immersive, realistic, fun games i have ever had the chance to play. the only problem 
 is at times the game gets a lil choppy when there is a lot of action going on, and when its loading 
 it may take a while.
  
  Graphics:
  When you first get out of the dungen and look out into the world it is one of the most satisfiying 
 moments that you will ever see, you will just spend at least 5 minutes looking at the game going 
 "no way".
  
  Sound:
  As for the sound, probably the best orchastrated music i have heard since lord of the rings, it 
 definetly gives you the feeling of an epic game. And when you have a surround sound hookup things 
 really come together.
  
  Gameplay:
  Easy to pick up and just start hacking away, you use the right trigger to attack and left for block, 
 even with a control scheme that simple it still gets tense and full of action when your fighting 
 an enemy or a ally who you are trying to run away from.
  
  Value:
  Never the same game twice. Even after you beat the main quest there is still litterally hundreds 
 of side quest to be done. And you can always start over with a new race and class, to begin your 
 adventures again
  
  Overall:
  One of the few games to deliever on such a scale that once you pick it up you arent gonna want 
 to put it down till its over.
  
  - AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0k3R626
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda Softworks knows how to make a good game. The graphics for Oblivion are one of the best 
 I've seen for an rpg. The non-linear storyline allows you to join several diffrent guilds such 
 as the thieves guild, fighters guild, and mages guild to name a few. The combat system never gets 
 boring allowing you to use your own unique strategy using brute force stealth or magic. Though 
 you are going to need a good computer for this game or the framerate will slow at times. Other 
 wise Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is one of the best games out there for pc and xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho649
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  First off I have played through this game out of the box right to the end, no mods first time through. 
 The graphics/music were perfect, the interaction and immersion were great, my only real complaint 
 lay in some balance between equipment/enemies. Its kind of rough after you hit ~level 20, since 
 after that every stray bandit in the game carries the best weapons/armor in the game. At first 
 it seems cool because you're getting the awesome stuff, but before long its just a waste, you'll 
 be incredibly rich very easily and theres no reward to having the cool armor, because everyone 
 else has it too. 
  
  Luckily theres already lots of mods working on fixing these sort of problems and improving hundreds 
 of other aspects of the game. It looks very likely that given a month or two this game will be 
 customizable to almost anyones liking, so for that reason I'm giving this game a 10, not because 
 its perfect now, but because it probably will be before long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedejico
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a new milestone in computer gaming, for many reasons. It offers 
 a world which is huge as few, extreme freedom of action (the trademark of TES series) , incredible 
 look and feel, superbly natural gameplay, striking graphics and excellent sound, and unmatchable 
 replay value. That said, it does come with its flaws but overall flaws are few and far between 
 and dont come close to outweighing the good news.
  
  I am not going to discuss the beaten-to-death topics on your classical TES IV review. Instead Id 
 like to focus on some other aspects which go unseen but do have a huge impact on gaming experience. 
 
  
  The Elder Scrolls is a showcase of what happens when a group of talented people get working with 
 a lot of commitment and strong determination. All aspects of the game have been equally considered 
 and the result is excellence wherever it is you look at. From the artwork art direction in general- 
 which is simply outstanding, to voice acting with great actors in the mix. Even the physical packaging 
 of the game has been done with exceeding gusto, especially the lovely collectors edition. No aspects 
 of the game have been overlooked.
  
  Take quality assurance. It is sadly a well-known fact how lacking the standard has become nowadays 
 when it comes to QA in computer games. That hasnt been the case with TES IV. Bethesda decided 
 to delay the game in what was a huge upset- to make a great game even better, in their own words. 
 The results have paid. 
  
  The redesign of the game interface is another example of how much attention has been given to detail. 
 Inventories, quest log, the map, all have been revamped in a very good way. They all enhance gameplay 
 quite a lot. Fast travelling, a controversial addition to some, a priceless feature IMHO, enables 
 the player to do whatever it is he wants to do in less than sixty seconds. Dungeon hacking, bartering, 
 breaking into a house, Arena fighting, exploration, gathering ingredients, making potions, skill 
 training you name it. Just hit F4 and fast travel to any location you have previously been to. 
 Dont think this feature discourages exploration; there are many rewards to those keen of free 
 roaming such as special locations that grant permanent new abilities that pack quite a punch and 
 some interesting side quests.
  
  Those skills who tended to be disregarded as useless or simply lame have been amazingly reworked. 
 Take speechcraft, for instance. I have a level 35 character with more than 120 gameplay hours and 
 no more than 10% of the main quest fulfilled- who still raises NPCs disposition by sweet talking 
 instead of using Illusion magic which has plenty of spells to boost disposition-, Imperial race 
 abilites like the Word of the Emperor skill- or bribes. Picking locks can be done either at random 
 or by hand in another nice minigame. The mercantile skill and mechanics have also been reworked 
 even though Id say theres a lot of room for improvement here; bartering can grow tiresome quickly.
 
  
  All those interface enhancements come together with an enormous effort to produce the best possible 
 gameplay experience. Game immersion is taken to new levels with Radiant AI -a feature which allows 
 for NPCs having game schedules and intelligent reactions to their environment-, voice acting and 
 lip sync, an outstanding physics engine, great graphics and better sound effects. But most of all 
 its the gameplay mechanics, with little randomness into it. Minigames have already been addressed; 
 combat gets even better. Bigger, heavier weapons swing slower but have a longer range and cause 
 more damage and are more prone to make your opponent recoil with a hit. Smaller, lighter weapons 
 swing faster but make less damage. In any case you have to manually connect your blows, or block 
 your opponents. No button mashing here. 
  
  Immersion is also made of a good plot. Oblivion offers many memorable quests, some of them with 
 various possible outcomes and freedom to them. There are strong bonuses for joining any of the 
 games factions or guilds, and in some cases the initiations are awesome or awe-inspiring. The 
 Dark Brotherhood initiation gave me the creeps.
  
  Immersion is also boosted by a great technical background. Loading times are slow and not very 
 noticeable, unless you run short of memory and/or have an intrusive antivirus software the effects 
 can be awfully noticeable. In any case, dont get obsessed with Oblivions high recommended specs. 
 Oblivion can be run in some computers from the Morrowind era and what is more, drawing distance 
 and graphics quality will be even better than Morrowinds. Of course, dont expect nothing close 
 to those stunning screenshots youve seen everywhere, but still youll have a nice gameplay experience. 
 You even have some third party utilities, like Tweaper, than can boost frame rate in those scenarios 
 it usually drops: lots of grass and plenty of characters on screen.
  
  That said, the game comes with its flaws. One thing that hinders your gaming experience and draws 
 from the fun is the world's relativism to your character's level. Foes are levelled, so when you 
 begin the game youll find lower critters; at later stages, youll come across huge demons where 
 once you used to find little imps. The same goes for NPCs. That is plainly absurd and hurts game 
 immersion: the guards that having been working as guards for years couldnt cope with a brown bear 
 a few days ago will now all of a sudden be able to kill a giant dragon just because youve done 
 a lot of adventuring. 
  
  That wouldnt be necessarily such a bad thing if it wasnt reinforced by a somewhat lacking levelling 
 up system. As it is, you and the rest of the world- gain a level when you improve your main skills 
 -blade, heavy armor, destruction magic, sneaking, etc.- by a grand total of 10 skill points. Then 
 you have to rest and you have the chance to improve your statistics strength, endurance, intelligence, 
 etc.- by a varying amount according to what skills you have been improving at; if you've been using 
 your war hammer a lot you'll be entitled to a higher Strength bonus; if you've been sneaking around 
 your Agility will get more bonus points. You improve your skills by successfully using them, not 
 by spending experience points or anything like that. So, what happens if, lets say, youre a thief 
 and level up by breaking into houses, sweet talking and bartering? You cant fight any better than 
 you could five levels ago, while all of the rest of the world can beat you down in the blink of 
 an eye. Goodbye, nice gameplay experience. Hello, frustration.
  
  Take the Agent, for instance a premade class based on stealth and illusion magic. The Agent makes 
 a superb thief and a great assassin too being able to slip in and out of combat at will and land 
 deadly sneak attacks-, but the gameplay mechanics make it so that the Agent just falls way too 
 short of anything useful in group combat, be it attacking, defending or giving support or tactical 
 advantage. Many quests -especially the main one- often require some heavy, fast-paced inexcusable 
 combat parts throughout the main quest where you simply can't afford to go in and out of combat 
 whenever you need to. Consequently If you've been playing the Agent in a natural fashion and have 
 gained some levels with your stealthy and illusion abilities those quests will be simply impossible.
 
  
  Levelling up could perfectly be absolutely taken out of the game in favour of a different, much 
 more natural system. For each raise in skills, a small bonus could be applied to the relevant stats, 
 health, magicka and fatigue. For those parts of the game in which a measure of the players level 
 is required for instance, quest triggers- an overall calculation based on major skills & stats 
 could be made. Enemies shouldnt be levelled, or at least their levelling should be much more carefully 
 balanced. Fortunately, Bethesda Softworks allows the gaming community to enhance the game by using 
 a free software utility, the TES Construction Set, to add content or alter the game by creating 
 some downloadable optional plugins called mods. By now there are already many mods which address 
 these issues. Recommended mods are Oscuros Oblivion Overhaul, or Adams Adventurers, and EF Levelling 
 mod, which adds a small stat increase for each skill raised, not when levelling up.
  
  The world also doesnt seem to be responsive to your actions after many gameplay hours. There should 
 also be more and stronger- fame prerequisites. Fame and Infamy are one of the games measures 
 for your good and bad deeds. A fame system that stores localized fame ratings versus global fame 
 ratings could also be applied, even with fame titles the same goes for infamy. 
  
  All in all, those shortcomings cant prevent The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion from becoming a new 
 milestone in computer gaming that showcases the logical result of lots of hard work, tons of talent 
 and commitment. With such a level of content, detail, technical proficiency, fun, and taking replayability 
 into consideration, no other game offers the same value for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m435tr0
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Not being a fan of the genre obviously plays a big part here but I still found oblivion to be shallow, 
 bland, uninteresting and the most over-rated game to date.
  
  Before I get to bagging the crap out of this game let me say, I keep going back to it every now 
 and then for about 30min bursts because I can see how much effort went into making it and I keep 
 hoping to find that I'm wrong that there's more to it but I am constantly disappointed.
  
  Characters; OK so u can customise your character till kingdom come, that's all well and good but 
 it doesn't improve game play any, in fact most of the time I found myself remarking how ridiculous 
 the eyes on the randomly generated faces of NPCs were, breaking my suspension of disbelief and 
 leaving my wondering why I couldn't ask "hey, sorry to be rude but what's up with your eyes?" but 
 to no avail, the tightly bound and scripted conversations don't allow anything like this.
  
  Conversation and Open-ended-ness (*shrugs* its a word now) ; I'm all for games trying to be 
 open there's nothing worse than being stuck on tiny rails and being forced to do things that feel 
 awkward for you. but lets face it that's what happening here really, sure I can walk where ever 
 I want, but the main quest consists of walk to B go back to A, you cannot proceed to C until this 
 area is secure. As mentioned earlier there is NO freedom in conversation, I can choose the order 
 in which I say things but that's it, the outcome is the basically same, if it were open I would 
 be able to say whatever I want, I cant. 
  for example, your cannot leave until this area is secure. ( guard inside the church at the first 
 oblivion gate) , it didn't even let me say anything back, at least give the option of saying, sorry 
 I have to go and disobey him.
  I like open games start quests when ever u want to, when u finish all the quests keep on doing 
 what ever u want to, but there's little to do here than run (for every extended periods)
  
  AI; Its stupid, their combat skills leave much to be desired, if you've played any fps in the last 
 6 years you'd think your enemies where being controlled by a small child whose never seen a computer 
 before or perhaps some kind of dodo brain in a jar. enemies attack once your with in a certain 
 distance, when in an open plane u can see them a mile away but they cant see u until your about 
 50 meters from them. 
  furthermore since when do the residence of the elder scrolls universe consist as part of a hive 
 mind, do anything and EVERYONE instantly knows about it. steal something from a village far away 
 go to the main city and talk to a guard you'll be arrested as a thief, how did he know? You ran 
 here as soon as u stole it, no one followed you.
  enemies hate and kill you for no reason, without thinking of the consequences to them. As a naked 
 man with no weapons and his fists lowered runs by a camp, an archer and a armoured guy with an 
 axe come out and try to kill you, Why? you were no threat to them and you weren't carrying nothing 
 of value
  that same camp as a fully armoured battle mage with no weapon drawn runs by the camp, the archer 
 and axeman come out to try and kill you. Why? OK this time maybe there's a reason but I mite have 
 something of value but is it worth there lives? you pull out your steel claymore and kill the axe 
 man with 3 hits before he can even raise his weapon. Not very smart. The archer fires at you, your 
 hit but u can even tell how much health you lost the meter still appears to be full. You focus 
 your attention on him, 2 fireballs, a little jog and a claymore swing later, he's dead. Why did 
 they attack, they should have known that I was going to slaughter them, at the very least the archer 
 should have tried to save himself. You pick up everything they dropped.
  
  You Are Over Encumbered; OK that's fine, u cant carry everything in the world and it doesn't matter 
 if your looting a dead body or a chest at the time you just put some stuff back in there that u 
 don't want. However, enemies drop their weapons separate to there bodies, so from our story above 
 the axeman dropped his axe and it rolled down the hill (yay for physics) . u pick it up, "You Are 
 Over Encumbered" whoops too much stuff, oh crap there's nothing near by to dump stuff in, that's 
 right people, I have tried for quite a while and unless there's a body or a chest/box/drum/etc. 
 within reach u cannot un-encumber yourself which means you are now stuck, you cannot walk because 
 your too heavy to even move and u cant get rid of everything. now I'm gonna get flamed for this 
 but I tried and I CANNOT find a way to throw away something I just can't.
  
  Inventory; by default, its clumsy, every icon is way too big which leaves you scrolling through 
 dozens of pages of crap even when view by category. you can download a mod called btmod that kinda 
 fixes this by making everything smaller so there's more per screen but really I shouldn't need 
 to mod the game just to much my inventory readable.
  furthermore, the categories and properties are represented by symbols sure u can figure them out 
 eventually but should I really have to spend 15mins trying to figure out what every little picture 
 could stand for. for future reference Bethesda, put some tool tips in there or something.
  
  Combat system; Its just such an RPG it hurts my head, granted its slightly better than a pokemon 
 battle system but still, your essentially standing there exchanging blows hoping that you have 
 higher hp or deal more damage per unit time than your opponent, you can move out of the way at 
 least but , it takes so many hits to kill an enemy it doesn't really matter. Damage amounts don't 
 get me started this a pet hate of mine, games that say u deal a bazillion damage points but your 
 enemies have 50x that hp anyway, lowest common denominator people. Why does an arrow deal only 
 3 damage???? especially when I worked out your basic, naked imp has about 1700 hp (work out on 
 20+ steel claymore hits to kill which supposedly deals 85 damage per hit)
  
  Large Landscapes; yer that's great, but why have them, basically I find myself running great distances 
 for no real reason other than perverted sadistic pleasure of the designers, it doesn't help the 
 story it doesn't really help my skills it doesn't enthral me as a player, it just irritates me 
 and bores me to tears. sure running all the time and killing moronic and extremely slow past wolves 
 ups my stats a bit but to do what with, run a little bit faster, I DONT WANT TO HAVE TO RUN in 
 the first place.
  
  Graphics; they're OK Yes that's right they are OK Not brilliant, trees even on highest are comprised 
 mostly of screen-aligned sprites, most irritating. Distant landscape is so heavily LOD'ed that 
 makes you wonder if there's something wrong with your eyes. Even with every setting on max buildings, 
 objects, actors, tress and ESPECIALLY grass leap into existence before your eyes, nothing breaks 
 your suspension of disbelief like grass magically appearing only the 100 or so meters around where 
 you stand, branches of trees appearing where there were none before. I could go on but I wont. 
 All this being said, if you wander around the same area for a while until its loaded everything 
 in your vicinity and nothings being LOD'ed any more, the graphics are rather impressive but the 
 fact that it takes quite a bit of convincing to get this to happen makes it pointless. Most of 
 the time I found I was wandering into large LOD'ed areas with one texture being used for about 
 an acre. In my Opinion the point of LOD is to get rid of any UNNEEDED detail, not well if we actually 
 try to render all of this no computer anywhere will ever get more than about 10 frames. It appears 
 it was done in an effort to make it playable which is better than saying, too bad anyone that doesn't 
 have a beast, but if that person who has a beast and wants to see everything, they should be able 
 to, they cant the game settings on max still have a lot of serious quality effecting LOD.
  
  I could say so much more that's disappointing about this game but there's just no point, by 
 now most of you will have stopped reading, at the very least u know where I'm heading with this, 
 unless your a hardcore rpg lover or an extremely fan of the series don't bother with it, if your 
 friends are raving about it, play there's don't just go out and buy it, its simply not for everyone. 
 Its just another RPG. Its just so PAINFULLY an RPG. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  I've played every game in the Elder Scrolls series, starting with Arena back in 1995, and for the 
 most part, Oblivion follows the same formula as its predecessors: An expansive world populated 
 with rather generic cardboardy characters, hundreds of nearly identical dungeons and ruins to explore, 
 a vast number of point A to B, kill somethingy quests, and a main plot that never seems to have 
 a great deal of impetus. You can go anywhere you want, talk to any number of people, kill any number 
 of monsters, but you can't get any deeper than the most superficial layer.
  
  Despite its horrific bugs, I found Daggerfall to be the most enjoyable of the bunch. In my mind, 
 Morrowind and Oblivion are a step back from Daggerfall in terms of RPG gameplay.
  
  That said, the improvements in Oblivion coming from Morrowind are immediately apparent:
  
  
 1) Pretty. Every graphics whore should be in Heaven. Can't complain about the graphics. Nice implementation 
 of HDR.
  
  2) New combat system. The ability to block and execute special moves in 1st person makes combat 
 more involved and varied, rather than the simple click and random roll of Morrowind. As your character 
 becomes more powerful, however, the game tends to reduce to a clickfest again as blocking and strategy 
 go by the wayside. 
  
  On the other hand:
  
  1) The new monster scaling system. Just awful. A huge portion of fun in RPGs is found in building 
 up your character to overcome previously impossible challenges, turning the tables on enemies that 
 once wiped the floor with you, gaining access to new areas, and carefully selecting skills and 
 abilities that you'll need to progress through the game. In this game, it's actually possible to 
 complete the game at level 1 (and with great ease) , completely doing away with that whole aspect. 
 That's just wrong. There are some mods out that will fix this disgrace, but the devs should've 
 left this concept on the cutting room floor. 
  
  2) Disappointing AI. Forget about Radiant AI. This isn't even going to cut it in most FPSs. Characters 
 getting caught on each other/walls/ledges. Allies jumping into lava pits to chase down monsters. 
 Attack a guard and watch the entire town come to your defense after the guard strikes back, creating 
 a laughable brawl between the guards and citizenry. Killing a person right in front of others and 
 getting no reaction. Lots of silliness. Well, you say NPCs now have sleep/work/eat cycles. So did 
 Gothic 5 years ago, and Ultima 5 back in 1986.
  
  3) Sound. Pretty much there's only one voice for each race - the Nords and Orcs share the same 
 voice. Needless to say, everyone sounds the same. Adding sound to the dialogue also meant that 
 the devs had to cut back on the depth of conversation and number of responses, generally limited 
 to a choice of yes or no.
  
  4) Questing/Main Plot. More or less the same as Morrowind, with slightly less depth. The main plot 
 is riveting - not. There was never any sense of urgency or consequences for not acting within a 
 limited amount of time. Plot-centric characters can't die, just fall unconscious. Some of the guild 
 quests are more interesting and not entirely the point A to B, kill C affair. Sadly, I became so 
 bored with combat, many of my Oblivion Gate ventures turned into beeline sprints to the Sigil Stones, 
 constantly invisible. Mazoga the Orc was the closest I came to finding an interesting character, 
 and that isn't saying much.
  
  5) Game-breaking spells/enchantments. 100+% Chameleon enchantments for example, among many others. 
 Glaring exploits like this should have been weeded out long ago. I like to push most games to their 
 limits and achieve the best combination of items/skills possible, but I found myself holding back 
 in Oblivion, because it's not too difficult to completely break the game if you play that way. 
 Raising the difficulty slider above 80% only draws the length of fights out - not particularly 
 desirable as combat becomes tedious.
  
  If your thing is mostly FPSs, you'll probably get a hell of a ride out of it, because it's essentially 
 an FPS with swords and magic. This game was designed with the mainstream in mind, and they seem 
 to have hit the mark rather squarely. If you're a hardcore RPG'er who really goes for characters, 
 story and involved character development, you're probably going to have a similar reaction to mine. 
 Hopefully Gothic 3 will fit the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smakar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  It was my dream of a computer game like this coming along one day that led me to my career in computers 
 in the last 70's. Ive only 68 hours into the game, and I can tell that Ive touched only the surface 
 of this game.
  
  Visually, I feel completely immersed in another word: a world of great beauty, and constantly changing, 
 not only with the passage of time, but with changes weather that are realistic in their transitions 
 and effects.
  
  But, as weve experienced far too often, beauty and realism alone do not make great games; great 
 games come from great play, and Oblivion has the best game play Ive ever experienced. The NPCs 
 act like real people; in fact, they act better than many real people Ive played with in computer 
 games, and board games, and RPGs.
  
  NPCs acting like real people include excellent voice acting, where both facial expressions and 
 even the changing expression of their eyes, actually match their dialogue, dialogue between one 
 NPC and another, and how the NPCs go about their business with motives, including taking time for 
 sleep at night!
  
  I feel like I can play this game just as I live life: I can do whatever I want; I just have to 
 be willing to pick up the tab. The quests are both interesting and varied, and though there may 
 be a recommended way to perform a quest, there are often options available; some with the same 
 result and some with other results, but none are right or wrong, they are simply different. 
 And I love how some of the quests are performed side-by-side with other NPCs. 
  
  And, My God, the Details!!! Whether outdoors or indoors, there are little details, mostly unnoticed 
 unless you take the time to stop and really, really look around. And the sum of these details, 
 especially the subliminal ones, adds to the experience of living and participating in another reality.
 
  
  None of the locations feel repetitive; building facades, rooms, outdoor locations, caves, mines, 
 dungeons, all of these have their distinct look and feel. Ive yet to visit a new location with 
 a feeling of dj vu.
  
  The only negative Ive encountered are sporadic program terminations, but since the save system 
 is both easy (save or quick-save whenever you wish) and intuitive (Option can be set to Auto Save 
 under specified selection) , I havent encountered any frustration with having to replay any section 
 of the game. And based on Bethesda Softworks track record, I am sure that patches will be soon 
 to come.
  
  For once, Im looking forward to reach a point where I consider the game complete with my current 
 character (Warrior type) , only so I can start a new, different character.
  
  My highest, highest praise to Bethesda Softworks, as well as a big Thank You!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dasare1503
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion tries, and mostly succeeds, at bringing the very best parts of our favorite RPGs of the 
 last 10 years into a complete package. The inmensity of the game is breathtaking and truly gives 
 a sense of awe and wonder. It has a few flaws, but they pale in comparison to the many spot-on 
 decisions of the development team. The difficulty scales with your leveling, which results in monotonous 
 encounters at higher levels since you end up fighting the same three types of enemies. This is 
 probably the most visible flaw since you have no sense of achievement as you gain better powers 
 and stronger weapons but continue to have the same difficulty in winning normal dungeon battles. 
 There is also the very serious misgiving about spending 100 hours in a game and gathering the greaters 
 "uber loot" but not being able to show it off to anyone. Sure, you have a +1000 sword, but who 
 else but you knows? This means that Oblivion will likely be remembered as the last great masterpiece 
 of the single-player RPG genre as more players, developers, and money turn to multiplayer online 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spat3000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Best game you will ever play. So play it forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever forever 
 forever forever forever forever forever . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobba_lobba
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Ok... What about the concept? You have a world... now what do you do there? First of all. There 
 are two sorts of people in the world. Those who talk to you, and those who don't. Those who don't 
 talk to you will try to kill you when they first see you. Why? Don't bother asking. Probably because 
 they are mean. Mean people want to kill people like you. Why people like you? Don't ask...
  Now? What is your objective in this world... ? There are monsters in this world... (and in another 
 world that is full of people who won't talk to you) . You must kill these monsters! How fun! Kill 
 kill kill! Like... yeah.. intresting... Anyway, have fun with that!
  Graphics in the game are ok. Technically they are greeeat! Better looking than many other... but 
 on the other hand... so stale... so boring... so colourless... And all those graphics really just 
 want to kill you anyway... so why care?
  I suppose sound is great. It's all about moaning though. And blazing! Buurn! (I love fireballs! 
 ^^)
  I got a little stuck playing this game... for a while... maybe a couple of days. Then i thought; 
 what is this?
  I was exploring a ruin of some sort. Then, before he had even seen me, this necromancer comes running 
 towards me... Don't know what matter of weapon he was holding... maybe a spoon or something... 
 he seemed very desperate. Anyway he wanted to kill me. I killed him. Then o thought... hey! If 
 you'd just asked, i'd have spared your life! Now he never thought of that, silly AI.
  All in all... this is a game that presents a world.. where nothing is fun but killing.. though 
 that isn't fun either. Just bold entertainment. It's silly... i'd throw up and go hide somewhere 
 if i lived in this game world. Or maybe try to change... i think i'd soon given up anyway... Maybe 
 i'd build a rocket (you can do a lot just out of desperation) and go to space. Maybe the worlds 
 moon is more cosy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmmarine2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is flat out one of the best games I have ever played in my life! I have played the previous 
 game morrowind and enjoyed playing every minute of it, but oblivion made me kick that straight 
 out the system. The downfall of the game is that even if they have a pentium 4 processor just like 
 many folks that it still lags a little bit. Also, many people don't own a xbox 360 so we go usually 
 have to go for the computer. Other than that though, I really enjoy playing this game. So for you 
 computer nerds with souped up computers or xbox 360 boys, this is a recommended addition to your 
 collection of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larvakiller
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Lo instale y ya con la musica y presentacion, me emocione, mas que un juego es una obra de arte, 
 el trabajo y la dedicacion que siempre le pone BETHESDA a la serie THE ELDER OF SCROOLS es de destacar. 
 Para este es el mejor de la saga, los graficos son sorprendentes y no hablar de los NPC duermen, 
 van a trabajar y realizan sus queaceres diarios, no como en otros que permanecen estaticos o se 
 dedican de ir de aca para alla sin sentido.
  La variedad de clases esta bien desarrollado, ademas los detalles estan muy bien cuidados teniendo 
 un acabado muy fino. El nivel de personalizacion tiene posibilidades casi infinitas, comparando 
 con el que utiliza la saga Los Sims. Increible muy recomendable, infaltable en cualquier coleccion 
 que le guste el buen ROL. Podria seguir resaltando las virtudes de esta obra maestra, pero no terminaria 
 en estas pocas lineas. Solo me queda por decir que es el candidato indiscutible para juego del 
 ao. Lo unico malo que tiene este game es que se necesita una maquina muy potente para poder correrlo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunspec11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has been one of the most anticipated games for the 360 since it was announced a couple 
 years ago, and guess what? it deserves all the hype and expectations that it gets because it is 
 one of the most immersive, realistic, fun games i have ever had the chance to play. the only problem 
 is at times the game gets a lil choppy when there is a lot of action going on, and when its loading 
 it may take a while. 
  
  Graphics:
  When you first get out of the dungen and look out into the world it is one of the most satisfiying 
 moments that you will ever see, you will just spend at least 5 minutes looking at the game going 
 "no way".
  
  Sound:
  As for the sound, probably the best orchastrated music i have heard since lord of the rings, it 
 definetly gives you the feeling of an epic game. And when you have a surround sound hookup things 
 really come together.
  
  Gameplay:
  Easy to pick up and just start hacking away, you use the right trigger to attack and left for block, 
 even with a control scheme that simple it still gets tense and full of action when your fighting 
 an enemy or a ally who you are trying to run away from.
  
  Value:
  Never the same game twice. Even after you beat the main quest there is still litterally hundreds 
 of side quest to be done. And you can always start over with a new race and class, to begin your 
 adventures again
  
  Overall: 
  One of the few games to deliever on such a scale that once you pick it up you arent gonna want 
 to put it down till its over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzc
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Oblivion, is such a huge game, you could be playing it for over 100 hours. You can join factions, 
 you could steal from people travel in the forests or make new friends in the city. If you just 
 want to finish the game, you could just work on the main quest.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. The detail on everything in the game is amazing. You could even 
 see the small dents in the swords. That would be realistic because in the old days, they used to 
 use tools to make the shape of the weapons by using a sort of hammer like things.
  
  The sound is as nice as the graphics. The the voice actors did a very good job in voce acting and 
 the music is beautiful. 
  
  The fightin system in the game is a lot of fun. I always wanted a rpg game with a GOOD first person 
 fighting system. Morrowind didnt do that much of a good job in the fighting system but Oblivion 
 improves it a lot. The gameplay offers up to over 100 hours of gameplay from the main quest and 
 unbelivable amount of side quests. You could travel in different cities or you can travel in the 
 wild. You could even make new friends in the game and rob peoples homes or just pickpocket them. 
 You could kill anyone you want too. But if the gaurds catch you stealing or killing an innocent, 
 the will send you to jail.
  
  Overall this is the best game ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammet
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  There are so many reviews out for this game that I will not write up a full fledged one. The basis 
 of this review will be the general opinion on Oblivion of the general public and the editors of 
 GameSpot.
  
  We all know - the graphics hits right on the spot here. It is outragous, so good is it! Everything 
 reeks athmosphere, oozes with love for the details and the world generally feels a lot more alive 
 than it did when we were visiting the lands of Morrowind, several years ago.
  
  Oblivion has a lot going for it, which is greatly improved AI, based on a gazillion fine-tuned 
 miniscripts and calculated game statistics that decide which of the dynamicly generated behaviours 
 every character should follow. I call them miniscripts because that is essentially what they are. 
 AI programming may become more and more advanced. Even if things are better and finer now, it all 
 boils down to just breaking the rough huge AI scripts into tiny pieces allowing for more diversity 
 and dynamics.
  
  Every important NPC has something to say that you can actually listen to. You select what you want 
 to talk about from a list of words. The list has become considerably smaller compared to Morrowind. 
 But that is a good thing in some ways, because it eases the flow of the conversation and thus, 
 the flow of the game itself.
  
  Unfortunately though, the things most characters say do simply not sound like they are actually 
 talking to somebody. Most of the sentences are built in a way that makes you feel that whenever 
 a character talks, they do not talk to an actual person. Only from time to time there are references 
 to yourself thrown in for good measure. Overall, the dialouge is anticlimatic and the writers could 
 have done a much more athmospheric job.
  
  Quests are fantastic! Diverse and immersive, filled with traps, characters, monsters, items, some 
 story and experience for you to gather to strengthen your character. You will never run out of 
 options here. Whenever you think that you have nothing to do, just talk to some random strangers 
 and you can be sure that there will be a new quest announced for you. This adds to the overall 
 value of the game, because most of the quests are not related to the main plot. You can do so incredibly 
 much in this game that you will never be bored - if this is why you're here.
  
  Aesthetically speaking, the game is utterly beautiful. Personally I do not like the style myself, 
 but if you have seen the screenshots of this game you'll immediately know wether you like it yourself, 
 or not. Graphically stunning, yes, pleasing to the eye .. well not mine, honestly. But that doesn't 
 deduce any points for graphics in my review. Only gets a little less tilt.
  
  Now I'll try to be a good critic but still tell you people what I did not like so much about Oblivion.
 
  
  Let's go on the the actual Gameplay and athmosphere / involvement of yourself and as your character 
 in the game.
  
  Because your character never speaks, all dialouges feel even less like they are actual dialouges. 
 It is very odd and very hard to get used to. But this has always been this way in Elder Scrolls 
 games so I may not be able to seriously complain about this.
  
  Then again, people in roleplaying forums have often complained that in Morrowind, the world was 
 more or less a desolate place, devoid of life, devoid of interactivity, devoid of movement. And 
 they were mostly right. Unfortunately, Oblivion improves on that but does not really take it to 
 the point where the world actually feels as alive as it could. The wilderness is fine now, but 
 the NPCs in towns and villages still do not feel anything like they are actual people. They do 
 go around doing their various buisnesses and the AI is a great technical archievement. But sometimes, 
 less is more. The scripting that other games use to make their NPCs feel like actual people is 
 not as versatile, but actually gets the job done a whole lot better. 
  
  Let me just say, it boils down to the NPCs lacking in personality. They often look too much alike 
 each other, and I have yet to see some of them standing out in the crowd. Individual NPCs never 
 really do anything any other couldn't do. The conversations among them are a nice touch, but when 
 you actually stand there and listen, sometimes you get the feeling that it takes you out of the 
 game instead of involving you even more in it, because more often NPCs will talk about things in 
 ways that absolutely do not make any sense whatsoever. 
  
  If I would go so far and compare NPC behaviour and talking to a game crafted several years ago, 
 called Gothic, I'd say this:
  Characters where quicky, had personality and were opinionated. They were very individual beings 
 and you could easily recognize them from afar not only by what they looked like, what voice they 
 had and what they were talking about, but also by what they were doing. Admittedly, such comparisions 
 to old games aren't normally fair, but I hear that the coming Gothic 3 game will not stray all 
 too much from that path. Now Gothic is in many ways like the Elder Scrolls, but then again in many 
 other ways it is totally different. However, if you like Oblivion I would like to encourage you 
 to download the Demo of Gothic 2 in english and try it for yourself.
  
  All in all, Oblivion is likable and enjoyable if you're more about interactivity than immersion. 
 It is overrated, but still a splendid typical first person / 3rd person RPG, and easily recognizable 
 as one of the greatest games of it's kind since a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl1ndz0r
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing in all aspects, gameplay, graphics, sound, etc
  
  It is greatly inmersive, u cant stop playing i get that feeling with a few few games i can count 
 them with my hand
  
  But the best thing about Oblivion is the modding community, after some months they are going to 
 start releasing some nice mods with new missions new maps, new places, etc
  
  The only con i can find in oblivion is the extreme hardware requirements, and that even when u 
 got a high end computer it runs choppy, i got a 7600GT 512mb, amd64 3700+, 1gb ddr400 that isnt 
 high end more like mid-high, but i use med-high settings and still runs pretty choppy, the game 
 is so good that i dont even care about it :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaweeks21
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  This is simply one of the greatest games ever made. It is the type of game that almost anyone will 
 enjoy. It is streamlined to the point that people that don't usually play rpg's will enjoy this 
 game if they have not played them previously because of the complexity; this is a good and bad 
 thing. There are several technical problems I have encountered, but otherwise this is close to 
 perfection. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes, if you liked Morrowind, you will love Oblivion. There was a feeling of 
 loneliness in Morrowind that has been addressed. The story is much more of a focal point in Oblivion 
 as well, and this is a good thing if you felt too overwhelmed in Morrowind, not really knowing 
 what to do. In Oblivion, you will always know what to do, and where to go because of a new interface 
 system. Leveling up happens much more frequently than Morrowind. The various types of play such 
 as sneaking or fighting, are far better implemented in Oblivion. For example when you hit someone 
 with a sword, you actually feel that the blow connected which was not the case in Morrowind. 
 
  
  The sound of Oblivion is great. Some sounds are recycled, but the music is great and sound effects 
 have a much fuller sound to them. 
  
  Graphics are simply amazing if you can run this game in high detail and full distance rendering. 
 It is quite amazing how far you can see- it is an interesting experience to be able to see a far 
 distant mountain peak, and then set off to explore it. Every choice is up to you and the possibilities 
 are endless. As for the cinematics, I feel this game has taken a page from Guild Wars. The presentation 
 moves to closeups whenever people are speaking giving this game a movie like feel.
  
  The interface is much more streamlined. Everything you can see or change about your character is 
 easily accessible by pressing tab. Most everything that was accessible in Morrowind, is accessible 
 in Oblivion, but it does not look the same. The big difference is that you are not shown as much 
 information about things such as items in your inventory as you were in Morrowind. Also things 
 like diseases are not as fleshed out as Morrowind. Whether you catch a generic disease, or Vampirism, 
 just go to the temple, and you are healed, or take a generic potion of cure disease. These changes 
 could be viewed as bad, but I believe are generally good, as they don't really detract from the 
 freedom of the game, but make it much more comprehensible to people that would not normally play 
 a game like this. There is also a triangle that leads you to your destination of any currently 
 selected mission quite effectively.
  
  Ok now time for the problems. There are bugs. I experienced problems from the beginning. Escaping 
 prison, my character went in to slow motion. I could not move faster than a snail. I saved and 
 restarted and have not had this problem since. Another problem is with pathfinding. On quests where 
 people are following you, more than half the time, the character will get stuck somewhere. You 
 will need to keep a close eye on characters that follow you to avoid frustration. I had a problem 
 with a quest involving killing fish. I was directed to where the fish were but when I got to the 
 ninth one, the fish was not where the interface said it should be. I loaded up an earlier save, 
 and did not have a problem. There are a few more instances that I have not listed, but overall 
 the bugs have been bareable. I have had more problems with bugs with this game than most, but most 
 problems did not repeat themselves if I loaded a previously saved game. 
  
  So there are problems with this game, but they are only so evident because of the absolutely amazing 
 quality of almost every aspect of the game. Every single problem I had with Morrowind has been 
 addressed. This is the best rpg I have played since Baldur's Gate II, and one of the best games 
 ever created.
  
  edit: Ok I've played for around 50 hours and the problems with this game are much more evident. 
 I now agree with people talking about the level system being a huge step backwards. Basically, 
 much of the fun of leveling up is lost because enemies level up with you. This is not to say that 
 you won't notice a change, you will be more powerful, just not as powerful as you should be. The 
 other negative aspect is leveled drops. You can't go searching for loot to the extent that you 
 could in Morrowind. You won't really find anything that great with a few exceptions. The best loot 
 you will get is from drops of people you kill and from completing quests. This puts the emphasis 
 on the game, not on roleplaying and not on exploration but on completing quests. I agree more and 
 more with myself saying that this game has a Guild Wars feel to it. The gameplay actually closely 
 resembles it- which is great for an online game, but not as great when you are doing the same thing 
 by yourself. I am not saying that this game is bad- I obviously like it if I have spent over 50 
 hours playing, but it is not as good as it could have been. They redid too much with Oblivion creating 
 more of an action game than an RPG. It would have been very close to being perfect if everything 
 was the same, but enemies and loot did not scale with your level, and they added more very cool 
 items you could discover. That being said, for what this game is, it is very fun, just not exactly 
 what I was expecting. There are some very interesting and fun quests. The quests are actually much 
 better than Morrowind for the most part. I especially enjoyed the Assassins story line, and being 
 a vampire. There are actually more groups to join than most have said. There is several more groups 
 to join besides fighters guild and mage guild and theves guild, but I won't spoil anything. 
  
  The new bottom line is this game is great fun in the vein of Diablo, not nearly as deep as 
 Morrowind, but very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dndslayer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I have read so many reviews on this games which most of them have been good, but the reviews I 
 have paid most attention to are the ones that are not so good. The biggest complaint that I see 
 is the game performance. It is not the games fault that it will not run on a lot of systems, but 
 I believe the manufacture should of tested it better for minimum requirements. Another thing I 
 hear is people say this game was designed for the xbox360 first, they are wrong about that. The 
 game, believe it or not, was designed for the PC first. As far as game play goes, if you you played 
 the the last Elder Scrolls games and you were a big fan of it I can see why you may not like this 
 game. The gameplay and story are both excellent, but if you compare it with the old game you probably 
 would be unhappy. If you never played anything from this series before and have a high end system 
 then this game is mind blowing. If you do not have a high end system, but you do have an xbox360 
 then you are better off getting it for the xbox360 because it will run a lot more stable than a 
 low end system would run it. As far as controls on the game, it depends how you like to play. If 
 you prefer a game pad then again the xbox is your best choice, but I do know people that prefer 
 the mouse and keyboard system better. The one thing have to say about the value of the PC version 
 is the game is pretty long if you do every quest and stop to read a lot of the text in the game (which 
 also will make the story better for most) . The fact this game is on the PC is a good thing because 
 patches always can be put out to improve the game and the game can be modded to make it even a 
 better value. Remember this is only my view point, so you may or may not agree with what I said.
 
  
  P. S.
  My idea of what the minimum requirement should of been.
  P4 2.4Ghz or AMD Athlon 3000
  1 gig ram (ddr 400 at that)
  GeForce 5800FX or Radeon 9700 with 
 at least 128 meg of ram (at least 8 pixel pipelines on the card for the heavy processes and decent 
 clock speed)
  16 bit 5.1 sound card with eax 2.0 or better
  5.1 sound system
  17" flat panel monitor that can display 1280x768 with a refresh rate of 85hz
  Windows XP pro
 
  
  My recommended requirements
  P4 D930 or Athlon X2 4200
  2 gigs of ddr 667 dual channel (anymore more memory really is not needed unless you are multitasking 
 at the time)
  GeForce 6800GT in SLI or Radeon X850 in crossfire or better
  24 bit 7.1 sound card with eax 2.0 or better
  7.1 sound system
  21" flat panel monitor that 
 can display 1600x1200 with a refresh rate of over 85hz
  Windows XP pro
  
  Thank you for reading this forum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocketeer_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-Although this is not a "true" RPG per sey, it effectivly combines elements of shooters, 
 adventures, and RPGs into one game. The combat system is vastly improved over the Morrowind combat 
 system, allowing magic and melee to be used almost similtaniously, which can be quite useful. The 
 sheer amount of things to do gives easily over 100+ hours of gameplay. Also, the difficulty slider 
 can make the game as easy or hard as you want it, and the NPCs being scaled to your level makes 
 it enjoyable.
  
  Graphics- Amazing, if you have the hardware. Im running Oblivion on.... an FX5500? Thanks to a nice 
 little program called Oldblivion, which lowers the shader versions down, I can run my game on a 
 low-mid end machine. If only I can bask in the true glory of it all...
  
  Sound- Not much to say, not incredible, but not bad. But being a classical person, I loved the 
 sweeping score.
  
  Value- The game shipped with minor problems, but nothing to worry much about. Also, the amount 
 of time you can spend time playing on this, you can easily get your moneys worth out of it
  
  Tilt- I just love the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahowes_gs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I had never even heard of Elder Scrolls before I purchased this game. It was just another one of 
 those weird, nerdy, failed in my own life so I need to live in a new one, fantasy games. I decided 
 to try out Oblivion based on a recommendation of a friend who knew that I like PC gaming.
  
  So now, after countless hours of gameplay, beating the main quest, nearly getting a divorce 
 and loosing my job because I couldnt pull myself away from the computer (not really) , I have been 
 delighted by the immersion of Oblivion. I was afraid that this game would be very linear like the 
 Star Wars KOTOR series, which had the same quest based concept but the side quest were meaningless 
 and everything built up to the end, which was disappointing at best. Oblivion allows you to create 
 a character and dive into your own large world, doing as much or as little as you want. This was 
 the first RPG that I actually felt in charge of what I was doing rather then following a script.
 
  
  The graphics are nothing to scoff at; you need a high end system to play anywhere near full settings. 
 With a P4 3.4 GHz dual core and a PCI-E GeForce 7800GT, I had to turn some of the sliders down 
 and play at a lower resolution (1280x1024) . The biggest help was follow the Oblivion Tweak Guide 
 which is found online for free and offers tweaks and tips through the .ini file. After adjusting 
 properly I notice very few slow downs even in heavily wooded or grassy areas. On a sad note, the 
 friend who recommended the game only gets about 10 FPS on his system and is very disappointed.
 
  
  The sound and music is well established in the game. The background music is well placed and does 
 not seem repetitive even after hours of playing. People have complained about some of the difficulty 
 leveling in the game but I think that it is properly used to make the game as challenging and fun 
 on day 200 has it was on day two.
  
  Oblivion has given me a new outlook on Fantasy RPGs. I may not go out and buy all of them now 
 but I definitely would buy any expansion pack for Oblivion or Elder Scrolls V, when the time comes.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Eldercrolls Oblivion is the forth installment in the Elderscrolls series and it's as good as an 
 RPG can get. So what the crazy prince of destruction is sending out some monsters to turn the sky 
 red, big deal. Wait the monsters are trying to kill us all? Well that's not very nice is it? In 
 this RPG you start out as an imperial prisoner. You to choose your name, your, face details, your 
 skills, and you get to choose from ten different races, from orc to crazy wild cat human to crazy 
 wild lizard human. This game has great graphics (best graphics on the 360) , a pretty origanal story 
 line, much improved combat and some great sound. You can buy a house in any of the cities including 
 the grand imperial city. When play this game you be wowwed your head off. I can't think of possible 
 problem in this game. The best part is you don't need to know anything from the other Elderscrolls. 
 This game is simply perfect and even if your new to the series you could pick up the cotroller 
 and play this game for twelve hours straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legosdude
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. When it came out several years ago, Morrowind set the standard for 
 single player RPG's and Oblivion surpassed Morrowind in every possible aspects. The gameplay is 
 excellent, controls are tight, and the storyline is phenomenal. Oblivion is by far the most beautiful 
 game out, although if you don't have a stellar PC you're going to be playing at ultra-low settings. 
 It took me all of five minutes before I was taking screenshots left and right.
  The story is excellent and very immersive, and the voice acting for every character is great, and 
 I highly recommend disabling subtitles. Every character has something useful to say and the population 
 density is quite high. Combat is well balanced for mages and warriors, and stealth is well implemented. 
 Be prepared to devote a LOT of time to this game because it will suck you in like no other game 
 you've ever played. And if anything within the game isn't your fancy, find a mod that will fix 
 it or remove it and enjoy playing as you want to. Bethseda has outdone themselves with this game. 
 I'm off to Oblivion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Very fun, addicting, and [insert adjective here] . I would highly recommend this game. 
  The second of the Elder Scrolls that I have played and I really liked it! It's great fun with the 
 very imaginitive way it was built. The graphics are beautiful (depending on thee type of pc you 
 have) . They must have really put in a lot of time and effort with the NPCs and although they're 
 not exactly perfect AI, they come quite close. What's great about some of the ai's flaws is that 
 you'll always have a funny story to tell about it afterward. Unfortunately, Oblivion gates get 
 really boring after awhile because it feels almost like you're are doing the exact same thing over 
 again in the hellish world of Oblivion! Some of the later quests also feel like you're being put 
 in scenarios you swear you have already been through like: You're in a dungeon/cave/mine adn you 
 are trying to get the [insert noun here] , or, you're trying to kill [insert name of humanoid enemies 
 here] and find [insert name of person] /your way out, although, the dungeons and caves get harder 
 and scarrier as you progress throughout the game. The best thing to do is just screw around, have 
 a fun time, experiment, steal stuff, join a guild, and just do whatever, it really is fun! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is just perfect and much better than Morrowind right gameplay has more up to it I found 
 it super cool looking at the things you could do with the face gestures and stuff. Graphics obviously 
 much better, Morrowind still was cool in its graphics environments were nicely detailed along with 
 the characters basically a looked as good as it did years back like the water effects were the 
 most exciting thing to stare at for me. Oblivion has much better detailed graphics I mean it's 
 ridiculously detailed you know I hope gamespot do a feature on which is the best looking game using 
 all kinds of options with the graphics and just using multiple graphics cards. To see which is 
 better I mean I can safely say that Oblivion does look a better in so many ways I don't know where 
 Bethesda got this engine it was probably from Oblivion itself lol Sound is awesome I mean there 
 is tons of voice-acting. There is like 10 times more Value in Oblivion than any other game I found 
 it incredibly addictive as well. The Story is really good as well. Oh yeah some last points I was 
 going to say that gameplay sure would be weird and complicated with the Mouse and Keyboard but 
 lets face it we may as well get 18 pounds for a X360 USB controller since many people considered 
 the controls on the 360 version better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  First, a little about my past experiences with the Elder Scrolls series:
  
  I began my experience with Tamriel with Morrowind, in early 2003, so I guess i'm not the total 
 hardcore veteran of the series that some others out there are, but i'm not completely oblivious 
 to the lore and structure of the games either. I enjoyed Morrowind immensely, I loved the freedom 
 that it gave, and the way it immersed you into this massive, rich world that let you essentially 
 live another life, where you could be whoever you wanted to be and do whatever you wanted to do. 
 Morrowind had some drawbacks, sure, but overall it seemed so well made, and had so much extra potential 
 in the form of the massive mod community, that there would always be something you hadn't done, 
 or seen, or explored. Even after years of playing the game, there were still regions of Vvardenfell 
 that I had yet to explore, caves, caverns, dungeons, and mines that I had yet to see. Just look 
 at Morrowind forums here at gamespot. The only thing that's slowed them down is the release of 
 Oblivion. 
  
  Oblivion, like Morrowind, and presumably like any other game in the series, seems to be one of 
 those games that you'll either love or loathe, be immersed or repulsed by.
  
  
  The focus of Oblivion's main storyline is that the Empire is on the verge of collapse, both due 
 to internal struggles, as well as a new threat: An invasion of tamriel by the Daedra Prince called 
 Mehrunes Dagon, the Daedra prince of destruction. The emperor Uriel Septim, and his heirs have 
 been assasinated, allowing the daedra to enter the mortal realm. The story sees you trying to instill 
 a new emperor on the throne, while also trying to combat the invading daedra. Whether or not the 
 Oblivion story is as good as the Morrowind story is debatable. However, with Oblivion's voice acting 
 and the like, I feel that oblivion's story is much better presented, even if it does seem rather 
 short.
  
  As any fan of the Elder Scrolls would suspect, there are also a number of guilds that your character 
 may join and rise to the top of. These include the FIghters Guild, Mages Guild, Theives Guild, 
 Dark Brotherhood, and the Arena, which simply pits you against other combatants in progressively 
 more difficult battles in the Imerial City's Arena.
  
  One of the most common complaints against Morrowind was its seemingly lackluster combat system, 
 so as you may expect, Bethesda has completely reworked the system. Your characters combat abilities 
 are still governed by the skill he or she has in the weapon (s) he is using, but Beth has implemented 
 new features, such as Power attacks, manual blocking, being able to disarm an opponent, etc.
  
  These actions come in the form of "perks" That you get once you reach certain levels of ability 
 in a given skill. All of the skills have perks you get. For example, once you get to a skill level 
 of 100 in sneak, you're sneak attacks will ignore the armor rating of your target, allowing you 
 to do extensive damage to an unsuspecting opponent.
  
  Oblivion, like Morrowind, was almost as much a work of art as it was a game. The game world is 
 beautiful, with enhanced lighting effects, and great textures, etc. Bethesda has once again succeeded 
 in creating an immersive, beautiful world with objects that can now be manipulated using the Havoc 
 physics engine that this game uses. From creepy dungeons, to filthy sewers, to lush forests, the 
 graphics do contribute immensely to the immersion factor.
  
  Oblivion also introduces something that Bethesda calls a "Radiant AI" System. Basically, NPCs now 
 have schedules that they follow, and can converse about their world with other NPCs. Bethesda has 
 tried to make each individual more unique, but the NPCs still often feel like they aren't much 
 different than the last guy you spoke to. THey are, however, brought to life by great voice acting, 
 and some NPCs do have unique things to say to you, but overall i'd say the NPCs could always use 
 some more improvement.
  
  
  Ah yes, the level scaling system. You'll either love it or you'll hate it. Monsters, bandits, and 
 the like will scale their own level based on your own. This means that if you're character is level 
 40 and packing full daedric armor, then bandits you run into may very well also be level 40 and 
 packing full daedric armor. Bethesda intended this to keep the game challenging at higher levels, 
 but many people would argue that this removed the satisfaction you get upon increating your character's 
 level. I for one, like the system. Even though my enemies feel more powerful , I still feel the 
 impression that my character is becoming more powerful. As i've said, however, you may be one of 
 the many people who absolutely hate this feature and want it removed. If Oblivion has any "Game 
 breakers" This may very well be it.
  
  Another draw back is that even though ruins seem more extensive than they were in morrowind, there 
 are significantly fewer of them this time around. I wish Bethesda wouldve added more caves and 
 ruins, even if they weren't very big, just so you feel that there's more you can run into out in 
 the wilderness. That being said, Oblivion still has a crapload of dungeons, ruins, caves and the 
 like, and they're all well made and exciting to explore.
  
  That about wraps up my impressions of Oblivion. Overall I loved the game just as much as I loved 
 Morrowind, and I hope that Bethesda can continue this series, which holds so much lore, excitement, 
 detail, and immersion. Oblivion, like Morrowind, holds a special place in my heart. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohandas_Gandhi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  The second of the Elder Scrolls that I have played and I really liked it! It's great fun with the 
 very imaginitive way it was built. The graphics are beautiful (depending on thee type of pc you 
 have) . They must have really put in a lot of time and effort with the NPCs and although they're 
 not exactly perfect AI, they come quite close. What's great about some of the ai's flaws is that 
 you'll always have a funny story to tell about it afterward. Unfortunately, Oblivion gates get 
 really boring after awhile because it feels almost like you're are doing the exact same thing over 
 again in the hellish world of Oblivion! Some of the later quests also feel like you're being put 
 in scenarios you swear you have already been through like: You're in a dungeon/cave/mine adn you 
 are trying to get the [insert noun here] , or, you're trying to kill [insert name of humanoid enemies 
 here] and find [insert name of person] /your way out, although, the dungeons and caves get harder 
 and scarrier as you progress throughout the game. The best thing to do is just screw around, have 
 a fun time, experiment, steal stuff, join a guild, and just do whatever, it really is fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmoses
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one of the best games I ever played. This is the fourth in the 
 highly successful Elder Scrolls series. This RPG has the unlimited universe of the GTA series with 
 more options. 
  
  Gameplay
  You play as a sort of savior. You start off in a prison until the Emperor releases you and sets 
 you on your quest. This RPG uses experience as the leveling method. You choose a race, a class 
 (you can choose one or create your own) and a birthsign (offers you benefits) . As you use your 
 major skills, you gain experience and level up. As you level up, you upgrade your attributes. There 
 are hundreds of items and you can do anything. Be careful, if you kill an important person, you 
 might have to restart. You can find quests or you can join guilds and recieve quests. As you complete 
 quests, you can recieve rewards (money, items, etc) and go up in rank. There are the main storyline 
 quests and tens of extras. You can uses weapons, spells or both to kill your enemies. To be brief, 
 it is a lot like Morrowind but, with more options. The only thing that I did not like was that 
 you can't use two weapons at the same time.
  
  Graphics
  Gamers that have played Half-Life 2 or Doom 3 will be blown away by this game. There is no other 
 way to describe it.
  
  Sound
  The sound is beautiful with the voices, the music and actions. Set 5.1 Dolby speakers to reap the 
 full sound of Oblivion.
  
  Value
  With all the great things about this game and the hundreds of hours that you can play this game, 
 the price is well worth the value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Seriously,
  
  WTF, The Xbox 360 goes toe to toe with the best of PC's. Said that, I must add that this is the 
 most amazing game!! Period!! Yes we have our Final Phantasy, Etc.. but this is a work of art, story 
 and soul with No equals!! 
  
  I have one of the best PC's out there (FX60 + 7900gtx) and I'm playing my 360 more and more. Hats 
 off to what is going to be game of the year, bar-none. I will add this to what I like to have when 
 I goooooooooooooo... to the big apple in the sky!!! Elizabeth!! This is it!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The worst thing about RPG is that you simply cannot entirely control your player. Your actions 
 are all selected by context menus and your effects depends upon the skill of your character. But 
 this is where Elder Scrolls: Oblivion stands out from the rest of the RPGs and even any game. The 
 game combines great First person action with all the great elements of RPG so fans of both genres 
 will not be disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: The combat system is surprisingly quite deep. You get huge array of medieval weapons 
 to choose from and even modify them by enchanting special spells to make them even stronger. 
 The game has a very well Alchemy system that you can use to take ingredients from the world like 
 flowers and beef and make it into a potion that you can use to restore health or even sell it to 
 a merchant. This is where RPG kicks in, the more you combat and make potions and cast spells, the 
 stronger you get in each of those categories. The entire land which the game takes place is just 
 HUGE, in terms of both level of detail and size. You can either journey by horseback to the other 
 side or if you feel you need to get there quick, a map is available which will allow you to teleport 
 there (the game intelligently calculates how much time you would have needed to go there and based 
 on that, it adjusts and the time and day) .
  
  There are many quests throughout Tamriel. You can follow the main quest which would take about 
 20 hrs if you are really good. The game also throws in various guilds which you can join and offer 
 their own quests, progress them and you will eventually get to the highest rank each guild has 
 to offer. Also there many other quests, you just have to explore Tamriel, talk with people and 
 see how you can help them in their cause. In all, all the quests should take more than 50hrs, that 
 quite a bargain for a 50$ game dont you think?
  
  Graphics: This is a next gen game and because it has no current gen console cousin, it looks outstanding. 
 All the graphical effects you expect from a next gen game are present here. With the help of a 
 certain mod, it even improves these things quite dramatically. One of my complaints is that distant 
 textures look a LOT blurry and the transition to higher resolution texture is not smooth. I can 
 understand Bethesda did this to run on a wide variety of systems, a slider of to adjust draw distance 
 for the textures and objects would have been useful; none the less a mod is already here to correct 
 this issue. Also the character models appears to be recycled a lot, even their facial features 
 seams to be altered, you can tell the similarity.
  
  Sound: The game employs great medieval type music throughout the game which really enhances the 
 experience. Also a dynamic music system which changes according to the mood and the location. My 
 only complain is that the voice actors, even thought they r really good, tend to deliver their 
 voice on far more than 1 character, I think there are about 15 voice actors lending their voice 
 to the thousand of Tamriel.
  
  Physics: The game does follow Newtons law even though he wasnt even bore yet, get it:) . I hope 
 so. Anyways the game physics engine is powered by Havoc, the same engine which powers the physics 
 heavy Half-Life 2. The physics engine of Oblivion comes very close to that of Half-Life 2, which 
 is a phenomenal achievement.
  
  Replayablity: Despite such a campaign in all, the game is huge replayable. For e. g.: I finished 
 the main quest with a character who is good with sword but not with magic. I will start another 
 game with a character that will be good with magic and maybe not so with weapons combat.
  
  Also the community is developing great mods for PC users which are a plus. But 360 owners need 
 not to worry, as Bethesda is making mods which 360 and PC users can download (some are free, some 
 require small amount of money or Microsoft points for 360) .
  
  All in all I like to say Oblivion is one of my lifes best games and I have never been so much 
 addicted to a game in my entire life. Buy it now! I promise you, you wont regret it. I would also 
 like to thank you for reading my review and Bethesda for this great game; I am already waiting 
 for a sequel or expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be very picky in this review, yet it still recieves a 9.5... amazing.
  
  Gameplay:: 9/10
  Only possible complaint is the loading times, but no they aren't as bad as some 
 people make them out to be. As I go through the forest or a city maybe ever fifteen seconds it 
 says Loading Area... at the bottom of the screen. But guess what? It doesn't skip the framerate 
 at all, it just says it down there and you keep moving. Really isn't a problem, it is a little 
 annoying when it has to load every time you enter a house but that only takes a few seconds. Everything 
 else however is fantastic, from the tutorial to the storyline, which is absolutely fantastic, to 
 just the extreme variety of everything you can do in this game. Combat is extremely fun and they 
 have done a great job of combining, magic, stealth, and combat into one flawless system. Hit C 
 to cast whichever spell you have, hit Ctrl to crouch down and go into sneak mode, which if done 
 correctly you can sneak up on opponents and deal extra damage. Of course the swordplay is one of 
 the funnest aspects of the game, it is very fun and easy to pick up, an extreme improvement from 
 morrowind. A health bar for the enemies would have been nice though. Seriously this game is the 
 essence of perfection.
  
  Graphics:: 9/10
  Wow... only complaing is if you don't have a computer that can run this decently, otherwise you 
 will say wow every few minutes of playing this game. Landscapes are beautiful, character models 
 are hyper detailed, just everything, textures, weather effects, dungeons, caves, cities, it's all 
 awesome! 
  
  Sound:: 9/10
  One complaint, it seems that wether you hit a wall or a rock or some dirt, it sounds like you're 
 hitting metal, what's up with that? I dunno though, minor problem, but it isn't actually a problem 
 :P Everything else is fantastic though, soundtrack, wind blowing through trees, rustling of the 
 grass as you walk through it, dialogue, wow the dialogue is amazing! The conversations the AI have 
 with eachother is a little rough around the edges but nothing too bad, and yes the AI actually 
 have conversations with eachother, and they arent already set up conversations, they are free form 
 and you can listen in on them and they actually make sense! It's really amazing.
  
  Value:: 10/10
  You cannot get bored of this game... seriously, I think it's almost impossible. 
 The storyline is about 40 hours, which is already alot longer than most games. But after that you 
 can walk around in the wilderness and raid camps, ruins, caves, dungeons, it's limitless! You can 
 even own your own shops. And the number of side quests is amazing, almost everybody you talk to 
 has a quest they can give you, and they are also all really different and fun to do. I've played 
 about 25 hours and haven't even touched the main story line. It's just so much fun to run around 
 and do whatever the heck you want.
  
  9.5- This is the best roleplaying game out there, if you even remotely like these games and you 
 don't have this one, you are missing out on alot.
  Game challenge: Once you leave the beginning dungeon, I dare you not to venture off the beaten 
 path and just explore the wilderness, instead head right to your first quest location.. it's hard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  If you like great graphics and awesome game play you will love this game, this game is challenging 
 and has a great story line. The best thing is its in a first person view and its set in the medieval 
 times, so basically its a FPS but with swords, bows 'n' arrows. You use magic you have to rest 
 and eat, its a new way to play games and its really addictive and a lot of fun to play. You will 
 get hooked to this game. The music is really nice to listen to and depending where you are can 
 be really creepy. The graphics are amazing and the scenery is phenomenal. You live in a new kind 
 of world that interacts with 24/7 AI that do their own thing 24/7 and are pretty smart. You can 
 go anywhere on the map, there is nothing to stop you but when you get to the edge of the map obviously 
 you get stopped by an invisible wall. Some of the voices for the AI are known actors like the Emperor 
 in the beginning voice by (Patrick Stewart from such movies as the x-men series and the captain 
 in Star Trek) and then we have the Emperor's son, voice by (Sean Bean from such movies as the Lord 
 of the rings trilogy and Flight plan) . This gives the AI a personality but still even if the voices 
 arent by actors the AI have there own personality in their own way and its just amazing to see 
 all the different ways they can make the AI stand out. Elder scrolls 4 "Oblivion" seems like an 
 online game but the creators concentrated only on single player so that game players get the most 
 out of the game in single player so they have made this game only single player so you know the 
 game play is going to be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaseisagerman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the most addicting game I've played ever. The fighting is amazing and so are the graphics. 
 You can do everything from steal out of people's pockets to going on creative missions. There are 
 many miles of snowy mountains, forests, and fields that you can walk or even ride a horse through, 
 not to mention the cities and caves and other worlds that you can go to. With the exception of 
 magic and mystical creatures, the only difference between this game and the real world is that 
 you can make a mistake and try again. Definitely a good buy for both XBox 360's and computers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julienelson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I am playing this game with a Nvida 7800 AGP and 1gig of ram. I have the graphics turned up all 
 the way, and I cant say it runs like butter... but the frame rate only slows down during action 
 sequences. There is an outstounding amount of stuf to do in this game. I have bought a house, stolen 
 a hourse, become grand champion in the areana (you can eather fight in a areana match or bet on 
 which combatant will win) , become a vampire, cured vampirism, collected 50+ in game books, stolen 
 an elder scroll from the imperial palace, exposed a merchant who buys stolen goods...... the list 
 goes on and on. The graphics are amazing. You can tell how many tree's are on the opisite bank 
 of a river by looking at the reflextion in the river. The phisics engine is awsome. If you kill 
 someone on the stairs their limp body will slide down it relisicly. The is farly average with one 
 buton to attack, one to block, and one to cast spells. The AI is ok but somtimes it does somthing 
 goofy. Once I saw a towns person saying "I saw Grenidal leaving town today" to anouther towns person 
 when Grenidal was RIGHT BESIDE THEM. So overall BUY THIS GAME there is so much stuff to do that 
 it will probably keep you intertained until 2010 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drivex3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  My system needs upgrading, I was running the minimum requirements to start, and ran out for another 
 stick of Memory to play more fluidly. I have also been so inspired to build myself a new PC with 
 a lot better Video card than the current Radeon 9500 Pro I am using. Even though I flashed the 
 bios some time ago and it is recognized as a 9700, I need to go to an X1800XT I think, because 
 I love these games for the gameplay experience and this has more to offer than my current graphics 
 allow.
  
  The hardest thing about it is the change from Morrowinds interactions.
  I will recover, but the way it is laid out and the new user features are a nice touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genie2476
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game, it looks fantastic
  
  the ai looks good, although they are a little... well.... JUST PLAIN STUPID! :P
  what i do find 
 funny is that once an..."scared" ai was running from me, and eventually he comes running at me with 
 his small fists and leather clothes, while im the guy with the HUGE sword and big fat Steel armor!!
 
  he must have bought a "courage" poison!
  also, while "it" was running away from me, it ran against a wall and didnt stop.... was "it" just 
 blind/stupid/crazy.... you pick!
  anyways, the graphics look great, thats just the best thing from this
  game.
  that it lookes 
 so good. the gameplay is... well.. good
  but the ai is so BLOODY weak!
  i cant understand how they sank kvatch!
  were the gaurds drunk or something?!?!
  you just hold 
 you shield up... wait till they hit you, you hit hem.. and voil
  
  and about the sounds they are very good
  altough the voices are a bit to many times the same 
 as others!
  only important characters appear to have their "own" voice!
  
  Its a good buy, if you like good graphics, storyline is good too
  but the game is just so easy!
 
  i qeuss my enthusiasm about this game was to big.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rendi267
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't play RTS games but this one just blew me off! 
  
  You start by creating your character, you can edit the looks, attributes and you can choose from 
 a big variety of races. The character building is great and almost unlimited.
  After you create your character and start playing you immediately get blown away from just hearing 
 the other characters talk to you, the sound is absolutely fantastic.
  
  After you get though a helping tutorial you are thrown into the amazing world of the game. You 
 instantly get amazed by the stunning graphics and visuals, the view looks great and the world looks 
 so real.
  
  It is very enjoyable to just walk around the cities or countrysides, hear the amazing ambient sounds 
 and explore the amazing world, but the best part is the story.... You feel like you are really in 
 there when you play the story missions, rescuing princes and closing oblivion gates, and the side 
 missions are even better, there just seems to be no end of them.
  The fighting system is great and so is the inventory system and the leveling system..... the game 
 is just perfect! 
  
  This is one game you should not be missing and must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony110
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is definitely the best Elder scrolls game came out yet. It has some 
 really amazing physics in the game and the voice actors in the game is amazing. It hasn't got to 
 many bad sides really, but it dosen't flow as good as we wanted it on the pc version. There is 
 a ton of characters, tons of quests, tons of actors and many more in the game. The story in the 
 game is absolutely great and after maybe an hour play you really gotten yourself into the story. 
 I can't say to much about it, but what i can say is that if you don't like Rpg games you might 
 still want to get this game after all cause it got some good action in it and it is really interesting. 
 Overall theres no bad sides other than that you'll probably need a really good computer to make 
 it flow good enough to be stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StraiN-ShifTeD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  I don't have much words for this game since it's truly the best offline RPG I've ever played. 
 
  
  The graphics are amazing and it feels like a walk in your own dream. This game is very detailed. 
 You can throw with a lot of items you can use a lot of stuff and you can steal about everything! 
 And the game's psychics feel really 'real' and the way how the NPCs react to your thing feel really 
 new since this has never been shown in any other games. 
  
  The sound is also a very plus point of this game. The weather sounds, the effect sounds, the special 
 effect sounds, they all feel like it's all happening next to you. The sound of the weapons hitting 
 eachother, blades against blades, truly hear outstanding!
  
  The gameplay of Oblivion was the thing I actually feared. I never thought it would be THIS good. 
 The game 'forces' you to keep on playing, you don't really want to stop playing it. There's always 
 something new ahead of you, every quest, every city, every cave, every castle, it doesn't matter 
 what it's just renewing all the time. You never think; "again"? The game is enormous with about 
 7 cities which are all HUGE (most are) . The learning curve of this game is pretty easy, since it's 
 such a big game. Ofcourse you need to get used to the controls, but that'll all go fine. The items 
 you can use in this game are abnormally much.
  
  The game crashed about 5 times. It only crashed after entering an Oblivion gate, which seems to 
 be normal in some forums I've read. I'm actually still waiting for a patch to come out before I'm 
 continuing my journey in this simply AMAZING game! I'm not a professional reviewer, but I'm very 
 sure I made my point!
  
  Recommended:
  I recommend this game for simply everyone, you just need to have checked this out before making 
 a statement. This game is a game you'll never forget ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilaan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I loved Daggerfall, Morrowind was just alright. While Oblivion fixed all the issues I had with 
 Morrowind, it created more issues which I really can't stand.
  
  Graphics : Beatiful graphics, I especially like the really long line of sight. Sit on top of a 
 mountain and you can see forever. On my system (Abit KV8, AMD 64 3200+, Geforce 6800 GT, 1 gig 
 400DDR ram) the game runs fine on high. While you don't need a $5000 dollar computer to run it, 
 don't expect to be able to run it on a $500 Emachine.
  
  Radiant AI : Ah yes, the most overhyped thing about this game. Especially in the E3 video. NPC's 
 have set schedules, shops open and close, the only thing the radiant AI does that different from 
 the norm is that instead of say, eating at home, they might eat a tavern. That's it. When it comes 
 down to fighting the radiant AI, is well, not to radiant. Monsters constantly getting stuck, NPC's 
 fighting for you constantly run in front of your swings/arrows/fireballs then yell at you for hitting 
 them. Guards have some sort of psychic ability and can appear out of nowhere (fixed with a mod 
 but still) Plain and simple, the AI really did not live up to it's expectations. You will never 
 have an NPC invite you upstairs and I have yet to see an NPC drink a potion.
  
  Skills : Daggerfall had tons of skills, then they got rid of most in Morrowind and by Oblivion, 
 the skills are so mainstreamed its insulting. You have three weapon choices, Blunt, Blade, Hand 
 to Hand. Their are axes in the game but guess what skill set they fall under..... BLUNT?!?! Wow, 
 I guess the axes in Oblvion are really dull. The mine games, while interesting pretty much makes 
 the skills associated with them useless. Speachcraft is completely and totally useless. Security 
 is pretty much useless also, especially later in the game. You can have a security of one and pick 
 the hardest lock.
  
  Level scaling/loot : Totally against this, totally hate this, and if they ever do it again, I will 
 totally never buy another TES game again. The whole point of RPG's is to level up to get stronger 
 to move on to a tougher area. But when you can beat the game and every quest without leveling up 
 once well..... Also, while the game is huge with lots of areas to explore, its pointless due to 
 the fact that no matter where you go or what you do, you will never find a dungeon too hard. Loot 
 is pretty crappy till you get higher up in levels then you have godly equipment dropping off of 
 every other mob.
  
  Factions : Their is basically four main factions to join, Fighters Guild, Mages Guild, Thieves 
 Guild, and Dark Brotherhood. Out of them all the Dark Brotherhood had the most originaly, well 
 thought out, and FUN missions of the four. Oh, and don't worry if your a pure warrior. My pure 
 no casting warrior was the arch mage of the mages guild by lvl 10. Yeah, makes a lot of sense doesn't 
 it? Also each faction comes with its own counter faction (Blackwood Co vs Fighters Guild, Necromancers 
 vs Mages Guild, and Theives Guild vs Imperial Legion) You can't join of these factions so it makes 
 the replayability factor 0.
  
  Combat, Magic, and Stealth : Combat is actually fun now, theres swing, power attacks, knockdown 
 attacks, disarm attacks. A HUGE step forward from Morrowind with click click click click. Magic 
 is also revamped, I really hated having to switch out weapons and go through a whole process just 
 to cast a spell. Now its a simple click away. Then there is Stealth, If they would of improved 
 any more on stealth it would rival the Thief series. Its that good. Of course with the leveled 
 loot, there really isn't anything to steel (or nothing to really steal for that matter.)
  
  Journal : Okay, one thing I hated about morrowing was its archaic undescripitve journal. They just 
 went a little too far with the map compass deal. You have a quest, an arrow shows you step by step 
 where to go. No challenenge whatsoever in this aspect. They need to find a medium between the two 
 extremes.
  
  If they would of kept everything in Morrowind except, the combat, magic, stealth, graphics, and 
 found a decent medium for the journal. This game would be 20X better than what it is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  I'll try to sum up 3 positive and 3 negative points with a brief conclusion to put a point on it:
 
  
  POSITIVES
  
  1. See above. 70 hours! No matter what criticisms we might come up with, 70 hours on a game happily 
 engaged is no minor achievement. 
  
  2. I probably have another 70 hours or more if I want it. Also a major achievement. I have essentially 
 ingored the main quest and most of the side adventures you could take on the map. In other words, 
 I've done most of the Thieves' Guild and Mages' Guild stuff. This means I have TONS of content 
 left to go. Along the way, some of the quests were surprisingly fresh in terms of new spins on 
 "Find x item and return it to person y." 
  3. All my hardward upgrade woes (and expense) were worth it. The game is simply a joy to look at. 
 
  
  NEGATIVES
  
  1. At some point, a lot of the 70+ hours become mere variations on a theme. I think this is where 
 Oblivion's on-line, group-based brethren have the secret to true longevity: shared experiences 
 with friends that offer something new each session (new at least in terms of human-human interaction) . 
 Oblivion ends up feeling pretty lonely. You're this sole figure, usually fighting enemies one at 
 a time. Ultimately the grand open-endedness of the game also opens the game to another weakness 
 coupled with lonliness: each quest must be programmed as a self-contained unit (since who knows 
 when you'll start it?) , and although the game tries to recognize what you've done in a logical 
 way ("Hey, you're the hero of Kavatch!") , what you essentially get in a trade off for open-endedness 
 is 1,000 quests that can be tackled as 1,000 very similar mini sessions. Sure, there is an overall 
 plot but no urgency. I think maybe there should be a timer running, after which time if you haven't 
 closed x number of gates by date x, creatures get harder or something?
  
  2. Thus, the remaining content now is approach that "chore" feeling. Do I really want to clear 
 out another cave? True, the monsters and treasure are scaling to my level, so the challenge and 
 reward are always growing... but the method and suspense aren't. Again, to come up with 140 hours 
 of engaging SP content would be close to a miracle, but it's not really a miracle I see happening 
 in Oblivion.
  
  3. I'm looking forward to some code optimization that will finally let my newfound hardware run 
 the game with NO slow-downs. Wish me luck. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Ultimately Oblivion is one of those games that any RPGer *must* play in order to witness an important 
 moment in the genre's history. And hey, even if you "only" get 50 hours or so of engaging gameplay 
 out of it before the routines gets tired, it's still a great-looking and typically great-playing 
 experience. In the end, though, I think the next game in the series needs to take the Oblivion 
 trend to its logical conclusion: Make particular quests and plot line even more important (at least 
 we can easily keep track of and find them in Oblivion) and give a second thought to making the 
 game TOO open-ended. Beyond quests, if every player can become a sword-wielding, stealth-mastering, 
 spell casting demi-God of all trades, then where are the strategic choices to be made in character 
 creation and game play? Unfortunately, Oblivion can easily digress to a mundane game of upping 
 all your stats all the time so you never have to compromise on anything. True, a patient role-player 
 could avoid this, but the game begs it. For example, I realized I could set my character to auto 
 sneak ('q' key) into a rock with my horse looking the other way. The result? Go make some tea and 
 come back with +5 sneak skill. I stopped at that point so I wouldn't ruin the illusion any further 
 --and this is an exploit easily avoided by the player -- but the question still hit me: Heck, why 
 not just max out these stats and move on with being God?
  
  Well, I didn't really want to be God... just a good thief. Somewhere along the way, I failed the 
 game, and the game failed me. But no matter all that, 70 hours with many more mods and opportunities 
 to come back means that Oblivion is a major success in my (over-stuffed spell) book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpholland
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a superb RPG that requires a solid system to run smoothly. It is immersive with solid 
 mechanics and gameplay. The only shortfalls are the high system requirements and odd level-up quirks.
 
  
  I upgraded my video card from a 6600GT to a 7800GS just to get better visuals in this game. With 
 the 6600GT I could not run at 1280x1024 or even 1024x768 at higher texture qualities. However, 
 I have maxed out settings with the new 7800GS and the game looks gorgeous.
  
  The way major and minor skills affect your level up is somewhat odd. I won't go into detail because 
 many other reviewers have already.
  
  10 years from now, Oblivion will be on peoples' list of the greatest RPGs of all time. It is probably 
 the best single player RPG to come out on the PC. People have a special place in their heart for 
 old games like Ultima V, but Oblivion has a geniuninely better story line with stronger production 
 value. This game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imyoon28
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  I was partially doubtful when I got this game... but no more. I can NOT believe how amazing this 
 game is. The story, graphics, sound, gameplay... this is the epitome of an amazingly amazing... great... game. 
 Like Gamespot says, the only bad part of this game is the loading... THAT'S IT! What other game 
 can say that? Sure, there are a fair share of games that are good... but nothing like this. I love 
 it, hands down... I like it a little bit better than WOW... just a little... and that's because of 
 the graphics. I've got WOW for the cartoonish side, and ES for reality. Anyways, go get it. If 
 you don't, you're a terrorist... that's right... I said it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diving_devil46
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Visuals - This game is visually amazing. I will make that statement now; The NPC's look a little 
 poor sometimes but for the most part; I find the world extremely beautiful whether I'm wandering 
 outside or creeping around in dungeons.
  
  Sound - It is alright for the game. I wouldn't classify the sfx of the game to be the revolution 
 that we expected; but it doesn't do the game any injustice either...
  
  Difficulty - Right, this is were I feel let down... WHY did they feel the need to make the world 
 level with you? Why? It makes no sense at all... I appluad their attempts to break away from traditional 
 RPG's but this feature just doesn't work. It makes you as a player feel completely pointless. On 
 the one hand, Elder scrolls games are meant to be more about exploration than the main story but 
 there is just no point exploring and lvling up. You don't find better equipment until you level 
 but because the world is leveling as well; there is no point. This is the main thing that has irritated 
 me to the bone i'm afraid...
  
  Gameplay - Better than previously. A very nice selection of classes and races available which all 
 add up to a different experience, You can be a warrior with excellent healing spells if you decire 
 or an archer that relies on summons or support. So because of the nice variety; the gameplay can 
 hold up well, though it does start to get a little stale towards the end. You can also do several 
 side events such as property owning to name one. These all help to vary up the experience.
  
  NPC's - Okay, they are a little lacking in the brain department to be honest; and very few 
 seem to exist. I realise that with Oblivion; they attempted to make every one real and this would 
 take some time but they should have fine-tuned a few of them and added a goo 50 -100 more to the 
 world. I would have been willing to wait if it made the game look and feel as real as it is supposed 
 to.
  
  There also isn't enough random monsters in the wilderness and not a great deal of variety of enemies 
 either. Not that this particilarly hinders the game... Just means that if you want to fight; you 
 have to find a cave/castle/mine... or a town if you are feeling sadistic.
  
  Closing Comments - I was probably one of the people most excited about this game... I watched those 
 videos of the forest several times and was amazed at the physics and how the game seemed to look 
 real... but I found that I just haven't been gripped to it... I have never been emersed into the 
 world like I was with morrowind. The combat is a million times better than morrowind; but the game 
 really isn't. If morrowind had the graphical presentation, physics and combat system of oblivion 
 - then we would have had a perfect Elder's game...
  
  This isn't a bad game... It just lacks something that other top rpg's have. It might be my inability 
 to overcome the fact that the world levels with you. As mentioned; it makes me as a player feel 
 pointless to the experience... You could choose all the skills you wish to use as your minor ones; 
 then go through the game as lvl one and still be able to defeat the oblivion gates; so truly why 
 adventure and level up?
  
  For me personally; The tempo of the game is just off ever so slightly - but it ruins the otherwise 
 rich experience oblivion attempts to offer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: future500
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls Oblivion takes you to a whole new world of RPG....
  You have the beautiful environments, The mountains on the background, deers running through the grass, fishes 
 swimming in the water. It is all real...
  The fighting is really fun. You got your weapon on the right side of your screen and the shield 
 on the left side it's all good. You have a lot to do in the  
 tasks you'll find it all in this game... And it will take some time to have this game finished so 
 you will have a lot of fun with The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion....
  Without any doubt this is my number 1 game and I hope more will come...
  Viva la Next-Gen... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  
  1) Graphics - Without question Oblivion offers gamers a beautiful gaming environment. The high-point 
 of the Oblivion visual experience comes from more than just its character models or spell effects 
 but also from its detail in the natural surroundings. You will not find better looking grass, trees, 
 rocks, flowers, and such in any other game that's in production to date. The cities have incredibly 
 deep looking textures and the lighting and shadows are simply elite. If you are looking for an 
 incredibly detailed and beautiful gaming world look no further than Oblivion.
  
  2) Performance - From a system performance mindset Oblivion is in elite status here. Only a few 
 other games have offered such amazing graphics while not sucking dry every bit of resources you 
 have. I built my system with a Gigabyte K8N mobo nForce & 939 compatibilities, 2 nvidia 7600gt's, 
 an amd 3800+, and a wd raptor hard drive (best ever!) , 2gigs memory, and running Oblivion on max 
 everything causes zero slowdown and a smooth consistent rate of fps. Running this game on my old 
 box p4, ati x800 agp, gig ram, the game still runs very well even on high. You will need a decent 
 machine to get your money's worth from this game but you will not need a high-end box. A P4 with 
 an nvidia 6600+ will be fine.
  
  3) Map - Once again Elder Scrolls delivers to us a giant world filled with enough places to visit 
 and explore to last a gamer 50+ hours of adventure. You get a variety of places to visit such as 
 small forts, villages, big cities, and odds and ends along the way.
  
  4) Character creation - Oblivion offers the RPG gamer a wide selection of character builds to choose 
 from or create. You choose your class, race and what "sign" you were born under. You also have 
 the chance to alter your choice shortly after you begin in case you have changed your mind. You 
 will be hard pressed to find a character build that's not available here.
  
  5) Quests - As usual Elder Scrolls gives you an incredible amount of side quests to distract you 
 from the not-so-long main quest. They do a great job at finding a way to get you off the track 
 of the main quest. 
  
  6) Combat - As I played this game I began to realize they have improved their combat system in 
 Oblivion to the point I'd call it a good thing. The AI isn't very good but the action balances 
 it out. With the variety of character builds in this game an experienced gamer will quickly develop 
 his or her styles against particular classes. It's pretty fun.
  
  7) Cheats - Yes, Oblivion offers you many cheat codes you can use and they can be quite fun and 
 add a lot to the game. I don't suggest using God mode much since the game really isn't that difficult. 
 But, it does allow for you to see how mental the AI can be by picking fights with those you should 
 not.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Character development - Oblivion has done what many RPGs are doing and that's making a slight 
 attempt at creating the illusion that you are in fact evolving your character's personality through 
 a cause/effect system as you progress in the game. Unlike the greatness at this we saw in KoTOR 
 Oblivion falls well short of being a success in this category. The choices you make in the game 
 only seem to have immediate and very abrasive consequences to your actions be it good or bad.
 
  
  2) Character models - It's hard to believe that a game that has spent so much time, effort, and 
 money into making the visuals look as real as possible that Bethesda forgot to make the NPCs as 
 realistic. Instead the character models are seriously creepy. Characters will turn and stare at 
 you when you walk into a room which is cool but, as a result of the games seriously poor pathing, 
 when these npcs get stuck against each other or behind an object like a desk they all stare at 
 you... and stare at you, their heads move as you move, they smile, they stare, it's the creepiest 
 thing in gaming since I played F. E. A. R. Now these models "look" fine but they act like they're 
 all drunk, high, or seriously mentally handicapped.
  
  3) Population - I'd hate to live in this part of the world. I am beginning to think I know why 
 all the characters seem like they're a little odd and creepy. When you walk into a city even the 
 largest of all cities you will run into only a handful of people. The game offers so real sense 
 of being in a city. If you're on a farm you're lucky to run into one person. If you are in the 
 capital city you might see 20 NPCs. With a population this small in numbers I image everyone is 
 directly related to everyone else. This would explain the creepiness! It's hard to imagine the 
 threat of Oblivion since all the times you are on the other side of the gates you only encounter 
 a hand full of the eeeevil bad guys.
  
  4) Voice work - With the amount of effort Bethesda put into this game they could have rounded up 
 a few dozen more people to do voice work. You will hear the same voices over and over again. Part 
 of identifying NPCs should be their voice or at least it should be a small part of it. But, now 
 that I think about it, we've established that everyone in Oblivion seems to be a first cousin of 
 everyone else so this is making more sense. I'm beginning to see a hidden theme from Bethesda. 
 Perhaps they are incredibly brilliant or twisted!
  
  5) Audio - The soundtrack in Bethesda is average and that's being generous. The sound effects are 
 ok but there's nothing in this games audio presentation that stands out in a positive way. I am 
 very disappointed by their lack of variety in the voice actors. Yes "P-Stew" (Patrick Stewart) 
 as I call him does a great job and so do a few of the others but there are only a few period!
 
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Pathing - The pathing in Oblivion is not acceptable for a game released in 2006. The NPCs get 
 stuck far too often, left running in place against walls, objects, or even other NPCs. I've seen 
 NPC's bunching up all one after another walking against each other in place like wound up toy robots. 
 Oh, and of course, they all STARE at you in a creepy "Hi! Watch me continuously walk in place pressed 
 against this other NPC's backside while I stare and smile at you!"
  
  2) AI - The AI is not the great feature we were led to believe it was. Yes the game's overall (forest) 
 Ai is excellent with each character seemingly having a time table it adheres to but the individual 
 NPCs (the trees) are so flawed that it makes it very difficult to see the forest through the trees. 
 Doubt me do you? Then do the following. Go someplace with several people like the bowls of the 
 Arena. Take a stab at the Blademaster and watch him chase you. Run next to the old lady, the female 
 fighter, the Grand champion, get them all chasing you and watch what happens. One will eventually 
 get in the way and be stabbed by another. Suddenly the entire mob that wanted you dead is ignoring 
 you and killing each other. Then the guards come inside! And they enter the fray. It's hilarious 
 to execute but I find it hard to believe this is the AI Bethesda had in mind. But, then again, 
 this would fall in line nicely with the idea that they are all each others siblings, cousins, and 
 mates all at the same time as we have been proving here.
  
  Overall:
  
  Well, I have seriously mixed thoughts and feelings on Oblivion. You get the story content and volume 
 that you are expecting from the Elder Scrolls series along with incredible visuals and artwork. 
 But the AI is so clumsy and doesn't seem to ever flow smoothly that those positives can get lost 
 easily. The point or ultimate goal of any single player RPG is to get the gamer to forget the world 
 around them and immerse themselves in a fantasy world. The problem with Oblivion is that while 
 the game looks real it doesn't feel real. From too many characters having the same exact voices, 
 to the creepy way the character models move and act, and the incredible lack of volume in the amount 
 of people you see in this game a gamer will find it hard to stay focused and wrapped up in the 
 fantasy. However the graphics and story content are enough to make this game worth a purchase.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: struong
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of RPGs and this one is one of the best. It's easy to play, fun, and deep with 
 lots of things to do. Despite all the different customizations and paths you can follow, you don't 
 get lost as the storyline is well structured and you always know where to go and what to do. 
 
  
  The graphic for this game is phenomal. Everything is so beautiful that you can just walk around 
 and enjoy the scenary. Gameplay is inituitive and easy to pick up. Many different skills and class 
 to choose from or create your own. The storyline is well done but the side quest is where it shines. 
 
  
  Lots of funny moments and epic accomplishment for the thief, mage or fighter in you.
  
  Excellent job Bethesda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XSlayerX2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  With the increasing demand of role playing games and the decrease in quality RPG production, The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion delivers to the genre. What set this game apart from other role playing 
 games of this era are its unparalleled visuals combined with great game play and useful user interface.
 
  
  Like all of the previous Elder Scrolls installments, your character starts in a prison of some 
 sort. You're released from your captivity at the mercy of the emperor Uriel Septim, who sees you 
 in his dreams as the savior of Cyrodiil, the capital province of Tamriel. Cyrodiil is under siege 
 by Daedra, the demons originating from the realm of Oblivion, or the hell of Tamriel. Its your 
 job to stop these invasions and find a legitimate heir to the throne so that Cyrodiil can be peaceful 
 one again. Throughout your journeys, you'll come across sprawling cities of bustling trade and 
 economics, the mysterious dungeon and cavern crawls in the wilderness, and even portals to hell 
 itself. Beware, the wilderness is filled with monsters and bandits of all sorts, so go prepared. 
 Much of Cyrodiil is covered by lush forests, and there is a lot of these randomly generated woods 
 to be explored; roughly 16 square miles. The game is intended to be a vast free-form adventuring 
 game with hundreds of side-quests and over 200 hours of game play. You could spend hours just decorating 
 your own virtual house, or saving up a load of Septims, the games currency, to buy a horse, which 
 you can also ride. As you plunder your way to destiny, youll uncover ancient fortresses, powerful 
 artifacts, and become a wealthy adventurer.
  
  Lets cut to the basics. The musical scores are very impressive and well orchestrated, especially 
 the introductory theme song. The music flows well with the appropriate occurrences in-game, such 
 as battles and exploration. While this is true, there is one minor fault that stands out, although 
 its a very excusable flaw. One can be exploring the lush, green forests looking for a random dungeon 
 dive or bandit brawl and the exploration music will stop almost instantaneously when you are in 
 the range or sight of an enemy, and the battle sequence music is then promptly started. With grass 
 enabled, it's often times difficult to see an attacker immediately, thus, the music is a signal 
 that someone is after you. It kills some of the battle immersion and the essence of surprise.
 
  
  The sound effects are pretty good, and most of them are not too repetitive, although the voice-overs 
 tend to get a little annoying after a while. The game fully supports 3d sound, and the quality 
 is amazing with a 5.1 surround sound system. It truly engrosses the player into the game. Back 
 to the voice-overs there are literally over a thousand different NPCs to interact with in Cyrodiil, 
 and most of them have the same generic voice talent as one another. Most of the Nord males have 
 the same voice actor and the same lines, all over Cyrodiil. The same holds true for every other 
 voice-over in the game. Orc females have a high pitched, dainty, feminine voice thats almost the 
 same as the Breton females voices, as well as almost all the other human female voices. Even some 
 of the main characters have the same universal voice actors. Bethesda did great work incorporating 
 some celebrity voice talents into the works, such as Patrick Stewart. He plays a great emperor, 
 its just a shame his role is so short-lived.
  
  The Radiant AI system newly implemented by Bethesda is a great new technology. It gives the NPCs 
 in Cryodiil a 24 hour schedule based on their own needs. NPCs all have sleeping schedules, they 
 eat, go to taverns, travel to different cities, hunt, and even have dynamic, randomly generated 
 conversations with one another. None of these events are scripted, and thats perhaps what makes 
 this new wave of artificial intelligence so unique. These dynamic conversations, however, can sometimes 
 be very repetitive and short. Heres an example of a randomly generated conversation between two 
 male Nords while wandering through the streets of the Imperial City, capital of Cyrodiil.
  
  NORD1: Hello
  NORD2: Hello
  NORD1: I ran into some goblins outside the city not long ago.
 
  NORD2: Nasty little creatures, I hate the things.
  NORD1: Goodbye.
  NORD2: Bye.
  
  This is very, very short. Youll be hearing little pointless conversations and gossip like this 
 throughout every town you travel to, but its better than having the NPCs stand around doing absolutely 
 nothing all day and night (Morrowind) . This gets even worse when both people involved in the conversation 
 use the same voice actor, and sound identical to each other.
  
  There are a few instances of this Radiant AI that are truly very impressive and surprising to say 
 the least. Two Imperial Foresters were hunting a deer in the wilderness; one missed the deer and 
 accidentally hit my character instead. The archer proceeded with his deer pursuit and yelled Sorry! 
 to me as he ran by. I didnt expect this at all. Another instance was while I was roaming the countryside 
 for bandits and other evil. I came across a guard and a bandit in a bit of a scuffle. Apparently 
 they were evenly matched  until I got there. I attacked the guard, and he screamed at me, Not 
 me, you idiot, attack him! I then proceeded to attack the bandit, and the bandit fled up a hill 
 and into some ruins. Both the guard and I followed the bandit into the ruins and scoped him out. 
 I killed the bandit and the guard was kind enough to let me loot his corpse. Its a shame though; 
 the guard didnt last too much longer in those ruins.
  
  The unique physics engine used in the game provides hours of entertainment, just in case you finish 
 everything else the game has to offer. Bodies react to sword swings and so do almost all of the 
 items in Cyrodiil. Items can be picked up and tossed around, reacting with one another in a realistic 
 flow of gravity. The same holds true for corpses and arrows. Swinging a huge sword into an enemy 
 and killing him in one hit will send him flying in the direction you swiped your sword. Is there 
 a wall to break his sail? His body will smack against the wall and tumble to the floor, realistically. 
 Corpses in this game are almost rubber-like. Theyll bounce around for a few seconds until the 
 artificial gravity can keep them in one place. Its really a very fun and unique feature to play 
 around with, especially in god mode.
  
  Perhaps the most sought after item of interest in Oblivion are the graphics. This game is one of 
 the most graphically enhanced games to date, and looks incredibly realistic with all of the details 
 turned up on a high resolution. The only real flaw that comes to mind when speaking of the graphics 
 is the amount of raw hardware power your computer will need to run it as mentioned above  all 
 the details maxed on a high resolution. The minimum system specs are staggering to the average 
 PC user, who doesnt spend thousands of dollars on their rig to play a specific game (and many 
 more to come) , but to a hardcore elitist gamer, a top-notch rig is a must have for this game.
 
  
  The visuals are absolutely mind-boggling. Consisting of realistic shadows that move with your character 
 according to multiple light sources, tree canopy shadows that sway in accordance with trees, self 
 shadows that further enhance character and NPC visuals, realistic grass and trees that both animate 
 and sway with the weather, Shader Model 3.0 implemented in newer video cards for high-quality, 
 life-like water and reflection effects on metals and windows, and High Dynamic Range lighting effects 
 that truly immerse the player in a realistic world almost identical to that of the middle ages. 
 The visuals dont end there; there are breathtaking draw distances, making it possible to see across 
 almost the entire province, awesome particle effects that really bring out the sense of danger 
 and adventure when inside ruins and caves, as well as reflective large scale textures on every 
 item in the game. The caves have a wet feel to them, and you can see what looks like moisture on 
 the walls and stalagmites of caves and ruins. All of these elements bring out the realism in the 
 game; however, your computer will require the latest technology to run the game at this level.
 
  
  Some elements of the game play are intuitive, while some tend to bother a lot of players. The combat 
 has been greatly improved over Morrowinds combat system. If your sword passes through an enemy, 
 youll do damage; you dont have to worry about having a chance to hit the enemy should your 
 sword pass through its torso. The level of your blade skill determines how much damage youll do, 
 and applies any kind of special attack depending on your mastery level. The combat has also been 
 tweaked to form with the Havok physics engine used in Oblivion, as mentioned above. Youll really 
 feel the action in this game as you clash steel with a foe. You can block an attack with the click 
 of a mouse and depending on how hard of a swing the enemy delivers, youll get knocked back and 
 sometimes stunned for a few seconds. This works both ways too, meaning enemies can fall prey to 
 your own battle tactics and blocking effects. You can even enchant items with great magical effects 
 such as fire damage on a weapon or resist magic on a piece of armor.
  
  The new scaling system that has been implemented into Oblivion tends to bother some, while others 
 seem to be fine with it, and even like it. This new scaling system created an environment in which 
 bandits and other foes level along with you, to keep the challenging part of the game in-tune. 
 The creatures and encounters arent the only thing that level along with you, however. As you level, 
 youll notice the quality of the gear being used and thusly dropped by foes increase. Eventually, 
 once you hit a certain level, most of the bandits and enemies in the game use the top-notch weapons 
 and armor, making the supposed Champion or demigod-like player character feel like an ordinary 
 character amongst the rest. It isnt something special when a full set of Daedric armor drops from 
 some random level 30 bandit in a random cave. For those of you who like this type of scaling system 
 where almost everything levels with you and drops level-appropriate gear, then you can leave the 
 game as is.
  
  But, for the hard-core game editors, theres the construction set. With this tool, one can change 
 this scaled loot system and the level scaling system. This utility is a free download on the official 
 web site, and its a very useful tool for those of you who wish to tweak anything in the game yourself, 
 or add new content, or even create a total conversion of the game into Morrowind (which Im sure 
 is in the works right now) . The Construction Set is the utility that Bethesda Softworks used to 
 create the game, everything from scripting to object and area creation and positioning. Need a 
 particular item? Accidentally sold something important? Look up the item number in the construction 
 set and add the item with the console in-game. The console in the game is used to tweak and edit 
 in-game settings as well as debug and activate cheat codes for diagnostic use. Its useful if youre 
 trying to test something youve created with the construction set. Its also fun to turn on god 
 mode once in a while and just destroy everything with an area-effect spell.
  
  The user interface or UI in the game is reminiscent of a console video-game. (The game was primarily 
 designed for the Xbox360) . Its almost like a little booklet, with four separate chapters. The 
 first chapter, or tab, is the character screen. Here there will be a few different pages displaying 
 all of the information about your characters current status, including level, health, magicka, 
 fatigue or stamina, current bounty, and a multitude of other things. Its much easier to navigate 
 through than having 8 different windows open at one time, one representing each page of your characters 
 stats or inventory. The second chapter is the inventory screen. This has four different pages 
 in it to easily view a select portion of your inventory, or your entire inventory at once, making 
 it easier to find a specific item. The inventory screen shows items, gives a brief description 
 of each item, defense amount (should it be a piece of armor) , damage (should it be a weapon) , market 
 value of the item, and the current durability, as well as the weight. A stolen item will have a 
 little red hand attached to it, indicating the item as stolen. Be careful what you steal though, 
 people dont like it when you take their goods, and will call the guards. The third tab represents 
 your magic menu. It contains all of your spells and active effects as well as special abilities 
 that you gain from magical stones across Cyrodiil. The fourth tab is the map and quest tab, showing 
 the world map, and a mini-map, showing a zoomed in section of the place that youre currently in. 
 This menu also has some pages that display current quest (s) , Quests at hand, and completed quests, 
 all in fully detailed, chronological paragraphs. This method of user interface is very effective 
 and is a big plus.
  
  The interface with NPCs is unique in that it has a disposition system unlike any other. NPCs all 
 have a disposition toward you, and it can either be good or bad, ranging on a scale of 0 to 100. 
 The higher the number, the friendlier theyll be. You can tell jokes to them, boast about yourself, 
 admire them, or even taunt them, and their disposition will change according to your personality 
 level and fame. Characters react to you differently depending on what race you are, your personality 
 level, fame, infamy, and numerous other small factors. You can also bribe characters so they like 
 you more. Although its a great feature, bribing doesnt usually do the job correctly; bribing 
 a beggar and giving him 500 gold will not change his social status, meaning hell still be on the 
 street corner saying that he can afford a pair of shoes if you gave him only one more coin, after 
 you gave him 500.
  
  All in all, this game is a must have for any computer gamer. Yes, its a system hog, and, like 
 every game, its got its own minor flaws, but it truly holds up to its name as one of the best 
 games to hit the shelves. Despite its release date drama and delay, the game truly emerged quite 
 impressive at its initial release, and was well worth the wait. With the decline of quality RPG 
 production and the ascension of the single player role playing experience into the abyss, this 
 may be one of the best role playing games to be released. Hopefully Bethesda will continue to create 
 massive single player role playing games of vast proportions and continue The Elder Scrolls saga 
 for years to come. And yes, for those compulsive people who feel that there should be a bright 
 red or yellow dragon in every role playing game created, you wont be let down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is a total failure of a game. Where does the developer get off creating a game wher you make 
 your character jump and it stays in the same exact position as when it was standing, but slowly 
 rises into the air and then comes back down. Evrything in this game is in S... L... O.. W.. M... O... T... I... O... N. 
 
  
  Fighitng is a complete waste of time and completely boring. One sword swing, slow and boring, swing 
 your sword and watch the enemy slowly drift off the edge of your swrod. Everything in this game 
 is SLOW. 
  
  Dork fest. Terrible physics. Complete let down of a game. Obviously people who know nothing about 
 a role playing game trying to keep up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metaltude
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  The game looks magnificent.. the game play is easy and there is a great variety of NPC's, player 
 looks, ending and ways to get there.
  
  When you start your character, you first need to choose one of the 10 races. Then you can change 
 the face of your character with a lot of variables, you will be able to create the character of 
 your dreams (or nightmares) .
  
  And then... it is time.. To step into a huge world that looks great and is filled with a huge amount 
 of characters, houses, possibilities, quests, buildings, etc... 
  
  You can choose not to hold on to the main quest, or even side quests.. it's almost the ultimate 
 open ended game (if the end is stopping playing) .. 
  
  The only bad thing about this all is, that if you want to see it in the best performance, you will 
 need a very up to date PC. Then I'm not just talking about CPU and memory, but too about the sound-card 
 and the rest of your PC. But even if you don't have a great PC, it will be a lot of fun and pleasure 
 to play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willcaff
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  This truly is an amazing game. It has the best graphics to date that I have ever seen to date. 
 The enviroments are breathtaking and with a high end computer they are so good you actually get 
 lost inside the world you have created. The musical soundtrack is great and it isn't overpowering 
 so that is all you would hear during game play. The way you can design your character is great 
 and the possiabities are endless. Interatction with the AI is also great. I have yet to experince 
 any real glitches on my system although my syblings have experinced a few. The possiabilites are 
 endless and no two games will ever be idnetical. The fighting system is awesome too. I normally 
 only like playing turn-based or real-time strategy games but I can't put down Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion. It really is a great game with so much too I'll be playing for a good long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalniel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  It's good to sit down. At least, that's what my character is thinking as he relaxes on a bar stool 
 at the Riverside inn. It's been a long day - I've settled a minor dispute, foiled an assassination 
 attempt, recovered a long-lost artefact and stepped through a portal into the realms of hell to 
 fight back demons and close a dimensional breach. I book a room for the night and sip at a beer, 
 wanting to warm my boots for a while before retiring. In the corner I hear barely-whispered conversation: 
 word has got around about the demon attacks, but this time the news is good - a nearby town was 
 saved from almost certain destruction. I smile to myself - at least my work doesn't always go unnoticed.
 
  
  The beer finished I get off the stood and begin to head upstairs. On the way I overhear another 
 conversation - it sounds like one of the town guards is abusing his position. I make a mental note 
 of the name and think about checking it out tomorrow. Entering the room the innkeeper had available 
 for me I take off my armour and store it in a chest by the bed. A hearty meal has been laid out 
 for me on the table, but I think I'll pass this time. At last I gratefully climb into the bed and 
 fall asleep. It's an early start tomorrow and the whole province is ahead of me.
  
  Thus goes a typical day in the game of Oblivion. At this point I have to tear myself away from 
 the computer and head to bed myself - far too many hours have passed immersed in this game.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the latest RPG to be released by Bethesda Softworks (or Bethsoft 
 as they are informally known) . While many fans know this company through the Ultima Underworld-like 
 TES: Arena and the massive undertaking that was TES II: Daggerfall, it was the critical and commercial 
 success of TES III: Morrowind that really put their name on the map. The success of that game (aided 
 by a successful console version) took even the developers by surprise. However, rather than line 
 their own pockets, Bethsoft poured funds into the next game in the series. The result is Oblivion 
 - undoubtedly the most polished game to have ever come out of Bethsoft's studios. But the question 
 begs to be asked: Is it the best game to date as well?
  
  Lore
  
  The continent of Tamriel, where all Elder Scrolls games are set, is a not-hugely-unique fantasy 
 setting. It is a fairly low-fantasy world with more emphasis placed on the people and their politics 
 than on high magic and dragons - think more Gothic than Neverwinter Nights. As with other settings 
 there are several different races of humans and elves, however noticeable breaks from the genre 
 standard include the fact that orcs are not a monstrous race (though they are considered ugly and 
 are frequently persecuted) , there are no dwarves (well, technically there was a race of elves that 
 were called 'dwarves', however they all mysteriously disappeared in an event several era before 
 the game is set) , and finally you can also play Khajit - a cat like race, or an Argonian - a lizard 
 like race. Each race comes from a different region of Tamriel, complete with their own unique abilities 
 and aptitudes for particular tasks. You will also encounter all the prejudices or favours that 
 members of your chosen race should expect from people they encounter.
  
  TES IV: Oblivion itself takes place in the entire province of Cyrodiil, at the very centre of Tamriel. 
 The 'Imperial Province' as it is known is the homeland of the Emperor Uriel Septim VII and the 
 dominant race of Imperials who in the current era are the conquerors of most of Tamriel (though 
 diplomatically allowing each province to maintain local authority) . The date is six years after 
 the events of Morrowind, however as with all Elder Scrolls games, you begin with a new character 
 and the events of Morrowind have no direct effect on the story of Oblivion, bar generic lore. Some 
 books in Oblivion do refer to events in Morrowind however, so if you wish to remain completely 
 spoiler free I would recommend playing Morrowind first, but otherwise there is no need to have 
 played the previous games in the series.
  
  The story begins, as it does in all Elder Scrolls games, with your character a prisoner for unknown 
 reasons. The game never attempts to create your backstory for you and the circumstances of your 
 own character are purely yours to imagine. Fate, as usual, conspires in your favour and pretty 
 soon you are escaping from your cell and winding through the first dungeon of the game. This dungeon 
 acts as both a tutorial to the game mechanics and interface, and as your character generation, 
 which starts with a hugely comprehensive face editor. Immediately the spending budget becomes obvious 
 as the middleware FaceGen program by Singular Inversions powers the editor. The array of options 
 is staggering and given time you can really create the look of character that you are after. Or 
 you can click randomise and get on with it!
  
  Satisfied with your look, the game goes on to show you all the basics you need, from movement and 
 sneaking through to lock-picking, casting spells and potion making. Another middleware product 
 soon makes itself known: physics! Powered by Havok (as used in Half-life 2) , objects in Oblivion 
 have physical properties that react correctly to outside forces  be that gravity or the blast 
 of a fireball. Knock a table and objects tumble off it realistically. Shoot a bucket on a chain 
 and it behaves accordingly. Bethsoft have enhanced the reactions a little when it comes to death, 
 with killing blows sending opponents smashing against walls or flying through the air. Just occasionally 
 this looks a bit silly as the effects of gravity are reduced to make for a more spectacular event, 
 but in the absence of a slo-mo system, which would have been even more out of place, it works 
 quite well to provide an added dose of satisfaction when a foe is dispatched.
  
  Not that more satisfaction is really needed. Combat in Oblivion has been completely overhauled 
 from previous games in the series and finally theyve got it right. The Elder Scrolls games have 
 always strived to find a balance between making a characters statistics meaningful, yet also trying 
 to involve the player more deeply in what a character is doing to increase immersion. Now when 
 you hit a monster with your cursor, your character hits them with his sword. The damage done is 
 dependant on several factors, including your characters stats, but the involvement you as a player 
 feel in combat is fantastic. Stronger blows have your opponent reeling, biding you precious time. 
 Blocking is also handled in real time now, rather than being automatic and dependant on skills. 
 You can block at any time by pressing the right mouse button. The better your characters skill 
 in blocking, the more damage is soaked up by the block. Successful blocks also have a chance of 
 staggering the attacker, so it is easy to see how even basic combat can become quite tactical, 
 and thats even without all the perks you can get as you advance in skill.
  
  Skills have also been overhauled from previous games, although it is more evolution than revolution. 
 Once more there are a wide range of skills, from bladed weapons to alchemy and speechcraft. As 
 well as being more successful in a task as your skills increase, going above certain levels unlocks 
 additional perks. For example getting your marksman skill above 50 unlocks a zoom function when 
 you shoot, allowing more precise distance shots. Becoming a master in acrobatics allows you to 
 jump off the surface of water!
  
  As with other ES games, your character starts with the full range of skills and can increase any 
 of them. The starting level of your skills is determined during character creation, largely through 
 your class selection. A fair way through the tutorial the game examines how you have played thus 
 far and recommends a class to you based on your style of play. You can accept this class or chose 
 from a large list instead. Classes exist to cover pretty much every combination of fighter, mage 
 and thief you can think of, yet each class is really just a collection of skill preferences  that 
 is each class has 10 major skills, which start with a bonus, are easier to increase, and whose 
 increase contributes towards levelling. There are a few other points such as a class preference 
 for a type of skill (warrior, thief or mage more or less) and some attribute bonuses, but as the 
 system is so broad theyve also allowed the option (as in the other games) to create your own custom 
 class. This allows you to perfectly refine a character concept and pick your own major skills and 
 path to advance. If you want to play a heavy armour wearing spell-caster you are free to do so.
 
  
  Levelling is an extension of the skill system, where a total of 10 increases across your major 
 skills constitutes gaining a level. Skills are increased by using them successfully, but the ability 
 to quickly raise skills by boring repetition has been eliminated, resulting in a very natural approach 
 to levelling. Basically you just go play, and you naturally find that the skills you use the most 
 increase by themselves and levels come at a good rate. You can also buy training for skills, although 
 this is much harder to come across than in Morrowind, and often requires you to be of certain standing 
 with the trainer.
  
  Magic follows the Elder Scrolls convention of being available to any character, but this time around 
 magika regenerates, making life as a spell-caster a little more tolerable. Spells can now be cast 
 at any time (instead of having to specifically switch to spell-casting mode) and it really makes 
 a difference to be able to suddenly fire off a spell in the midst of things. All the usual favourites 
 such as custom spell creation and enchanting weapons also return.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  I havent mentioned the graphics yet, but they deserve a good mention all by themselves. Even 
 at the start of the game the graphics are impressive. Light streams through your cell window and 
 you can find all the latest buzzwords in graphical technology such as parallax mapping, pixel shaders, 
 high dynamic range lighting (HDR) , soft shadows and so on. Of course, the engine is middleware 
 too (GameByro) but Im not complaining  it does a wonderful job of depicting your cell and the 
 dungeon. HDR really is put to good use, with a seemingly endless range of colour graduations, resulting 
 in fantastically dark looking dungeons but with just the hint of light bleeding out from that light 
 source in the distance. The stone surfaces look perfect and react to the light in a way that screenshots 
 cant do justice to. You have the choice of either third or first person viewpoint. Both look great, 
 although Bethsoft have yet to completely master character animations, they are still a huge improvement 
 over Morrowind.
  
  And then you get out of the dungeon and your jaw drops. While Morrowind looked pretty good for 
 its time, draw distance was always a concern and the horizon fogged out. We didnt mind  just 
 about all games did it to some extent. Oblivion completely does away with using fog to limit draw 
 distance (unless you set it to for performance on low end machines) and the result is staggering 
 vista after staggering vista. You no longer have to look at a map to see that building or mountain 
 in the distance - you can actually see it, and you can get to it as well.
  
  The province of Cyrodiil is lush and forested, and for once a game does justice to this type of 
 environment. SpeedTree (yes you guessed it, another expensive middleware solution) is used to amazing 
 effect to render vast forests and fields full of lush grass and flowers. Morrowind had a reputation 
 for good water effects, and Oblivion takes this even further. Ditto the lighting effects throughout 
 the day, as sunrise and sunset are spectacular. HDR is used well, albeit without the dramatic changes 
 in exposure that other games have used it for. There are some exposure changes, but largely it 
 seems HDR has been used to present the player with a wider range of colours for a given scene, 
 making the environment seem much more vibrant and allowing for a more subtle blend effect when 
 fading in some objects. Yes, sadly not all objects are drawn at infinite distance, although the 
 maximum distance for things such as npcs, grass, objects (rocks, ruins etc.) and items is really 
 a long way out. They can all be adjusted and may need to be depending on your computer specification.
 
  
  This seems like a good point to talk about specifications for the game. The main thing I can say 
 is that Bethsoft got their recommended and minimum specs right. The game really will only run minimally 
 at the required specification, and it really is advised that you meet the recommended spec, especially 
 in the graphics card and to some extent the CPU department. I am running the game on an AMD X2 
 3800+, with 2gb ram and a geforce 6800GT, and the game runs great. I have settings at roughly medium 
 to mid-high and it is very playable. There is a lot of room for tweaking as well, so dont be afraid 
 to try different options (there are many) to get the right balance of graphical features and performance 
 for you.
  
  Sound traditionally comes next after graphics, and in general Oblivion scores well in this department 
 also. The music is penned by the ever-present Jeremy Soule and I initially feared it would be far 
 too similar to his previous work for Morrowind or Neverwinter Nights. I neednt have worried. While 
 the main Oblivion theme is deliberately an exposition of the Morrowind theme, it is different enough 
 to be enjoyable. In fact there is possibly only one piece of music in the game which I thought 
 was too similar to previous work. The rest of it fits the theme perfectly which is some feat given 
 the amount of time you will be spending with the game. My only complaint about the music is the 
 sudden change that occurs when combat presents itself. Perhaps this is a limitation of the drop-in 
 mp3 system (you can add your own soundtracks to the game easily) but combat music will suddenly 
 cut in, often before you are aware of a foe approaching, which ruins the surprise a little. I remember 
 old Lucasarts games having dynamic music that seamlessly shifted into more menacing themes without 
 any noticeable changes. Surely that must be possible today as well?
  
  Sound effects are generally good as well. Combat is vicious and the sound certainly adds to the 
 experience. Natural sounds are mostly well done, though a few ambiance sounds seem a bit misplaced. 
 One area that sound does not match up to Morrowind however is in the weather effects. There are 
 fewer weather effects in Oblivion than Morrowind anyway, but somehow what there is is also less 
 immersive. Rain seems less wet than it did, and the storms in Morrowind were famous for making 
 people jump.. sadly this isnt the case with Oblivion. This is largely down to the sound which 
 appears to be much softer. Perhaps this is environmentally more correct, with all the greenery 
 to dampen sounds, but I miss the effects used in Morrowinds weather. For those keeping count, 
 D-Sonic middleware is used to drive the sound.
  
  Gameplay
  
  So what do you actually DO in Oblivion? Followers of the series wont be surprised to learn that 
 the answer is a resounding whatever you want. The Elder Scrolls games are renown for the freedom 
 to travel around the region at leisure, only optionally participating in the main quest. Morrowind 
 went a little too far in this regard for some, making it too easy to loose track of the main quest. 
 Oblivion corrects this in a number of ways. For starters the player is more involved in the main 
 quest to start off with  at the end of the tutorial there is a very clear story directive and 
 order to follow. Of course, you dont need to follow it, but its very clear what youre meant 
 to do next is. 
  
  The journal interface has been completely overhauled as well (in fact the whole interface is vastly 
 improved) - quests are far more clearly laid out and it is possible to set any quest as the active 
 quest. This allows you to view the quest history in a separate page, and more importantly highlights 
 places of interest on your in game map and a direction caret on the in game compass. If used all 
 the time these quest aids can seem a little too much like cheating  in a lot of cases you can 
 complete quests by quickly going to the locations indicated. But the real value of these markers 
 is when you go off the beaten track to participate in one of the myriad of side quests and get 
 lost, needing some kind of marker to help you remember where you were going. Its also a valuable 
 addition when trying to find an NPC, as they can and do wonder all over the place depending on 
 the time of day. How are you to know that NPC X actually goes to the temple between the hours of 
 4 and 6 in the afternoon? The markers save a lot of frustration if you want to quickly find someone, 
 yet they can also be disabled easily (just set it to a different quest) if you think they get in 
 the way.
  
  As mentioned, NPCs do wander around the place. Partly this is traditional scripted daily routines, 
 however new to Oblivion is a method dubbed Radiant Artificial Intelligence, or RAI. To put this 
 simply, each NPC has a set of needs which it has to fulfil, and can also interact with the environment 
 and other NPCs around it. When an NPC meets another NPC they often stop to exchange a few words. 
 Sometimes this is just pleasantries, sometimes one prompts something about a local topic which 
 the other responds to, sometimes they talk about deeds that youve accomplished. Where you overhear 
 possible quest topics your journal entry is updated with a new quest automatically, and you can 
 then ask other NPCs about that topic. Sometimes this AI works really well, and you see seemingly 
 natural conversations occurring all over the place, or you see a thief try to steal but get chased 
 by guards etc. Most of the time it works OK, but a bit clumsily. A few times it doesnt work well 
 at all, and the NPCs virtually mirror what the other speaker is saying. While it is clumsy occasionally 
 my hat goes off to Bethsoft for trying such a non-scripted approach to AI. It certainly helps the 
 world feel more alive.
  
  While wondering around towns and hanging out in inns is great fun, the adventurer really wants 
 to be off slaying monsters in Oblivions gorgeous environments, but here is a little bit of an anti-climax 
 compared to the other assets of Oblivion  namely, the difficulty and monsters encountered scale 
 with the level of the player. Now this is not a new phenomena  many games, including Daggerfall 
 use such a method very well. However, Oblivion seems to be particularly militant about this scaling 
 system - a complete contrast to Morrowind which was too far the other way.
  
  If you spend too long at a particular level, it becomes noticeable that you are not meeting much 
 variation in monsters at different locations. Conversely when you level quickly, you notice that 
 previously poorly equipped bandits now have much better equipment in the same location. This is 
 possibly the most negative thing about the whole Oblivion experience. Its still very fun, however 
 the edge is just taken off by this very annoying oversight. The first thing you can do to avoid 
 it is to have a character which levels at a normal rate, then as you travel and progress through 
 levels the enemies change naturally and you dont think too much about it. The second thing you 
 can do is use one of the user-made mods for the game which specifically address this issue  but 
 more on that later.
  
  The OTHER annoying thing about Oblivion is perversely enough, Oblivion itself. Bethsoft had a policy 
 of preventing journalists from reporting on the plane of Oblivion in any preview, to heighten the 
 suspense. Sadly the anticipation isnt well placed - Oblivion is a very scary and atmospheric place, 
 however it looks more like Morrowind polished a little bit than the game Oblivion. Looks aside, 
 the gameplay in Oblivion (which you will enter several times, in localised pockets) just isnt 
 that great either. Its basically the equivalent of dungeon trawling, in that you usually go in 
 for the same reason each time, and then you go through a fixed number of variations of area design 
 to get to your goal. While tense and often rewarding, it gets a little repetitive.
  
  Goals... I mentioned you dont have to do the main quest (which incidentally is about saving Tamriel 
 from an invasion of demons from the realm of Oblivion ) , so what else can you do? Well there are 
 a number of factions in the game, each of which have their own quest series. The number of factions 
 has been cut back significantly from Morrowind, and you can only join the Imperial based main factions 
 this time around (Fighters Guild, Mages Guild etc.) . However the quests for each of these have 
 been expanded significantly too. Emil Pagliarulo (senior designer, Thief III) has done wonders 
 for the Dark Brotherhood quests, which are probably equivalent in content to the main quest itself. 
 He also had a hand in the much improved stealth mechanics. Of course, each town and NPCs in the 
 country side come complete with tons of quests to do, more related to their own situations than 
 anything related to the main quest, though often events are related so there isnt a complete feeling 
 of separation. Aside from the main factions there are also lots of mini-factions, such as the combat 
 Arena which provide their own quest series and mini-games.
  
  Talking of mini-games, speechcraft and lock-picking both now utilise a mini-game that is played 
 to achieve an outcome. Lock-picking is a game of nerve and reflexes as you try to lock tumblers 
 in position. Thankfully it can still be handled traditionally with the auto-attempt button. Even 
 playing the game manually is affected by your characters skill however. The speechcraft mini-game 
 is a little harder to justify, consisting of a sort of circular quadrant thingy which has a rotating 
 spindle of different sized wedges. The idea is to pick a quadrant and watch the reaction of the 
 character, then maximise quadrants for effects the character likes while minimising ones for un-favourable 
 effects. Its not too bad to play.. it just seems a bit abstract and out of place.
  
  Travel is another thing refined from Morrowind - for starters you move much quicker when running 
 by default, so its not such a chore. Better yet you can ride instead. Finally there is also a 
 fast travel option, which allows you to skip to a place you know about on your map instantly, the 
 game moving on the amount of time it would have taken you. Morrowind purists may complain, but 
 its still more restrictive than the travelling in Daggerfall. Personally I tend to use fast travel 
 if Im repeating a route Ive just taken recently, and otherwise ride. But as always the choice 
 is yours.
  
  Owning stuff
  
  No Elder Scrolls game would be complete without the opportunity for you to amass huge amounts of 
 clutter, and Oblivion doesnt disappoint. Not only is buying houses back, you can also spend your 
 money on horses (really well done) and if your mercantile skill is high enough you can invest in 
 shops. Of course, this isnt a business sim, but touches like this add long term goals to a game 
 thats clearly in it for the long run. The only minor disappointment for me so far is a seemingly 
 reduced number of new books. Morrowind was also famous for having more text than the whole of Microsoft 
 Encarta. Oblivion still has a lot of books, but many of them are ones already seen in Morrowind 
 - there isnt all that much new content.
  
  Mods!
  
  If you manage the almost inconceivable feat of running out of things to do in the game (the game 
 of course, continues on if you finish the main quest) then you always have the option of firing 
 up the construction set and adding content, or downloading content that someone else has made.
 
  
  For those unfamiliar with The Elder Scrolls Construction Set (TESCS) , it is a very powerful tool. 
 To properly review it would be a whole different article, but to briefly summarise, it is capable 
 of generating amazing landscape and interiors, NPCS, quests etc., and changing pretty much anything 
 you like about the original game. Changes are saved to a plug-in file which the user can choose 
 to activate or not alongside their master file (the main game) . In this way to use mods you just 
 check a box next to the plug-in when you load the game. To stop using it you just uncheck it and 
 your game is reverted to its original state.
  
  Obviously its a little harder to quickly generate content than something like Neverwinter Nights 
 excellent toolset, but the flexibility is often greater.
  
  Bethsoft have been incredibly supportive of the modding community in the past, and this looks to 
 continue being the case - they have already set up an official construction set wiki at cs. elderscrolls. com. 
 This time around they are also taking a leaf out of Biowares book, and are creating some premium 
 mods that cost a small amount to download. They have chosen a micro-content type system - what 
 this means is that instead of paying 20 dollars or so for a large bunch of content, you can pick 
 and mix from a selection of smaller items, each costing under 2 dollars. Personally I think its 
 a great system - meaning I dont have to buy what I dont like, but enabling me to put together 
 an expansions worth of just content I like. The additional money will help Bethsoft support the 
 community beyond the project as well. As always, no-one is forced to buy the content, so Bethsoft 
 will be driven by the market to create something worth while.
  
  In the meantime there have already been some great user-created mods that are already addressing 
 some of the issues found with the game. By default the distant textures are a little low resolution, 
 resulting in some blurriness (if you look for it) - this has already been fixed, along with mods 
 that improve the interface, adjust the level scaling, replace the skill system.. and lots besides.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Ultimately Oblivion is an amazing game. I will no longer refer to Oblivion as just a good RPG - 
 it is good enough to be a great game outside of any one genre. The improvements in stability, combat, 
 polish and just about every area that was criticised in Morrowind are staggering. It is hard to 
 think of a type of PC gamer that wont find something they love about this game.
  
  It isnt perfect, but it is the sheer quality of the rest of the game that throws such sharp relief 
 on the few inadequacies. Its not just that the rest of the game is good, its that its so good 
 you dont even think about it. Everything combines to form one of the most immersive experiences 
 in a game to date. 
  
  Where Morrowind was the strange wine that sometimes took a little time to appreciate, Oblivion 
 packs an amazing first impression. The body is pretty darn good too. I cant tell you about the 
 finish yet - ask me again in four years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casartelli
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  I have probably nothing to add in my review... 
  
  In my first week I played this game with an old FX5200.. I had an fps of 10,.. even with everything 
 on minimal... It was unplayable!
  
  Then I got my all new 6800GS :) I get a fair 45 fps with Distant land "on" and the game is truely 
 amazing! 
  
  The first time I walked trough the forest and saw the sunrise made my jaw drop on the keyboard... 
 The way the sky lights red when you are near an Oblivion Port is scary and every village is amazing!
 
  
  I have played it for 20 hours now and I'm hooked! I never liked RPG, but this game keeps me coming 
 back for more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, my system isn't certainly new: P4 2.5 GHz, 768 Mb RAM, Sapphire Radeon 9550: 256 Mb RAM. But 
 it's just enough to play any new game on medium-high details. Almost any...
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10:
  Yeah, it's pretty well done, you can do everything on a huge place. Yes, but 
 it's so much things that you easily get lost, and it may be realistic that you can do whatever 
 you want, it's not certainly fun after a few hours. Also, the default controls are the worst I've 
 seen in a first person game, and map and inventory systems are far from being comfortable.
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10:
  It's NOT optimized at all (I talk about that later) , but it looks quite great. 
 It has an exageration of effects, some of them practically invisible, and all looks kind of "fake". 
 Also, keep in mind that if you don't have maxed out field of view, the game is unplayable in open 
 spaces. The fact that you have to restart game for most graphics changes is unacceptable too, because 
 you have to restart even if you're still in the menu.
  
  SOUND 8/10:
  Nothing really amazing here, OK for the sounds, everything sounds quite well, didn't encounter 
 problems - no memorable musics or lovely sounds though.
  
  VALUE 8/10:
  It costs a lot, but it's a long game, and quite enjoyable overall, if you have a great PC. Also, 
 the high moddability gives the game a second life, probably even longer then first.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT 2/10:
  Ok, this needs further explanations. It is REVIEWER's tilt. My tilt. Why 
 I can agree that graphics are good, and so is gameplay, I can't say I enjoyed this game. Why? Because 
 on a PC that makes other new games run on medium-high setting well (games like Quake 4 or Serious 
 Sam 2, for example) , it's unbelieveable how this game works. It lags big time even on absolute 
 minimum settings!! I wonder what did they mean when they wrote minimum system requirements on the 
 box, because one thing is sure: that system isn't made for playing. Unless you don't have a 6600GT 
 or newer, don't even DARE to play this. 1st scene, absolute minimum settings: not over 10 FPS. 
 In the dark places after it could go up for 30 FPS, but when I go out, because of field of view 
 I can't see anything, and still game lags big time, 5-8 FPS. Someone tell me why does a game run 
 at 5-8 FPS when screen only shows a flat terrain, a low-quality tree, and a hand with a sword in 
 low details??? I even installed the official patch Oldblivion, that should make the game work better. 
 Well, it worked. Now I can only run game in windowed mode, and it crashes every 5 minutes.
  
  So, this may be one of the best games around in a long time. But it's really a shame that Bethesda 
 wants you to buy a 5000$ PC for playing its game, because not everyone has that much money. And 
 a shame that their patches only ruin the game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much everyone has stated a dozen times why Oblivion is good, so I'll be the bad guy and 
 focus on the bad (IMO) . I did enjoy playing Oblivion so don't get me wrong. However, I truly believe 
 it could have been done better. I was disappointed to find that the alien feel of Morrowind was 
 forgotten and they created a "real" look/feel instead. While the scheduled AI was different (not 
 actually interesting) , the lack of interaction depth was sorely missed. Even when you gain a servant 
 for your home you have 4 options of subjects to talk about. The story itself was so short that 
 you have to go out of your way to do other things, getting the feel you are letting people down 
 by not moving on with the story and walking around with this amulet that could save the land. While 
 you can gain better gear by doing the side quests, the armor and weapons you gain in the Oblivion 
 gates are more than sufficient. Once you gain the dragon armor, you find out its actually inferior 
 to the gear you already have. These may seem to be small issues, but they cheapened the experience 
 that could have made Oblivion OUTSTANDING. As it is, I "beat" (another annoyance) Oblivion once 
 playing a warrior type getting killed a total of 2 times, again as a mage concentrating on the 
 side quests more, then as a rogue type but only got about 3 dungeons in before getting tired of 
 it. A lack of continuing motivation after the oblivion gates are closed makes it unplayable to 
 me past the main story. Creating a longer main story, better NPC interaction, and adding truly 
 different areas/dungeons/monsters would have added so much value to the Oblivion experience. Giving 
 your home and cities more capability for interaction would have kept me playing for hours longer.
 
  
  Dissagree if you want, its just my opinion. I miss the days of RPGs with substance rather than 
 flash and time sink.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumber59a
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Being a novice in the world of RPG's I must say this this game has sparked my interest in RPG's 
 all over again. This is a wonderful break from FPS's. The graphics behind the game is what keeps 
 me coming back for more everyday. I never have expected too much in the graphics department for 
 RPG's since the worlds are so large but the question here is, can your graphics card handle the 
 graphics?" If this game were art I would consider it a masterpiece. I would write a little bit 
 more but I must get back to destroying the evil hord of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrzKrieg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  As a cRPG fan i was very disappointed with Oblivion.
  The combat systems saw some improvements with the ability to block at will and that's a big improvement 
 because morrowind was pure button smashing.
  The stealth system lacks some depth, because a breastplate of shiningness or a enchanted weapon 
 of glowing in the dark doesn't seem to alter your visibility, I'm not asking for thief3 or splintercell 
 stealth system but at least a little attention to detail would be welcome.
  The dialogs in Oblivion are ridiculous as in Morrowind the total lack of a realistic dialog system 
 kills the Role Playing interactions with NPCs, which by the way are as psychological dense as a 
 doorknob. When you talk to a NPC a bunch of topics pop up, even topics about things you have never 
 heard of. The NPC then dissert about the chosen topic and occasionally reveal a quest to you. The 
 only options present in dialog are take the quest or refuse the quest. One of the most important 
 aspects about role playing in a game is wasted by a non existing dialog system.
  The character generation system in Oblivion is a little dumb down from Morrowind but the the lack 
 of choice and consequence continues to benefit the "jacks of all traits" since almost every character 
 will end up being one kind of fighting mage with thieving skills but if you have good self control 
 you can Role play allot of different characters.
  In every Skill based game there is a leveling system to keep track of your progression in the game, 
 in Oblivion this leveling system rules the world every thing is scaled to your level. This scaling 
 is good to reduce power gaming but slowly kills the will to explore for loot, you will explore 
 the world just to practice your skills so you can fight better monsters and unlock better equipment. 
 For a casual gamer this is a good thing since you no longer need to explore every inch of the map 
 to get all the fantastic loot.
  The much hipped radiant AI is a step forward since, normally, the NPCs are static in the world 
 or have scripted actions, but it has a long way to go if it wants to replace the old scripted AI 
 since it has a lot of bugs and the interaction between NPCs are a little unrealistic, normally 
 they just greet drop a random line and say god bye.
  
  The story in Oblivion is simple and linear, once again you'll be playing a role of a savior of 
 the kingdom leaving no chance for role playing through the story altering it's predefined course. 
 The story is good none the less just not interactive. Some of the task tend to be a little repetitive 
 but overall fun and action packed. 
  The quest in oblivion have been improved since Morrowind and are a little more interesting but 
 suffer from the same linearity and the lack of choices that plague this game so the only role playing 
 value you can expect from them is the way you kill whatever you have to kill to get the thing you 
 have to get.
  One other thing new to the elder scrolls is the compass, the compass guides you to you'r active 
 quest objective and alert you to nearby exploration sites like forts ruins... For me this is actually 
 a good feature and actually tries to emulate something you have in real life, for example the character 
 lived his life in this place, he should have at least some sense of orientation, if a NPC tells 
 you to go to a town you should at least have a notion where where it is without having to look 
 in the map. The only thing bad i can point to the compass is it's omni sapience, since it points 
 to the exact location of person or a quest item in a dungeon.
  
  One last thing that makes me happy is that a lot of the flaws that I've addressed are being taken 
 care of by the modding community but if want a real cRPG and not a GTA game in medieval times go 
 play Vampire the masquarede, neverwinter nights, planescape torment, baldure's gate and finally 
 Fallout that will have a sequel made by Bethesda.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avitu666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Computer RPG's ever since I had my good ol' C64.
  The Elder Scrolls has always been one of my favourites: immersive, beautifully made games, even 
 though they mostly suffered from some bugs.
  
  So you can imagine how much I waited for this game and how excited I was when the intro rolled 
 over my screen. :)
  Almost immediately, I was hooked to it. The storyline is very interesting from the start, even 
 it's not very original (emperor dies, world is going up in flames if the heir doesn't get on the 
 throne, etc etc...) . It does have some interesting twists, about which I won't spoil any surpriseds 
 now :)
  The main interest of the game, however, is the huge gameworld in which you are free to roam. Don't 
 want to do the main quest? Fine, roam around, crawl through some dungeons, and explore.
  It reminded me of the old Ultima VII games, in this respect. I explored the world of Tamriel with 
 as much interest and wonder as when I explored Britannia some 12 years ago :)
  
  The biggest worry about this game is, of course, the system required to play it.
  I was also 
 pleasantly surprised there.
  I started playing the game on my AMD 2800+, with 1 gig ram, and a Geforce 6600 GT (128 Mb) . The 
 game ran flawless on medium settings.
  Not ideal, but even there the game is quite pretty.
  In the meantime, I have upgraded my PC to a dual-core AMD 3200 X64, 2 gigs of RAM and a PCI-express 
 ATI Radeon x1800 with 256 MB ram. This gives me graphical "ultra-high" settings, without the slightest 
 lag.
  
  I can sum it up with the following pros and cons:
  
  PROs:
  
  - Graphics are gorgeous, even on medium settings
  - This world is alive and breathing
  - The 
 dungeons and main quest are fun.
  
  CONs:
  
  - Some minor AI glitches, but none too big.
  - The conversations between NPC's are randomized 
 and this gives some weird conversations :)
  - my social life is screwed over...
  
  If you're an avid RPG-player, looking for highly immersive gaming, this is just the game for you 
 :)
  Or even if you're not an RPG'er, but you're looking a well made, pretty game, this is still for 
 you. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The elder scrolls IV: oblivion is definitly one of the greatest games to date. If Tolkien made 
 a video game this would be it. With the amazing citys, battles, and quests, this makes the game 
 worth playing.
  The graphics in the game are unbelivable. The scenery is almost realistic along with walls, floors 
 and weapons. even the person graphics are pretty good. Even with the graphics mode not at full 
 the graphics look awsome. 
  The sounds in the game are also very realistic. sounds come from all around you echoing and dimming 
 as you get closer or farther. 
  The best attribute to this game is the storyline. The storyline was very weel written out. It offers 
 much adventure and excitement as you choose from a variety of quests to complete. The more quests 
 you accomplish the more experience your custom worrier will gain. 
  Lastly the citys in the game are amazing. Full of people, shops, castles, houses, and ships. The 
 cities are incedibly reaslistic as you are draw in to realistic city life. 
  I would definitly recommend this game to everyone. Even If you dont like these games you wont help 
 but be drawn in and addicted to this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhgamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a real good alternative to anyone looking for a new rpg game. It has a huge amount 
 of content, great graphics, and is genuinely a fun game. That being said, it could have been so 
 much better with just a few fairly minor design changes, which have a significant impact on playability.
 
  
  My number one complaint is that the interface was clearly designed for the Xbox 360, not a PC. 
 There is no reason that the interface on both systems was designed the same -- all that means is 
 that the limitations of the XBox 360 (or any other console system) are indirectly incorporated 
 into the PC version. For example, finding things (such as weapons, spells, the map, stats, etc.) 
 is time consuming and really interrupts game play. The player must hit the tab key (which basically 
 stops the game) , find the right page, and then scroll through what becomes a large list of items. 
 While it gets easier with time as you learn where everything is, it could have been made so much 
 easier with only minimal design effort. More of a window and icon based system (such as with some 
 of the mmorpg games -- WOW, DAOC, etc.) would drastically improve game play and enjoyability.
 
  
  The second thing is the scalability issue. As your character advances, so does the rest of the 
 environment (or at least the vast majority of it) -- the level of the enemies that appear at any 
 given location are based upon your own level. Unlike some others, I did not find this annoying 
 right away. There are huge numbers of areas to explore, quests to complete, etc., and you barely 
 notice the scalability. What it really affects, however, is long term playability, because it destroys 
 any real sense of achievement. You can go to the same areas as a low-level player as you can as 
 a high-level player.
  
  Despite those issues, I do not want to suggest that Oblivion is a poor game. It is a real good 
 value, and there are a lot of things done right, which leads to a lot of fun playing time. It is 
 just somewhat disheartening to see how close it is to being so much better -- I would rank this 
 game as 9.5 or better if they simply fixed the interface. But there is no way the game is that 
 good in its present state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaelite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Lets see now were can I start, there is just so much to say about this game.
  This game has almost reached the panicle of R. P. G perfection
  Elder scrolls game are all about 
 letting you loose in a huge fantasy world, giving you loads to do and never forcing you to do any 
 of it.
  The main quest is generally about fulfilling a prophecy but if you get distracted say helping out 
 the local city folk, stealing and murdering for your own twisted personal fun, working for guilds 
 or killing bandits, demon thingies and glowing red walking skeletons with sword and shield attached, 
 as you wonder and explore the world, you can happily play for month without having touched the 
 main story line.
  This means you have bubals of time to make a name for your self. You can become an accomplished 
 thief then start life as an assassin turn gladiator then eventually world savior.
  The fighting in this game is down to you as it should be for example if you want to dodge a fire 
 ball jump the hell out the way its just that simple. No of screen roll of a dice decides anything 
 for you. If you want to kill some one hack and slash to your hearts content be sure to throw in 
 a few block and dodges or if your not an in your face die you scum of the earth type of fighter 
 an arrow though the head is just a much fun especially pulling them out afterwards. If you find 
 that you cant win a battle RUN but dont expect to escape so easily I have been chased by guards 
 half way across Cyrodiil- (Oblivions beautiful realm) before I lost them by jumping across water 
 (on the plus side Running away is good because you get to view the beautiful scenery as you escape) .
 
  The traps the real time physics, the beautiful magic, the deeply involving story line and the 
 NPC towns people who now have daily agendas and all the other stuff I havent mentioned truly make 
 the game a unique piece of gaming brilliance.
  The people are not perfect as they do repeat what they say to another a lot. When it comes to NPCs 
 with there own life there is still a long way to go until perfection but this game is the closest 
 to cracking it next to the Sims of cause.
  This game is highly addictive. Once you start playing everything and every one around you looses 
 importance. Youre suddenly calling in sick at school/work/collage, the people close to you have 
 given up on you, your diet has been reduced to crackers and cheese until all you have left is sweet 
 blissful oblivion.- (my life story since I bought the game.)
  Now for my good and bad run-down.
  Good points
   The graphic are so good it makes your eyes 
 bleed
   Beautiful world
   Xbox 360 users have smooth game play
   Enormous fantasy world
   Addictive
   Guilds
   The fact that there are many other good 
 points is a good point in is self.
   It is much easier to cheat on PC version
  Bad points
   NPC people repeat there speeches to the same person
   I lost my girl friend 
 because of this game
   If youre playing it on PC this game will make it sweat like Michael Jacksons defense lawyer.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CristiS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  First i should tell you the position from which i am writing this review.
  I played The Elder Scrolls 3 (TES3) and it loved it. (although it had more bugs that all the other 
 games put together)
  I played Oblivion for over 65 hours, i finished thief guild quests and i am on the verge of finishing 
 the other guilds too. So i can say that i have passed the "oh what an extraordinary game, it's 
 the best game ever and i will love it until the end of days" phase.
  
  So let me point out the things i did not like about the game. 
  
  - You can finish the game 
 as a level 1 fighter because monsters are level dependant. This is good for general monsters, but 
 quest related ones should have been predefined or quest should have been level dependant (like 
 some Daedra lord quests) . This is probably the worse thing.
  - Stats and skill requirements for advancing in the guilds have been removed. This practically 
 forced you to level up. Not to mention that being a master sneak, for example, would be normal 
 for a thief guildmaster. 
  - Number of skills has been reduced. Lets simplify the game and make axes blunt weapons.... 
 
  - Trading system is disastrous. In TES3 there was a Fallout trading system. (you offer a 4000 
 daedric armour and you get 200 repair hammers, a 2000 sword and 1000 gold ) . 
  - People from a town give you secondary quest for that town only. Unlike TES3
  - The map is too 
 small even on higher resolutions
  - Fast travel is a bad feature. Although it makes the game more action - based it takes something 
 away from the concept that made Morrowind so great.
  
  The good points are know. Superb graphic and sound. Lots of quests, some of them very interesting. 
 
  
  Some other things that i liked:
  - Magic system improved. Some less important magic skills have become more useful (illusion) . 
 
  - Trainers have a 5 level training limit per mastery level.
  - The Arena
  - The fact that you can own many estates. 
  - The Dark Brotherhood quests
  - I can run the 
 game although i have a P4 2,4, 512 Dual DDR, Ati Radeon 9600 PRO (maybe this is the thing i liked 
 most :P)
  
  Great game if you haven't played TES 3. Otherwise somewhat disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jspudders
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Mate, when i booted up the PC with Oblivion installed i was blown completely away! Nothing can 
 compare with sheer depth and diversity! The characters and quests leave u hanging out for more! 
 Not only do have nearly unlimited choices in your character creation but then u can train ur character 
 to the exact outline that u want! Be it a Thief/Mage or Fighter/Archer. However, all this said 
 and done this game is one of the biggest system 'whores' around. If u intend to run this baby at 
 max everything then u better start morgaging everything u have and get a super computer! But all 
 things said, running this baby at near max is a real treat! So in final, GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balinor65
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Graphics.. pushes the limits of todays hardware best i have seen in a rpg.
  A. I.. Live and work in the word around you... Must play to understand
  Plot.. Better then most. 
 you feel like you are doing something BIG
  many paths.. good, evil, both? make you pick at every turn.
  varity.... so much to do, see, steal, 
 complete, explore.....
  Fast load times
  
  Cons:
  none... cant think of anything bad to say
  
  Must play to undersand. one of the best games 
 i have ever played. A. I chars. are amazing they realy live in the world around them go to work, 
 eat, talk about whats is going on around them. The side quest are fun and are diffent enouph to 
 keep you intorested in them. Top ten in my book Can you say Game of the year? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jungkih
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  this is the best in the world you get make your own live and i have only just started this game 
 (i had to use my brothers computer to play because he has a dvd player and brought the dvd version)
 
  
  this game reminds me of fable because its just like fable
  
  and graphic is like the best (my brothers computer goes slow and the computer is super fast) it 
 has high detail (maybe too high)
  
  my brother said the main song copied lord of the ring and pirates of the Caribbean
  
  i am 
 probably playing this game right know
  
  so you should buy this game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is lots of fun. I like it. I've been playing it for a while now. Let's go over the pros 
 and the cons.
  Pros: The physics, to begin with. You start in a jail cell and there's a table with a cup and jug 
 on it. Just to see what would happen I hit the jug, and it fell over and hit the cup and knocked 
 it off the table. Cool.....
  Another fun thing about this game is the combat. Swords are ok, I suppose. Slash and hack, slash 
 and hack. Bows are lots of fun, because when you shoot someone you can see the arrows sticking 
 out of them. Magic is lots of fun, because it's so realistic. For magic, I mean. In the last Morrowind 
 game all the spells looked pretty much the same to me, but in this they all have their own unique 
 look.
  Cons: As others who are greater than I have mentioned, this game is a little reptitive. Also, if 
 you don't have a top of the line system you'll have trouble running it. Then again, if you can't 
 run it on PC get it for Xbox. Unfortunately, all I have is PC.
  The last con I have is that this game has very little replay value. Once you've done all the quests 
 for the guilds and such, they get... well... boring....
  In conclusion, (This is starting to sound like a school report) this is a very fun and solid game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brisa22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I have been playing for 90 hours and am only half way through it. No hurry. Having 
 to buy the Horse armour was a downer, but the new "Official" Mods are better value. Love all the 
 Gamer mods available. I suggest being selective, as some could take the challenge or fun out. I 
 recomend this game highly. The map system with the automatic marking of your next goal works great. 
 Automatic travel is not my favorite feature.
  
  I have a 1 year old Dell system with a 7800gt video card and 2 mg memory and game plays beautifully. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herohunter
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Where to begin...
  The elder scrolls 4: Oblivion is the best game you can get for your pc or xbox360! You learn everything 
 you need to know on the start of the game, and is like a tutorial but gives the story a mind blowing 
 start and begin this huge plot.
  
  After maybe an hour you get to see the nature for the first time, and if your not obsessed already, 
 the graphics and sound will make you. you see trees that are just to good animated, birds singing 
 and music that sets a epic tone to the game.
  the freedom in the game is also a big factor. you can talk to anybody, brake into every house or 
 kill anyone. the story and all the other quests give you about 200-250 hours of gameplay and I, 
 myself is just in the start of the game. So the game is all about Oblivion gates that is opening 
 all over the part of the country Tamriel, Cyrodiil. Oblivion is like a other world with monsters 
 and demons, and the feeling in Oblivion makes you want to go back to Tamriel instead of closing 
 the gate and to become a hero.
  
  You can run around both in 1. or 3. person and you can switch between the to by pressing one button. 
 On the highest settings (on pc) you can see the carvings on your sword or the butterflys in the 
 air, and it all looks terribly real. There is all this maybe 20-30 skills that you can work on, 
 and you have around 10 races to choose from when making an account. You also must choose your class 
 (maybe 15-20 different) and your birth sign (10-15)
  
  There is around 40 square kilometre with land and 9 big cities to visit. there is also guilds. 
 like mage guild or fighters guild, but you can choose to be a bad boy and enter the thieves guild 
 or the dark brotherhood. you gain levels and learn new tricks and get more powerful. there is also 
 a really good sneaking system.
  
  well, if you got any questions, please send me a mail, but be ready to wait a while before I answer, 
 because I got Oblivion collectors edition!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiCk_99
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - This game has endless gameplay. You can do the main quest, join factions (gives you 
 jobs) , or just run around the wilderness looking for caves and stuff that you can go in and get 
 a bunch of goodies.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are pretty amazing although they can be altered by the quality 
 of your rig (low rez is still pretty good) . There's incredible detail in the faces, the can have 
 all sorts of believable expressions.
  
  Sound - Sound is great. No problems at all. All of the lip-sync is just fine
  
  Other - This 
 game is great !! But it's sometime a little complicated. So.........
  READ THE MANUEL BEFORE YOU PLAY !!! IT WILL SAVE YOU GRIEF !!!!!
  I am 25 or so hours into the 
 game and I didn't make the best major skills selection. It also took me 12 of those hours to figure 
 out that there was a "fast travel"!! lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Freedom these days has become the trade mark of The Elder Scrolls series. You can do pretty much 
 anything you want. First thing that will appear to you is the new freedom you get for building 
 your character, and it's not simply 'select head/torso', it's more:'how big/what shape do you want 
 your eyes/chin/jaws/etc. to be?' This fimally gives you the oppurtunity to create an avatar that 
 actually looks like yourself (if you want to) . There are 3 main classes, with a total of maybe 
 30 sub-classes. These main classes are the Combatant, the Magician and the Thief. It's the base 
 of your abilities. Enough about freedom and choices, you want graphics and gameplay, right? I can 
 be brief about the graphics: if your PC can handle it, it looks amazing, even at medium settings. 
 Gameplay isn't that simple, next to the freedom you get stand responsibilities for your actions. 
 If you save someone, of murder someone (in silence of very aggressive) , you'll be the talk of the 
 day. This really helps pulling yourself in the game. I'm not gonna spoil anymore of your time, 
 because you might wanna run to the nearest game-shop to buy this title after reading this. But 
 I warn you, don't run, take it slow, because this hour may actually be the last hour of your social 
 life, so enjoy that last hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tech_Adept
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up the collectors edition for this game a few weeks ago, and because of the 
 all of the great reviews on the game I was confident it was going to be a good buy. After I started 
 playing the game I was totally addicted, I bought it at the beginning of my spring break and played 
 all the way through the week. At first the game seems so good, and so vast, to bad you loose the 
 feeling after you are on the 12th oblivion gate killing your millionth demon. I was a fan of Morrowind, 
 and in my opinion it was a far superior game in all but graphics, but who cares about graphics 
 if you have to have a really nice system to make the loading times bearable. 
  
  The world of Oblivion itself seems much smaller than Morrowind ever did; this is probably because 
 of the fast travel map that you automatically have from the beginning of the game. Also, because 
 of the fast travel map, the developers scrimped on the amount of caves, ruins, and monsters out 
 in the open; because with the map people are never going to be out there anyway. Seriously, if 
 you want to explore the vast world of Oblivion all you are going to run into is a few bandits with 
 outdated armor the pose no threat whatsoever (oh but one thing you run into like crazy is loading 
 times) . I remember in Morrowind, if you wandered out into the wild, you would come across caves 
 and deep inside them you might find torn up pieces of paper describing a horrifying event that 
 took place their, or you might find an ancient burial ground of a mighty hero. In this game it 
 seems the developers sacrificed all this type of little stuff (that made Morrowind really cool) 
 for better graphics. 
  
  The main quest is horrifyingly repetitive, ever single Oblivion region looks nearly the same, so 
 once you near the final one, all you want to do is swig a few potions of invisibility, grab the 
 sigil stone, and simultaneously GT*O. Okay, so I have spent the past 300 or so words bashing Oblivion, 
 obviously there has to be some good points to the game if there are so many positive reviews. So 
 let me list some of the positive things that are in this game:
  
  1) Awesome Graphics.
  2) You get a horse (It is lame that these creatures are useless because of your map)
  3) Consolidating 
 armor pieces and skills (i. e. instead of Short Blade and Long Blade, like in the last game, 
 there is just Blade)
  4) Detailed character creator (oh and did I mention its detailed =P) . 
  5) Cooler looking combat 
 and spells.
  6) Umm, Awesome Graphics?
  
  Anyway, Im sure there are some points I am missing, but in short good graphics do not make up 
 for very repetitive game play. Here is my list of gripes about the game:
  
  1) Lame storyline 
  2) Runs slow even on upper range systems
  3) Repetitive Game play 
  4) 
 Not as many armors as the last game (I know why they did not put Indoril armor in the game, but 
 is was so awesome they should have made a reason)
  5) Final Battle seemed awkward (nowhere near as epic as the final battle in Morrowind) 
  6) Its 
 a small world after all I think you get my point.
  
  Well, so there is my Oblivion review, I probably would not have made the same review a few weeks 
 ago, but that was a few weeks ago. Maybe this is just my opinion, but I think you can only put 
 about 60 hours into this game before it starts getting really old. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAR-MAKAZY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The first lv in the game is like every RPG you start in a sewer or dungeon and then the story unfolds, 
 so you might be thinking to yourself if this is like every other RPG why do I have to get this 
 game. Well the awnser to that question to that awnser is as soon as you get out of the dungeon 
 the massive world full of life and other adventures. The areas are perfectly detailed with no flaws. The 
 A. I in the game is just wright and yes you will die ALOT. Their are a few classes and for each 
 class has special abillity and you can choose their rank and religion. Their are plenty of swords, bows, armor 
 and missions to keep your little head busy until the sequel to this game. The only flaw is that 
 the game loads very slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Aww, Elder Scrolls strikes again with yet another beautiful chapter. This time you are in a better 
 environment. Morrowind was a bit of a very grim looking world but Oblivion, despite the name is 
 a more beautiful and gentle world. The game certainly without a doubt has its down sides and its 
 the most important one graphics. 
  The gameplay in Oblivion is flawless you will never have a moment where you have to pause the game 
 and look at the controlls list to see what button does what. All the buttons you need to use are 
 few and right at your fingertips. The main buttons to use are, spells, movement, and open containers. 
 The only other button you use is the inventory button so all together you use 6 buttons including 
 the movement buttons but only 3 outside the movement buttons. 
  The graphics in this game are out of this world, i have never seen a game look as pretty as Oblivion 
 does. The amount of detail that this game gives is astonishing, no other game compares to it or 
 has reached this one. If everyone thought DOOM 3 or Half Life 2 were beautiful then they are gonna 
 be gawking rather then playing when they pick this game up.
  The sound in this game is nice, it has it's moments, and trust me the moments are very nice. Though 
 the sound is focused more on talking to other characters rather then ambient sounds that are around 
 you. Caves are extremely bland when it comes to sound. The only sound you'll hear are your footsteps 
 or your shield and weapon when battling. Other games have added the ambient sounds of caves, wind 
 whirling past you , water dripping in puddles from above just little things that make the environment 
 stick out are not there in ESO. Considering most of your honest money comes from caves it would 
 have been nice to put a little more money into it.
  The overall value of this game is........ its the best game on the shelves, you will not go home 
 and want to take it back or out of your even out computer for that matter. The game simply grabs 
 you and doesn't even force you to keep playing you play on your own for the simple fact that it's 
 that great of a game. Now i know i said there was a major downfall and there is. The graphics in 
 this game, as i said before, are stunning... if you have the money for it. Most joe schmoe's will 
 not have the computer to take on this game by any means. The graphics require such high perfomance 
 out of your computer that it kills the likeablity for regular gamers who don't have the knowledge 
 or money to spend on high performance. The only warning and bad thing i have to say about this 
 game is that if your computer does not have a GeForce 6600 equivalent or better then i suggest 
 to keep this on the shelves and cry that you can't have it because you will have to take the graphics 
 down so much that it will suck the enjoyment right out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I almost passed up Oblivion because I doubted I'd ever be able to finish it. I still don't know 
 if I'll finish it, but the many quests and engine make the game so it's not soo much about finishing 
 a global quest. Unlike some past rpgs I've played this one has many quests that are worthwhile 
 several games I played only the main quest was worthwhile Oblivion doesn't make such a mistake. 
 So you can play the game a little at a time and still have a blast and accomplish some tasks.
 
  I was also concerned about it having hundreds of pages of text, well that's only if you choose 
 to read informational books throughout the land not at all necessary or even beneficial (aside 
 from educational) . Granted there are a few books that add a skill but you get that as soon as you 
 open the book - no need to flip thru every page or read it.
  The huge scope scared me, thankfully no other rpgs were out at the time so I gave it a shot and 
 I love it. I've spent 42 hours in the game so far and much to my surprise still am wanting more. 
 
  I highly recommend this game for RPG fans don't let the bigness of it frighten you. Cya I'm off 
 to play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chopper_Dark
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought it was destined to be great, but the first time I played it 
 I knew my thoughts were correct. You start the game in prison being taunted by another jailed citizen 
 across your cell, but your mostly paying attention to the cell itself. No wonder the dark elf is 
 taunting you, you look mental running into the shackles and picking up rib cages.
  
  The plot is that the emperor (voices by Patrick Stewart) is killed and you must find his last heir 
 to the throne (voiced by Sean Bean) before the world is overrun by evil creatures from Oblivion 
 (Hell, basically) . 
  
  Quests are picked up in different ways from Fighters Guild contracts to overhearing people talking, 
 its all a very natural way of going about things.
  
  The game takes place in the capital province of Cyrodiil and you get to freely explore its vast 
 lands of snowy mountains, forests and of course dungeons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdn_bacon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the 4th part in the Elder Scrolls series. I have played Morrowind which is the 3rd 
 part and didnt like it at all. I found it slow and akward at the begining. I decided to give Oblivion 
 a chance though and I am glad I did. Oblivion is a huge game with tons of story lines and side 
 quests along with dungeons and caves galore to keep you busy for a long time.
  
  The gameplay in Oblivion is great. The main quest is about 30hours of gameplay and then their are 
 countless side quests and dungeons for you to enjoy and score so loot. The AI is pretty good at 
 times it is shakey though. The creatures level up with you, which I am not a fan off, so there 
 never really is a extremely difficult boss or a fear that you are in an area you cant handle. Bethesda 
 added a mapping system that allows fast travel to all major cities right out of the gate, and the 
 fast travel to any small town or dungeon or gat ethat you have discovered. This is a great feature 
 to save time.
  
  The graphics in the game are breath taking! if there is a flaw int he graphics I am sure a modder 
 has already solved the problem. The distant textures in the game are low res which was a bad move 
 by Bethesda, but the mod is already out and just adds a little more beauty to an already great 
 visual game. The Specs are high for the game though, so if you want to fun full out you will need 
 an awesome machine. The engine was well built and can be tweak to run smooth on low end systems 
 as well. 
  
  The sound is good. The voice acting is superb although it is a little weird to see two guys talking 
 to each other with the same voice. The sound does seem to glitch in and out durring battles and 
 the weapon effects and sounds dont always come in. This can be solved by tweaking the ini file 
 and adjusting certain things. 
  
  The are numerous addons that Bethesda will be releasing but at a price rougly $2.00 a peice. So 
 far you can download horse armour and a quest set. $2.00 is not much money but it also seems like 
 a pure money grab too. The horse armour was a waste of money but does look cool. The modding community 
 will keep this game fresh and fun for years with a variety of tweaks, quests, dugeons etc for free 
 downloads.
  
  Oblivion is an awesome game and I highly recommend it to all gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suley
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Rare and remarkable achievement -- a huge, open-ended, complex, detailed role-playing game that's 
 fun to play and a pleasure to behold. This game has beautiful graphics and the game it self is 
 enjoyable and has many good ratings, a must buy, you can go on this website and cheack out great 
 downloads you can get for Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion: http://vip. netsurf. ru/browse/? r=153176
  This website has fast downloads upto to 200kb/s and is excellent for looking at games. All you 
 need for a RPG fan and much more.
  Oblivion does a great job of quickly introducing you to all these different aspects of play, successfully 
 engaging you rather than overwhelming you. You see the world through your character's eyes, but 
 a behind-the-back perspective is also available. Initially you just pick a name, race, and gender 
 for your character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS REALLY GREAT and i'm enjoying playing it AFTER I YELLED 1 COMPLETE DAY TRYING TO CHANGE 
 THE CONFIGURATION MANUALLY IN A .INI FILE IN THE DOCUMENTS FOLDER TO LET THIS GAME WORK !!!
  
  I have a nvidia GEFORCE FX 5700 CARD and the game didn't work in any way even in lowest details 
 when it said that FX CARDS ARE SUPPORTED.
  The game is working now without distant landscapes and in 800x600 i know i'm losing a lot in graphic 
 because this game look awesome from the screens but i can play and smooth too and i'm enjoing.
 
  
  I don't know if this bethesda made a deal with some video card producers but i really thing so... from 
 comments 1 comment on 3 says that he's going to buy a new video card or a new computer.... I'M NOT 
 ONE OF THIS, also if i can't play the game at full potential i will not spend 500$ to buy a video 
 card now :)
  
  a bad thing i figured in this great game is that hanging out in the world i just found few types 
 of monsters : WOLF, BOAR, IMPS, RAT, CRAB (just on the sea) and then bandits.
  
  i think some other monster type would be nice in the outworld of this great game instead of : poor 
 wolf, good wolf, muscle wolf, timber wolf, horny wolf all looking the same... like many times happens 
 in games.
  
  CONCLUSION : THIS GAME IS GREAT a week ago i tried to play it again creating a BAD charachter a 
 thief joining the "bad" factions and it's a different and great experience compared to the GOOD 
 knight i'm playing in my main adventure..... SO check your hardware before spend 40 euros but if 
 you have a good computer GET THIS GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshipley01eb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls  Oblivion Review
  
  Its important to get this out of the way right from the start: Oblivion is a major step forward 
 for the RPG genre. It is quite possibly the most important game youll see out this year because 
 it shows us what is possible in this genre that hasnt really been done before. While Oblivion 
 is by no means a perfect game it is absolutely a step in the right direction. Well done Bethesda.
 
  
  Oblivion isnt perfect but its really one of those titles you have to forgive for some of its 
 short comings because its such a strong title. It looks great, it plays great, its fun to play, 
 etc If Oblivion has a fault it is probably in the long term balance area. The higher you get in 
 level the more bland  the game becomes? Its like all the lower level stuff just disappears and 
 you have only the tough stuff and theres less a sense of accomplishment. But more on this later, 
 lets get to the review.
  
  For those of you that follow my blog, I use the JRPGSS review system. Please see my April 11th 
 blog entry for more details.
  
  We begin with Graphics/Sound. This game is very beautiful. There is about 16 square miles of game 
 area all wonderfully rendered with state of the art graphics. Oblivion seems like a living, breathing 
 world of color and beauty. Admittedly there are times when caves and ruins start looking the same, 
 but the environments are still so well drawn you dont mind seeing some things again. 
  
  Another graphical shortcoming is in the facial models. Many of the NPC models seem the same and 
 you cant help sometimes thinking that youve seen so and so before in a different town. The voice 
 work doesnt help in that department because theres only about 10 voice actors (maybe less) doing 
 the voice work for the minor NPCs. All of this is pretty forgivable though when you consider how 
 many NPCs there are to interact with in Oblivion. You get used hearing the same voices and seeing 
 the same people because youre quickly off again on a new quest and then you forget all about it. 
 Its only a minor flaw.
  
  The rest of the sounds in this game are wonderful and the background music is excellent (much like 
 it was in Morrowind) . The music changes to match the action on screen and sometime you know youre 
 being attacked by something before you see it because the combat music starts. I find myself swinging 
 about trying to figure out what creature has a beef with me. The score is really fantastic, though.
 
  
  The Character Generation System in Oblivion is very familiar to those of you who have played Morrowind. 
 Its a skill based system where you level by using your major skills while playing. As you swing 
 you sword you get better in Blade Weapons. When you jump around your Acrobatics skill gets better. 
 You have access to every skill in the game from the beginning but you can customize your character 
 to tell the game what skills you feel are the most important. As this major skills go up, you go 
 up in level.
  
  The quest and monster system is also tied directly to the CGS so as you get better the creatures 
 and quests in the game level along with you. While this is an interesting system that was intended 
 to provide you with a constant challenge it does remove some of the feeling of accomplishment. 
 For instance, if you go into a cave and get beaten by the caves denizens, you cant go and level 
 up and come back to show them youre now better then they are. When you get back the creatures 
 change to the next level along with you so now you have to face tougher enemies then the last time 
 you were here.
  
  Another flaw in this system is once you get beyond level 24 or so youve pretty much maxed out 
 on how many different types of mobs you can fight. Everything is at its hardest level. The goblins 
 you face are always the toughest versions of goblin, the Minotaur you fight are always the top 
 of the line Minotaur. Im level 45 now and Ive been fighting the same mobs for the last 30 hours 
 of game play. Still, you have to give them (Bethesda) credit for trying to make the game world 
 to appear to evolve along with you. This wasnt any easy feat to pull off and you have to respect 
 this attempt.
  
  Gameplay is pretty solid, though. The game no longer just rolls a random number to determine if 
 you hit something. Now you actually have to be in range and you have to actually have the creature 
 in front of you to hit them. Combat seems much more realistic and dynamic. Its much improved from 
 Morrowind.
  
  The NPC system (and the new Radiant AI) that Bethesda has created to run the NPCs is also pretty 
 cool. Every NPC has a life and they have goals they want to accomplish in a day. Unlike most RPGs, 
 these NPCs have places to go and people to see. If you try to go to the local weapon shop you better 
 go during business hours. Otherwise youre going to find the shop locked up and the shopkeeper 
 gone. He might have gone home to eat and sleep or he might be at the pub talking to friends. Eventually 
 you can start to predict the movement of the people you see regularly but it still seems more alive 
 then previous titles where the people never moved from their assigned locations.
  
  So at last we come to Story. Theres a lot of great story here in Oblivion. The Main Quest (which 
 was a little short for my personal tastes) is very involved and interesting. To give you a basic 
 idea what to expect heres a brief description of the main plot.
  
  The Emperor is murdered along with his three sons. Without an Emperor to light the Dragonfires 
 the forces of Oblivion can penetrate the veil into our world. You have to find the last heir of 
 the Emperor and convince him to take up the Amulet of Kings and light the fires once more to save 
 the land. This is pretty standard fantasy fare but its told well through the use of some great 
 voice acting from Patrick Stewart (Star Trek) and Sean Bean (Lord of the Rings) .
  
  In addition, there are also four large guilds to join all with their own back stories and events. 
 Minor quests also abound. Ive played over 100 hours of the game and I still havent done it all 
 yet (though I have finished the main quest) . You can join any or all of the guilds and organizations 
 found in the game which really helps you feel like you are part of the game world. Not to mention 
 the fact that there are over 50 books in the game that you can read! The writing staff for this 
 game has done a great job designing the history and story for Oblivion.
  
  Overall I cant see Oblivion not being in the running for 2006 Game of the Year. It really is a 
 great project. I love the ambition shown in the design and the Radiant AI. Yes, the AI has flaws 
 but you can tell the team worked really hard to make it work. Its not perfect but you know that 
 Elder Scrolls V (or Fallout 3 maybe?) will see many of these kinks worked out.
  
  I have to say that Oblivion is one of the best RPGs every made. It really is a must play for any 
 RPG fan. If you have an XBOX 360 and a slow computer I recommend picking it up on that console 
 as youll have less play issues. However, you cant use the design editor (the TES Construction 
 Kit) with anything but the PC version. Being able to mod the game is great. After I beat the title 
 I went back and changed the reward for the main quest to better reflect where I was in the game. 
 Its really worth playing with.
  
  So if you like RPG games I feel that Oblivion is really a must have for you game collection. Enjoy 
 and nice job Bethesda!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gagga666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has it all. Everything one could ever ask for, it's there.
  
  I love the wide gameplay, you can be good and you can be evil and both in several ways. You 
 join different factions to get a whole new set of quests, nothing like the ones that you get from 
 random NPCs or the ones that are in the story line itself.
  
  I've almost completed the game (Havent played in a little while due to other new games I've been 
 checking out) , but once you start playing, nothing can stop you, at least for a good while.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the sounds are also fantastic, the music rocks and the story is pretty 
 sweet. I have yet to find a game that is as beautiful and dynamic, at the same time, as The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the worse sequal of elder scrolls. Morrowind is much better then this one.
  Very demanding hardware needed for this i cant play with 6600gt
  and still if i pick all settings 
 to maximum i get about 1 fps but didnt look better then gf2 graphics from 5 ytears ago
  bad looking texture and all in one colour, will look better in black and white.
  at the begining 
 many developers like this one too dissapoints with choosing of look of yuo (main char) eyes , nose 
 ets looks older then 40y
  female if you choose looks like my grandma with little male shades too.
  and sound of female 
 when attack is terifying i cand stand it and must play with male one.
  I think this money for game who pay will regret for his all life.
  Like always advertise can 
 be very usefull for bad game developers wjho want to make more money on sequalls.
  I can't stand this game i will burn disk in oven.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamatsu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a good solid game which offer's a fair amount of freedom and variety as well as enabling 
 the player to incorporate new/additional quest's/monster's/etc via the use of mod's. Those who 
 are interested in free-form style RPG's will find Oblivion a good fun game, even if it doesn't 
 offer as much freedom as previous games in the TES series did.
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutely breathtaking - if you have a system that can handle it. 
 The system requirements if you want to be able to play with graphics settings up is quite high, 
 but even if your computer doesn't quite get there, the game will still look quite good. The sound 
 effect's and music in the game are good, they change as you play the game - whether youre exploring 
 or in a fight, whether youre out in the open or in a dungeon.
  
  The game is fairly easy to learn the basics of how to play - when you first start it has a tutorial 
 that shows you the basic's of how to play. Although picking up where to go if you want to join 
 guilds can be tricky if you've never played the game before. However, map markers make things a 
 whole lot easier to know just where you need to go (although at times these marker's can make some 
 quest's way too easy!) .
  
  Game play is fun and the combat system is easy to pick up but can be tricky to master! Monsters 
 and enemies have better AI now (than is say Morrowind) and you will need to use some strategy to 
 win - but don't despair if you have terrible reflex's or such, there is a difficulty slider which 
 you can adjust to make it easier (or harder if the game is too easy for you) .
  
  The game is far from perfect however - as stated it does have some hefty requirements if you want 
 graphics options on. There are also some fair few bugs in quest's and scripts - that have been 
 patched by players. Also it has lost a number of skills that were in morrowind - no more Unarmoured 
 for example. There is also quite a bit of controversy over the games levelled loot and monsters 
 systems - no more feeling like supergod! Monsters will level up with you and the loot they carry 
 and use is levelled up as well. So when you hit level 20 you'll be facing level 20 monsters with 
 level 20 loot (i. e. level 20 bandit with deadric armor and weapons!) . It also looses some freedom's 
 that previous TES games had - the main plot isn't influenced by what you do, the guild storylines 
 always play out the same no matter what you do, etc.
  
  If you liked games such as Morrowind and don't mind never quite feeling like you can overpower 
 everything without some thought and like free-form rpg's that have some freedom in how you play 
 then give Oblivion a shot. It has fun game play that will just keep you wanting more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oguzzie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Excellent
  
  I've been reading through reviews for quite some time on this game. I find it to be quite amazing, 
 I have played marrowind and know thats a great game. Oblivion may not have as many options open, 
 but I think that is also a ploy to open this game to a wider community. You know what it worked! 
 Im currently starting my second character, and am quite excited about it! As for the spec by spec 
 review ill give it as following
  
  Gameplay
  The game play is great, whats great about it is thats its incredibly open ended. Do what you 
 want when you want to.
  
  Graphics
  The best Ive seen so far, the graphics are amazing whether your running around in a dungeon or 
 in the walking around in the middle of the day in tamriel. Make sure you have a real beefy system 
 though!
  
  Sound
  I thought the music was amazing, very fitting for the setting and time. As for the 3d sounds I 
 think more work could have been done on the strength vrs distance. Ive noticed sometimes during 
 the game that I would have issues with overhearing people talking through walls who were 20 ft 
 away. I dont know in programming stance how easy this would be to fix, but im sure it can be done.
 
  
  Value
  The best 55 dollars Ive spent in a while.
  
  Tilt
  This game is amazing you can easily tell that blethsda put a great amount of time into engineering 
 this masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  My family PC shows its age. 4 years ago, it was a midrange box. 2 years ago, I plopped in an ATI 
 9600XT, and it performed admirably - even allowing me to play Call of Duty 2 and hold my own in 
 multiplayer. I didn't even attempt to load Oblivion on it. It simply wouldn't satisfy.
  
  After holding a summit on the topic with my wife, I managed to convince her that every 4 years, 
 we should buy a new PC, and recycle the old one to friends and family who do nothing but surf the 
 web and play Solitaire. Did I buy a new rig just to play Oblivion? *grin*
  
  Now, I am a family man with little tots, and I can't drop $6K on some Alienware monster rig. I 
 have to go with value. That said, I wasn't able to get my GFX card of choice yet (I'm thinking 
 BFG nVidia 7900 GS OC @ ~$300) . I have this nice shiny new 3.4GHz P4 550 HT w/ 1.5GB Corsair PC2-4300 
 RAM + SATA HDs and all that jazz, but it is crippled with a craptacular ATI x300 PCIe GFX card. 
 I'll have to wait until after the yearly garage sale to strap in a beastly upgrade. Good thing 
 the sale is next week!
  
  So, I've spent about 20 hours playing Oblivion and exploring its great expanse. I've probably spent 
 40 hours tuning my rig and trying to squeeze out every drop of performance I can, and this has 
 been quite fun and rewarding, almost as much as playing the game itself (not quite) .
  
  Now, playing Oblivion on an underpowered system is frustrating. Stutters are bad, and anything 
 less than 1024x768 has that "keyhole" feel to it. Objects pop into view while coursing through 
 the wilderness and mouse lag is a constant problem (particularly during battle) .
  
  After following many tips from tuning guides, I've got a nice smooth experience, even on this budget 
 x300 card, but I am limited to 800x600 and the only thing I haven' t tried yet is overclocking 
 the x300 (which I may since I plan on replacing it anyway) .
  
  Word to the wise: take those "recommended specs" to heart, and don't get into Oblivion unless you've 
 (A) already met them, (B) can drop a few $$$ beefing up your system, or (C) enjoy tuning your machine. 
 I knew beforehand that the x300 was garbage, so I've been enjoying the tuning exercise. If you're 
 not into that kind of thing, take heed.
  
  The game itself is a true gem, once you can play it. I can't write an in depth review yet, since 
 I have only played a relatively short while - but there are 60 billion others to read, so check 
 those out instead. 
  
  First impressions:
  
  - Environment and foe graphics are stunning 
  - NPC face graphics are only so-so (perhaps better 
 with higher resolution)
  - Speech acting is fair
  - Sound is very good quality and the spacial qualities are excellent
  - Control is good and fun, 
 though I preferred the control Fable (PC) provided for selecting and casting spells
  - Menus are console, but there are mods to fix this
  - Lore is very deep - there is much to do 
 in Oblivion
  
  I expect after 100 or so hours I should be able to post a pure game review. I'll easily be playing 
 this game for many moons... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turdtamper
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel finally released packing more of a punch then anyone would expect. As to 
 date this is probably my favorite single player PC game, its got it all amazing graphics (if your 
 computer can handle it) , a great story, many off quests to do and a great replay value playing 
 a new character doing what you wished you would have done the first time around. Feels perfect 
 with keyboard and mouse, or if you can configure your controller you can get the 360 feel on the 
 PC. If you are a fan of adventure action games then you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostyakuzmin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Sorry for my English :/
  
  So... The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is the best RPG and maybe the best game ever made!!! The first 
 hour of playing I was shocked, cuz the game is AMAZING!! 
  Beautiful graphics, sounds, everything!! 
  Minus is the main quest is not so long, but still there 
 are so many optional quests!! :D I just cannot say anything bad about The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion.. I 
 got the game about two weeks ago and I cannot stop to play!! I spend my free time only for this 
 game... If you did not play it-go, buy it and you'll be happy :D
  
  Sorry for my English again :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I picked up Oblivion a few days ago, mainly because of the excellent reviews and the praise from 
 the fans. I was not dissapointed. Oblivion is the best RPG I have played to date. It feels massive, 
 like an MMO, but being a single player game I can play it the way I want without influences from 
 across the internet. 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Oblivion are probably the best I have seen so far. All the characters have great 
 detail from their outfit to their face. The expansive outdoors feature the most detailed vegetation 
 since Far Cry. It's a burden on any system, but this game should provide a reason to upgrade your 
 video card. (unless buying a X-box 360 turns out to be cheaper)
  
  Sound
  
  The voice acting in Oblivion is superb. Too bad Patrick Stewart's character only gets about 15 
 minutes of game time. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Oblivion's gameplay is very open-ended. You can follow the main quest line if you want but you 
 can also do many of the other quests including the various Guild quests. It is possible from the 
 moment you go outside to explore all you want. From the Imperial CIty to all corners Cydriil. Thankfully, 
 you have two options for travel. One is a horse and the other is fast-travelling, where you click 
 on a location on the map to go there instantly.
  This game can be difficult, but the game will automatically adjust so no objective is impossible.
 
  
  Conclusion
  This is an instant classic, a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stretch31
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls Oblivion is an outstanding game in every aspect. From diversity of characters and 
 inovative new first person gameplay really adds to the experience. the quality of the graphics 
 is even better then they said it would be and makes the game that much more additing. 
  
  With a great storyline that catipults you to the front of a pressing issue in the realm of tamreil 
 really makes you feel like a citizen of the empire. the in AI that continue their lives even if 
 you are not there makes for an interesting return to the capital city after a long journey. 
  
  in the end this game really tops the list on RPGs and captrues the imagination of millions 
 of players all over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a very thorough, beautiful game with tons of secrets, action, and quests to discover. 
 The graphics are gorgeous although to me the people could use a little work, their faces specifically. 
 The game also seems lacking in the stealing aspect, I always seem to get caught and no matter how 
 long i wait to see the guards they still catch me, and I don't know how to make them forget about 
 me. Other than little details I like the game, although it doesn't totally appeal to me. The game 
 works perfectly on my PC, you will need a very strong PC to play the game at high levels of detail. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay pros: There is so much to do in the world of oblivion. Even at a little over 50 hours 
 i still havent done every quest or raided every dungeon or cave. TES4: Oblivion is essentially several 
 games in one as well. The stealth and combat mechanics are incredibally well done. You can interact 
 with every character. Buy things, steal things, sell things and so on. 
  
  Gameplay cons: Although there is alot to do, eventually you will notice that the game starts to 
 get repetative, depending on how fast paced you make the game. There were several bugs that i experienced 
 through the game that were rather annoying. One that prevented me from completing the kvatch quest. 
 Another that prevented me from furthering my quests in the thieves guild. Frequent load times. 
 May be a bit too slow for some.
  
  Graphics pros: The graphics in oblivion are truly a sight to behold, that is if your pc can handle 
 them. Even with my 3.4 ghz p4, 1 gig of ddr2 ram and a 7800 gt i still couldnt run everything completely 
 outdone. The game still looked really excellent though. The landscapes are beautiful, the towns 
 are astonishing and the characters are realistic. The HDR truly shines in this game, even though 
 it can be a bit too bright at times.
  
  Graphics cons: The graphics are not perfect however. Youll notice a fair amount of hitching outside 
 esp on a horse, unless you have more than 2 gigs of ram and a 7900 gtx or x1900xtx level graphics 
 card. Perhaps the worst aspect of the graphics in the game is the ugly looking distant lands that 
 arent really that distant. Youll notice really low res textured hills that are fairly close actually. 
 So even though the graphics are beautiful they dont seem to be quite the price of addmission at 
 times.
  
  sound pros: The musical score in this game is superb. The voice acting is good, for the most part, 
 and the ambient noises of wildlife and such are great.
  
  sound cons: there are occasional bugs where no sound comes out of an npc even when there talking. 
 Another odd bug id say is the beggars. When they talk to you theyll have a funny poor accent but 
 if you actually talk to them about important things theyll suddenly have a noble voice.
  
  value: this game will have you playing for hours, plus mods
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: handofpapa
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I know many people are really excited about this game. We all "want" something big to happen 
 in game development so we can get excited about it. But I honestly think Oblivion is being far 
 over-hyped because we're desperate for "the next big thing." This isn't it. There are some nice 
 elements, such as decent graphics and nice physics (e. g. you can keep on slashing that dead body 
 on the ground with your sword and it giggles realistically and spurts blood - oh yea.) But, after 
 about 10 hours I was too bored with the gameplay to continue. Here's why:
  
  1. The fighting is really rudamentary and mundane - mostly just a bunch of mad clicking.
  
 
  2. The world is mostly empty. Yes, you can use the world map to quickly change zones, so there's 
 not much actual need to go running about extensively. But, why have all that nice landscape to 
 wander in with not much to find or kill?
  
  3. The voice acting is just plain bad. It's a nice concept to have actual voices for each NPC, 
 but most of the male characters are acted by the same guy - who's clearly just reading a script 
 and making a half-hearted attempt to "act." Seriously, it's worse than having no voices at all, 
 and I considered just turning them off if possible. Yes, Jean Luc Picard opens the game as "the 
 king" but his character dies at the very very beginning. They should have spread their budget around 
 to hire a collection of decent unknown actors. As it is, the NPCs are not believable at all.
  
  4. The lockpicking and speechcraft mini-games are interesting the first few times, but then 
 they are so repetitive that they quickly become a necessary nuisance instead of a fun challenge.
 
  
  5. Graphics. Yes, they are great. But, not so much greater than other similar games that they make 
 this game overall "better." No pretty picture can substitute great gameplay. I think Oblivion is 
 close enough to the MMORPG experience to compare it to those games. For example, WoW doesn't have 
 the current cutting edge graphics, but it is a way more enjoyable game regardless because of the 
 depth of the world, the much greater volume of things to see and do, and the sense that you are 
 interacting with things constantly instead of searching around for something to occupy your time. 
 Guild Wars graphics are arguably just as good (minus the element of physics) , and the fighting 
 system is way more engaging. I am usually a sucker for great graphics, but Oblivion needs to offer 
 more to think about than pictures. 
  
  6. MMORPG? Others have said this, but Oblivion wants to be an MMORPG. It's basically designed like 
 an MMORPG, but lacks the richness of having thousands of other humans running around. Im my opinion, 
 the excitement of the role-playing experience stems from the complexity and open endedness of the 
 world, and MMORPGs were the true advancement that took this genre to the next level. Oblivion feels 
 really sterile after logging hundreds of hours on WoW and GW, despite the next generation graphics. 
 It's really a step backwards in gameplay.
  
  7. System requirements don't justify the experience. I have a recently built tower - GeForce 7900GT, 
 AMD Dual Core Processor, 2GB RAM, high-end ASUS MB, 21"widescreen flatpanel, etc etc. I can run 
 the game at near max video settings, but max settings slow down my frame rate too much. Yet, I 
 run GW at full settings without a hitch - and honestly I think it looks better than Oblivion. I 
 can't imagine dropping off another $300+ on another video card to run SLI just for Oblivion. If 
 you don't already have a supreme build, don't upgrade just for this game. Maybe the XBOX version 
 is the way to go if you have both. 
  
  In summary, I put my copy of Oblivion up on eBay and plan to play the new GW and WoW until something 
 truly revolutionary happens in the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  With out a dout this is one massive open ended game to say the least. The explorable world is huge. 
 but unlike some other games that have a sand box play disign this game actualy has alot for the 
 player to do. Every thing from finding ingrediants for makeing your own potions to creating your 
 own magical weapons. 
  
  First the graphics. thay are great looking but IMHO thay are maby just a step down form HL2, FEAR 
 wich is not a problem. the enviroment is great and the amount of pollys the dev's used to make 
 up a charicter is impressive be sure, but the charicter skin textures in most case's leave a good 
 bit to be improved. but when you factor in the LARGE amounts of objects ect and the distence at 
 wich you can see "think FARCRY" i have to say its as impressive as any other game to date. all 
 this comes at a cost this game is a HUGE recource hog. unless you have a very powerfull PC your 
 going to have to cut back the graphics alot more than what your going to want to. I have a 3000-64bit 
 cpu, gig of ram and a OCed 6800gt and to keep the frame's smooth im running in 800/600, textures 
 high , no AA, HDD off light bloom is on, veiw distence is max but the other "sliders" are about 
 med. far from maxed out you could say. and still i get in the mid 20 FPS at times. YMMV.
  
  The game play is great IMHO best played in the FPS veiw. the Sword fighting could have been deeper 
 considering the amount of it you do. The leveling system is strange for any one new to this game 
 but it is deep and with in a day even a tottol n00b will figure it out :) . there is a fast travel 
 feature for going from town to town but you will miss out on many locations to explore ect wich 
 is a large part of what makes this game so complexe. There is just SOOOO much to do in this game. 
 you can be a mage learing spells ect, a warrior fully suited in armore, a Theaf picking pockets 
 and robbery, a hired assasin, a merc or any combanations pluse some. you can buy house's ivest in 
 bussness's ect. i just cant stress how deep and huge this game is. the main quset missions are 
 alot of fun and so far always make sense and there are TONS of side qeust and missions that are 
 alot of fun also. youll meet charicters early on that you wont give a secound thought about to 
 find later on thay have there own story and problems. pluse the world is dynamic and always changeing 
 each charicter has there own day to day lives ect. 
  
  The AI is ok nothing to realy wright home about. in fact the friendly AI is honistly horrible. 
 thay always want to walk in frount of you just as your attacking leading to the takeing the hit 
 and turning on you. The enemy AI is just a bit better. iv noticed that in case's when a enemy is 
 out matched by me or near death thay will often choose to try and run away while screaming "I give 
 up" lol. but i still think there is alot of room for improvement or maby FEAR, FARCRY and HL2 have 
 spoiled me :) .
  
  The sound is impressive though i dont have much of a sound sultion. basic sub and two sat speakers 
 and onboard sound "no card" but with volume high even my set up lets me hear enemys tryn to sneak 
 up on me or NPC's haveing a talk yards away. 
  
  All in ALL a great game that has alot of imediate depth that just gets deeper as you play and a 
 lot of replay. i cant miss for just about any PC or 360 player plus already TON's of well thought 
 out mod's that improve a already great game. 
  
  Less than awsome skin textures and a bit to simple a fighting syetem and only so so AI keep me 
 from giveing this game a 10. in fact its only the stiff compation in those area's by games mentuned 
 above that i judge this game by makes me notice those faults. 
  
  Also it may sound silly but id like to see a fishing option for this game what with all the awsome 
 looking streams, ponds, lakes and oceans scaterd about this game. it just seems strange that was 
 not included. the deffernt fish the player could catch could be used just like the plants, food 
 ect that is in the game. also a slightly large selection of deffernt weapons would be nice. 
  
  If you dont have at least a 2800 or 2.8 cpu and 512 ram with something at least close to a 
 6600gt and you do have a 360 then i highly recommend the 360 version at least untill you get a 
 better PC. with less than above specs your going to realy miss out on alot of what this game is. 
 this is just one of those games that graphics are as important as gameplay. it will play with less 
 but like i say unless your realy good at finding tricky tweaking sultions your going to miss alot. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMG__UrDeAd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Although Oblivion costs $50 it can run some people with low end PC's a lot more just to upgrade 
 thier computer. If you dont you will be missing out on 50% of the game. With a low end PC it seems 
 as if you are on an island with all that water around you. 
  
  The game is like most 1st person beat 'em up games. I have played the Xbox version and I feel that 
 the interface is better on the computer. The PC version is better because mods are but a click 
 away. If you own a high end PC Oblivion is better on it than the Xbox. However, if you are a game 
 on a budget the Xbox version maybe your only choice. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eerie-cro
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I cant belive that this game is soo huge. I passed all mages quild quests, I am on half in Thieves 
 and dark brotherhood and I even havent started the Fighters quild. This game rocks. 
  It is T-H-E biggest game I ever played, and Its story is interesting, its quests vareious, its 
 grafics amazing, its gameplay well made, and there isnt any drawback. Only thing you need is a 
 strong, and I mean really strong computer. When you start to play it you wont go out, you wont 
 eat, sleep, drink, man you wont even have time to go to the bathroom. You will play it 24-7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RenegadeZero
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has been one of the most anticipated games , since 2002. It was 
 released to critical acclaim, and the hype persuaded me to purchase this. 
  
  Upon installation, and launching the game, I was amazed at the music. Jeremy Soule has provided 
 a very fitting and excellent soundtrack. In my opinon, whilst it is slightly less superior than 
 Japanese video game music composers such as Mitsuda and Uematsu, it is a fantastic soundtrack. 
 
  
  The first 10 or so hous may amaze you and definetly give you the impression that it is one of the 
 best games you have ever played; Graphics are fantastic (The 8 score will be explained later down) , 
 Fanastically open world and great interaction. But after another 10 or so hours, you will definetely 
 detect the repetition if you just stop and think.
  
  Essentially, the game is this: A very big Final Fantasy. Don't get me wrong, both games are very 
 different, however, in my opinion, the games main story is extremely weak, so weak that after a 
 few 'main quest' mission, I forgot it completely and went to do side quests, and that is the bulk 
 of the game. 
  
  Quests are plenty, ranging from killing something to getting something but there's just too much 
 infact. I found my self repeating the steps: Go to village, get quest. Go to quest location. Do 
 quest. Return to quest accquisition point. Recieve award. Not to generalise it too much, but I 
 didn't find the quests that enjoyable, though few were, like the Dark Brotherhood quests and the 
 Thievs Guild quest.
  
  Gameplay is so-so. I found it rather easy to be honest, ranking up to Hero rank in the Arena in 
 no time. Essentially, it's just hitting a slashing, blocking and healing. Maybe I didn't get too 
 far enough to play the game, but the gameplay seemed a bit too simplistic for my taste. Maybe I've 
 been playing too much Jedi Knight II.
  
  Graphics, the reason I gave this a 7 is because of 2 things: 1. I am running a very low end machine. 
 Before you criticise me because one's performance is not a representation of the game, I have to 
 say that I would have given this a 5, but took that into account, so jacked it up 2. 
  
  Another point I want to emphasize is the rather dull art style. Having recently played Shadow of 
 the Colossus, I have a huge liking towards uniqueness, but Oblivion has adopted a very generic 
 medieval look coupled with a LOTR-esque look on that Daedra villains. It's good (especially at 
 the towns) , but I grew somewhat tired of the dull people.
  
  So, where does this review end? It ends to say that I am not a hater of Oblivion simply trying 
 to bash it because everyone is praising it. It's a good game, and you should buy it if you disagree 
 with my points, however, if you do agree with my points, atleast give it a try. I did, and I somewhat 
 liked it, just not as much as everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aubar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Wow
  
  This review could end like that but it wouldn't be fair. The game deserves this and many more. 
 I have to admit, I wasn't that keen on medieval-like games. But two things happened recently : 
 I got the excellent demo of Heroes of Might & Magic V on gamespot. com that stuck me on my chair 
 for the whole Easter week-end. Only a major earthquake could get me out of HMM V. And it happened 
 ! 
  That earthquake is called Oblivion and it will stay in memories for ages ...
  A real life in an other real world, that's what the developers offer with this game.
  The possibilities 
 of customizing your avatar are countless, you can tune it to reflect exactly what you want to be 
 ... and what you want to become.
  Fights, spells, magic items, monsters, sublime landscapes and giant land to explore : You have 
 all the ingredients for a perfect recipe.
  Oblivion will feed you for days (& nights !)
  My only concern is that all of this ask a lot from your system, so better have a strong config 
 to be able to take advantage of this beauty ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seekingsolace
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game is great, but it isn't without its flaws. The graphics are beautiful, 
 albeit demanding of your computer. When they're toned all the way down for performance, you're 
 lucky to see three feet in front of your face. I suppose if you want to see and have the money 
 laying around, you'd upgrade your PC. The sound is perfect for setting the atmosphere, and really, 
 what more could you ask of it? The interaction with the A. I. and the actual detail put into the 
 environment makes the game incredibly immersive as well. There are seemingly unlimited possibilities 
 with the game itself, promising to be every bit as expansive as its precursor, Morrowind, but there 
 is one tremendous flaw that gouges the game in particular: the leveling system. I don't understand 
 why you would want to spend time power-leveling just to be able to maintain a healthy pace through 
 the game. It actually seems to me that its backwards, perhaps. You should gain more strength (stat-wise, 
 not literally) from using the skills required by your class rather than... skills that may be completely 
 out of left field for your specifications. I originally started the main quest as an assassin without 
 knowing about the leveling system, and about 15 hours and 15 levels into it, I looked up this system 
 on the internet to learn why I was being so badly punished. To my great dismay, I all but scrapped 
 that character and started fresh, and now, 15 more hours into it, I'm finding myself without the 
 will to push further, focusing on simply not leveling than leveling myself inadequately and disproportionately 
 my enemies. The bottom line is that it doesn't matter how much replay a game has if you have to 
 rely on a nuance such as that to render it playable. Its not exactly an absurd idea to have your 
 enemies strengthen as you do, and it does have its advantages (namely, the ability to go virtually 
 anywhere right off the bat) , but it simply wasn't executed as well as it should have been. This 
 is one flaw, though, in a virtually flawless game. There's so much to enjoy and so little time 
 in the day. Thankfully it can be modded mercilessly (again expanding its seemingly unlimited replayability) 
 and the leveling system already has a fix. This will be my third journey into the game, and I can't 
 say I would have made it through the second with any other. Its a detailed, epic masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdityaN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to morrowind, oblivion, is easily the best western style rpg out there, and boasts of 
 brilliant graphics, near unlimited gameplay, etc etc. if you want praise, go ahead and read the 
 official review. i am here to point out the flaws in an otherwise great game.
  
  Firstly, the resources the game uses are immense... unless you have a top of the line computer, 
 there is no way to truly enjoy oblivion. Older cards like the 9800 ultra and especially the geforce 
 fx series 5900 ultras, which were top of the line only 3 years ago, deliver sub par performance 
 even at the lowest settings, at which obvilion looks worse tnan morrowind. Even high end $600 cards 
 cant play morrowind smoothly in hectic scenes. 
  
  Secondly, the bugs are numerous. While it was more or less expected of a game with its scope.. some 
 bugs break rather major quests (like the guild quests) . The PC versions have an advantage, as most 
 of the time, a solution can be had with the console... but the xbox ppl dont have that advantage. 
 The thieves guild quests are especially buggy.
  
  Game balance is also skewed. Obvilion tries to modify game balance by levelling up monsters and 
 npc's equl to your level, inc equipment, which not only always leaves you somewhat mediocre, but 
 as you go higher in levels, the game gets harder, making levelling up an actual detriment. What's 
 more, the main quest, which involves a number of "protect" missions, becomes unplayable at high 
 levels, as ironically, the guards and the npc's you are supposed to protect dont level up as much.. or 
 get equipment upgrades. As a result, its nearly impossible to win at higher levels..... so much 
 for balancing.
  
  Other rpg's which use balancing always provide for a certain edge ffor the player gained by him 
 through levelling or equipment. However, unless you are extremely careful about levelling up, you 
 will find that enemies become too strong... as you can max out your main damage dealing attribues 
 early on. 
  
  To be fair though, oblivion does include a difficulty slider, that affects the game greatly. Turn 
 it all the way down and you are god, able to 1 hit kill most enemies and take barely any damage. 
 turn it up....... and the game becomes challenging, though never impossible, save for the main quest.
 
  
  Ironically, the difficulty level does little to help the main quest.
  
  Oblivion is a great game, though, and 100% worth the price, even despite these complaints. I only 
 described a few problems in the game, describing what the game does right could take ages.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, i have a few complains about this game, i don't have a very powerful pc, so i can't play 
 the game at it's maximum so i won't talk about them, but for what i've seen they are spectacular.
 
  Even so, with my low-ended pc, i still think the graphics are pretty amazing.
  But a game is not rated just by graphics, in my opinion graphics are not the most important thing.
 
  The game is really buggy, is full of loading times, every time you enter a city, dungeon, or whatever 
 you will have a loading time, i don't know about 2 gb ram pc's but with 512 mb ram ddr 400mhz, 
 it sucks, sometimes the loading time takes about 2 minutes, and you will have about 20 or 25 loading 
 screens in three hours of gameplay.
  
  The game implements a 24 hour schedule for NPC's, maybe some guys seem that like a nice thing, 
 but i think is a really pain in the ass, i mean, imagine that you need to talk to the count of 
 chorrol i don't know, and it is 12:45 am in the game, midnight, then you will have two do any of 
 this:
  1. Break into the castle, trying to remain invisible, and find the count
  2. Sleep in a inn until the next morning.
  
  So, you will have to sleep a lot of times, which 
 means two or three more loading screens.
  
  The game offers and awkward way of handling talents, or stats, or whatever you wanna call it, for 
 instance i've been playing world of warcraft as a rogue, so i thought of being a stealthy character 
 with a dagger in Oblivion.
  But the problem is that daggers means you will need blade skill, which needs Strength skill. And 
 i said "what??????????"
  A rogue doesn't need strength. He's a sneaky character that kills without being detected, until 
 it is too late.
  Still you can use daggers, but you won't be able to get all of it's abilities.
  
  So it sucks, 
 the story, isn't that intriguing , well at least it doesn't make you play it, i found better the 
 dark brotherhood storyline than the main. Not to mention the last Thieves Guild quest.
  
  Another thing is that i think Bethesda only had like three people to do the voices in the game, 
 a beggar in the imperial city, has the same voice as imperial guard, all male Argonians have the 
 same voice.
  I think the budget when too high with Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean, that they couldn't afford 
 more guys.
  And they change the voices too in the middle of a conversation.
  
  The game ain't bad, but it is not the amazing and addictive game that everyone claims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humbertox
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Well, i have a few complains about this game, i don't have a very powerful pc, so i can't play 
 the game at it's maximum so i won't talk about them, but for what i've seen they are spectacular.
 
  Even so, with my low-ended pc, i still think the graphics are pretty amazing.
  But a game is not rated just by graphics, in my opinion graphics are not the most important thing.
 
  The game is really buggy, is full of loading times, every time you enter a city, dungeon, or whatever 
 you will have a loading time, i don't know about 2 gb ram pc's but with 512 mb ram ddr 400mhz, 
 it sucks, sometimes the loading time takes about 2 minutes, and you will have about 20 or 25 loading 
 screens in three hours of gameplay.
  
  The game implements a 24 hour schedule for NPC's, maybe some guys seem that like a nice thing, 
 but i think is a really pain in the ass, i mean, imagine that you need to talk to the count of 
 chorrol i don't know, and it is 12:45 am in the game, midnight, then you will have two do any of 
 this:
  1. Break into the castle, trying to remain invisible, and find the count
  2. Sleep in a inn until the next morning.
  
  So, you will have to sleep a lot of times, which 
 means two or three more loading screens.
  
  The game offers and awkward way of handling talents, or stats, or whatever you wanna call it, for 
 instance i've been playing world of warcraft as a rogue, so i thought of being a stealthy character 
 with a dagger in Oblivion.
  But the problem is that daggers means you will need blade skill, which needs Strength skill. And 
 i said "what??????????"
  A rogue doesn't need strength. He's a sneaky character that kills without being detected, until 
 it is too late.
  Still you can use daggers, but you won't be able to get all of it's abilities.
  
  So it sucks, 
 the story, isn't that intriguing , well at least it doesn't make you play it, i found better the 
 dark brotherhood storyline than the main. Not to mention the last Thieves Guild quest.
  
  Another thing is that i think Bethesda only had like three people to do the voices in the game, 
 a beggar in the imperial city, has the same voice as imperial guard, all male Argonians have the 
 same voice.
  I think the budget when too high with Patrick Stewart and Sean Bean, that they couldn't afford 
 more guys.
  And they change the voices too in the middle of a conversation.
  
  The game ain't bad, but it is not the amazing ,awesome and addictive game that everyone claims. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  im am a big rpg fan and just love the games that they make and this is just another great game 
 but you can play this one for a long long time and sitll have fun if you an rpg fan you have to 
 buy this one it is not as good as morrowind but still good and this rpg goes in depth so much that 
 you can not hlep but love it and it just like you average rpg but alot better so go pick thi sone 
 up mnow if you laive or if you love games! and thats charlies word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Elderscrolls Oblivion has got to be one of the best games I have played to date. I am not a big 
 fan of RPG games but I saw Gamespot's video review of this game and just had to buy it. I was a 
 fan of Daggerfall back in the day, and while I still think Daggerfall was better, this game does 
 very well against it. The one main complaint that I have about Oblivion is that you cannot break 
 into houses like you could in Daggerfall. Instead your stuck with this lockpick that can be very 
 frustrating at times. I would much rather take out my battle axe and break down the door. 
  Anyone that has a decent graphics card and enjoys RPG/FPS games should definitely add this game 
 to their collection. I am mostly a FPS gamer but I highly enjoyed this game. It plays fairly well 
 on my system but my 6800 GT sometimes cannot keep up during large battles and some outdoor areas. 
 But overall, I highly recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megabestia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  I always wonder why when a game comes with good graphics, nice images, landscapes or any tech upgrade 
 it's a better game that ones with new and fresh ideas, revolutionary concepts, innovate gameplay 
 and many other facts that sets a millstone in the game history.
  
  Oblivion is a great game, i'm going to spend hundred of hours discovering it, but i don't have 
 the same feeling as i had with Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. That was a true shock: an entire world 
 to do whatever i want, go anyplace, learn what i really need, buy and sell an entire collection 
 of weapons and "stupid" stuff like candles or brushes, also with great graphics... and we're on 
 2002, when rpg king was diablo 2 where you can spend as many hours as you wish clicking on the 
 same monsters, in the same way, doing always the same to level up... meanwhile Morrowind players 
 gained levels taking jobs, investigating tombs, learning while traveling in an almost infinite 
 world.
  
  4 years later appears the IV game of the saga, the basics is the same, the game concept is intact 
 but with new additions, graphics and others.
  
  So, please, can anyone answer that question:
  
  WHY has been sold 1,7 million games of Oblivion 
 and now people discover that the love this"new" RPG concept when they have had FOUR YEARS to do 
 the same with Morrowind?
  
  Response is always in the same place: Industry. People love to play the same game with different 
 name if it's full of new tech and have a famous name. Real innovating games use to be a humble 
 release and they forge their legend based on their value, not on TV publicty.
  
  Anyway i'm really happy that with that release people can play new game concepts, enjoy sensations 
 that real-life simulations can bring, and i hope Game Studios now work in new directions, making 
 games more real but not with graphics... Just keep in mind that the greatest RPG ever made was 
 named Morrowind, because with it the concept "you're free in a real world" was born; developed 
 also by Bethesda, a work that begun on 1994 with the first Elder Scrolls, and until the culmination 
 with Oblivion 12 years of work has been used.
  
  Now a quick review: 
  The main history is better, more important than ever, and it's fascinating. In Morrowind the temptation 
 of make yourself was greater than completing the main quest. Oblivion push you to save the empire 
 in a smart way. 
  
  Now many new things can be done, you can buy a house (finally!!!) , buy a horse... people talk (that 
 really helps to avoid reading thousands of lines) and everything is more real, the AI is better 
 and finally the combat is strategic and not just win by using a bigger sword.
  
  I MUST say that some old concepts was great and i don't think it need to be redesigned. If it worked 
 fine on the past, must be keeped.
  
  Trading: now you must go item by item, selling or buying in different steps, and you cannot set 
 the amount, just move a %. That makes really slow some transactions and you cannot offer stuff 
 for other, must be gold. Not good... no
  
  Inventory: yump --- what i **** You must go thru like 12 menus to check yourself. Older one was 
 able to check ALL in just one screen. And the items appeared as they are, now you have a poor and 
 incomplete picture of them instead the real graphic. A step behind.
  
  Map: Now you cannot use the map while playing, always must stop the game to check it. It was better 
 when was in a small window on real-time.
  
  Travelling: Well, you can set a destination and clicking you'll appear there. I agree, is easier 
 and you gain many many time. But this is not reallistic. In older times you must go walking or 
 using boats or others to reach your destination, like in the real life. I would suggest that you 
 be able to go just by clicking only in the places you've been, rest of them should be discovered.
 
  
  But the rest, is INCREDIBLE BETTER, bigger cities, smart npcs, amazing places... an experience 
 that nobody should miss... The real pitty is they miss Morrowind, and absolute 10-perfect game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipzealot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  If you have a lot of extra time on your hands this is the game for you if not you are completely 
 screwed. The game is so huge Youll need at least 400 hours plus, just like they said. Theres 
 no end to this game. With down-loadable content and mods, just when you think your done you get 
 a whole new experience. I cant say much for the 360 except it does sound nicer according to several 
 articles. Even if you dont like RPGs you should give this one a try its really fun and as my 
 friend Rick would say Off the Chain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeAsakura
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This is one great RPG! The playability is endless, you can create as many characters as you want, 
 and go through the main quest as many times as you want, and it never gets old. Even after you've 
 completed that, there is so much to explore. I talk to my fellow players of the game, and we still 
 reveal parts of the game to each other that we didn't know before.
  
  Oblivion is so easy to just jump into. The interface is amazingly easy, and even if you don't understand, 
 there is still a tutorial at the beginning, which I have to say, I didn't need to use. 
  
  The gameplay is magnificent, on default setting, the difficulty of the game is just right. Some 
 hard bits, some not so hard bits. But nothing too easy, and if it is, just head to options and 
 crank it up! You can even crank it down if you're not too good at Oblivion at first.
  
  The reason I gave Graphics & Sound a 9, is simply because not all PCs can run it to it's fullest. 
 The graphics are amazing on full, that's all I can say, I haven't tried it on anything lower. The 
 sound is sort of the same too, if you don't have a good sound system, which luckily, I do, you 
 can still enjoy this game, but not to it's full potential.
  
  The value is awesome, just a mere 35, well I could have bought it for 25, but I was too excited 
 to wait for it to come through the post.
  
  Overall, this game is the best RPG around. Even to non-RPG lovers, this will appeal greatly!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripperkiller1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Great Game, Great Theme, Great.... Everything! It has everything a person could want, you can be 
 anything, go anywhere, do anything, with nobody too hold you back, if you feel like killing the 
 most important NPC in the game, go for it! (though he will just be knocked unconsious) though, 
 it has some problems that just FORCE me too keep it out of a 10's reach
  
  -whenever fighting in a town outside the sounds either play half of the sound or dont play at all.
 
  
  -Graphics are bad in places
  
  -Demands an extremely huge amount of Computer power, this will NOT work on mommy's PC.
  
  I 
 personally like to be a cheating basterd, and go around killing the guards with god mode, then 
 the Count of the town comes out of his castle too taste my blade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... How can I say it? This game is near with reality. When u enter this game u feel like in 
 the game itself. I like the NPC tey are smart! They not just answer and give u explanation abot 
 things or something happen in the game or just selling items, they also follow u if u "explore" 
 their house or store. In the beginning they not trust u, cause u r new people for them. U can also 
 attract their interest to u with ur abbility of speechcraft.
  Moreover u can buy house in the town, but if u r new person there u cant do that! Atrract the trust 
 from people so they can trust u, and.... finally u can buy house.
  U can also buy horse to speed up ur journey.
  
  This game has so many races also classes to 
 choose by you character, this is so great.... I choose to become knight under the star of warrior 
 (I like strong man ^_^) , and.... (Ouch, I forget what class I chose) , but I play as male and edit 
 the face.... and.... he so handsome for me.... kyaaaaaaa.... v (^_-) v
  
  Play this game and look up the sky...."SO BEAUTIFUL" so blue.... so clear, is so refreshing just 
 look at it....... and in the nite.... there are so many stars there..... Hahhh.... How beautiful....
 
  
  For me there are 2 minus factor in this game:
  1. Jump
  The way of character to jump is not realistic (u can see it when u play with 3rd person mode) .... For 
 the developer please...... fix this in the next series of elder scroll.... or along with the expantion 
 pack (If this is possible to fix with expantion pack) ^_^
  2. The character don't get wet
  When the character is swimming or diving or get into rain, the character also don't get wet, he/she 
 just dry like nothing happen..... Once again For the developer please...... fix this in the next 
 series of elder scroll.... or along with the expantion pack (If this is possible to fix with expantion 
 pack) ^_^
  
  Last nite I was play it for total 18 hours, and i was feel 18 hours also in the world of oblivion. 
 The game was "suck me to it's world", since the beginning of I play!!!
  Like I say the game SO BEAUTIFUL..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusEx1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great achievment in gaming and above all its alot of fun. Now that ive said that, 
 just like Morrowind, this game isnt for everybody. This game has a very different look and feel 
 then its preddeccessor and if you are a huge fan of Morrowind you may or may not like Oblivion. 
 Oblivion makes some drastic changes to the Elder Scrolls formula that many fans have come to love. 
 Oblivion feels like a much faster paced game, but its not a short game by any means. Its combat 
 is fast paced and hard hitting, making it feel more like an action game. The skill system looks 
 like you have alot of character choices, but in reality the game is best suited for combat oriented 
 characters. You can still play a pure stealth character but you will have a much harder time killing 
 the bad guys. There are a few features that have gotten fans argueing about in the forums. Most 
 notably the Creature and loot scaling, basically the world adapts to your character level, all 
 creatures you encounter will be specific to your level as well as the loot you find. Some like 
 it and some dont, but that is why there is the construction set, if there is a feature in the game 
 you dont like, chances are good that there is already a mod out that will fix it. With the moddability 
 of Oblivion there should be no reason for you to not get this game. The world is massive and there 
 is no shortage of places to find in the wilderness. The radient AI is hit or miss, it can sometime 
 be brilliant and sometimes moronic. The graphics are top notch and require a monster computer to 
 run. Give this game a try, you will love it, and the parts you dont, mod them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is based on its predecessor, Morrowind and not only removes flaws and more disliked aspects 
 of the game but improves greatly on both variety and the more liked aspects of the game.
  
  Oblivion introduced a brand new land to the gamer that is debatably larger than Morrowind. Good 
 aspects of the game such as the travel system are improved on. Though the same levelling and class 
 system is used (not that this is a bad thing) less-used skills such as alchemy have been made more 
 interesting and useful. The amount of new quests and different paths a player can take has been 
 improved hugely on. There is also a greater sense of realism to the game in comparison to its predecessor. 
 An example of this is the NPC's, who now have a Shenmue-like daily schedule. They'll eat in the 
 morning, do their daily routine and go to sleep at night. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics are excellent. You now have huge customizability to your player's facial looks on 
 creation. The lush, rainy fields of the game are amazing as well as the large snowy mountains, 
 etc. Rather than a chore, travelling will be far more enjoyable though you still have the ability 
 to fast-travel to locations. NPC's have their own unique facial characteristics and you will recognise 
 NPC's far more as people in comparison to the original.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Excellent. Rather than having some boring, silent conversation window you have to begrudgingly 
 read through, NPC's will now actually talk when they say something. In comparison to Morrowind, 
 sound effects really haven't changed all that much. Theres certainly a variety of sound and footsteps 
 now actually sound like footsteps.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Theres so much to say about whats been improved upon. Tons of variety, endlessly piling quests 
 to fulfill, loads of new factions, re-done skills, etc. The sense of realism is far greater now 
 but you can always count on there being a sense of the original Morrowind to it. Things are overall 
 more enjoyable to do now such as improving skills.
  
  Value: 10/10
  This is one of those few PC games I actually got out and bought. The replay value is practically 
 endless and its loads of fun to play.
  
  Summary: 9/10
  Liked Morrowind? Get Oblivion. The amount of improvements is practically unlistable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serpent02
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  People who give 10 have jus gotten game, Oblivion has some problems
  
  -slow for people w/ bad computers (not really games fault)
  -defected saves (save often with at 
 least 10 saves)
  -if u cannot beat a part u r screwed, as u grow stronger so do the monsters at that part
  -having 
 some skills as major do nothing to improve ur guy and make the monsters only stronger
  -an alchemist will get raped
  -excessive running (running is only as fast as a normal walk)
 
  -missions can interfere w/ other missions making that mission impossible to complete and it will 
 sit there in ur active quests list forever and ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eericpoop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  well it is a great game but thare are a few bad things like thy took out a few
  spells i love like levitation and it did not have near half the spells that morrowind did oh ya 
 and the C for the spell casting I respect that thare
  triing to let you cast spells while you sword is out but I useto clicking to
  cast spells but 
 the high graphics and great A. I I love not to manchen
  that you dont hafe to read any more and the new map and new qeasts
  and the great epic story 
 line so I guess oblivion is just another great
  elder srolls game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonte187
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  
  When a creator puts all of this effort to make a long lasting game with endless quests and things 
 to do you cant say its a bad game. But a lot of the quests its just the same and you will banging 
 your head to the wall when the characters in the game tells you find another cave. I would want 
 to see some more fun in the woods or the cities. Open air is my thing, not just crawl around and 
 sneak past enemy's.
  The story is okay but i wished it would be a more central part of the game so i can feel that i 
 have accomplished something more than just the ordinary quests.
  In the game you can do much to change your characters skills and stuff but thats also repeating 
 and often boring.
  But i had fun playing the games fun stuff and its a good created game you can spend many hours 
 on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the elder scrolls since morrowind (I couldnt get my hands on daggerfall or 
 arena) and I loved it. Morrowind was the defininitive RPG of 2002. The only other RPG I have played 
 as much was neverwinter nights. This game, however takes morrowind, squeezes out all the bugs and 
 little problems and then goes on to add even more cool stuff in. The gameplay rulesbeing a mage 
 is so much different to a theif or fighter and the actual fighting is great (arrows actually work 
 now!!!) . The graphics are amazing and can easily be played on a med range PC (I run an overclocked 
 X800) . Anybody who likes RPG's should buy this and anyone who liked morrowind should get this. 
 I love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: histericen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Although i didn't had the chance to play this amazing game from the ingame videos and screen shots 
 i think it is the best game i have ever seen. From what i have seen the environment is masterpiece, 
 graphics are also very very good, the details of the caracters are amaizing ( haven't seen better) , 
 and the gameplay is better that on Elder Scrolls 3 ( if any of you knows how the gameplay was) . 
 That's why i give this game a perfect grade (10.0) and i hope i will be able to play it on my pc.
 
  
  can someone write down the minimum system requirements ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trokoko
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  This game is exellent but it is overrated in some ways like tilt!!!!!!!
  i hate it cause here are a lot of problems like your character that your following stops going 
 cause he caches in some game bug and that youst makes me mad!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  in other way storry is like unexplainablly superb!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  it has so much stories 
 and ways you want to play that i even dont belive my eyes. there is a lot of faces and a lot of 
 voicices and people really look real.
  graficks are best till now.
  you would need two grafick cards geforce 7900gt in sli to include everything on. and a amd 4500MHz. 
 there is no way your gonna get it at full grafick:-)
  great is sound and everything.
  world is made best and it is very BIG.-huge!!!!!!!!!!!!
  gameplay is good but not so good.
 
  about the value-you still need to buy a game at any way that tilt can be ignored by you. youst 
 play it and you will se that there awayts you like 200 hours of gameplay guarrantied!!!!!!!!!
 
  BUY IT-or download it from bitlord :-) .
  i like my way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincedtm
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion.
  
  Oblivion is the 4th game of the Elder Scrolls series. But you don't need to play the others to 
 understand this one. The story is about you being a prisonner in a cell of a castle beeing freed 
 by the king of this realm. Thanks for his mercy you can start a new life. 
  
  -Gameplay-: The gameplay gibes you alot of freedom. The best example to understand this freedom 
 would be to think to the Grand Theif Auto series. This is the same kind of freedom. You wanna pickpoket 
 the guy in this bar? You can. You wanna quest on you're own instead of following the main story 
 you can. But that's about it... I can't say I was really impress by the controls of the game. Even 
 if you can do whatever you want it feels empty... 
  
  -Graphics-: The graphics are really amazing. Every NPC are highly details and if you have a powerful 
 PC or XBox 360 you'll be able to truly appreciate theses wonderfully details environnements.
  
  -Sound-: The sounds are nice too. One of the most greatest thing is that every NPC has voice. 
 Wich means they didn't simply put text for you to read, they've given every one of 'em a voice 
 wich is really impressive.
  
  -Value-: Of course there great value in this game... The life spawn is almost limitless... You 
 can always run around and find something fun to do.
  
  In the end I know lots of peoples will disagree with me on the score ( 7.1) but I didn't feel the 
 hype... Even if I tried to find it, the game did nor amazed me. I'm feeling like if the productors 
 said something like '' Hey let's do a GTA game, but it will have better graphics and it will be 
 in the medieval time.'' That's about it... I didn't felt this would be anything more than a decent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordanbarrantes
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  To put it simple Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an amazing achievment for video games whole and 
 is up there with other highly polished rpg games such as Final Fantasy VII, VIII, X, Chrono Cross, 
 and Dragon Quest series, and Diablo. Elder scrolls has been in devolpment since 2002, which makes 
 4 years of development, and every second of that 4 years was worth it. The game has a wide range 
 of different gameplay. From the best first person stealth since Chornicles of riddick, to some 
 tense, fast paced sword battles. You can also use a wide variety of spells and make potions by mixing 
 ingredients or become an assasin for the dark brotherhood. You can be a hero and help people or 
 use your stealth techniques to use and break into a house/or shop. You can really do whatever the 
 hell and everything is entertaining. All the gameplay elements are executed so well that it compares 
 to games that focus primarly on those gameplay elements. The graphics are the best graphics of 
 any game to date. The amazing attention to detail throughout the world will leave you speachless. 
 The only problem with the graphics is that it is the biggest system hog ever seen. You think your 
 computer is state of the art? Play Oblivion on high settings and you will start to question Life 
 itself. In other words the game requires a really good computer. The framerate in the game can get 
 unstable in spots were lots of action is happening but the graphics are so good that you will forget 
 about it right away. The sound in this game is amazing. The music is beatufilly ochestrated and 
 the sounds of the trees leaves moving with the wind and birds chirping makes you find you inner 
 peace. The wide variety of voices of litarlly hundreds of unique characters is quite astounishing 
 and will raise the standards for voice acting. The game is without a doubt the largest, most 'alive' 
 world in any video game to date. With hundreds, probalby thousands of entartining quest to do and 
 four guilds to join and many things to be bought and hundreds of caves to be explored the game 
 will keep you occupied until the day your family removes your dead body from your computer chair 
 and buries you.
  
  My final thought: Elder scrolls oblivion may be one of the best games of all time, up there with 
 games like Legend of zelda ocarina of time and Diablo. Too bad the games quench for power will prevent 
 a lot of people from enjoying this game with some features that make it look so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightwalker89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Oh Obilion. You hadt stole my soul and so many others. But how? Why? Where DOES your magic come 
 from? With that kind of abillity you must be a lvl 90 black mage. 
  Elder Scrolls: Oblivion holds some of the most memoral moments in gaming for me now. Some of which 
 being, sneaky assasinations, huge town massecres, and hundreds hours of game play. Fallowing the 
 story line isnt necisarry if you dont wish to. Side quests pop up playible all over the place Dungeons 
 apear in the wilderness all over the place inside being large hall leading ways ancient looking 
 rooms sepperated by traps and mosters/creatures of sorts. The wilderness looks beautifull. With 
 sprawling hills, lakes, mountain ranges, vallys, grasslands, and much much more. 
  The Graphics look gorgous, but are however steep requirements for many of us including myself. 
 You can get a decent card and run mednium-low settings for it, which is nice but still a bit saddening.
 
  The sound is a wonderful. Creating completely by an orchistra aswell as sounds fitting accordingly 
 to its places. Nothing special here so i give it an 8. Not bad, but nothing out of the ordinary.
 
  The Value goes on forever... you cant posibly run out of things to do or places to go... the value.. 
 is endless. needless to say, a 10.
  
  -ps: go easy on my first review    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycloptis
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has, after four years, finally arrived. For Elder Scrolls fans, 
 it has been a long and arduous wait, but the next 200+ hour installment in their beloved series 
 is available for the pickings. Now if you take a look around you, you'll see a vast majority of 
 gamers praising the game for its role-playing mechanics and its open-endedness. Is it all it's 
 cracked up to be? Not in the least. Does it still end up being an enjoyable game? Well of course, 
 and it's a great deal more enjoyable than its predecessor, Morrowind.
  
  So, what went right, exactly? Well, the most obvious improvement is the combat. In Morrowind, you 
 were forced to perform the action of the attack, but the actual chance to hit was still Dependant 
 on hidden die rolls. This ended up making combat a horribly frustrating process and for many, it 
 killed the game. Well, thankfully, Bethesda has remedied that issue with Oblivion. If you hit the 
 monster, you will hit it. The real-time combat makes for some exciting situations and overall enriches 
 the experience, to a certain extent.
  
  To a certain extent? Yes, because the addition of real-time just about eliminates all sense of 
 tactics that is found in a turn-based system. Those tactics are replaced by reflexes and a rather 
 elementary block-attack system. It all makes for largely mindless, repetitive combat, with some 
 abilities thrown into the mix.
  
  The graphics and sound of Oblivion are quite good. The music, composed by Jeremy Soule, fits the 
 typical medieval fantasy world and sets the mood for the situation. The technical design is quite 
 good, although not groundbreaking. Yes, the game is huge, but just take a look at the upcoming 
 Gothic 3 and you'll see where I'm coming from. The art design is easy on the eyes, but it doesn't 
 deviate from typical fantasy fare like Morrowind did, unfortunately.
  
  Another beneficial feature, which has been long sought-after, the horse, has made a somewhat triumphant 
 return to The Elder Scrolls after a hiatus in Morrowind. In addition to the handy fast travel system, 
 it shortens those long voyages of yore into a quick and enjoyable journey. Riding a horse while 
 viewing the sights and sounds around you is particularly enjoyable all in its own, and by the time 
 it's over, you can engage in your quest and enjoy the game all over again.
  
  Also making a triumphant return from Daggerfall is moving NPCs! Morrowind featured perhaps the 
 least impressive sense of realism when it came to people that actually, well, moved. In Oblivion, 
 not only do they walk around, but they follow their own schedules and even talk with each other. 
 As with horses and combat, this is yet again a large improvement.
  
  Now, what makes this game earn a mere 8.1 compared to GameSpot's 9.3 or the 9+ scores of just about 
 every other source? Well, we've got a whole wealth of problems that really make you wonder just 
 what Bethesda was doing with a properly funded, four year project.
  
  For one, the game feels more multi-linear than non-linear. Yes, you can go wherever you please 
 and do whatever you want in just about whatever order you want. That does not constitute the non-linearity 
 that is typical of more impressive CRPGs or Tabletop RPGs. So what does, exactly, constitute non-linearity? 
 Choice of how you want to accomplish something, and a proper dialogged system.
  
  The dialogged in Oblivion is incredibly disappointing and pathetic. There's hardly any of it, and 
 what there is feels like it was written by a school dropout. Add to that the fact dialogged trees 
 extend upwards of a whopping three tiers with often little choice in what to say, and you've just 
 broken a good deal of what makes an RPG an RPG. 
  
  To add insult to injury, we've got the persuasion mini game Now I don't know who came up with this 
 utter joke, but it should have never been implemented in the first place. This is not Mario Party. 
 Role-playing games are unique in that they use your character's ability to accomplish tasks. This 
 monstrosity not only defies that, but there's little point to even doing it. Since you'll be hoarding 
 cash pretty quickly throughout the game, you'll be able to simply skip the game and bribe your 
 way through everything, assuming you'll even need to do it. And for the people who have noticed 
 that there are two ways to butter someone up, you may have a point if both methods weren't ideas 
 which were literally pulled from someone's anus.
  
  So? You can also sneak around and get the item your want, or you can even bash people to death 
 and take it, right? No. It's that simple. Combat with environmental enemies or defined villains 
 works just fine, but combat with friendlies or guards, for that matter, is an arduous task that 
 ends up consuming even more time than you'll take to bash your head into the desk after attempting 
 it. When pursuing murder of innocent civilians in a typical RPG, you're probably not going to have 
 to face the guards unless they heard you or saw you. Oblivion throws both fundamentals out the 
 window and discourages innocent murder the hard way. You kill someone that's not part of a quest, 
 and the guard zooms towards you quickly enough that you'll probably have no idea what the hell 
 just happened. It's not just with the non-quest murders either, since in several cases I've had 
 to kill my mark, hide my stolen goods in a barrel, hand over my bounty fee, and then come back 
 for my equipment. This probably wouldn't be so much of a problem if the guards weren't virtually 
 impossible to kill or didn't take 80 shots to the chest from my bow to at least flee. Thanks Bethesda, 
 for limiting my choice!
  
  It doesn't stop there either. I remember, quite distinctly, PC Gamer UK stating that the stealth 
 system was comparable to that of Thief: The Dark Project. For those that don't know what that game 
 is, it was a groundbreaking stealth FPS that, today, still holds up incredibly well in terms of 
 stealth mechanics. Oblivion features a basic stealth system that is activated by crouching. Crawling 
 fast makes you more easy to hear, and being in the light makes you more easy to see. Simple enough, 
 and yet in many cases I've had NPCs running out of their rooms to tell me to get out, when they've 
 not yet seen or heard me. Of course, if you use an invisibility potion or scroll, you should be 
 out of trouble. Oh wait, that doesn't change a bloody thing, and in at least one Dark Brotherhood 
 quest, you can't sneak attack your mark because he'll see you, even if you're invisible. These 
 superhuman abilities defeat the entire point of the stealth system, and if baffles me how PC Gamer 
 could have made such a comparison. Again, failure in stealth amounts to either being arrested or 
 being killed. Hurray!
  
  I'm not stopping at just those problems, as there are a slew of other, relatively minor ones. Random 
 conversation is a great idea, but the implementation here is suspect. Either the responses are 
 incredibly vague, or the subjects often don't match up, and as a result it makes me not want to 
 listen to anybody. It's not too much of a loss, since a good portion of the voice acting is only 
 decent and is usually over dramatic Not only that, but there have been many cases of NPCs that 
 I've encountered that have obviously been voiced by more than one person. So Bethesda touts that 
 the voices take up almost half the disk. Yeah, well, it still didn't end up being worth the effort, 
 as there are few notable actors involved. Amongst those are of course Patrick Stewart and Sean 
 Bean, of Star Trek and Goldeneye fame, respectively.
  
  So are you done, you ask? Of course I'm not, it's me! I don't walk into walls and stay there, nor 
 do I run at you with animations from Morrowind and swing madly with no thought as to what I'm doing. 
 So, then what was that needless blather about, you ask? Well, that's exactly what the AI and animation 
 is like in the game. Yes, it happens, don't deny it. You won't see them getting stuck in walls 
 often, but it's just a shame that it happens at all!
  
  As if that wasn't enough, the interface of Oblivion was clearly attuned to the Xbox 360, with no 
 attention paid to the fans who made The Elder Scrolls what it was today. It's a series of lists 
 and tabs, which sounds good on paper, but doesn't take advantage of a point/click device such as 
 the mouse. Not only that, but the fonts are oversize to accommodate the console version as well. 
 There's no mini map and the map that is provided is zoomed in to epic proportions, making it a 
 chore to use. Thankfully there are mods to fix this in the future, but by default these shouldn't 
 have been problems in the first place.
  
  One vital aspect to just about every RPG is leveling By reaching higher levels, you become stronger, 
 and thus can take on more powerful foes. The Elder Scrolls is noted in that you advance your skills 
 through practice, and your statistics through leveling Regardless of what you do, your enemies 
 scale to your level, so an imp that gave you trouble in the beginning will still give you some 
 trouble at future levels. Granted, you can turn the difficulty slider down, but why should we have 
 to do that? There's a whole leveling system here and it's more or less thrown out the door to let 
 you go and do anything at anytime. What this means is that some quests can become completely unbalanced, 
 as your foes will eventually obtain better equipment as you advance in levels, meaning you'll either 
 have to match that equipment or be totaled
  
  You know, I've ripped Oblivion to shreds in this review, but my original score still holds true. 
 It's still a great game, but don't go running to it expecting a leap in role-playing depth, especially 
 if you're a fan of tabletop RPGs. Instead, either come to accept that the game is a great one on 
 its own terms, or go play much better examples of RPGs like Fallout or Planescape: Torment. Oblivion 
 offers up a nice experience, and is not one that should be missed, despite all of its shortcomings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larenel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this straight from the word go: Oblivion is a towering achievement, worthy of the highest 
 praise. If you have the slightest interest in role-playing within a single-player, off-line world, 
 then play this game.
  
  So, what's my point?
  
  Quite simply, to address a wave of puerile criticism that seems to be welling-up in certain circles. 
 Without defending every corner, I'll just confine my opinions to two key comments.
  
  Firstly, take, for example, the view that Oblivion is too simplistic. Arrows point the way; quest 
 logs lead us by the nose, step-by-step. Utter nonsense! The worst crime any game can commit is 
 to leave players stuck in a seeming dead end. Given the open-ended approach of an Elder Scrolls, 
 the potential for this is vast. Take a look at why many people stopped playing Morrowind! OK, so 
 you're an intelligent, experienced crpg veteran... then why not avoid the option of activating the 
 'main quest' icon? If you highlight for guidance, then don't be offended when you get it. 
  
  Secondly, let me finish with a few comments about one of the most contentious of all criticisms: 
 the rest of the world levels up with you; you can complete the main quest without becoming a virtual 
 god! In reply, I merely exclaim, "Wonderful!" Well done, Bethesda. Want to know the secret of political 
 success? As one wit sagely remarked, "It's the economy, stupid!" Want to know the secret of a crpg's 
 success? "It's the story, stupid." If your aim is to 'complete' the game (not necessarily a sole 
 legitimate crpg aim, I have to say) , then you should be allowed to do so. Who cares what 'level' 
 you are when this is achieved? Why should level 5 be any different from level 45? What matters 
 is the story you have 'lived' through. The only thing that matters is that each step of this story 
 needs to be challenging. In a free-form world, you might not pick up the threads until level 30, 
 or, then again, you might go for it from level 1. The world needs to adapt. "But bandits have good 
 kit", I hear you whine. Oh dear. Well, take it off them, then. In a living, breathing approximation 
 of a 'world', do you think you are the only one raiding the 'good stuff'? 
  
  Frankly, I will accept only one criticism of Oblivion on this front: "Is the story any good?" Well, 
 is it?
  
  P. S.
  Got any further problems? Mod it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls has always been a pretty high-quality series, but it really took off a few years 
 ago with the release of TES3: Morrowind. Pushing it's success even further, it was re-released 
 for the Microsoft Xbox. Several years later, the latest reincarnation makes its flashy debut on 
 both the PC, as well as the Xbox360. But which version is right for you? Read on to find out.
 
  The game starts out similarly to Morrowind. You choose from several different races (orc, imperial, 
 argonian, etc.) , design your character, and decide what type of character you wish to play (thief, 
 warrior, mage, etc.) . The next point, you'll find yourself locked in a prison cell in the Imperial 
 City. After a few moments, the emperor Uriel Septim and his bodyguards pass through, apparently 
 helping the emperor escape the city. In exchange for your freedom, you'll help the emperor and 
 his bodyguards get out of the city. However, things typically don't go to plan. Early on, the emperor 
 and his team are ambushed by assassins, known as the Mythic Dawn. In his last words, the emperor 
 tells you of his illegitimate son, the last heir to the emperor's throne. He also gives you the 
 Amulet of Kings, and tells you it's imperative to get it to his son so he can be the new emperor. 
 With no emperor at the throne, gates to Oblivion have opened up all across Tamriel. With the arrival 
 of these new gates, demonic creatures, called Daedra, have begun pouring into the world, destroying 
 cities and slaughtering the innocent. We quickly learn that these gates are the first phase of 
 an invasion by the Daedric Lord Of Destruction, Mehrunes Dagon.
  Only by returning power to the throne can the gates be closed, and the invasion be stopped.
  
 At this point, the game just chops right off. You are freed from prison, and now have the freedom 
 to do whatever you wish. Sure, you can go after the main quest to save the land, but there are 
 countless things to do on the side. You could stick to the main quest and shut all the oblivion 
 gates at once, but you'll miss out on alot. You could also go into each individual gate and shut 
 them one by one, picking up all sorts of goodies and loot.
  Aside from the main quest, and the oblivion gates, you can also expect hours and hours of quests 
 and adventures on the side. You can join several guilds, like the Mage's Guild, Fighter's Guild, 
 Thieve's Guild, and the Dark Brotherhood. The Mage and Fighter's Guilds are mostly straight-up 
 dungeon-crawling missions, killing enemies, and looking for treasure. The Thieve's Guild, however, 
 has you breaking into houses, castles, and forts to steal treasure, and spy on enemies. The Dark 
 Brotherhood faction has you playing as a stealthy assassin, accepting contracts and taking out 
 targets, usually under a lot of security.
  Aside from the guilds, you can also join the Arena, where you can place bets and compete for money 
 and fame. You'll also find that every town, and even some areas in between, have their own stories 
 and adventures. For example, you'll reach one town and quickly learn about one of the residents 
 who is unable to wake up. You'll actually go to sleep and go into his dreams to try and find him. 
 Another good example is when a famous artist is missing. It turns out he is somehow trapped in 
 a painting. You'll actually find yourself journeying into the oil-paint landscape in search of 
 him.
  Which brings me to the next part. The world of Cyrodiil is absolutely stunning. You can see for 
 miles off into the distance, trees dotting the horizon. To the south, you can see the sparkling 
 ocean spreading off forever, and the snowwy cliffs of the mountains in the north.
  The grass and foliage look incredible as well, and your video card should get one hell of a workout. 
 That being said, this is where the game stuttered the most (with me, anyway) . Most low-end to middle-class 
 video cards these days won't be able to run all the high-end settings without a huge drop in framerate. 
 Even some of the most modern systems will have trouble running effects like full HDR lighting and 
 bloom, but not to worry. The game still looks pretty incredible even with some settings turned 
 down, and it is still worthwhile without them. Not only that, but there are several mods and patches 
 that do their best to optimize performance while keeping the game looking nice.
  Obviously this is one section where the game is almost guaranteed to be better on the 360. However, 
 in my opinion, the game is still worth getting for the PC. Aside from having beautiful environments, 
 the game also has really great looking characters, sharp textures, and amazing lighting and shadow 
 effects that really set the mood.
  The game also boasts some very nice audio, with some beautiful full orchestral musical scores, 
 great ambient sounds, and some top-notch voice acting. The main characters all have expert voiceovers, 
 including Patrick Stewart. The secondary characters (shopkeepers, beggars, etc.) have fairly decent 
 voiceovers as well, although some get a bit repetitive, and border on annoying. Another welcome 
 upgrade, all NPCs have full voiceovers with lip sync, which Morrowind didn't have.
  Another new change is the new Radiant AI. NPCs have full 24/7 schedules and actually have lives 
 now. Characters get up, go to work, visit friends, go shopping, go to dinner, sleep, and more. 
 The AI is implemented seamlessly and works quietly behind the scenes, which is actually a nice 
 thing. In fact, players who burn through the game probably won't even notice unless they actually 
 stop to check out all the subtleties.
  As in Morrowind, there is also a complex law system in place. Doing dirty deeds, like stealing, 
 killing, or trespassing puts a bounty on your head. The authorities will be alerted, and will go 
 to a lot of trouble to hunt you down and kill you, or at least arrest you and throw your sorry 
 ass in prison. Everytime you commit a crime, and somebody witnesses it, the crime is added to your 
 bounty. With this, guards will attempt to confront you the very second that you are spotted. Sometimes, 
 it's entirely unavoidable. When a guard confronts you, you are given the option to pay a fine (equal 
 to your bounty) , go to prison, or make a break for it. Some crimes, like murder, can really tally 
 up your bounty, causing you to pay a very hefty fine. Serving out your sentence in prison also 
 causes one skill to decrease every day until your sentence is finished. Lastly, making a run for 
 it is just a bad idea. Guards will relentlessly chase you for miles and will not give up, and usually 
 give you a serious ass-kicking. Luckily, if you can avoid the guards, and are with the thieve's 
 guild, you can pay them half of your bounty to have it lifted. If that doesn't work and you end 
 up in prison, you can also attempt a jailbreak, although this is usually very dangerous.
  Because of simple upgrades like this, it adds a whole new dimension to the gameplay. You may find 
 yourself in the middle of a quest, and get thrown in jail in the process. You can't afford the 
 fine and you don't want your skills to drop by serving your sentence. Breaking out of prison, retrieving 
 all your equipment, and shaking the guards off your tail just became your new quest.
  Because of all this, it makes for nearly limitless replayability. You'll always be finding somekind 
 of new quest or adventure to go on, and you'll have your hands full levelling up your character 
 and learning new skills.
  The ammount of stuff you can do is only limited by your imagination, as cheesy as that sounds. 
 Creative players will keep finding new things to do, and those who just want to set out and do 
 everything will stay busy for a long time. Because there are so many different types of characters 
 to play as, you'll probably want to play through the game several times in different ways. The 
 main reason that Oblivion is better on the PC is the content. The developers released the SDK, 
 which allows any user to create new content, such as dungeons, items, characters, quests, and so 
 on. The game hasn't been out a year and the mod community has already released countless modifications 
 and downloads to prolong the lifespan of the game.
  As with most PC games, Bethesda has also released several patches for the PC version, which is 
 great to have. It isn't to say the Xbox360 version is bad, but it just doesn't live up to the awesomeness 
 of the PC game.
  There are some people who didn't like Oblivion as much as Morrowind, because it didn't seem as 
 deep, but it's no excuse to pass this game up. Oblivion remains a deep and rewarding experience, 
 while still being easy enough for anybody to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayzup
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is something you love to hate, you may ask what I mean by that so I will explain. When 
 you first hop into the game you are a captive (like usual) but once your out of the tedious tutorial 
 thats when the game opens.
  If your a person like me and when ever you get bored you just want to save the game and go on a 
 giant killing spree. Well this is the only downfall; you can spend hours working hard to get this 
 ownage character that will murder all the gaurds in town while you can watch with pleasure. However 
 when you come back and save it, you will discover that the gaurds have gotten stronger, and not 
 randomly stronger no, they are the EXACT SAME if not STRONGER then you! Which is so frustrating 
 it makes me want to throw something out the window.
  
  However the rest of the game is amazing... down to the breaking into peoples houses and stealing 
 items to fighting in the arena and becoming champion.
  
  Luckily our pastey friends (modders) have come up with a mod for us, just look it up in your local 
 search engine (I reccomend google. com) and they will level cap the creatures in the area. So when 
 you come back from 200 hours of hunting you will get your satisfaction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabkicks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this short so I can get back to playing :D
  This is the most beautiful game I've ever played by far. Even on my lowly x800XL (default high 
 settings ingame) Oblivion looks amazing. The game is just so detailed and complex both visually 
 and gameplay wise. There is so much to do in this game. You can make your own hybrid character 
 class and there are tons of sidequests to do. You can ignore the main quest completely if you want 
 to. The game is just.... amazing. Amazing...
  
  I'm only giving this game a 9.1 because i cant run it at the highest settings :p and there are 
 a few bugs. Sometimes with my system the game slows to a crawl after prolonged gameplay, but a 
 quick restart of the game gets rid of the slowdown. 
  
  I'd reccomend a x1800xl , Athlon 643000+ and at least a gig of ram to run the game in all its glory.
 
  
  I'm not a very big fan of rpg's at all.. but this game is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greygrease
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I have finished the game and about 90% of the sidequests. And I can't say I didn't enjoy it, in 
 fact I was very impressed the first 20 hours or so, but. BUT. 
  1) This game, for all its claims of open-endness, is extremely linear. True, there are plenty of 
 quests to choose from and many ways to hurt others, but essentially you have no choice on the outcome. 
 You are taken, on the rails, from one mission (that's the best word to describe it) to the next. 
 There is no connection between the different threads. 
  2) You have a lot of freedom when deciding how to complete a mission, depending on your abilities. 
 Unfortunately, story, characters and dialogue are weak, very weak. Not to mention that the speechcraft 
 ability is a silly minigame that will drive you crazy (it's sooo annoying) in a few hours. So, 
 basically, freedom to complete a mission means freedom to kill things your own way, nothing more, 
 nothing less. 
  3) Much of the game is dungeon crawling. Gets boring fast, because basically you see the same sort 
 of cavern/derelict fort/ancient ruins over and over again. You find things. They attack you. You 
 kill them. You grab some 'mysterious item' with which you can restore peace and order to the Gala..., 
 err, Empire, or whatever. They send you over to another dungeon, to find another Very Imporant 
 Item. And so on and so forth. After some time I discovered that the best way to deal with dungeons 
 and oblvion gates is simply running through them, nevermind the horde of monsters on your tail. 
 Just grab the stupid stone/amulet/book/key and move on...
  4) True, there are exceptions to this. In particular, the questing for the assassins' guild is 
 very fresh and interesting. However, although you can find all sorts of clever ways to deal with 
 your 'clients', essentially it's more of the "on the rails" sort of questing. Reminded me of Hitman, 
 it did. 
  5) I have a mid kind of system, but it is fair to say that the graphics in this game are really 
 good. However, the other side of the coin: you can't get too many characters on screen at once. 
 So the most epic of all battles of the game takes place between a dozen dudes against half a dozen 
 baddies. And you can't join in the fun because the whole thing simply crawls, so you better pick 
 a good spot on the hill and watch them dance around. 
  6) That said, I did have lots of fun with the game, but I see no reason for coming back to it after 
 finishing it. Especially when I remember how painful the process of raising your skills is. I'm 
 not crazy about generic ex points, because it's so unlike pen & paper role playing, but this system 
 basically rewards you for not role playing. I mean, half of the time you find yourself jumping 
 and casting spells to raise your acrobatics and you magic skills (I very soon found myself making 
 mental calculations on how much I have to advance in each skill to get the best attribute raise... 
 so shameful) . Personally, I think you should get rewarded with skill/attribute raise for doing 
 something meaningful, not for whoring, excuse the expression, for exp points. Like how about getting 
 exp points for roleplaying? If you are playing a hot blooded maniac you shouldn't be caught dead 
 solving things peacefully...
  7) I really hope this is not what Fallout 3 is going to play like, and if you have played fallout 
 I'm sure you will end up feeling the same way, past the initial impressions of Oblivion. However, 
 having seen the quality of the story/dialogue/characters of Bethesda, I have serious doubts. God 
 knows I'm not expecting another Planescape Torment...
  
  8) Thanks for reading this through! :)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun. I have made so many characters, because ther eis so much to do. everything 
 in the game is perfect. I had morrowind, but i never got into it. This game got me addicted. 
 
  
  But it is not perfect. Spells can be expensive if you dont know what ones you need. there are many 
 spells that do just about the same thing, but have different names, so you have to keep an eye 
 on what you already have. 
  
  Also, whatever type of character you make, you will be spending lots of money. Try to carry as 
 much stuff as you can when you return to town.
  
  Being a vampire is totally worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The dynamics of the game is simply superb!, graphics, sound, game play, all the details to the 
 game I could go on for on and on and on.
  
  There are times where the storyline tends to drag on however theres plenty of side-content to keep 
 you entertained. There isn't much I can say that wouldn't be repeating what the Editor said. 
 
  
  This type of game, with this type of quallity only comes around once every 5 years. It's the game 
 everyone talks about, its the game everyone must! have. I get excited just thinking about this, 
 I can't tear my self away from it. The replay value of this is huge!, keep in mind this will take 
 some time just to complete just the once theres that much to explore and experiment with. 
  The voices of the Characters Patrick Stewart, (Picard) Also fellow Star trek Actress Mrina Sitris 
 (Dina Troi) , feature in this game. There others that I haven't figured out who but they on the 
 edge of my tongue. This game has so! many levels that it would be very! hard for this game to disapoint 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  In Oblivion you can spend literally hundreds of hours exploring, training, fighting enemies, ranking 
 up in your guild and progressing further in the story. 
  
  You have the option of sticking to the story and progressing through that quest, or you can go 
 about your own business by interacting with the tows people or even joining one of the many guilds 
 in Tamriel. The game is basically open ended to do what you want to do. The map given to you has 
 all the main settlements in Tamriel but as you travel in the wilderness you can find special landmarks 
 and caves, ones that are all open to exploring. And the music fits well with your surroundings, 
 and the mood of the situation. 
  
  The character and class selections vary, you can be one of many races offered in the game, and 
 as you progress you choose things like your birth sign and your fighting class which varies each 
 character immensely.
  
  The story is well put together and is relatively unpredictable hiding many twists and turns. The 
 battle system itself can be a bit of a problem, nothing to serious but its a regular hack and 
 slash, but still is a lot of fun.
  
  Joining guilds only adds to the adventure as once you join one many side quests are open for you 
 to participate in and most are very interesting. 
  
  Although I have only played 12 hours of the game thus far I feel that I would recommend it to any 
 RPG fan out there. It is definitely a game you would want in your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoman43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV, what a game! For any of you who have never played an Elder Scrolls game, 
 you are missing out. These games are most possible the most intricate set of RPGs; and, Oblivion 
 is no different.
  
  In oblivion you find yourself in a mid-evil/mythical continent (Thats right, continent, this game 
 is HUGE!) full of castles, cities, dungeons, and even realms of darkness. The range of NPCs and 
 Monsters probably reaches up to the thousands, and there is always something new to do. Your character 
 is completely customizable, and you can be a number of different races and classes, ranging from 
 a cat-like thief to an Elvin archer, and many others. The game also allows you to do pretty much 
 whatever you please. If you can see it you can take it and sell it, if it talks you can kill it 
 (However, unlike Morrorwind, you can not kill everyone, there are a handful of NPCs that only go 
 Unconscious.
  As for the sound, 100 percent realistic! The graphics, best I have ever seen. The only downfall 
 is the graphics engine, it is, well, horrible. The game takes a beast of a computer to run at anything 
 looking good, and there is a lot of hardware to software compatibility problems.
  
  Overall, I give The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion a 9.3, This game is a must have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumboforme
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Let's get everything important out of the way first. The Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion is the best Role 
 Playing game EVER and has game of the year 2006 written all over it. The graphics are amazing, 
 the sound is astounding, and the gameplay absolutely rocks! The only problem that you might have 
 with Oblivion is the high computer requirements the game needs in order to play. In the game, you 
 explore the province of Cyrodill and start off in prison. Gates to Oblivion, a realm of evil with 
 Scamps and Daedra pouring out of the Gates. Your objective in the game is to find out why these 
 things are happening and to stop them. Overall, I would say that this game is certainly worth buying 
 (if you have computer requirements) and will last you a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenCapka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Issues with the unfriendly interface in the pc game, ugly character models limited carrying weight 
 and leveling system.
  
  You should not have to download mods to make a game more playable. 
  
  Money is scarce in game 
 and you have to leave a lot of loot behind.
  
  There are 8 hot-keys which is inadequate especially if you use spells in combat.
  
  Leveling 
 system has always been an issue. If you always run, have to jump, etc. it skews the amount of points 
 you can pick in the categories you use often. This leads to artificially using some skills over 
 and over to increase the attributes the max amount per level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grail279
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  This game is visually stunning and very smart in play, besides the innumerable Character Options, 
 The new play style is incredible. Who knew horses could be so much fun.. lol especially when stolen 
 from an Imperial Guard when he turned his back. The AI is very cool and does some surprising things 
 when you least expect it. The lighting is to die for.. and the music sets the mood perfectly especially 
 when dungeon crawling and you never know what may be around the next corner. The voice overs are 
 very nice and add great depth in the submersion into the game environment. This game will be the 
 new standard for RPg for years to come. Excellent Job and keep the official mods coming the Horse 
 armor really helps...... and looks Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draker696
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  I cant believe i missed this game! ITS SO AWESOME!
  
  You can do things like "exercise" your skills for exemple: Jumping to gain acrobatics, running 
 to gain athletics, using sword to kill to gain skill with the sword that unlocks more attacks and 
 stuff...
  
  Good:
  
  The sound is great! i dont recognize any actors but its just great
  Gameplay is long and COOOOL! You 
 wont need another game ti be entertained
  Graphics ARE FABULOUS my breother even stole me oblivion! (oblivion is mine as it is of my brother)
 
  
  Bad:
  
  GRAPHICS ISSUES I NEEDED TO BUY A POWERFULL GRAPHICS CARD TO PLAY THE GAME!!!
  But havent seen 
 more bugs in the game
  
  maybe this is THE game
  
  Idont know exactly but if it will be any patches or expansions this will be the best game in the 
 world!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacific_crest99
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Best environmenal graphics I have ever seen. The sheer scope of this game is immense 
 and while playing it you get a sense of freedom few games give. In my opinion, this might be the 
 best single player game ever made. 
  
  A word to the wise, be sure to carefully select your major skills either by selecting a preset 
 class or by manually selecting them individually. It will majorly determine how fast you level 
 up and eht enjoyability of your character. 
  
  Also, this game is very demanding of your system, pretty much anything below Radeon 9800 or Ge 
 Force 6600 (these cards being the threshold) is gonna have some serious troubles playing this game 
 if your not playing on the absolute minimum (which is ubearable to me considering how good the 
 graphics are in this game) 
  Another thing... Grass can be a major culprit for Lag especially in very forested outdoor areas, 
 turn it off if you have to. Or manually alter the .ini file found in your games folder. There you 
 can alter the density or clumpyness of the grass/foliage to thin it out if neccesary without turning 
 it off alltogether. www. Tweakguides. com has more info 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnaboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I have played in a long time. I had been searching for a good RPG to play 
 ever since Ultima back in the old Amiga gaming days and discovered TES3 - Morrowind. After many 
 joyful hours of game play I finished the game and never touched it again, despite seeing the expansion 
 packs I never felt compelled to by them.
  
  Oblivion by comparison is just awesome, that is all one can say of it. It has in-depth game play, 
 awesome sound and graphics.
  
  The only beef is that it gets bogged down at time even on a P4 3.06 GHz, 6600GT and 512 MB. Apart 
 form that it's nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofakingcool
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Combine all of the elements that made morrowing great, add an amazing graphics engine with a nearly 
 perfect interface and many many gamplay elements from other genres tied perfectly together and 
 youve got Oblivion.
  This is a game with nearly endless months of gameplay. If you are one who likes to explore and 
 realy emerse yourself in the world of a game this is for you. There is a real sense that you are 
 exploring a real place with its own history and culture, you can even read hundreds of books and 
 novels about this fantasy realm. In short this game is fully capable of owning your life for years 
 and that, in my book, makes it the apitomy of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_jacket
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Bought it and could not play it. 
  But, hey, my computer is four years old. 
  
  I bought the NVIDIA Geforce 6600 card from TigerDirect for 120 with shipping and the game now runs 
 smoothly on medium with distant lands turned on. All my games look better, so it was way better 
 than buying the XBOX.
  
  Morrowind was my favorite game of all time (with expansions and fixes in the game of the year addition) . 
 I don't recommend this series to everyone, but if you have about 400 hours to burn and love a wide 
 open world where you can do what you want, then grab it. If you feel nausia and a severe sense 
 of hopelessness when the game does not force you down the storyline and tell you what to do next, 
 then these games are simply not for you.
  
  Oblivion is better than Morrowind. The graphics are simply stunning. The conversation system is 
 much better. Every word an NPC says to you is actually spoken by an actor. EVERY word! Its not 
 just a hello, but hours of conversations, hints, etc.
  
  Running across the country side is not only visual utopia, but there are challenges everywhere. 
 Some random abandoned mine can be the most fun you've had in years and its not even the main story-line.
 
  
  Advancement is based on skills you use. If you find some weird glitch to beat a big boss and think 
 you will get extra exp for it in this game, forget it. If you didn't use the skill, you dont get 
 advancement. It is really great. You can go up levels and some skills will not advance at all if 
 you don't use them. Fantastic.
  
  The game brings with it all the excitement of a first person shooter. When I fight more than one 
 opponent, I get worried! I'm getting hit from behind and can't swing because I'm stunned. It just 
 feels like the confusion of actual battle. You are frantically looking for a hook or some advantage 
 to win the contest with. Of course, when you fight wimps its wimpy, but when you are the wimp, 
 you feel wimpy.
  
  The game is all feel. I like to set aside a few hours and just sink into it. I might just read 
 books that are in the game for 30 min or so or go around and make everyone in a new town love me 
 by joking around with them. I know everyone won't like playing this game like I do, but the fact 
 that you can choose to play it like I do is amazing. Also, if you have been waiting three years 
 for the game to come out, then you understand the slow sip and swish it around technique.
  
  I'm currently level eleven, but have about 30 hours in the game and enough skill advancement 
 to be level 25. They just arent my primary skills. Ha!
  
  Sean Bean is an amazing voice actor.
  The way people move around based on their own clocks and 
 interact with me makes me feel like they are real.
  Did I mention you can ride a horse! I think many games will have the horse option from now on. 
 You can own one and get on it and off it any time you want. Its not just transport from location 
 A to B. Certain monsters will attack your horse. Mine almost get killed in the adventure I'm in 
 now.
  
  Hmmm, the adventure I'm in now. Wow. The best ever. I used a translated 100 year old diary to get 
 clues to where an ancient lost fortress was hidden. I had to find landmarks and follow directions. 
 The diary mentioned the creatures that plagued the original owner. I followed the directions, found 
 a hidden pass in a secluded valley, and there discovered a landslide covered (visually magnificent) 
 fortress. Just finished clearing out the fortress and .... well no more spoilers. It was amazing 
 and super fun.
  
  COMPLAINTS:
  Why a 9.9 and not a 10 then. I've never awarded a 10 to a game. I'm afraid this game has some problems 
 that prevent it. However, it may be my first 10 with a few patches and expansions. We will see.
 
  
  1) I was in a world and spent forever solving a puzzle and then the escape portal just simply failed 
 to show. A reload and play of the adventure solved it, but dang.
  2) There was a glitch whenever an invisible character was in the room with me. The whole screen 
 went wack. It was still playable. It was fixed once he became visible.
  3) SPOILER!! They made a big deal about Patrick Stewart's voice acting, but his character is taken 
 away in the forest 10 min. of play and that's it for him.
  4) . The games minimum specs were covered by my computer without adding a card. It ran with EVERY 
 feature turned of and the mouse took about 10 seconds to cross my screen. It just did not work.
 
  5) Without distant lands turned on, the game is just not worth playing. Better to wait a year 
 and play it with a new computer than play it with this setting off. Thank goodness it works with 
 my new card.
  
  Hope this helps.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wangbin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game 
 so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice 
 game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion 
 nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion 
 nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion 
 nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion 
 nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so goodOblivion nice game so good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvasquez311
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  My system specs:
  P4 3.2Ghz with HT ENABLED
  1GB DDR2
  Abit AA8XE Motherboard
  Audigy 1 Platinum OEM w/Out Brekout Box
  GeForce 6600GT 128Ram
  
  For someone like me who 
 became familiar with the original TES - Arena back in '94 when I was just a kid, I would never 
 thought that Bethesda Softworks would really have achieved this kind of epic RPG. This RPG has 
 broken all the barriers that have prevented it from becoming an actual universe that feels alive 
 and real. Back in '02 I played Morrowind for a while. It had good graphics, yet the gameplay was 
 really only a hack and slash ordeal, and the all the characters in the game, while somewhat unique, 
 as a whole felt like cardboard cutouts of one another, thus eliminating the sensation of a universe 
 that felt alive. And without Quest markers or fast travel, after about 30 hours of playtime I quickly 
 forgot about the game (mainly due to school) . While I felt that overcoming those two barriers in 
 a game would be unimaginable, Bethesda Softworks is a pioneer in it's own right with the TES franchise. 
 Quite the epic undertaking they have undergone with Oblivion, they have shattered those barriers 
 and more.
  
  Gameplay:
  Far from the boring hack and slash ordeal of Morrowind, how you move, block, and attack all play 
 a role in all unfriendly confrontations in the game. The AI of the NPCs and Enemies, while having 
 it's holes, will react accordingly to your actions. This gives a real sense of being the action 
 rather than click click click clik. Although the variety of creatures and in this game that you 
 will face is a bit sparse, the AI behind them all react differently. Also, the main storyline is 
 quite interesting, and completing all the guild quests for every guild will net you some fantastic 
 gear as rewards as well as spoils found in the dungeons part of the quests.
  
  Graphics:
  The most ornately detailed I've seen in a game yet. While my computer isn't able to max out the 
 settings (although I have tweaked it out using the fourms on www. elderscrolls. com and www. tweakguides. com) , 
 just playing the game you can see the amount of labor that went into creating each town, castle, 
 landscape, cavern, and dungeon. Each Town has it's own style and architechture, which helps making 
 the immersion even deeper. The way the developers used Oblivions engine shows that a lot of thought 
 design went into each and every place. Although you will see some "recycled" interiors (a la Halo 
 1 and 2) , it never really feels the same as the other similar interior. 
  
  Sound:
  Coming from morrowind, which had what felt like only 1 or 2 overall main themes on repeat, the 
 music in Oblivion never really gets old, and is varied in subtle ways. It really goes along with 
 the gameplay in that it feels like you are in an epic journey, but dosn't stick out enough to really 
 feel like a broken record on repeat. The sound effects are top notch, and the voice acting is superb. 
 The only problem I have is that you'll notice that each race and sex only has 1 voice actor. It 
 would have been nice to have at least a couple or so.
  
  Value:
  I played the game thinking I would only make it through about a couple of dungeons, then finish 
 the main quest. I was wrong, the more I played, the more I got drawn into it, similar to World 
 of Warcraft (an MMORPG) , you just want to get more money, better armor, own more houses, max out 
 your character, customize your gear with the sigil stones, and so on and so forth. While there 
 really is no "social" aspect of the game (it's not and MMO) , all the characters in the world are 
 somewhat unique, and will react even to the statistics (I lady passerby commented "My what muscles 
 you have", I had maxed out my strength near the end of the game) . Although I have finished the 
 main quest already, I'm still going to keep the game on my hard drive just so I can do some dungeon 
 hunting for some more gear from time to time to explore the rest of the 16 square miles I have 
 yet to explore (The game dosnt really end, you get to keep playing after the main quest is done) . 
 All this just to get ready for the next "official" expansion quest from BethSoft. Now thats value!, 
 and just to let you know that aside from World of Warcraft (the only MMORPG i have played and succesfully 
 quit :) once I beat a game I NEVER play it again, (only a few games i have beaten twice, System 
 Shock 2, Super Metroid, and A couple of Final Fantasies) . 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  Honest to God, I have no idea what Reviewer's tilt is, so I give it a 10, because this game probably 
 deserves it. But I have to note that the ending to the main quest of this game is quite spectacular, 
 I just wish I had a better video card to experience it with.
  
  Go buy and play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Oblivion_20
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The Best RPG Game's 2006! Fantastic! Wonderful! 
  The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is simply... fantastic! 
  I don't have much word to describe this 
 game!
  The graphic is superb and I think that 10 isn't the right vote! I give Oblivion's graphic 11 or 
 12! I'm without words!
  The sounds, then, are beautiful! Maybe, they aren't as beautiful as graphics but yes, they are 
 great!
  The gameplay is very fluid and I think that with a controller it will become wonderful, yes. 
 
  Maybe, the PC's requirements are too high, but, with a medium computer, you will play it.
  Try it!
  
  PS: If you don't love RPG game and Oblivion have to be your first RPG, I think that 
 it is too hard for a principiant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hussein_Fatal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best RPG since Gothic. Its a very complete gaming experience with some outstanding 
 graphics, easy to play in the beginning but after 30 hrs of game we are still learning. This is 
 not like those rpgs where we spend 10 hrs of gameplay walking trow cities and paths searching for 
 the next objective. It was a simple map where your objective is displayed and if you had bean there 
 once you can simple click in a nearby city and your are transported to there. You can also buy 
 a horse for faster traveling....
  The game as a big amount of creatures, races, weapons, guilds, items and so on... The customization 
 of the character is also very complete and notable (not like godfather) ...
  Unfortunatelythis perfection have a price. The recommended specifications to play the game are 
 a bit big. So before buying make sure you can run this game with medium graphics and some effects 
 on...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAchaos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  I have to agree with some other reviews posted, this would be the ideal MMO by far. I never played 
 a game so in depth and realistic. The game starts off very similar to how Elder Scrolls: Marrowind 
 started but the story it starts you off with really pulls you in. I love how theres dialog for 
 every NPC with in the game, and every character you meet has their own unique look.
  
  It does how ever seem that as you grow to become more powerful that the world around you does as 
 well.. and that kind of hampers you from wanting to explore other skills later on down the road. 
 In Elder Scrolls Marrrowind they kept the difficulty based on zones. You go in one area and they 
 where like levels 10-19 and so on, which I liked better.
  
  Amazing game the graphics are great, sadly if you dont have a high performance PC, youll have 
 a very hard time running this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samakar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  As a veteran of Morrowind, I have to say that Oblivion has touched me in a way that no other game 
 has. From an epic story line, to an epic scale of travel, to a gritty and realistic combat system, 
 Oblivion offers a game of epic proportions for all audiences (except those with ADD, you'll go 
 insane heh) . Fixing many of its predecessors annoyances, such as the magic, which is now a one-button-press 
 method, so you can quickly cast that Restoration spell on yourself to keep you from dying hahaha. 
 From traps, to combat, to travel, this game is an excellent addition to anyones game collection. 
 Must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorilla_Knight
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series is known to be a great series of RPGs. They have created games, such as 
 Morrowind, which was also a great game. I think that this game is far greater than its predecessor.
 
  
  The Elder Scrolls games are known for their great RPG storylines. This game is no exception to 
 that story. You start off as a prisoner in The Imperial City. The Emporer visits your cell and 
 recognizes you from his dreams. You then follow him, but short into your escape, the Emporer is 
 assassinated. You must find out who put an end to the kind Emporer's rule and defeat them. You 
 don't even have to have played any other Elder Scrolls game to understand the story.
  
  Apart from this main quest, you'll be doing sidequests and entering Oblivion Gates. The Oblivion 
 Gates are portals to the realm of Oblivion. Oblivion is a place of destruction and suffering. The 
 sidequests are all good, also. The rewards for doing them are usually worth it, such as a strong 
 weapon, some rare armor, or a powerful spell. There are guilds that you can join. You can join 
 the Fighters Guild, which is a guild for combat oriented characters. You can join the Mages Guild, 
 which is for spell casters. The Thieves guild and the Dark Brotherhood are guilds oriented to stealth 
 characters. There's also an Arena that you can join and fight in.
  
  The gameplay is fun and has simple controls. You click your mouse to use your weapon, right click 
 to block, press "c" to cast a spell, etc. The controls are easy to memorize. If you played Morrowind, 
 the previous Elder Scrolls game, you can tell how similar the controls are. There's also a new 
 lockpicking minigame and speechcraft minigame. Something else about the game is that you can control 
 the difficulty with a difficulty slider. That means that it's never too hard or too easy. Also, 
 something else to make it at just the right difficulty is that the monsters and other characters 
 level up with you. That means no fight should ever be too easy or too hard (unless you slide the 
 difficulty all the way up or down) .
  
  This game has some great character customization. Unlike other games where it has a few preset 
 faces, this game will let you fully customize all the things about your character. If you spend 
 enough time, you can even make a character that looks like yourself. And apart from appearance, 
 Oblivion comes with 21 preset classes. Don't like any of them? Then make a custom class and pick 
 out the skills and primary attributes for it.
  
  These are some of the greatest graphics I've ever seen in a video game. The graphics will make 
 you need an up-to-date PC to run the game, but it's worth it. If you're someone who likes to see 
 the beautiful graphics in a game, this game is for you. The water looks realistic, and even in 
 the grass, you can see individual blades of grass.
  
  There's some good sounds and music on here. The opening music is good. The sounds are pretty realistic. 
 When you're hit wearing heavy armor, it sounds like how it would sound in real life. Also, everyone 
 has a different voice for realism. They even did synching with the voices, so the characters move 
 their lips to the words.
  
  Oblivion is a game that will keep you coming back for more. You'll be spending lots of time with 
 this game. You'll like everything from the character customization to the epic storyline. I can't 
 find anything wrong with this game, other than the fact that there are console cheats, but you 
 don't even have to use those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerhardtscriven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Blend 
  1. the addiction, depth, and replay value of Diablo II with 
  2. the fun gameplay and open-ended world of GTA with 
  3. the fantastic atmosphere and superbly 
 presented environment of Half Life. 
  
  The result is Oblivion. And yet: The result is greater than the sum of these individual parts.
 
  
  It is simply so difficult to turn off the game once you get going - The horde of mini quests on 
 their own are just too much fun. Not are they only interesting and well thought out, but they often 
 have different outcomes depending on the moral choices that you make, which adds even more replay 
 value and depth to the game.
  
  The amount of detail is simply staggering. Other games have succeeded in immersing one into their 
 world, but Oblivion rivals them all.
  
  My only wish would have been the ability to play co-operatively as in Diablo. 
  
  Enough said 
 - if you were a fan of any of the games that I mentioned above, you will love Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphen_bast
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Just got one thing to say to all game builders.... do better if you can! 
  
  Because this game is the BEST until now! Best game, great work, beautiful,100% immersive.. words are 
 few to describe this HUGE WORLD that Oblivion is.... i surrender all my time to this game... and 
 we got here a replay value for years to come ...
  
  I lose time just watching the amazing graphics.... MASTERPIECE
  
  Take side quests they are 
 amazing, impressive plot for a game so big!
  The Npcs AI is really great (not perfect but near)
  I can only imagine that the people that build 
 up this classic must had years of hard work, and correcting glitches and minor errors. The music 
 is beautiful a real masterpiece !! gets you inside the game real quick.
  Body`s look real they have "weight" amazing physics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rljthesim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  One word brilliant. 
  
  First of all I wish to congratulate Bethesda on making probably the best RPG for the coming fifty 
 years. I also want to mention their originality in placing the program, that they used to make 
 the game, open to the public. This makes for lots of mods, ranging anywhere between new swords 
 to new underwear!
  
  The graphics are superbly eye-popping, but will only be at their very best on computers hat don't 
 exist yet. But other than that I myself have the graphics set to the lowest and still it is one 
 of the most beautiful games I have ever seen! 
  
  The music in the game is unbelievable it has been composed by nobody less than Jeremy Soule. this 
 man has made music for games such as guild wars, elder scrolls: morrowind and dungeon siege.
  
  By now my hands are itching to get back to the game so i'm sorry but this is it. I might do 
 a bit more later on.
  
  Ryan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Now my big beef with this game is that a mystique factor is gone from the game. Morrowind had a 
 much more diverse enviroment and more immersive gameplay but the landscapes in Oblivion are absolutely 
 stunning. Another dislike of mine is the way that they combined all blade skills, axes count as 
 blunt weapons, and how they eliminated the spear. I will have to say though that magic is much 
 easier to use and the inventory is more oranized than in TES3. The soundtrack is what you would 
 expect from a TES game and the custimization of your character in Oblivion has no rival in any 
 game I know of. Not to mention more involvement with guilds if you choose to do so or you can do 
 a straight shot at the main quest and then guild quest later. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME IF YOU HAVE 
 A LOW END PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JipJopJones
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing, I spent over $350 on this game and a new video card, most people (including 
 my mum) think I'm insane for doing such a thing. But it was (and still is) extremely worth it. 
 The game play is soo good same with the graphix and the draw distance. I love this whole series 
 and Oblivion is the best of the Elder Scrolls beasts. I loved morrowind, but i felt it had little 
 to no structure. With oblivion it has a much better system for plot following, it feels more structured 
 but is still a very non-linear game. I love oblivion, the sound track is amazing as well, not very 
 repetitive and the title track is awsome (i actually sat at the menu listening to it once) OMFG 
 TOTALLY GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandovalblaine
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I spent many hours playing The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind, and found it to be one of the most thoroughly 
 enjoyable experiences in my gaming history. The fact that it was so open ended meant that every 
 return to the game almost always promised something new. I never got bored with the game, because 
 if I wanted to, I could start an entirely new adventure with a completely new character. The newest 
 incarnation, Oblivion, gives the user an entirely new set of challenges and adventures to embark 
 on, plus a complete graphical overhaul. The landscapes are simply beautiful, it is a pleasure to 
 simply look at things, and take in the artistry and sophistication of this fantasy world. The characters 
 look great, and the level of control that is given during character creation is impressive. The 
 animation is very good, battles feel much more visceral than in the previous game, and it is more 
 satisfying; when you swing a sword at an enemy, you always hit him/her, instead of a random chance 
 of hitting like in Morrowind. As for the story, there is now a much more focused main quest that 
 is much more engaging than in Morrowind. The story is stronger and better explained as well. The 
 voice acting is very good, although sometimes, the characters seem to change voices slightly depending 
 on their responses to certain topics, but it is nothing obvious enough to be distracting. There 
 are so many good things to say about this game, and very little negative, so I give this game a 
 strong recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  
  this is a good game.. pretty bad that my computer cant run it on the best graphics without any lags 
 but even with the medium its amazing...
  there is a lot of details and so many ways and road and thing to do!!!!
  9.4.. very impressive.. 
 u need a very strong and expensive graphic card but it repayable.. i am recommending.. the sounds 
 are good and real but the RPG mode sucks.. but the FPS is very very good..... the game play is good 
 and continues, u can upgrade your character all the time and collect thing from anything. if u are 
 fired an arrow u can collect it back... u can take thing and meet from skeletons or anomals u killed 
 and more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Holy smokes! In case you haven't heard, Oblivion is the must have game of the year or century for 
 that matter. Its insane size, incredible graphics and details will have thristing day in and day 
 out for more more and MORE!
  
  The graphics for this game are simply stunning. Everything is detailed to the core. Character faces, 
 buildings, statues, plants, water, everything. THe only issue is the outdoor world is so detailed 
 and great that it can run pretty choppy at some parts.
  
  The gameplay is off the charts. Want to specialize in blade swinging action? Perhaps magical spells 
 are your choice of ownage. It doesn'; t matter, because in Oblivion the choices are endless for 
 your character. 
  This game can easily have you playing for hours on end, and you won't even realize that 3 hours 
 just went by. Quests and more quests pop up out of every corner always giving you something to 
 do. I have only played 2 main quests, and lived off side stories and such for almost 20 hrs! 
 
  
  If you have a very nice PC purchase this game. It is worth every dime and penny spent. It even 
 runs nicely on my budget gaming system ( A64 3000+, X800GTO, 512 MB of Ram) ** If you don't have 
 too much fopr gaming, and owna 360 then get it for that. 
  **Also for this game, MODS MODS MODS!! Tons of user created content available, so dont miss out!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  It can be said that the key to making a sequel is keeping whats great about the previous game 
 while improving on its shortcomings. Very few sequels have done this as well as Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion. The NPCs are much more lifelike and the combat system is vastly improved. The journal 
 is much better, and the graphics are eye-popping incredible. In a nutshell, this is the most ambitious 
 game that I have ever seen. Thats not to say that the game has no flaws, because it has a few 
 disappointing ones. Namely, the interface has been consolized, and the game still has some of the 
 shallow, repetitive feel that seems to characterize the Elder Scrolls series. Most of all, the 
 game has an approach to scaling encounters that spoils the fun of gaining levels. However, its 
 overall an excellent game. Oblivion was most definitely worth the wait and should easily satisfy 
 both the newcomer and long time fan of the series. 
  
  First, the graphics. What else can be said about the graphics that you havent already seen in 
 a screenshot? They are every bit as beautiful in-game as they are in the screenshots. Dungeons 
 and caves look pretty good, but the outdoor areas are definitely the highlight. The level of detail 
 in the game is truly amazing. Every object in the game, every weapon, every piece of food seems 
 meticulously crafted. You can get used to the graphics, but it takes a long time to get sick of 
 walking into houses and seeing elaborate set-ups on the dinner table featuring fruit baskets, bread, 
 cheese, and beef. Foliage and ground vegetation are incredibly dense and realistic. Lizard-folk 
 (i. e. Arigonians) have brightly colored scales about their faces and Dark Elves (Dunmers) have 
 bright, red-glowing eyes. Most of the faces in the game look really good. Its impossible to overstate 
 the beauty of this game, the attention to detail, and how it adds to the level of immersion. Every 
 one or two years, one game comes out that blows you away visually and advances the bar. This year, 
 its Oblivion.
  
  Fighting and walking animations have also been improved since Morrowind. Remember how bad the running 
 animation looked in that game? It looks really good here, along with other movements that appear 
 to have been motion-captured. 
  
  I have a Radeon X1900XT, and this game runs wonderfully on it with every setting maxed out. I did 
 not encounter any frame rate hitches until I got into combat situations with a half dozen NPCs 
 on screen. Even if you dont have this high-end card, you shouldnt worry. A Radeon 9800 Pro can 
 run this game well at lower settings without a problem. I have an Athlon 3500 processor and 1 GB 
 of RAM. My outdoor loading times were nonexistent and my loading times for indoor areas were fairly 
 short. I encountered the occasional crash to desktop, but nothing too bad. The QA for this game 
 was much better than Morrowind. Its very rare to play such a high end game with cutting edge technology 
 that runs so well. I have to tip my hat to Bethesda for this.
  
  Audio-wise, the presentation is much improved. Every line in the game is voice-acted. This adds 
 a life to NPCs that the previous game did not have. The one drawback of this is that its clear 
 that the same actor/actress does the generic voice for each race. This ruins a lot of the illusion 
 that these are all unique people. However, some of the main characters, like Emperor Septim, are 
 voiced by some big name actors. Septim is voiced by Patrick Stewart, who does a terrific job. Other 
 parts of the audio deserve kudos too. The games main theme great. In game music though, is pretty 
 generic and unremarkable. Chances are, if you have heard other Jeremy Soule soundtracks, you wont 
 find this one to be too special. Battles have a visceral sound that makes them much more exciting 
 than the previous game. Swords, axes, and maces make a resounding clunk when they crash against 
 a shield. Your character and your enemies scream and grunt during battle when they wind up and 
 swing at an enemy or get hit. Overall, this games sound is excellent.
  
  One of the biggest problems with Morrowind was the combat system. Oblivions combat is much, much 
 better. The enemies seem smarter, and they have a wider variety of attacks that they use on you. 
 If you click the button repeatedly, you will do a series of quick swiping attacks, while if you 
 press forward and hold down the attack button, you will do a charge attack. You manually block 
 attacks, and how much damage the block absorbs depends upon your blocking skill. The pathfinding 
 of the AI is superb and easily rivals that of any first person shooter. The result of all of these 
 improvements is that combat can be very exciting. 
  
  Like its predecessor, Oblivion drops you off in a huge world and lets you go just about anywhere 
 you want at any time. As far as Im concerned, there can never be too many open ended games like 
 this. You could spend about five minutes just playing with your map, figuring out what you want 
 to do next. You feel like such a small part of a huge world. The game has a fast travel option 
 that allows you to revisit any location that you have already been to. This saves lots of tedious 
 trudging. The drawback to the size of the world is that it often feels repetitive and shallow, 
 like Morrowind. Before long, all sewers seem to look the same, and so do mines, caves, and other 
 dungeons. This takes the thrill away from exploring, because every generic dungeon that you find 
 while scouring the wilderness is going to basically be like the last one. This was a problem with 
 Morrowind too.
  
  OK, now its time to talk about what doesnt work in this game. Its obvious and somewhat disappointing 
 that this game was developed for a console as the #1 platform. This is most obvious in the interface, 
 which is seriously lacking in some basic features that separate the mediocre ones from the great 
 ones. For one, the game has no tooltip popups. I cant believe that this wasnt included in the 
 game. That means that you have to look at your manual to see what various icons mean in your interface 
 (which doesnt have much text) . The interface also isnt very flexible. You cant remap your mouse 
 buttons at all or your Function keys. You cant resize or move around any windows. The games auto-map 
 is ugly as hell, and you cant adjust the zoom level on it or resize it. How a game can be made 
 without this basic functionality is beyond me. When PC games are made for consoles, the interface 
 is often what suffers the worst for it, and this case is no exception. This is not the worst consolized 
 interface that I have ever seen, but its still not good. Hopefully, mods can take care of this 
 problem later. The interface does have one improvement though  the journal. Its much better this 
 time around.
  
  The most disappointing part of this game, however, is the manner in which all encounters and loot 
 scale with you. Not everybody feels the same about this, but for me, its a huge flaw that keeps 
 this from being one of the all time great RPGs. Every time that you gain a level, basically everybody 
 else in the world gains a level, along with some better equipment. Rats are replaced with wolves 
 and then wolves are replaced with bears. Goblins become much harder to kill, and bandits wear mithril 
 armor instead of leather armor. This keeps the level of challenge constant throughout the game, 
 but it has a big detrimental effect: it completely kills the carrot-and-stick process that makes 
 RPGs so addictive. 
  
  This is not just a nitpickity complaint. There is no point in leveling up in this game. One of 
 the hallmarks of a great RPG is the feeling that you have become truly become more powerful. Great 
 RPGs always have this feeling to them. Game like Divine Divinity, Fallout, Baldurs Gate 2, and 
 Kotor have had a static enough world so that you can sense your power growing. You start off as 
 a weakling and end up as a killing machine to be feared. This doesnt happen in Oblivion. Not in 
 the least bit. The reward that you get for honing your skills is for the entire world to instantly 
 get better skills too. Morrowind may have gotten too easy once you got too powerful, but Oblivion 
 takes things way to the other extreme. The concept of putting off a tough encounter until youve 
 gained more levels is nonexistent. You can become the Imperial arena grand champion when youre 
 only fourth level. You can easily get killed by a lone fish when youre 20th level. You could probably 
 complete the game by leveling up only a few times. 
  
  I wont say that its a reason to not play this game. On the contrary, you may find that you like 
 it this way. And even if you dont you will probably still at least like this game. You may love 
 it. Oblivion is easily one of the most ambitious games that I have ever played, and that ambition 
 pays off in many ways. The game world is huge, and if you want, you could easily spend over 100 
 hours playing it. The attention to detail is astounding in every way. Oblivion combines beautiful 
 visuals with exciting combat and open-ended exploration in a way that nobody has ever done. It 
 might have benefited from being smaller and less shallow, and it certainly would have been better 
 with an improved interface. Most of all, it would have benefited from a better approach to leveling 
 up and scaling, so that you feel yourself getting more powerful as you progress through the game. 
 These faults arent enough to keep me from recommending this game to anyone, but they provide room 
 for improvement for Elder Scrolls V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razieltugh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  The game is so awesome the graphics are so much improved from the last game (Morrowind)
  The only problem of the game is that it needs a powerfull graphics card and a lot of memory for 
 your pc
  
  EVEN SO THIS GAME DESERVES TAHT YOU UPGRADE YOUR PC!!
  
  THE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFF THE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME 
 IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG 
 AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE 
 GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS 
 SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG 
 AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFFTHE 
 GAME IS SO LONG AND STUFF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8Trance
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you havent picked up this game yet and are an RPG fan do it now. I will not be playing MMO's 
 for a long time. 500 hours did the developers say? Yeah thats right, they're being modest. Unbelievable 
 amount of content in a single player RPG. You have to see it to believe it. Just fantastic. Warning: 
 Must have beefy system to see what I mean. Im playing on an AMD 4000+, MSI K8N NEO Plat, 1G DDR 
 400 XMS, GeForce 7800 GTX. I mean beefy for all the bells and whistles. Load times are frequent 
 but very short ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTEROFSVR
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is a rare and remarkable achievement -- a huge, open-ended, complex, detailed role-playing game 
 that's fun to play and a pleasure to behold. Oblivion not only delivers everything that earned 
 the Elder Scrolls series the devoted loyalty of a huge following of fans, but also significantly 
 improves on the weaknesses of its 2002 predecessor, Morrowind. Morrowind earned recognition for 
 being one of the best role-playing games in years, but the immersive and long-lasting experience 
 it provided wasn't for everyone. Oblivion is hands-down better, so much so that even those who'd 
 normally have no interest in a role-playing game should find it hard to resist getting swept up 
 in this big, beautiful, meticulously crafted world.
  
  The Elder Scrolls series is known for its sheer size and depth. These are games that you could 
 lose yourself in, spending hours exploring a fantasy world, traveling for miles, or just looking 
 for minutiae, such as rare plants or hidden treasure. Oblivion lives up to this pedigree, putting 
 you into a massive, cohesive, highly immersive world. You get to create your own character -- the 
 possibilities for customization seem limitless -- and then explore the world as you will. There's 
 a compelling main quest for you to follow, which takes about 40 hours to finish the first time 
 through, but the majority of the game's content is peripheral to that main quest. You can root 
 out evil in hidden dungeons, join and climb the ranks in a number of different guilds, visit all 
 the different towns and try to solve everybody's problems, compete in a long series of gladiatorial 
 battles to the death, break into someone's home and rob them in their sleep, get caught and face 
 the consequences, contract a disease that leads to vampirism and then try to find a cure, buy a 
 house, steal a horse, invest in your favorite shop, and, if you can believe it, there's much more.
 
  
  So the breadth of content is as remarkable as ever, but the most important thing is this: The many 
 types of gameplay in Oblivion are well-designed and deeply satisfying, even when taken on their 
 own. That's the main difference between this game and Morrowind. This may be a role-playing game, 
 but you could play it like a pure action game, or like a stealth game, or like an adventure game, 
 and it'd still be at least as good, if not better, than games that are specialized in these regards.
 
  
  Just take a good look, at these pictures of The Elder Scrolls iv oblivion, on the Xbox 360. This 
 is the best game out so far, for the Xbox 360. We will give this game, an offical **** rating of 
 9.6 out of 10. Just simple Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riftling
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  The game looks beautiful and allows for a lot of character customization (I spent two hours just 
 making my character look exactly the way I wanted-heh) . But this is not a full review of the gameplay, 
 but a statement about what makes this game a must-buy for Fantasy RPG fans. 
  
  It's not the core game itself that I'm so thrilled about (though it is solid) -- it's the powerful, 
 yet fairly easy mod tools they've made available to the player community that make this game so 
 great. Every PC gamer can tweak the game to suit his/her taste and the type of experience he/she 
 wants for their very own customized version of their ultimate Oblivion experience. 
  
  Want more realism for things like encumbrance and needing to eat, drink, and sleep? OK, you got 
 it. Want more of a challenge from the AI? No problem. Want weapons performance/damage balanced 
 in a different manner -- how about a new weapon altogether? Sure thing. Want a more arcade-like experience? 
 We gotcha covered. Want a different UI with more/less stats displayed? Done. Spells too powerful/too 
 slow/too easily utilized? Tweaks aplenty. 
  
  The list of player-created mods is already huge -- and the game's been out for what -- a few weeks 
 (this review is April 13, 2006) ? If there's just about anything in the way the game functions that 
 displeases you, there's probably a mod already out there that addresses it. And that's not even 
 considering the potential for conversions. When you purchase the game, I highly recommend going 
 to the official Elder Scrolls Forums and searching through the mods section to decide what you 
 might like. Here are just a few that I have installed to my taste (descriptions by others) :
  
  -----------------------------------------------------
  
  **Natural Environments 1.1** 
 
  This tweaks the water and weather in a number of settings to make it, prettier? More realistic? 
 It at least gets the water looking like water, and not sewage. The thread for it has example images, 
 etc. I use this and like it so far. Much more dramatic transitions. 
  
  **Landscape LOD Texture Replacement**
  Pretties up the world by using more detailed textures 
 for the LOD drawing, thus making far off ground look much less blurry. Plays nicely with the following 
 mod that features another improvement to the LOD view. 
  
  **Landscape LOD NormalMap Fix** 
  Fixes the Normal maps on the LOD textures to give them some 
 definition. Plays nicely with the above LOD mod. I use both. 
  
  **BTMod 2.20** 
  This is almost a requirement to play on the PC, as it helps remove alot of the restrictions to 
 the UI that the console version created. Resizes the interface, blah blah blah, just get it. 
 
  
  **Detect Life Change** 
  Redoes the Detect Life effect to something much more eye pleasing in my opinion. More of a shimmering 
 skin effect than puffs of purple clouds. Also comes in three tasty colours to suit your preference. 
 
  
  **Tag's Natural Wildlife**
  A small mod to make animals behave, well, more like animals. And less like exterminating machines 
 sent back in time to hand you your ass. I think we're all a little sick and tired of every mud 
 crab under the sun deciding you're public enemy number one. This makes animals behave realistically, 
 with parameters on aggression, flight, and defensiveness. 
  
  **Deadlier Traps** 
  Amps up the trap damage on some of the traps to make them deadly. No more giant, spiked balls swinging 
 into your face and doing 10% damage. No more walking on spike floors. Gives traps some actual prescence 
 in the game. Also nice for luring enemies into them. 
  
  **Attack and Hide 2.0** 
  Tired of attacking from stealth and being insta-acquired by NPCs despite no reasonable way for 
 them to have found you? This makes sneaking and attacking a little more realistic in driving NPCs 
 to search the area where they were attacked for you, instead of bee-lining towards your position. 
 Includes three levels of difficulty to suit your taste. There's also a 2.1 release here which reduces 
 the magnitude of Chameleon spells for balance purposes, but I prefer modularity, so I stick to 
 the 2.0 release myself. 
  
  **Lyrondor's Combat Behavior Modifcation** 
  Tweaks the combat AI in the game to make your opponents more varied, devious and cunning. Plays 
 nicely with lots of mods as it only touches the combat AI scripts. 
  
  **Adventurer's 0.5** 
  My balancing mod of choice. Does a number of tweaks to the game according 
 to the preferences of the modmaker which I've found mesh well with what I want from Oblivion. I've 
 tried a number of loot balancing/npc scaling type mods, and this one seems to work for me. 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------
  
  Other developers better 
 be taking notice. I've got this game functioning exactly like *I* want to play it now -- which is 
 probably very different from the guy with the SAME GAME next door. The implication to the future 
 of gaming is important. We can only hope that this kind of collaboration is possible in other games 
 in the future.
  
  No game is perfect, but I'd say Bethesda has hit this one out of the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickenit234
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Buying this game was more than worth it. I've played it almost non-stop since it's purchase. Any 
 die hard RPG fans will be amazed with this game. Graphics are top notch. You're in a world that 
 is fun to explore. You can customize your character to almost no extent and the controls are easy 
 enough to understand. No random battles, just a constant moving world for you to enjoy. There are 
 so many classes and skills to choose from playing the game one time through will seem like a waste. 
 You will want to try them all and see how powerful you can become. As you travel from city to city 
 you will find that houses and shops will be available to own. That's right, you can own your own 
 shop and sale goods to people. If there are any entrepreneurs out there this almost seems like 
 an easy way to test your skills in the video game world. This game has a lot more to offer all 
 around. While unique in the first person view you can also switch to third person and get a good 
 look at what your character is becoming. In the long run you will be spending what seems like your 
 entire day into this game. I'm so impressed with it and it's been a long time I've been this impressed 
 with a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Aos poucos vamos conhecendo alguns detalhes de Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, esse que  o quarto 
 captulo do RPG da Bathesda. Como em Morrowind, antigo game da srie, o jogador poder tomar diferentes 
 decises em cada misso, e percorrer o mundo da forma que achar melhor. Pode-se se juntar a vrios 
 tipos de faces, como de ladres, ou at mesmo uma guild de magos, e cada deciso tomada ir influenciar 
 a histria do jogo de alguma forma. A empresa j anunciou que o mundo no ser to gigantesco quanto 
 o de Morrowind.
  
  Obvilion  um jogo totalmente voltado para o Single Player. O game se passa no distrito de Tamriel, 
 capital de Cyrodiil. A histria segue o mesmo enredo da srie Morrowind, onde assassinos atacam 
 o filho do imperador, e o prximo a ser atacado ser o imperador Uriel Septim. O imperador lhe 
 concede a misso de levar seu amuleto e fechar a ponte de Oblivion. Essa ponte foi aberta quando 
 o ultimo imperador foi morto por um assassino desconhecido. Sem imperador, a ponte de Obivilon 
 (que equivale ao inferno na terra de Tamriel) foi aberta, com isso demnios invadiram Cyrodiil 
 e atacaram as pessoas, trazendo caos  cidade. Cabe a voc encontrar o herdeiro do trono, e desvendar 
 esse plano sinistro que ameaa destruir toda Tamriel.
  
  O game contar com um sistema de inteligncia artificial completamente novo, chamado Radiant AI, 
 onde os NPCs vo ter a habilidade de tomar suas prprias decises baseado no mundo que o cerca. 
 Segundo a produtora, o nvel da IA dos personagens vai ser algo nunca visto antes. Estima-se algo 
 em torno de 1000 personagens espalhados pelos cenrios do jogo.
  
  NPCs vo ter vontades e caractersticas prprias. Sendo assim vo decidir quando comer, com quem 
 falar, sobre qual assunto falar, que horas dormir, SE vo  igreja ou roubar itens etc. Todos os 
 dilogos tero animao facial completa e sincronia labial.
  
  Muito interessante  o uso da tecnologia Havok. Como o jogo vai ter muitos objetos, optou-se por 
 aplicar uma rica fsica em cada um deles. Pelo o que parece, a integrao disto com a jogabilidade 
 ainda est sendo trabalhada com um especial cuidado.
  
  Segundo os desenvolvedores , o sistema de combate ser completamente diferente de Morrowind. Os 
 trs tipos de ataque sero (Chop, Slash e Thrust) , que sero substitudo por um valor de ataque 
 que pode variar de alguns fatores. Esse valor ser calculado atravs dos nveis de skill, sorte, 
 cansao e tipo de arma do jogador e do adversrio.
  
  O game trar uma novidade chamada Power Attack. Estes ataques so muitos mais mortais que os 
 normais, mas o tempo para ser realizado  bem maior, deixando o jogador vulnervel por alguns segundos. 
 Sendo assim, caso voc seja atacado durante o 'Power Attack', ter suas aes interrompidas.
  
  A Bethesda Softworks disponibilizou um vdeo de The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion que foi demonstrado 
 durante a E3 de 2005. No vdeo  possvel apreciar um pouco da jogabilidade do jogo e visualizar 
 um pouco do que foi dito aqui. Abaixo est o link para download do vdeo que est dividido em 6 
 partes. 
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion E3 2005 Demo Video (196.08MB)
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion tem previso de lanamento para fevereiro de 2006, com lanamento 
 simultneo para PC e X-Box 360. 
  
  Features: 
   Live Another Life in Another World. Create and play any character you can imagine, from the noble 
 warrior to the sinister assassin to the wizened sorcerer. 
   Next Generation Graphics. Pixel-shader effects and high definition televisions are fully supported 
 to create unprecedented visuals, including lifelike towns, dungeons, and the most realistic forests 
 ever created in a game. 
   First Person Melee and Magic. An all-new combat and magic system brings first person role-playing 
 to a new level of intensity where you feel every blow. 
   Radiant AI. This groundbreaking AI system gives Oblivions characters full 24/7 schedules and 
 the ability to make their own choices based on the world around them. Non-player characters eat, 
 sleep, and complete goals all on their own. 
   Realistic Characters. Oblivions features over 1,000 non-player characters who come to life like 
 never before with facial animations, lip-synching, and full speech. They even engage in unscripted 
 conversations with each other and you. 
   Open-Ended Game Play; Short Challenges. The enormous world of Oblivion is open for you to explore 
 at your own pace, and shorter challenges such as fighting bandits, mixing potions, creating magic 
 items and persuading friends keep the challenges coming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  The first game I have played in The Elder Scrolls series, and I must say, it is a great one to 
 start with! Im not so much into RPGs, but because of the good reviews I tried this one. And it 
 was worth it! This game gave me a second life, next to the normal one. The graphics are amazing, 
 even on my overdue PC it still looks great. There are so many things to do in this game: You can 
 make potions, join guilds, and do tons of quests. First of all, the tutorial dungeon is fairly 
 lengthy, but that is just the start of things! The minute I got out of the sewers and into the 
 big world, I swam across the lake right next to me, killed a couple of bandits and investigated 
 some ruins. Suddenly I noticed I had been playing for 4 hours already. Hey man, this one can 
 costs your relationship But that might be the onlu negative point I can think of. Go but it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toonytony
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  This game has a great intro, unlike Morrowind, which just has you walking through rooms, but in 
 Oblivion, you choose all your options over the course of a non-monotonous intro level.
  
  The story seems to get started in a hurry, as well. you're already in the action before you learn 
 about your first mission, and it's definitely not as boring as ".... take this package to Caius 
 Cosades..."
  
  This game is already awesome, even though I've really only played for round 2.5 hours so far. I 
 HAVE encountered a glitch where I paused the game for a long period of time, and when I came back, 
 my walking was all slow, and I was constantly drifting west. I had to restart the software, and 
 that fixed it.
  
  SO..... Very entertaining from the start, vast landscapes, character still walks retardedly in 
 3rd person, beautiful graphics (would be if I had a Radeon X1900) , breathtaking game overall, If 
 you don't have it, BUY IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bar_keeper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Right from the beginning, Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion will immerse you into it's beautifully 3D 
 rendered (and system exhausting) world of myth and magic. From realistic textures on the cavern 
 walls to the lip sync on the character faces, you know that this is not your typical dungeon crawler. 
 However, there are several obvious exploits that are sure to be fixed in the first patch.
  
  Some of the improvements over Morrowind that will be enjoyed by everyone are the innovative 
 persuasion mini-game and the combat style. The ability to influence the NPC's disposition is done 
 through a like/dislike wheel in which you have to shower the NPC's with things they like, and keep 
 low the things they hate. And their reaction is done through facial expressions! 
  
  The combat now makes you decide when it is a good time to bring the shield up, unlike Morrowinds 
 easy exploit of standing next to an inferior opponent and letting them bash at you while your block 
 skills and armor skills max out.
  
  Of all of the obvious exploits, probably the best one to jump on while it's still available is 
 the money cheat. Simply follow the main quest until you get a horse. Then fast travel to Kvatch 
 and complete the Oblivion Gate quest there. After collecting a Daedric weapon of value, hop on 
 your horse and talk to the Orc trader/smith in the Kvatch camp. As long as you have the expensive 
 weapon equipped whilst you are saddled up, you can sell it as many times as you want. It cannot 
 be unequipped, so the Orc will continue to shell out the big bucks while you keep the goods! (on 
 a side note, this is a gret way to spend that munchy time by clicking in the right spot to sell, 
 then agree to the price)
  
  There are a few more exploits in the game, but in the hopes that I will remain capable of using 
 them, I won't mention them all here. Suffice to say that if your system can handle it, Oblivion 
 is the best way to waste life away in front of your PC or console.
  
  Barkeeper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRFerencz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  So much has been written already. What I can say about this game is I simply cannot put it down. 
 The only reason I cannot give it perfect is there had to be a way to write it in a way that my 
 7900gt overclocked could find a way to play it with all the settings maxed. 
  
  Yet it the true sense of freedom along with the ability to chose to go back to a linear story line 
 that really makes this game unique. 
  
  The graphics of course or amazing, the sound perfect, and the story gripping. I have literally 
 played almost every RPG out there. This one is the best I have ever played. If I can liken it to 
 anything it would be playing Kings Quest for the first time. That sense of magic and awe that only 
 comes when someone has made a game unlike anything ever seen.
  
  Again simply epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawsvale
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I have plaeyed Everquest and WOW and had fun but those games always seem to be missing something. 
 This game has found it!
  
  There is a good storyline to lead you around if you want but be honest I haven't even done much 
 of it yet. I always find myself out exploring the very large world and finding all kinds of things 
 to do. 
  
  The interaction of the NPCs is great. They move around during the day and sleep at night and get 
 mad at you when you break into their home. Many of the players offer interesting quests that are 
 fun to do and help you explore more of the world.
  
  The landscape is awesome. If you decide to travel off the beaten path you wind up in some large 
 fields of wildflowers with great panoramic views.
  
  This game makes me want to upgrade my PC so I can run it at maximum performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlagueHO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this for about 40 hours so far and haven't started the main quest yet. The stunning 
 visual quality of the game is simply amazing - even on my very minimum specification machine (AMD 
 XP 2800+, 1 GB DDR Dual Mode RAM, GeForce 6600) . After a number of Oblivion. ini tweaks (see the 
 Oblivion guides on gamespot) I was able to improve the frame rate to such a point that I could 
 play the game at 1024x768 with AA and a decent object draw distance. If you have lower end hardware 
 it's definately worth a little Oblivion. ini tweaking to get the game just right (just make sure 
 you modifiy the correct Oblivion. ini) . Graphics aside, the majority of the game play is much improved 
 over Morrowind. The fighting is a definate improvement over Morrowind and feels more real - with 
 battles becomming a much more intense experience. The world feels alive and feels huge - which 
 can be seen by simply climbing a mountain and simply surveying the beautiful world around you. 
 My only problem would be that although the game is wonderfully constructed, some aspects don't 
 feel as deep or complex as Morrowind (not necessarily a bad thing for gamers new to the series) . 
 Enchanting and spell creation being the obvious examples. There also doesn't seem to be as many 
 weapon or armour options as before (skill sets aside) . Although hopefully mods will improve this. 
 The leveling (that seems to be either a love/hate thing with most people) seems fine at this point 
 although it would be nice to see it being a bit more random (I'd love the chance of seeing a Daedra 
 at level 5 or a scamp at level 30) . It would also be good to have a small chance of getting some 
 really great loot at lower levels - but then again, there are a millenia of mods available that 
 can fix (if it is a problem for you) all of these things and make the game play exactly how you 
 want it. The bottom line is that I can see myself losing as much time playing this game as I did 
 Morrowind (400+ hours) and with all the mods that the community will make I'll probably lose even 
 more. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Its a confusing game, and the enemys in the begining are diffuclt. Also the quests are confusing, 
 and there are alot of glitchs. I would perfer a third person game with worse graphics, than a game 
 that frys your computer but has top of the line graphics. Also the maps are quite confusing, the 
 locations of the quests and buildings are hard to find. Maybe its just me, but i would rather play 
 a simple RPG with nice graphics and average map size than such a massive game as Oblvion. To summarize 
 it all, the game is to big, to many glitchs, not enough enemys and the enemys are diffuclt, unorginzed 
 map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  How do you define 'role-playing'?
  
  In other RPGs, role-playing is the only option available. You're the hero. The entire world stands 
 still waiting for you to complete the next quest. NPCs are there to give you new entries in your 
 quest log. Out in the wild, it's all about killing ugly things to gain experience and better equipment.
 
  
  While games which play out like that can be great (Diablo!) , there comes a time when people start 
 to ask, Can I do something else? 
  
  Bethesda Softwork's Elder Scrolls games have been trying to provide answers to that question with 
 RPGs of breathtaking scope and (lately) detail. While the gameplay description above still applies 
 to them, I am glad that it's only a very tiny part of the experience. Elder Scrolls games let you 
 choose the role you want to play.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the fourth and latest installment of the venerable series. It 
 is one of the best games I have ever played. However, the mind-blowing number of things to do in 
 the game may eventually rule it out from being an RPG in the traditional sense.
  
  As with other Elder Scrolls games, you begin Oblivion in captive. You're in a prison cell. The 
 guy in the cell across from yours is taunting you when suddenly Emperor Uriel Septim VII himself 
 comes to your cell, seeking to escape assassins via a secret route hidden in your cell. He fails. 
 He hands you the Amulet of Kings, tells you something about the end of the world as you know it, 
 and gets stabbed in the back. You stumble a bit more in the darkness of the Imperial City sewers. 
 Then comes a literal light at the end of the tunnel and *poof* gone are the boundaries and restrictions.
 
  
  The moment you emerge from the sewers is simply a classic gaming moment. Believe me, it's a jaw-dropping 
 sight. Gigantic mountain ranges loom far ahead of you. Beautifully rendered trees and grasses sway 
 in the breeze. And right across from the shimmering river lies what remains of the ancient Ayleid 
 city Vilverin, its stones almost glowing from the sunlight. Turn around and you'll see the glorious 
 spire of the Imperial Palace towering over the equally amazing Imperial City, capital of Cyrodiil.
 
  
  However, in keeping with the tradition of Elder Scrolls games, there's always a catch. Daggerfall 
 sacrificed detail for what remains the largest game world ever created for a single-player title. 
 Morrowind's Vvardenfell looks like an alien planet more than a fantasy realm, and most of its cities 
 are plain boring. Oblivion screws up the character animation for humanoids (something Morrowind 
 also did) and uses low-resolution textures for distant 'cells' of the map. Yes, the pea soup you 
 see several miles ahead of you is actually a beautiful grassland teeming with flora and fauna. 
 It's a shame that Bethesda had to trade sharpness for an amazing draw distance. Other dents in 
 the visual department include severe pop-up issues (especially on low/medium settings) and the 
 usual angelic glowing NPC faces seen in most HDR implementations. Still, it's important to note 
 that these flaws stand out only because of the brilliance of everything else. Oblivion's Cyrodiil 
 is easily the most beautiful game world ever created.
  
  But enough about the graphics. Let's talk about the things that really matter. Like Grand Theft 
 Auto: San Andreas, Oblivion cannot be defined by a single genre. It looks like a first-person action 
 game (with an awkward third-person viewpoint available as an alternative) , and at times it plays 
 like one. The quests range from traditional RPG affairs (kill this, retrieve that, etc.) to complex 
 ones which resemble small adventure games on their own. All this is infused with the proven Elder 
 Scrolls RPG formula, which differs markedly from other RPGs in the market.
  
  How, you ask? Elder Scrolls veterans, skip this paragraph already. The player character has several 
 attributes and skills, each of the former governing three of the latter. To gain a level, one must 
 gain 10 points in the selected 7 'major' skills. You can gain a skill point just by doing that 
 thing repeatedly. Each skill point gained, including the unselected 'minor' skills, contributes 
 to the multiplier which is applied to the attribute gain when you level up. It's a little complex 
 on paper, but in the game it makes perfect sense. You get better at things you do often.
  
  The flaw of this system lies in Bethesda's enemy and loot scaling system. As you level up, enemies 
 you encounter also level up along with you, and many of them will carry better equipment. This 
 means that players who level up through non-combat skills are going to have a hard time progressing 
 in the action-heavy quests, including most of the main storyline. Another consequence is that, 
 during higher levels, mere bandits will carry some of the best weapons and armor the game has to 
 offer. These issues don't come into the game until you're 30 or 40 hours into it, too. Elder Scrolls 
 newbies are going to have a tough time deciding on their play style. Well, even the veterans are 
 struggling!
  
  If those two problems sound like deal-breakers for you, don't worry. Bethesda provides the Elder 
 Scrolls Construction Set for free. Download it at the official site, and tweak away. If you're 
 too lazy (like me) , pick one of the numerous level/loot scaling mods available in the official 
 forums. In fact, the scaling mods are just a tiny bit of the community's output. Entire quest lines 
 - some complete with new locations, characters, and even voice acting - are being churned out by 
 modders, along with tons of new content which enhance the existing gameplay. A huge modding community 
 like this ensures that Oblivion's lifespan will probably be measured in years, not weeks.
  
  Another notable aspect of Oblivion is its sound. While Morrowind offers passable voice work 
 (you still text-talk to NPCs) and a way-too-short soundtrack (which is great on its own) , Oblivion 
 takes things to another level: all NPCs are voiced. While you may notice - 20 hours in - that there 
 are only a few voice actors for the random townspeople, it's an impressive feat nonetheless and 
 helps immerse players in the world even deeper. Also, the sound effects are amazing, especially 
 in the vast outdoor areas. The soundtrack, meanwhile, goes for a different approach. Morrowind's 
 score sounds so grand that it's annoying when you hear it for the 4,298,035th time. This time, 
 the background music stays rightfully in the background and doesn't call for the player's attention. 
 Most importantly, the tracks sound great too, and the soundtrack album is definitely worth a purchase.
 
  
  If you have a PC that can handle it, Oblivion will give you the ride of your gaming life. While 
 certain aspects of the game are clearly flawed, the sheer number of things you can do should render 
 most of us oblivious (pun intended) to any mistakes. This game is a technological marvel, (almost) 
 an artistic triumph, and - most importantly - infinitely entertaining. There's no better way to 
 spend $59.99 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc2daMAX
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of RPG's, but this one has to be the most immersive and addictive yet! The major 
 attribute that I look for in any RPG is it's replayability value, and this game DEFINITELY has 
 it. There's always something to explore, or some quest that you haven't done yet. Even more, there's 
 an almost endless way of creating your own unique character and playing a TOTALLY different game 
 each time you play! I love it. 
  SO, for those of us who have these nice high-end computers with a lot of time on our hands; for 
 those of us who want to get lost in an immersive and wonderfully graphic fairytale land/story, 
 this game is for US! 
  CAUTION - not to be played while in college or university during exam time (like I'm doing) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  There are several things that I really dig about Oblivion.
  1- I love the Quest system.
  2- I love the rapid transit.
  3- Graphics are nice.
  4- The biggest Improvement is that you 
 can use magic while there is a
  Sword in your hand. Having to switch from your weapon to hands to cast
  a spell in Morrowind 
 was lame.
  
  That said there are a few things in Oblivion that are just plain broken or stupid.
  
  1- Number 
 one has to be the stupid leveling system.
  This is just lazy programming. Instead of coming up with all kinds of creatures for the game they 
 just use the same ones over and over and level them up. This is so lame sometimes it makes me want 
 to quit playing.
  
  2- This one is really bad too. I am constantly getting arrested.
  And I am not even stealing anything, Or even breaking in.....????? WTF
  This is just plain broken.
 
  
  3- It really gets me that you con wander for miles and miles of country in Oblivion without seeing 
 anything. It is sometimes like the world is abandoned. This too should have been more like Morrowind.
 
  
  At first I gave this game a near perfect score.
  In retrospect I think that was a mistake.
  Oblivion is a very nice game but It difinitely was 
 not ready for release.
  Who the hell wants to be level 20 and fingting for your life against a lamo creature or person? 
 This takes a lot of the fun away from the game.
  
  To me if you can't level up and get stronger then this is NOT an RPG.
  It is just another stupid 
 action game.... Yeah we really need another one of those .....????? Yuck.
  Oblivion really breaks my heart because it is so obvious how the game could have been truely great.
 
  
  It is sad that they crippled the fun in the game. Really Sad.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avengefulreign
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a beautiful game. The graphics are amazing. The abilities or things you can do in this 
 game are endless. There are so many things to do and explore. And everything is very high in detail, 
 but I recommend to anyone that you need a high end computer to play otherwise it stinks. 
  
  The gameplay is fast and action packed. The fighting actually takes some strategy with the 
 ability to block whenever you want. I've noticed that when fighting, especially in the arena, that 
 sometimes the opponent waits until they have an open shot, and that they don't leave themselves 
 open for a shot back. The blood effects are pretty cool with the blood splatter when you hit your 
 opponent. Yea..., I know a lot of games have blood effects, but I am just saying it adds a little 
 bit more to your slaughtering escapades.
  
  This game is so cool, it is definitely a must have. BUT I CAUTION THOSE WHO DON"T HAVE A HIGH END 
 COMPUTER THAT THIS GAME IS DEMANDING ON GRAPHICS! I was lucky to buy a new comp. when I did because 
 my old one would never be able to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ercan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  Those who love playing RPG's this game is the ultimate, maybe the one and only RPG game which delivers 
 the true spirit of RPG playing. 
  
  The Bethesda Softworks has put the hard work in this game and it's more then worth of your time. 
 It puts you in an imaginary world that's made so complete as you feel like live in it. 
  
  Maybe it would be even better if it had the option of marriage and things like upgrading your home, 
 buying furniture, renting houses, buying stores and employing workers in them, but hey, then it 
 would be the ideal RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanti
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and if there is anything you don't like chances are someone modded it for 
 you already.
  
  This wikipage tries to keep up with all the hundreds of mods for Oblivion.
  http://www. tescreens. be/oblivionmodwiki/index. php/Main_Page
 
  
  If you like to be able to expand your game with more content and modifications I definately recommend 
 the PC-version.
  
  It's a "bit" taxing on the computer but if you have old hardware you could try www. oldblivion. com 
 wich is a project that exchanged the shaders to support older hardware. Altho I strongly suggest 
 using a computer that can crank the visuals a bit since they are go-horgeous. Otherwise you might 
 consider the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uber-Rukai
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I was hoping that in Oblivion, I would be able to avoid my list of master trainers, and not exploit 
 the game to the point of boredom... however sadly, I pushed yet another game to it's limit in mere 
 days... anyone else think that 100% chameleon constant effect was a good idea? don't do it....
 
  
  That said, as long as you avoid simple things like 100% chameleon, it was a great game, very immersive 
 and extremely addictive, I've got over 80 hours in already on my main character... but fact of 
 the matter is, I wish they'd done something to avoid these simple and extremely exploitable issues. 
 Like why not have a diminishing rate of return on it? not 100% chameleon, but 100 points in chameleon... 
 I don't know, but I'm sure it could have been done better. They seemed to have done a good job 
 of that with Acrobatics however, even with 250 I don't do much better than with 75, I think they 
 should add in a diminishing rate of return on all attributes... but maybe I'm just crazy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhammadsaad44
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I m writing this review for those guys who have low end PC like me. First of all I bought the game 
 from my friend at half price (cuz I m not sure that it will run or not) and then I install it in 
 my PC and then I click on launcher and disable all the extra things like bloom ,Vsync etc. I go 
 it to the game menu with out any trouble and then I click on the new game icon then it loads in 
 less than a minute ,but when the game loads its not playable and only moves at 4-7 fps in the cell 
 then I shut the game and feels sorry for my PC ,than my friend give me link to optimize the game 
 so I follow the steps and download shaders file etc ,and after that the game reaches 25-30fps outside 
 (ocassionally 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Where do I begin? The graphics are great, even at on a mid range machine like mine. The quest, 
 omg, there are so many different varieties that I dnt even know where to start, they are well thought 
 out and many often have a twist to the middle. I particularly like the early dark brotherhood quests. 
 The fast travel option and quest markers is a good addition , as i dnt feel like travelling for 
 miles wasting time. The replay value? Hell, chances are u will spend a few hundred hrs just playing 
 with 1 character. U will defintely want to create another to try things frm another perspective
 
  
  Cons: I got a minor bug where whenever I exit the game, it took me to a window and says that the 
 game has encountered an error. And the interface sucks, its obviously designed for the 360. Many 
 user mods like the BTmod, which I highly recommend, helps to allay this, but still will it haved 
 killed Bethesda to design seperate UI for the 2 platforms? Bioware did it with KOTOR. And while 
 I dnt have a problem with enemies lvling up with me, I DO have a problem with all them wearing 
 uber armour & weapons at higher lvls.... I mean, wth do they get those anywhere?? It breaks the 
 realism of the game IMHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CounterBrain
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Considering all the time they spent working on this game I believe that this is a huge leap compared 
 to the first morrowind. The game play is almost real, the environment and the atmosphere of the 
 game is great. The setting of the game takes place in the same area but with the improved graphics 
 you'll feel like your in a new place. My favorite part of the game is the fact that you dont have 
 to stick to doing one thing, since theres such a selection of different stuff you can do, from 
 questing to fighting in the arena this game just draws you in from the start. Although the recommened 
 system setting are high if you can get this game to run up there your experience will be amazing. 
 In terms I think this is my game of the year :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcsteve61
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I'm biased because I liked Morrowind too, but I love this game.
  The graphics are great (I'm running it with an ATI 800XL) and the world is huge.
  Some of the 
 drags of the first game have been corrected -- map traveling comes to mind -- to make another strong 
 entry in the powerhouse series.
  The quests are fun and the freedom that I've grown accustomed to in the series is in full force.
 
  
  Everyone else out there has already written enough to fill a library concerning this game, so I'll 
 be brief and say three things that bother me though:
  
  1) Having mentioned the map traveling, its funny, but I don't particularly like it. Feels cheap -- especially 
 when coupled with the addition of riding horses. What for? Dungeons are moments away from any warp 
 points.
  2) The inventory system, as noted by a million others, has come to be the bane to my existence. 
 I can't frickin' find anything! It takes too long to scroll through dozens and dozens of items 
 just for a dang weak potion of healing.
  Bethesda -- fix this in a patch!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  3) I have come to dislike the enemy level balancing. it's cheap to fight ultra-bandits at every 
 fort. It never feels particularly gratifying to kill anyone either...
  Still, the game is fun and bound to consume what would be lame TV time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  First, my score is lowered by the ridiculous hardware requirements. 
  
  That said, 
  Gameplay is a cinch. There are a few kludgy actions: having to face open space in order to drop 
 items from you inventory, in third person view having to position you character just right in order 
 to check bodies, crates, barrels, etc., fighting just seems like button mashing.
  
  The atmosphere and story makes up for these issues.
  
  Graphics is spectacular even on my ATI 
 9800 Pro.
  
  Sound is perfect.
  
  Those hardware requirements: while I understand why it's required, I don't understand why a company 
 would program a game for maybe 5% of PC gamers. Requiring a $2500 PC to fully enjoy the game is 
 short sighted. 
  
  What this gamer wants is great gameplay, a robust atmosphere, and a terrific story. Top of the 
 line graphics while lovely is not at the top of the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroOfTimeRulz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind was a great rpg, the best on xbox or pc, the things you could do, boresome after 200 
 hours of gameplay, but when oblivion came out, 200 hours wont seem long and boresome, it will take 
 at least 400 lets say. The graphics and gameplay, settings, mods, medieval environment and weapons, 
 armour spells; are flawlessly beautiful, never get tired of playing, 2 straight hours minimum. 
 maximum is unlimited, to me... although i do have lots of other games too play, a really long, wide 
 open huge world, thousands of characters, doing random and specific and different hobbies or passtimes. 
 the details and sounds are amazing, the sword clashing and even the bows flying threw the air.
 
  graphics = 10
  sound = 10
  gamplay = 10
  A MUST HAVE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drachmas
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  with a little bit more story. Basically you get quests from NPC's which are go to X get Y item 
 go back to Z and get your reward, which most of the time are pretty crappy an not worth the effort. 
 This is the crux of the game and what you will be doing 90% of time. If the quests were fun and 
 had any real story to them it would be alright. They arent though and most of them are very boring 
 and tedious. 
  
  The main story line is a bonus and the only reason why I kept playing this game because it kept 
 me intersted enough to progressive. Unfortunatly the main story line is pretty short and much of 
 it envolves quests thrown in just to add time. If you wanted to you could complete the main story 
 line in about 10 hours. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mausolus
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  DISCLAIMER: This review is quite critical because I feel the need to proportionally represent the 
 things that I feel most other reviewers have completely ignored in this wave of mass-euphoria.
 
  
  The good: State of the art cinematic graphics, physics and first person battle sequences. The nature 
 in this land lives and breathes...
  
  The bad: ... the people do not. They seem real until you talk to them.
  Fairly predictable main-plot 
 punctuated with irrelevant side-quests to occupy your time. 
  Convoluted and intrusive character improvement mechanics. 
  Very 'average' voice acting.
  
 
  In fairness this is the best looking game ever. Being able to see cities, mountains and forests 
 right up to the horizon gives you the feeling of really being outdoors rather than being in an 
 indoor 3d world with outdoor textures. My euphoric initial impressions of this game began to ebb 
 when I encountered my first deer and it seemed to act like I simply wasn't there. Maybe it had 
 grown accustomed to a stream of 'harmless' prisoners escaping from the sewers and had become tame. 
 Normally a detail like this wouldn't bother anyone, however since this game's main purpose is to 
 fully immerse you 'the player' in this living breathing evolving world even the smallest things 
 like this can give you an unsettling feeling of something not quite being right. It gets worse... 
 
  
  I must have almost entirely ignored the initial conversations with the Emperor in my excitement 
 to experience this new game phenomenon, or maybe I thought he was deliberately quirky, because 
 it was only when I got to Imperial City I suddenly realized that I was the only living person in 
 a world inhabited by expressionless cyborgs. You could actually make them smile or sneer but only 
 when you playing the speechcraft mini-game which had nothing to do with the actual dialogs. The 
 rest of the time they would just regard you with their neutral expression and almost in an effort 
 to convince you there is some life there they would occasionally look away, often at inappropriate 
 moments, making you wonder if someone had spiked the water supplies to the city with vallium. Even 
 if the voice acting had been first class these expressionless faces would have probably ruined 
 it, any attempt to convey emotion or excitement during the dialog scenes has been rendered utterly 
 impossible by the limitations of the game engine. It's probably worth mentioning at this point 
 that the beggar in Imperial City changes her voice when you use your speechcraft skill on her. 
 Maybe I'm being fussy again? This almost seems inexcusable for a game of this apparent quality 
 and is another slap in the face as I'm trying to stay immersed. As far as I know they haven't pulled 
 that actor switch stunt since the old 1980's soap operas.
  
  I found the main plot of the game to be uninteresting and shallow. The main element missing was 
 character development, especially your own. It feels like the game makers deliberately wanted to 
 avoid any references or plot or backstory relating to your own character in case this somehow conflicted 
 with what you were trying to roleplay. I consider this decision to be detrimental to the game experience 
 but mileage may vary. This smacked of the worst kind of action movies (the good ones are good because 
 they have character development) and really the story could be broken down into quite simple 'find 
 this, kill these, escort him' category of objectives. The highlight for me was encountering my 
 first oblivion gate. Did I mention this game is beautiful? Ah yes I did.
  
  Finally I'd like to talk about the 'RPG' elements, specifically character development. Even the 
 most hardened Elder Scrolls fans seem to be admitting that the leveling/advancement system is just 
 plain wrong, yet Bethesda seem to cling to this system like it is the 'secret sauce' of their success. 
 Thankfully there are some really good mods out there that completely alter this part of the game 
 into something generally more acceptable although that will not help my console brothers and sisters. 
 The reason I think the system is flawed is because it is utterly intrusive to the flow of the game 
 and how you play it. In theory the idea of practice related skill gain seems more 'realistic' and 
 in-role, however 5 minutes of play testing should make you realize what a terrible mistake this 
 is. How many of you have jumped all the way to Kvatch? Come on! I don't know about you, but when 
 I rolled my character I wasn't thinking about role-playing a kangaroo, yet if you want to increase 
 your acrobatics skill this is exactly what you must do. It's a brave attempt to do something different 
 other than the traditional XP/level system, but honestly I feel that gaining XP from quests and 
 kills and allowing that to improve the abilities of your character at least keeps you in the flow 
 of the game and links your development to progression within the game rather than putting them 
 at complete tangents to each other. 
  
  The game 'evolves' with your character meaning the tougher you get the tougher everything else 
 gets. I'm sure this idea seemed good at the time it was first conceived, however my personal preference 
 is to feel a little outgunned at the start of an RPG then overcome that initial inferiority with 
 a little blood and sweat and then in the end game unleash your now godly powers on the unsuspecting 
 world. This game deprives you of that by attempting to deliver a linear experience from start to 
 end, although unforgivably it fails to do even that as most people who dont take the time to research 
 the extremely counter-intuitive leveling mechanics will rapidly 'gimp' their character by making 
 skills like security and acrobatics their main class skills and committing the utter faux-pas of 
 advancing them early! What this will do is raise your character in levels without actually developing 
 combat abilities, and as soon as you step out of town you will be eaten alive by the first wolf 
 you meet.
  
  Summary: If you want to see a cinematic-quality fantasy world with epic battles and breathtaking 
 action scenes, watch Lord of the Rings. If you want to play a good RPG with an interesting plot 
 and well thought out character progression, play Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. If you 
 want to experience the beauty of the landscape, wade in long grass, pick mushrooms and call to 
 deer then take a trip to the park this weekend. If you want something that makes you say 'wow' 
 after you buy a new graphics card or upgrade your PC, run this game for a few minutes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Massive world to explore
  + Great voice acting
  + Great visuals
  + Plenty of replay value
  
  Cons:
  - Slow gameplay
  - Grassy environment causes a major 
 slow down on PC systems, even the most high end systems
  - Quite a bit of confusing quests
  - Graphic is only average (personally)
  - Somewhat buggy sound (personally - may not apply with 
 all systems)
  - Always have to play through the tutorial mission
  
  Overview:
  Personally, this is the first Elder Scroll Series game that I played and it definitely impressed 
 me. There's just so many things in this game that I can't possibly cover in my short review. 
 
  
  I'll start off with the bad thing about the game... when I say slow gameplay... there are times 
 where you have to constantly explore the massive world in order to complete the quest - even though 
 they have fast travel - they are parts of the world where you have to explore first in order to 
 gain fast travel for that location. Secondly, when you get to areas where there's a lot of grasses, 
 system gets laggy even with high end systems, so when you're in combat mode in that area it's difficult 
 to fight against opponents. Third, I was expecting more excellent visuals in this game. Forth, 
 some of the quests in this game is confusing, so you end up spending some time trying to figure 
 out how to do things. Fifth, I've been having issues with the sound where when there's a lot of 
 things going on around you, some of the sounds like voices, sword swings, etc. just dissappear... 
 I've tried going through their tech support but was unable to get this issue resolved - but that's 
 most likely because I'm only using a onboard sound. Lastly, no matter what you always have to replay 
 the tutorial mission when you start a new game. Most of the things I don't like about Oblivion 
 are minor and perhaps mostly personal preference... so...
  
  Now for the good stuff. The game in its own right is just downright fun. It's that feeling of accomplishment 
 that makes you want to keep going with this game. There's so many things to do in this game, which 
 makes the game replayable! I can't really describe it, but Oblivion is just a fun game to just 
 play through. You'll definitely be putting in a lot of hours in playing this game.
  
  Now I'd recommend this game to people who are not hardcore action fans... let's say like... Serious 
 Sam or Painkiller - who constantly wants to run around and just shoot up things... this game needs 
 a bit more patience and finese. Other than that it's an easy game to recommend to anybody else 
 out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crew_SK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  The first things that come up my mind right now are the glitches I found in my first few hours 
 of play. As I was confused about travelling on the map since there is no info that you can just 
 click on a city and travel there, I used to travel alot on the map using a horse, but I wasn't 
 quite satisfied with it's speed. So I tried alot to steal a horse. It occurred many times that 
 I saved the game when a guard was placed next to a horse but when I loaded the game the guard was 
 on the horse. And once you steal a horse, if you get down from him the real owner of the horse 
 will appear on him suddenly.
  But considering that the world of Tamriel is huuuuuuge this small glitches can't be a barrier between 
 you and the game. As a newcomer to the Elder Scrolls world it takes more than an hour to get acquainted 
 regarding some stuff like icons which info is a weapon's worth, which one is its weight or damage. 
 Once all these information is clear for you, the quest can begin and believe me, that you will 
 not want to leave it out of hand even if you want to go to the toilet. There are lots of stuff 
 that you can do in Tamriel, lots of quests, Guilds to join and this variety combined with the astonishing 
 graphics make the game a masterpiece. Yet, there is one thing I don't like about the graphics: 
 all characters are short-legged and the orcs look just awful. 
  Finally, I can say that this is a game that should be in everyone's collection from addicted RPG 
 fans to occasional gamers because it will never bore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a single-player RPG marathon that allows you to make a hero from 
 scratch by first choosing from a myriad assortment of physical attributes, skills and races before 
 traveling around unrestricted cities, damp dungeons and greatly wooded regions. Offering tons of 
 strategy in the game.
  
  While acting together with more than a thousand characters, many of whom will give you quests to 
 accomplish, you will hone your skills over time as you fight an excess of cruel enemies, counting 
 huge toxic rats, ax-wielding skeletons and massive ogres. Allowing many hours of gameplay.
  
  The tale starts as you accompany the emperor of Tamriel (voiced by actor Patrick Stewart of 
 "Star Trek: The Next Generation" and "X-Men") through a maze of underground caves then evil goblins 
 slaughter him. Before he expires, however, he requests that you locate the lost successor to the 
 throne and help guard the land from the demons free from a hell-like plane called Oblivion.
  
  You can have fun in the game from either a first- or third-person viewpoint. You can decide 
 to concentrate in hand-to-hand melee combat, range attacks (such as using a bow and arrow) or spell-casting 
 or a combination of all three.
  
  You can accept most tasks in any order you like, in addition you can also join one of the many 
 guilds (Mages Guild, Thieves Guild, etc.) , each of which open even more objectives.
  
  Additional RPG cores found in Oblivion comprise of picking locks, finding treasure chests and picking 
 up items to store in your stock such as superior weapons, stronger armor, curative potions and 
 food but if you're overencumbered, you won't be able to travel and will be required to dispose 
 of heavier belongings.
  
  Graphically speaking, Oblivion is a luxury for the eyes on both the PC (if you meet the requirements) 
 and Microsoft Xbox 360 versions. 
  
  From the realistic cities and country like regions to the disturbing foes and unique magic things, 
 the game effortlessly outshines its predecessors.
  
  Another visual delight is the game's real-life physics. The only unimpressive effect is the character 
 lip-synching that doesn't seem to go with their expressions, but it barely worsens the remarkable 
 experience. Oblivion features more than 60,000 lines of oral conversation (dialogue) .
  
  As if this enormous game wasn't big enough, Bethesda Softworks has made its "Elder Scrolls Construction 
 Set" available as a download from the company's Web site, allowing PC gamers to create and share 
 their very own worlds (one of the advantages of having a good PC) .
  
  Oblivion productively spans quantity and quality; though some say otherwise, and too much quantity 
 and not enough quality, I disagree. This is an innovative RPG that not only presents a giant game 
 world in which to exist in for months on end, but it also proves itself to be one of the best role-playing 
 games ever crafted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Where to start... I could rave about the landscape being a true visual wonder giving you a breathless 
 experence to the huge feel of the gameworld, it's many dungeons and places to explore, or the AI 
 that makes the characters come alive. But what stands out in this game is it will only get boring 
 if you lack ambition to do any of the number of things that you can do in this game, from quests 
 to the main story and down into the depths of dungeon crawling there is NOT a lack of stuff to 
 do.
  
  Get bored try your hands at making your own dungeon or quests with the construction kit as a free 
 download or check out many of the available mods.. this game will be one you can still play in years 
 and that makes for a true game experence.
  
  Only negatives are The fact you can not fight while on a horse so when your mounted your fair game 
 to wildlife and can not defend you or the horse. The game does not do enough to really get you 
 involved in the main plot line... it sort of feels like a "here it is go for it if you want" I would 
 have prefered a feeling of urgency to convence me to dive in. High system requirements might stop 
 some from getting the full effect of the games beauty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing, still is!! 
  
  I say this with a slight disadvantage, as i played it with a FX-6800 card, but a 1.5ghz processor 
 lol! It played really slow, but once you know how to cope... i coped lol!
  I played it till the end of the main plot line, and il pick it up again when i get my new PC. But 
 god-damn! It was soooo kickass!!!
  
  The amount of plot and story to it is amazing! I think this game is longer than most MMORPG games! 
 everytime you end a quest, you pick up a new one! so its back on your horse and off to another 
 distant land! And on your way... you find 20 new places to go! and more quests and then more places, 
 with more quests, new things, more houses, and more plces and more quests and.... well... it just 
 went on and on and on!!!
  
  Its kick ass tho, graphically, story, interface and everything. Great game all around, im very 
 impressed, shame MMORPGs cant be this good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZepp23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I remember when I first got TES: III for xbox, and only recently did I get it for computer. The 
 graphics were good, gameplay was nice, and there was only minor clipping and faults in gameplay, 
 graphics, etc. Oblivion is pretty close, only the fact that the graphics are incredible, and even 
 on my somewhat low-end computer, it runs well or great most of the time. Obviously by now you know 
 I have the computer version over the 360 version, which I would recommend you doing too, due to 
 the PC's capability to have mods and updates and such. Another major plus for me is they FINALLY 
 added voices to the game, not just to cutscenes but everywhere! The only negative I can find is 
 sometimes the lips dont sync with the words coming out of their mouths and it sounds like everyone 
 not involved with the major quest in the game is done by 4 or less people, but C'est la Vie. Once 
 again in the game, you get to do about whatever you want, wether you favor magic, combat, or stealth, 
 you can make your character any of the three, or any mix of the three. You may want to do all three 
 separate just to see what each one is really like, but beware the evil menus for setting up your 
 class; if your not already seasoned at the Elder scrolls series you might have some difficulty; 
 I ruined 3 characters and Ive had TES:3 for about 3 years and oblivion since it came out. Oh well, 
 once again, thats life.
  
  This game is very awesome and i recommend the PC version but I dont know about the 360 version, 
 having not played it. If you've got the cash and the time, pick it up. Sorry about the long review, 
 I had alot on my mind :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballenf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely incredible game. The one frustration for me, and it's really just something that requires 
 a little different mindset, is what they call "levelling." That is, you spend a lot of time learning 
 new skills, building strengths only to find out that it really doesn' t matter and won't make your 
 tasks easier as the monsters level up accordingly. 
  
  That just seems so strange to me, I mean what's the point of doing anything outside the main tasks? 
 Well, that's easy: because it's so awesome. The environments feel so real you really want to know 
 what's over that hill or through those trees.
  
  If you let it, this game will suck you into its world and you'll lose track of everything going 
 on in your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trip1eX
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  That about sums up this game. The draw here is the big massive open world and the tons of things 
 to do. The downside is no one thing is particularly well done. 
  
  On the pc the interface is horrible. The main quest is boring. The npcs are butt ugly. The combat 
 is clunky. The game's performance is pretty shakey. The graphics are nice at times, but suffer 
 again from low fps, bland distance rendereing, pop-up, shakey animations and the grass being redrawn 
 20 ft in front of you. 
  
  Of course rpgs nuts are quick to forgive because they put in a ton of content and give you the 
 option to do it in most whatever order you want to. I bought the game 'cause of this sounded fun, 
 but it ain't. It's more just to hear my buddy talk about it.
  
  Other downsides is you get tired of looking in chests, barrels and bags and what not because there 
 are 30 million of them. And you quickly find out that the more a developer lets you pick up everything 
 in the game the less you're supposed to pick up everything in the game. 
  
  I think that's one of the hard lessons future game designers could learn about a game of this nature. 
 Sometimes less is more. 
  
  In the end there just wasn't anything fantastical tugging at me in this game. The learning curve 
 is quite high and there's alot of mmorpg tedium here. It's pretty easy to get 10 hours into and 
 just kind of hey kewl. Big world. Looks fairly nice at a standstill. Next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrelic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  In this review, I am going to assume you have already heard most of the excellent reviews on the 
 game. Let me tell you that what most reviewers have said is true and the game is definitely worth 
 a play through. There are loads of adventures and fun to be had for at least a week of your life. 
 So if you are wondering whether it's worth the money or not, it definitely is. Please go buy it 
 now. However, if you wish to know my personal feelings about it's flaws - read on!
  
  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind was huge and ambitious. The amount of lore, depth and scale in 
 the game was amazing -from engrossing books on shelves and desks for your character to read, to 
 spells and abilities of so many categories to learn, the possibilities of growth and diversity 
 of one character to the next seemed endless! ... Until you really got into the game and found that 
 many of those skills would become useless. Some were incredibly powerful and overpowered when compared 
 to others. Though the game showed off how it was absolutely possible to create any character you 
 could imagine.. only a handful of character types were any fun to play. The game was designed as 
 a dungeon crawling game and there was no way to completely avoid combat forever. But who would 
 want to? The conclusion: Don't put false depth in games.
  
  Enter the latest from Bethesda: The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. This game was a blast and had me 
 playing for weeks. Amazing visuals, hundreds of hours of voice dialogue and more active NPCs make 
 the world a lot livelier than Morrowind was. It was loads of fun and the sheer scope seemed endless 
 during the first 20-30 hours.
  
  Similarly to Morrowind, however, many of the same drawbacks exist. There is depth and freedom to 
 do as you please but, as shown in Morrowind, imbalances exist and too much freedom can actually 
 ruin your character! In Oblivion, you again have a chance to create any type of character you can 
 imagine -but can it survive most of the quests in the game? That is another story.
  
  Just like Morrowind, you need to use your skills in order to develop them in Oblivion. You choose 
 10 major skills in your repertoire that the game bases your level upon. Every time you have 10 
 skill raises in any number of your 10 major skills, you must find a bed to rest and level up. When 
 you do so, you are presented with a screen that gives you a choice of 3 attributes to raise. Attributes 
 affect how well you perform skills, so messing them up can do serious damage to your character's 
 progress. You may choose any 3 of the attributes on the level-up list, but some will have multipliers 
 depending on the 10 skill raises you had worked on during the level. For example, if speechcraft 
 was one of your major skills and you raised it 10 times (instituting a level up) you would have 
 the option of increasing your personality attribute (which helps govern the speechcraft skill) 
 by 5 points, while all other attributes, if chosen, would only increase by 1. If, however, you 
 gained 3 points in blade skill, 3 points in speechcraft skill, 3 points in acrobatics skill and 
 1 point in light armor skill, you would have +2 or +3 attribute bonuses on several of the attributes 
 on the level up list because the skills you leveled were each governed by different attributes 
 and you mixed up the skill training, rather than focussing on a single skill. Though this is an 
 easy process to catch on to, it poses problems to your character. If you do not closely monitor 
 your major attributes, your character will eventually be much weaker than he/she should be.
  
  What's worse, the game's difficulty is purely level-dependent, as all creatures level up with 
 you. So if you are level 20 with horrid attributes, the next creature you face will also be level 
 20 and its attributes will be far from lacking!
  
  These two points can make the game very difficult for your character unless you carefully monitor 
 the attributes you raise upon each level-up. I personally had to recreate my thief character several 
 times before he could survive long past level 20. He simply could not survive battles no matter 
 how sneaky or how well equipped he was. If you successfully choose the right major skills and keep 
 your attributes honed, the game will likely become a fairly easy to moderate challenge.
  
  At any time, you can also adjust the game difficulty scrollbar to the left to make it easier or 
 to the right to make it harder. However I personally think difficulty sliders make me feel like 
 I am cheating. I prefer to play the game on the difficulty that the developers intended.
  
  Aside from character weakness and leveling issues, the game still has Morrowind's "huge MMORPG 
 world, with no other players" feel. The npcs this time around are much more real in many ways.. 
 but over time you still come to the conclusion that you are the only one that exists in the world. 
 It is all made for you. The radiant AI does a great job in many cases but in others it is silly 
 and laughable. Citizens will talk to each other about rumors in towns and if you overhear them, 
 it can possibly bring you new quests. At night, citizens retire to their homes and goto sleep, 
 shopkeepers close up their shops and head to the inn for a meal rather than stand around in the 
 same spot like in Morrowind. But there are odd and fake experiences, such as one where I overheard 
 two townsfolk chatting after I had completed the main quest of the game. One citizen was overly 
 excited, telling the news about the quest's finale to the other, while the other citizen responded 
 with an abrupt "Fine." The excited first citizen then ended the convo with a dry "Goodbye," after 
 he had been yelling with excitement only seconds earlier, and both parted ways. Nevertheless, the 
 AI is a huge improvement from before, who knows what Elder Scrolls 5 will behold?
  
  Conclusion: These are some of the nitty gritty problems I saw with the game. Many carried over 
 from Morrowind and the most grueling to me is you realize over time that it is simply a vast, open 
 world that is created solely for you. At first you feel such a part of a growing and changing world, 
 and your mind is filled with imagination and wonder, but when you get the hang of how it reacts 
 to you, it begins to suffer entropy and WILL eventually come to an end when all the quests are 
 completed. It is only a matter of time that you will gain ultimate power in the game and at that 
 point, the game will feel pointless and there is not much reason to go back aside from doing the 
 experience over as a different type of class. There are many choices the character makes, but apparently 
 not enough to warrant a completely different experience every single time you make a new character. 
 In fact, if you really try, you could possibly experience most of the possible content with only 
 one character. You could join all of the guilds and climb the ranks, buy all the houses possible, 
 become a vampire and cure yourself, etc all with one character. But what really is the huge difference 
 from making a new character aside from a few slightly different experiences? Instead of sneaking 
 around and hitting from behind, I will be running right at them or throwing fireballs at them from 
 a distance in pretty much the same dungeons. I realize the game is in a totally different ballpark 
 from an MMORPG, but with such an enormous world, one yearns for it to be constantly growing and 
 changing as you do. Not only that, you wish you could see other heroes walking along the roads 
 doing their own quests and competing with you -real players or not. 
  
  Bottom Line: The Elder Scrolls series does something very unique, taking single player freedom 
 and immersion to a new level with amazing graphics, sound and storytelling. It is an awesome, lengthy 
 game to play through completely once or twice, but there is definitely something that is missing 
 from the big picture. We need to feel like we aren't the only people in this world of MMORPG proportions. 
 Unless this is fixed by mods, the game is destined to become a dust collector on the shelf after 
 a few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZephyrSB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the fourth entry in a series that has for a long time been considered 
 a standard in open-ended roleplaying gaming. Morrowind, the last game released, presented some 
 exciting ideas when it came out, and many people are still playing it today. Oblivion has been 
 a long time in the making, but it was worth it.
  
  Now, let's get one thing straight. Oblivion (and the Elder Scrolls series as a whole) is not your 
 typical console RPG. You don't have a party of characters, and while there is a main storyline, 
 you may find yourself distracted from it constantly. That's not to say that the story isn't great 
 -- it's just that there is so much to do in this game that you'll get sidetracked regularly. And 
 for the most part, these sidequests aren't simple fetch and return affairs either. Bethesda has 
 really worked on making the characters interesting. Dialogue is improved greatly from Morrowind, 
 although some characters still repeat common lines.
  
  Just as the quests were improved from Morrowind, so was the combat system. One complaint many people 
 had about fighting in Morrowind was how attacks were identical and fights came down to approaching 
 an enemy and hammering the mouse button, resulting inevitably in a lot of "misses," and fights 
 which were neither varied nor exciting. Oblivion changes all of that. For one, blocking is now 
 triggered by the player, rather than randomly happening. Time your block right, and you can stagger 
 your foe. After that, you can move in for a flurry of attacks or leap forward in a crushing power 
 attack that can stun your enemy. The fights in Oblivion are done better than a lot of pure action 
 games, a theme that's repeated in the game's other features. Stealth and magic have seen equal 
 improvements, making them both viable alternatives or companions to the more obvious tactic of 
 smashing everything in sight.
  
  Essentially, every gameplay aspect from Morrowind has been improved upon in Oblivion. Needlessly 
 complex thing have been streamlined as well. One odd addition is that of the leveled world idea: 
 almost every NPC and monster levels up with you. While this means that you can approach the main 
 quest from any level and you'll never be in way over your head, it also means that seemingly weak 
 monsters will still pose a challenge at higher levels. This comes down to a personal decision: 
 if you don't like it, there will undoubtedly be modifications made by fans to change it.
  
  Continuing with the theme of improvements, we come to graphics: obviously, these are fantastic 
 in Oblivion. Even running on fairly low settings, the game look incredible. If you're lucky enough 
 to run it on high, the world of Oblivion becomes simply breathtaking. Character models, weapons, 
 and the environment all look great. Shadows can sometimes show up oddly, but they can be turned 
 off with little detriment to the experience.
  
  The music echoes that of Morrowind, with themes that suit the cities, dungeons, and fields of the 
 world. Voice acting is done well for the most part, with some minor inconsistencies. Fights sound 
 as good as they feel, and your enemies will often shout choice taunts at you as they trade blows.
 
  
  All in all, Oblivion is one of the best role-playing games ever made. Anybody who has played the 
 past Elder Scrolls games will immensely enjoy this installment, and really anybody who likes RPGs 
 will find Oblivion to be all it's cracked up to be and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ocelotpoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you sit down to play the latest in the Elder Scrolls series you become completely 
 immersed in a living, breathing world that tickles the imagination with every element ever incorporated 
 into the fantasy genre. This game has it all, fighting, magic, criminals, knights, dragons, pirates... 
 The list goes on and on. The best aspect of the game is the ability to create a character versed 
 in each aspect of the skill spectrum which allows players to play almost any way they want throughout 
 the game. The game plays quite well and the lower quality settings let even low end (relatively 
 speaking) computers run the game. The overall feeling of playing is amazing, simply walking around 
 and listening to conversations between NPCs is an experience. No game to date has ever created 
 such a fully functional environment. This game is the PC equivalent to Shakespeare (in a good way) 
 in that everything in the game seems to have some significance, even flowers that seem to be scenery 
 can be harvested to be eaten for their effects or made into potions. The interface is simple considering 
 everything you can do with it and the games controls are intuitive and fun. I never thought I'd 
 see the day were melee combat translated to FPS so well but it happened here. The bottom line is 
 if you want a great RPG with tons of fun stuff to do and really solid game play mechanics, this 
 is it. Unfortunately those with low end PCs may be left behind and if you can't commit to it you 
 are unlikely to play this game to the conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  This game is simply great. The graphics are the best i've seen in any rpg so far, and the gameplay 
 excellent. The amount of things that can be done and changed are amazing. Just as expected from 
 a elder scrolls game, you have complete freedom to do any quest or to simply go exploring. The 
 sound in the game is quite good and so is the music but the music can get repetitious after a while. 
 The quests in the game are very interesting too, in morrowind you got a lot of quests that looked 
 the same but in oblivion all the quests have a different feeling to them, the chance to buy a house 
 is also quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazerFX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Going through the major points (You've read enough from other reviews to know the main points of 
 Oblivion, I'm just going to give my impressions) :
  
  Gameplay:
  The good - fantastic missions, even after a long time (nearly 50 hours) of game play, I've only 
 scratched the surface of the game, and only been in 3 of the 7 cities. The game is big, open, and 
 fun; but you never feel lost for what to do next - if anything, there's too much to do!
  The bad - The people can be a bit... dumb. Not stupid, just repetitious occasionally, with some 
 glaring "This-is-a-computer-AI" mistakes occurring with path-finding and the like. All told, the 
 experience is very good though.
  
  Graphics:
  The best. Go look at a screenshot. Imagine it moving.
  
  Sound:
  Also stunning - the music 
 does get a little repetitious, but it's discreet enough to not be a problem. When I first went 
 into a forested area, heard a bird chirping, and looked out the window to see where it was, I realised 
 how good the audio actually is.
  
  Value:
  In terms of value, this is one of the best value games you can get. It's rated at "over 250 hours" 
 by Bethesda, and personally (Based on my experiences with Morrowind) , I'm guessing something more 
 realistically around 500 hours, with awesome re-playability. Oh, and that's not including the official 
 and player-created mods, either. Best value game on the market at the minute.
  
  Tilt:
  I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  UPDATED REVIEW:
  
  This is an Amazing Singleplayer Roleplay game and unique in its own way.
  
  Sound : The sound 
 is excellent blends very well in with the Environment and fits good, not much else to say really.
 
  
  Graphic : Using a great Graphic Engine for this game makes it looks so realistic and really Amazing, 
 Ofcourse you need a descent computer, but if you do, and are able to turn the Settings on high 
 you will see the true power and Greatness of the Graphics.
  
  AI : The AI is pretty good, i havent seen any major imperfections yet im sure there are a few glitches 
 but up to now its all been running smooth.
  
  Gameplay : It feels very realistic and you can easily get lost in it in a away, the great graphics, 
 sound and all that make it very fun to play. There is alot of content, for example there are hundreds 
 of quests you can do, all big and small, most of them are very unique and fun so they never get 
 boring. Great leveling system so you can choose attributes relevant for your class. Tons of weapons, 
 armor, rings etc you can find through out the game, many with good bonus attributes. You can also 
 learn Tons of spells, from summoning Creatures to Telepathy and other destructive or useful ones. 
 Around 200 hours gameplay involved roughly, and yet so much to discover.
  
  Conclusion : Definitely the best RP game i've played up to date, with a good storyline, strongly 
 suggest this game for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  I was only about a half-hour into Oblivion when it crashed to the desktop. From then on, I could 
 only play for about ten minutes before the dang thing crashed. I was terribly disappointed. But, 
 inspired by the great gameplay I had already experienced in the game, I sought a solution.
  
  Four or five hours later, I managed to fix the crashes by turning my sound acceleration down.
 
  
  That should tell you how good this game is. From its first moments, Oblivion's genius shines through. 
 Had it been any other game, I would not have fought so hard to get the game to run correctly. But 
 it has been worth every moment since.
  
  The gameplay is not innovative, per se. It is, after all, an RPG -- one of the most finely developed 
 genres in gaming. But unlike other games which have serious limitations, Oblivion simply doesn't. 
 The sheer detail of the world, and the freedom it allows is simply astonishing. By the time I'd 
 played for five or six hours, I knew that I wouldn't every find everything the game offers. I'd 
 probably die of old age first.
  
  Unlike other games which allow you to go off on your own and explore without the constraints of 
 the overarching storyline, Oblivion manages to give enough structure so you don't get lost. You 
 always know where to go next. You need not worry about losing track of where you are in any quest.
 
  
  There is significant depth to the magic and fighting in the game -- its not all hack and slash. And 
 the challenge is there from the beginning. You'll never be at a loss for things to do. Sometimes, 
 you'll have so many options that you'll have a hard time deciding what to do next. And the game 
 will draw you in -- you'll be spending hours just looking around for new things in the game's expansive 
 environments. Character creation is also very openended. You'll find that the number of variations 
 you can create is nearly infinite. And these aren't insignificant options, either. They will effect 
 how you play through the game's challenging quests.
  
  The overarching story is done well. It's a bit standard, although it offers a few surprises. The 
 voice acting, with Patrick Steward and Sean Bean, is excellent, if overwrought (hell, it's a fantasy 
 RPG, of course its overwrought!) The graphics are simply amazing, even on my mid-range rig.
  
  My only two complaints are that the game does have some significant stability problems that 
 need to be worked out before you can really enjoy the game. Also, the game is a bit of a performance 
 dog. It hitches, stutters and hiccups quite a bit. But it is easy to overlook such things when 
 the game delivers on the experience better than nearly any other RPG I've experienced. Be prepared 
 to work out the hitches before you play. But it is worth it.
  
  RPGs can almost always be judged by the depth, quality and expansiveness of the worlds they provide. 
 While most seem to be far too linear, this game avoids that pitfall completely. Its openendedness, 
 depth and variety completely overshadow any technical issues you might have to deal with. I highly 
 recommended it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcboogs
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  I'm going to relate things in Oblivion in this thread only to Morrowind. I want to discuss what 
 I think has been improved upon or taken some steps back. Let me preface this by saying I am very 
 excited about Oblivion's potential for becoming an all-time great with some good work from modders 
 and the devs. So anything negative I say isn't a flame or an attack on Bethesda, but a well thought 
 out criticism.
  
  I'm going to try to divide things up into different categories and analyze each one, giving a final 
 grade to each category after brief discussion. Now off to my review.
  
  INTERFACE [not HUD]
  I think many PC gamers are with me on this one in thinking the interface 
 has been totally console-ized. That is not a good thing. I have heaped praise upon Morrowinds UI 
 because of the flexibility afforded to the end-user. You could move windows around, resize them, 
 and get things just where you wanted em. I liked having my spell list in one place, my character 
 sheet, minimap, and inventory in others. It was sweet! Oblivion's UI seems very clunky in comparison, 
 and if not for the immediate PC mod released shrinking the font and such it would be a complete 
 nightmare. However, I do like the listing of items, even though I wish the mini-icons were more 
 Morrowind-esque in terms of showing what the item looks like. Also, you cannot delete spells and 
 the spellbook gets super-uber cluttered midway through the game. What the poop?!?! The bottom line 
 here is that the devs made the interface with the Xbox360 user in mind, and were too lazy to make 
 a better more customizable one for the PC. I know the console market is a bigger one, but Bethesda 
 is still around today because of loyal PC gamers and they shouldve spent some time making a good 
 PC interface.
  RATING: D [major step backward - however, this is just annoying, not really a terrible thing]
 
  
  COMBAT [how it feels fighting]
  Okay, some people have gotten all pissed off talking about combat because they feel it is more 
 action-esque and less RPG-ish. I am not in that camp. I love the way combat "feels" in terms of 
 the visceral feeling of whacking enemies with sharp sticks. The block button is a great addition. 
 The way spells can toss badguys around is frickin sweet. The inclusion of different kinds of attacks 
 that really mean something is great. Being able to case without unequipping weapons is a great 
 inclusion. I wish there were headshots with bows and spells, but hey, you can't have it all. I 
 also really like the enemy healthbar around the crosshair, it's very unobtrusive and gives you 
 that feeling of how you're doing against a foe. Really, in terms of combat feel, I've got nothing 
 but love for Oblivion. Hats off to the devs for a HUGE improvement from Morrowind in the combat 
 system.
  RATING: A+ [you guys did your homework on this one, fantabulous!]
  
  RADIANT AI [live up to the hype?]
  This was a much talked about feature in this game. Some people 
 have been very critical of it, but I am looking at it in comparison to Morrowind and in respect 
 to how much there is to Oblivion. Given those paramaters, I was and am still wow-ed by the radiant 
 AI. No, the NPCs in Oblivion don't really seem like they are other real human beings, but they 
 are a hell of lot more realistic and interesting than Morrowind. The random fights I have seen 
 are awesome, the conversation aren't the best things ever, but breathe some more life to the characters. 
 The scheduling alone is a huge improvement from Morrowind. People need to remember this is an enormous 
 and amazingly ambitious game. In that light, and because of the "radiant AI moments" I have witnessed 
 as a player, I am very pleased with it. However, the NPC dialogue tree still seems very contrived 
 and actually has less options than Morrowind, but that has a lot to do with the scope of the game 
 and I imagine the desire to have full speech for all lines. The RAI is definitely a step forward 
 in the series, but there is still a lot of room to go up. 
  RATING: A [this was a very difficult task, that came out very well all things considered]
  
 
  EQUIPMENT
  I'm not going to be nice in this section, so prepare yourself. Ready? OKay... I played Morrowind 
 to death, probably 5 times through, hundreds, maybe even a couple thousand hours. I loved accumulating 
 stuff. I had robes, shoes, belts, gloves, armor, weapons, etc. etc. etc. all stockpiled in my various 
 houses and bases. I am very very displeased with the "dumbing down" of equipment in Oblivion. I 
 liked wearing different gauntlets, pauldrons, or gloves on different hands/arms or even just one 
 gauntlet or glove... I liked wearing belts, I liked wearing robes over my clothes and armor. There 
 is simply much less variety in Oblivion's equipment. I am extraordinarily disappointed with this, 
 and it hampers the ability to customize your character to your liking. Furthermore, as a result 
 of the level-scaling, rare and awesome equipment is neither rare nor awesome eventually. PC users 
 will eventually see more equipment via mods, but I am still at a loss for the reduction in armor/clothing 
 types. Bad bad bad. Dumb dumb dumb. Why why why?!?!
  RATING: F [substantially less variety, and nerfed availability b/c of level scaling - like 8 miles 
 backwards  these changes stink of Bethesda pandering to the console crowd]
  
  MAGIC
  Like I touched on in my combat review, I really like how magic works in the entire combat picture. 
 It feels better casting. Allowing casting while having weapons equipped is a huge plus that makes 
 playing a mage character a lot more fun. I kind of miss being able to fly, but I'll live - flying 
 also unbalances things quickly. The magicka regeneration is huge, because it makes spell casting 
 much more reasonable. The spell effects are awesome looking and sounding. Doing away with the enchanting 
 school was a good move. The spell system is very versatile and rewarding. Not a lot has been changed 
 substantially, but the subtle improvements make magic weilding much more potent and enjoyable. 
 Casting spells to soften up then attack the badguys is fun and rewarding. Some changes to enchanting 
 also make casting offensive spells using your magicka pool much more necessary and more strategic.
 
  RATING: A [well done, see my enchanting section to see how it relates]
  
  ENCHANTING
  I have mixed feelings here, but overall feel good about it. I'll start with the negatives to get 
 them out of the way, then move on to the positives. My biggest complaint is that item quality doesn't 
 seem to be nearly as important [if at all] when enchanting was it was in Morrowind. The quality 
 of amulet, ring, armor, or weapon seems largely if completely irrelevant when making a new magic 
 item. Quality of soul seems to be the biggie. That being said, some other major changes are really 
 good for game balance and roleplaying experience. First of all, eliminating enchanting as a skill 
 was a good move since it was a huge pain in the a$$ to try and improve. Secondly, eliminating cast-when-used 
 items was a good move I believe, because you can no longer stock up powerful rings to cast all 
 your spells. This forces spellcasters to use their own magicka reserves. I do wish you could enchant 
 your own staves though [maybe you can, but I haven't seen that done yet] . Basically, enchanting 
 is no longer a quick ticket to becoming a demi-god, but still is very important to customizing 
 your character. Now, part of me thinks some of the equipment "dumbing down" was so that people 
 couldn't have too much enchanted gear.... however, I think we could still have all kinds of fun 
 equipment and retain enchantment balance by either a) making some item types unenchantable or restricting 
 the enchantments on them substantially. However, overall the enchantment changes make the gameplay 
 better.
  RATING: B [gameplay is better because of it, casting your own spells now necessary, but item quality 
 should play a bigger role in enchanting]
  
  GUILDS/FACTIONS
  I have mixed feelings here. There are less guild/factions to get involved with from the get go. 
 However, many of the quests/plot developments are much better thought out and more interesting 
 than in Morrowind. The devs clearly took a quality before quantity approach here and I think it 
 works. Particularly since I have to imagine they will add more guild/factions in future updates, 
 and so will modders. I don't want to give away any spoilers here, but the plots are solid, particularly 
 the Dark Brotherhood. However, guild NPCs still aren't very compelling for the most part as characters, 
 I'm not attached to them. Also, most quests are strictly linear with no real choices to be made 
 by the PC. Level-scaling rears its ugly head in the factions, the ability to become arena champion 
 before lvl 5 is by far the best example. I mean come on? That is just bad. However... I will leave 
 that criticism out here and not factor it into my rating for guild/factions.
  RATING: B [much improved in terms of quality from Morrowind, but less guild/factions, NPCs still 
 very cardboard-ish]
  
  MAIN QUEST
  Eh... nothign to write home about here, I liked Morrowind's better. NPCs are rather un-compelling 
 as with the guilds/factions and the main plot is essentially entirely linear. I would like to have 
 seen more opportunities to pick sides, make tough moral decisions, etc. in the main story line. 
 That being the case, the main story line is not nearly as important to TES games as it is to most, 
 so it's not a huge let down. TES games are more about the complete experience than just advancing 
 the plot. I would have liked to see more emotional attachment and character development in some 
 NPCs though as well as not being so predictable and straightforward.
  RATING: C [much of the same, not really a bad or good thing]
  
  MAP & COMPASS
  Ill keep 
 this short and sweet. I think the markers on the big map just pointing you to major locations in 
 quests isnt a bad idea, it keeps from you from getting lost. However, markers should tell you 
 where everything you have to do is, in real time, with markers on the compass. This is holding 
 the hand of the player way too much, and really takes some of the fun out of the game. Wheres 
 the fun in exploring a dungeon for a quest if the damn markers are telling you exactly where to 
 go. At the very least, you should have the option to toggle the markers on-off from within the 
 game.
  RATING: C [good idea  to help players from wandering aimlessly bad implementation b/c it holds 
 your hand way too much, PC mods help with this]
  
  LEVEL-SCALING [long section]
  This stands out as one of the biggest blunders in a games design in recent memory. The level-scaling 
 system is implemented on an almost universal level, so that the bad guys and loot you encounter 
 in the game is right in line with your characters level. This means that when you are low levels, 
 you will encounter weak baddies with poor equipment when you are a higher level, you will encounter 
 strong baddies with powerful equipment. Thats the short short version, on to a long discussion, 
 I will start with the problems created by scaling:
  [1] You can pretty much go anywhere in the world from the get go. In Morrowind, before levelling 
 up enough, if you even went to certain areas of the world, you'd get OWNED by the locals. This 
 has and is the case in most RPGs... this encourages you to gain the proper skills/equipment/levels 
 to go somewhere and makes the world seem to get bigger and better as you advance in skills. In 
 Oblivion since pretty much ALL of the monsters/baddies right along with you, you can pretty much 
 go around the whole world on low levels and not have to worry about what you're going to run into. 
 In fact, in some cases it's easier to do things at a low level because the low-levelled monsters 
 are easier to defeat with simple low-level tactics. There should be lots of places where you simply 
 cannot go at low levels for fear of being pwnzerized. A freeform open game shouldn't mean you can 
 go anywhere and do anything at anytime.
  [2] The acquisition of magic and powerful items should be rewarding. It isn't. I have played up 
 to level 37 [maybe 38 now] and can tell you first hand about the "bandit loot" issue. First of 
 all, to the people who are trying to argue it isn't real... IT IS. Either walk from town to town, 
 or just quick-map to the various "X CAMP" sites on the worldmap and you can run into various bandits. 
 They are levelled and once you reach a certain point have ludicrous equipment. I don't feel cool 
 or like I accomplished anything having a daedric longsword and glass armor if random chumps have 
 it, and I could collect another set within an hour of fighting random encounters. To see just how 
 ridiculous it was, I set a 60 minute timer and proceeded to "bandit farm" and sold all my spoils 
 at the 1200 max thieves guild fence, and totalled more than 57000k. Not to mention I was hawking 
 off daedric, glass, ebony stuff, etc. which is theoretically rare.
  [3] As you become more powerful, sometimes you should feel more powerful. Not powerful beacuse 
 you just bested a sinister overwhelming vampire lord, but powerful because some smallfry f-ed with 
 you and you turned him into a grease spot. In Oblivion, because just about everything levels right 
 along with you, you never feel like you've become more powerful than the run of the mill NPC human... 
 serious problem here. You are supposed to be role playing a [censored] , if everyone in Cyrrodil 
 is so damn strong, let them go through the Oblivion gates smile. gif That isn't to say that as you 
 reach high levels everything should be easy, but some things should become easier.
  ---
  Now, having briefly described the problems, let me present some instances where these problems 
 don't exist and let you guys reminisce with me about what was good about it.
  ---
  As for [1] , in many RPGs you feel awesome when you finally are decked out and powerful enough to 
 go and venture into the EVIL TERRIBLE ABYSS OF DOOM or whatever the [censored] location is in the 
 game. Think about in Morrowind when you were finally able to venture into the wasteland areas and 
 fight off all those [censored] undead. This isn't the biggest problem in the game, but I still 
 think it is a problem... there should be more areas that are simply unreachable until you're tough 
 enough.
  I believe [2] is the biggest snafu in Oblivion. Now, most of us here discussing this have played 
 a lot of CRPGs, and definately played entirely too much Morrowind. Think back to Morrowind to the 
 house or mansion or guild base or whatever where you hoarded your awesome loot. I was into that 
 before the mods... now think post mod. Remember when you downloaded the dummies so that you could 
 put your armor on display in your [censored] mofo house - that rare armor that you spent hours 
 and hours and hours getting a complete set of glass/daedric armor maybe enchanting for specific 
 use, etc. Think of the display cases of daedric weapons you had. Maybe all of you didn't do that, 
 but loot in Morrowind came to a new level because it was hard to get and fun to display. Hell, 
 in my most recent game of Morrowind, I played with Vampire's embrace, and had an entire mansion 
 full of my thrall slaves outfitted with [censored] armor and weapons that I had accumated in hundreds 
 of hours of gameplay. Over the top, yeah... but awesome, fun, and unique to Elder Scrolls. I for 
 one cannot pretend those bastard bandits don't have [censored] equipment like I do and by God they 
 shouldn't!
  As far as [3] , I think it is hard to do it right. Morrowind needed the help of modding to make 
 the game feel more "right" here, because prior to some help, it was too easy to become overwhelmingly 
 powerful and not have any challenging fights. Oblivion has gone the other way, tried to keep EVERY 
 fight even by using the levelled baddies, but consequently missed out on the FEELING LIKE A powerful 
 hero. As for what I'm talking about - I'm sure many of you played Baldur's Gate II and the Throne 
 of Bhaal expansion. While obviously fundamentally different from Oblivion in many many ways, it 
 did provide something special in combat. You had some fights that were against very powerful opponents 
 that took 15+ minutes, required careful management of all your resources, and left you with a supreme 
 sense of having beaten a quality opponent. You also had instances where a single or few weak sauce 
 badguys would mess with you.. and you would smite them like nobody's business. Finally, you had 
 instances where hoards upon hoards of weak-mid range guys attacked you, and your souped up a$$kicker 
 demolished them in waves which gave you the feeling of becoming really really powerful. Right now, 
 Oblivion only really has the first variety... where you combat against tough guys and come out 
 on top, it needs more. 
  RATING: D- [the ONLY saving grace is that Oblivion doesn't become really really easy late game 
 like Morrowind  but the level-scaling as is breaks the game, you can beat the game at low levels 
  exploration and gaining equipment doesnt really seem fun]
  
  OVERALL
  The level-scaling problems really frustrate me because they permeate the entire experience. I also 
 think the UI and equipment were nerfed. Combat and magic are definately better, technically the 
 game is brilliant and amazingly glitch free [in my experience] considering the size and scope of 
 the game. Now, I am going to be very unorthodox in my final grade, because I am going to provide 
 one for right now, today at this moment - then a second, projecting what I think will be the grade 
 of the game a year or two from now, with patches and mods and such all applied.
  
  FINAL GRADE TODAY: C [level-scaling breaks things]
  FINAL GRADE LIFETIME [a few years down the 
 road with mods/patches] : A+ [one of the greatest, most immersive and impressive games ever created, 
 Bethesda programmers inducted into life Hall of Fame]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyuri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV takes place in a huge game world filled with loads of creatures and cities 
 and dungeons and camps and lakes ... its big. When you really start to love playing oblivion is 
 when you come accross scenarios such as just walking through the forect and a ghost appears in 
 front of you and just walks along ... or when you are walking through a forest and someone else 
 is running after a deer with a hammer... why the hell would he do that? either way, I found it 
 entertaining. It might not seem like it at first, but there is a lot to do in this game.
  
  One thing that I did not like was that once I started the main quest and closed the first oblivion 
 gate then gates started to open all over the place and the amount and stregnth of enemies spawning 
 in the world rose quite quickly! I really wanted to just explore for a bit at that point but with 
 the amount of enemies around I simply could not do that.
  
  Thinking about getting oblivion and not sure? well, simply just get it, you wont regret it at all. 
 What makes oblivion fun is that there is something in it for everyone... you really do have to 
 play the game yourself to see what I mean, but the combat, questing, environments, interaction, 
 all adds up to a truly epic gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shpa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Yea, Oblivion is overall a great game, Especialy the missions and the terrain, i am still kind 
 of dissapointed as to that all the cities look pretty much the same, and its not like in morrowin 
 where 1 city would look completely different then another, like for example, over on east side 
 of morrowind theres the tel fyr type of cities, and theres the dunmer type of cities like balmora, 
 and theres the imperial type of cities, like seyda neen.
  But in Oblivion its likethere all imperial type.
  
  I dunno if this is happening to anyone 
 else, but whenever i minimize oblivion, the game crashes, and on multiple occasions when i tried 
 to load a saved game the game also crashed, and even though xfire works for oblivion, you still 
 cannot see what people are typing to you. Now as I said, i dunno if this is for everyone else, 
 but if its for a majority of bugs similar to these, the oblivion makers or whatever should seriously 
 think of making a patch sooner or later.
  
  The NPC are not exactly as i thought they would be, like ya they do something daily, but they usualy 
 do the same thing over and over, like in the Blades Temple/Base thingy, these two guys are always 
 practicing on eachother. And i hear characters from different cities having the same exact coversations, 
 and alot of characters have the same voice.
  
  I don't think the voice only thing and no text was such a good idea, cause now you cant talk to 
 the characters about as much stuff as in morrowind,
  
  The Graphics are very demanding, i have an ok computer, but with medium settings the fps is still 
 very low when im in cities, but inside buildings or caves, it goes smoothly. 
  
  I thought Patrick stewert would be playing his character throughout the whole game, not just in 
 the beggining, that was kinda of a small let down too...
  
  I would still recommend getting Oblivion for Pc instead of buying a 500$ console plus tax, controllers, 
 and the game obliivion, which adds up to over half a grand. 
  
  STILL AN EXELLENT GAME!!!!!! GJ BETHSDA AND EVERYONE ELSE WHO MADE THE GAME!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpoullos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  ... An experience that once played through once, has little to no replay value. The game overall 
 had a good story, the graphics were missing a few animations, sounds was good. The learning curve 
 was ridiculous.
  
  Lets talk a bit about the story. You break out of prison then enter a quest to save the empire 
 making various choices along the way that affect your reputation and stuff. The story was good, 
 but you have little choice in deciding your "destiny", it is more or less forced upon you which 
 does feel a little wrong at times. The end of the main quest was, how to put it, a real let down.
 
  
  The graphics were good, there were missing animations when moving in third-person (diagonal motion) . 
 The voice acting was good, but variation in dialogue was limited.
  
  Game-play, it took me several hours to fully learn the controls, but once learned the challenge 
 of the game seemed to disappear. There were several issues i had with the motion in the game, player 
 can jump onto a roof of a house but can't climb a steep hill that any human could, the player character 
 frequently gets stuck which is a real pain in the a**, especially if you hadn't saved in a while.
 
  
  I also had several issues with the quests, some are just there and never go away, you can't complete 
 them since the objectives don't exist, or had already been defeated or destroyed earlier in the 
 game, making the quest impossible to complete (not just one but several)
  
  The game overall was good and entertaining for the first 45-50 hours, after that it just get tedious 
 and boring essentially destroying the experience and removing any replay value.
  
  Though this game clearly had some issues, ranging in severity. This game was a good once through 
 game. I might be able to play it again in 6 months or so when the "experience" has been utterly 
 forgotten. The game was addictive, for a while, but a habit easily broken by the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loic54
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I picked the game up this morning and have been playing now non-stop for about 6-7 hours. Here's 
 my review so far.
  
  Graphics:
  I have a decent set up so I put everything to the max, res at 1900x1200. Simply put this game is 
 breath taking... If you have a decent setup your pc will run this game flawlessly. There are so 
 many customizations graphics wise there is no way you cant get this running smoothly. There is 
 quick travel however the world is so beautiful and lush that you will not use it for a while! I 
 actually stopped many times just too look at the scenery. Characters are intricately detailed, 
 down to the little bump mapped rivets on their armor! Weapons are also very nice. Cities, architecture, 
 etc, its all incredible and it will have you stopping in your tracks to say wow.
  
  Game play:
  A HUUUUUUGE improvement! Fighting has never been better, no more vanilla melee. Its 
 now intense and the effects used during fights makes you feel each strike! If your going ranged, 
 sneaking is your best friend, I do 3x damage in sneak shots and that usually is enough for a 1 
 shot kill. Its also pretty damn cool to walk up to your fallen foe and rip your arrow back out 
 of him!
  There are TONS of things to do and just traveling the landscape you will come across tons of dungeons 
 and random encounters. Dungeons have loads of awesome architecture and they seem pretty diverse 
 so far. *BEWARE OF THE NASTY TRAPS* Loading.... takes me less then 3 seconds for the big towns and 
 there is absolutly no pausing while outside. my longest loads are about 3-4 seconds. Inventory 
 can be a bit confusing, give it an hour or two and you will be flying through it. Character creation 
 is insane, be prepaired to model everything thing imaginable on your guy...
  
  Quests:
  Im not going to spoil anything but, gone are those crappy go here and get this quests. Your part 
 of a epic story and you feel that way! They are also incredibly diverse and will give you a feeling 
 of accomplishment when your done.
  
  Sound:
  As mentioned before I have a decent setup so if you have a good sound system (at least 4 speakers) 
 be prepared for movie quality sound, in dungeons you will actually use the sound more then sight 
 sometimes. Overall very good!
  
  Conclusion:
  What a major improvement! this game will probably blow any morrowind fan away and the newcomers 
 will probably end up loving this as well. I cant wait for the user mods to start coming out to 
 make this excellent game even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godlike7373
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  There are so many things to do in this game you will be up for hours playing. The graphics are 
 pretty amazing with my 7800gt and the sound is so good you think you are in another land. You can 
 do things in so many different ways I can se myself playing this game over again. Though the I 
 found the main storyline kind of dull I liked the side missions a lot. Some parts of the game are 
 very similar to Morrowind and will have you seeing and hearing things familiar. That is of course 
 if you played Morrowind. It is clearly a well done game that was worth waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardcoreforever
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a immersive and often rewarding experience. I often found myself enjoying the side 
 quests and guild quests immensly. Often taking me away from the main quest for quite a time. Oblivion 
 really shines where it counts with great amounts of sub-text that help enrich the story or rather 
 should I say the world of the game. However if you are the type who just wants to steamroll through 
 the main quest and shelf it afterwards thats fine too, because Oblivion still offers very much 
 to keep your attention. The voice acting is top-rate, though sometimes noticably recycled. The 
 combat in oblivion is simple but solid, however sometimes can seem unbalanced due to the monsters 
 scaleing with the players level.
  The ability and skill system is refreshing as it often rewards you the more you use a certain skill 
 or spell class. One of the few negative things that come to mind when I think about oblivion is 
 vampirism.
  
  Vampirism could have been done without in oblivion as it really servs to break up the flow of the 
 game. If by any misfortune you contract vampirism
  you must undertake a lenghty and tedious quest for the cure. You will often have to wait indoors 
 untill the sun goes down so you will not take damage when walking outdoors. It does grant a few 
 abilities but nothing worthy of such tedium. You can keep the negative effects of vampirism to 
 a minimum by breaking into houses at night and feeding on sleeping people. Though sometimes when 
 you either sleep or wait you will revert gradually to a more daylight weakend state. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  As you've all heard by now the graphics of this game are outstanding and outright phenomenal, espaecially 
 when viewed on a high end computer with a large monitor or hooked up to a 50" HDTV.
  
  The gameplay is fantasic, but most importantly extremely fun, which is the factor that most games 
 lack these days. Why play a game which isn't fun to play? In oblivion, you get the entire package 
 of high quality graphics, great entertaining gameplay and amazing sound effects all in one PERFECT 
 game.... thats right... PERFECT.
  
  Moreover, oblivion feature literally hundreds of hours of gameplay if you include wandering around 
 in its lush forests and carrying out all the side quests; which ultimately means you could be enjoying 
 oblivion for a long, long time...
  
  (For those people rating oblivion anything below a 9, you either dont know the meaning of a perfect 
 game, or are just plain ignorant or possibly jealous that oblivion surpasses all your favourite 
 games by a collosal margin.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirebladeC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a great looking piece of art work yet i feel that more could have been done it seems 
 that Bethesda have focused more on how much you can do than actual gameplay and yes the graphics.
 
  
  The Gameplay fighting is basic and simple to do all it is right click defend left click attack 
 on there video gameplay they said they wanted the full effect of warriors bashing blade upon each 
 other will they achieved that but in very simple way
  
  What you can do, hundreds of things which make up the for the poor fighting engine and there are 
 hundreds of quests which will grip you towards those instead of the main quest. you can join quilds, 
 explore duegions, travel everywhere around the of Tamriel and its one of those games where you 
 will be lost and confused and sometimes it advised that should get a game guide.
  
  The Graphics, next gen will maybe for some but listen Bethesda you may have a next gen PC to test 
 and play but many who are fans of Elder scrolls dont, which is why some have been put off from 
 buying this as there PC wont play it. for those who can play it have had to make setting changes 
 which one downfall the this next gen graphic game. 
  
  worth the money? well i would say yes and no if your PC can play it at a decent setting and you 
 like this genre of gaming then yes but if your worried wether it will work or not then its your 
 choice.
  
  Few problems that i think Bethesda should of sorted before they release it they say it took them 
 four years to make it would'nt of hurt to take a little longer to tweak the game a little to get 
 rid a lot of all the Bugs people have been complaining about. and now instead of sorting out the 
 game itself problem they have relased first ever official mods where you have to PAY for them to 
 get them!.
  
  Overall well made game with hours of gaming but there is too much to do good yes hours of entertainment 
 and no as it WILL eat away your time that you have but still the graphics are great (depending 
 on your PC's specs) and the gameplay maybe simple but still effective, yet with problems with the 
 many Bugs in places and the outrageous charge for official mods its still got a lot of life and 
 with choice of either PC or XBOX 360, Normal or Collectors Edition there are many choices when 
 buying game as there are in the game its self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitfiend23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  What to say???? I'm DUMBSTRUCK!!! All i can say is that this GAME IS RUDDY COOL!!!!!!!! If you 
 don't have it yet, take my word go GET IT AND YOU WILL NOT REGRET BUYING IT!!! 360 or PC..... On 
 both the consoles IT IS MINDBLOWING.... If you have even a slight interest in GAMING.... this game 
 will make sure that you begin to LOVE GAMING. It's an excellent game.... only a little (eenie-weenie) 
 problem in audio but rest it's GOOOD!!!!
  This is how my rating goes...
  Sound-Good
  Value- Excellent
  Graphics- This is a game or a movie???!
  Gameplay-BEYOND WORDS
  Tilt-BEYOND 
 WORDS
  
  GET IT AS SOON AS U CAN!!! ; )
  -----REGARDS PITFIEND 23!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodMan111
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  You start to choose one character. You can chose following races:
  
  Imperial
  
  Khajiit
  
  Argonian
  
  Redguard
  
  Breton
  
  Dark Elf
  
  High Elf
  
  Wood 
 Elf 
  
  Orc
  
  Nord.
  
  Then you write a name and you chose hair and how old you are and much other things. 
  
  Then 
 it starts. You starts in a prison there is a prisoner who talk to you and say some stuff. Then 
 the king comes and a Copley of guards. They gonna escape from the sewers (Prison) and in your cell 
 its the only way to escape. So you follow them and some want to kill the king and enemies jump 
 done and attack. Then they say you gonna stay here. Then its rats who attack you from a hole in 
 the wall and you kill them. And you go in there then you get some stuff and learn some stuff. After 
 you have going in the cave a while then you see the king and the guards again. The guard say: Its 
 that prisoner again lets kill him. The king says: Its not one of them he must help us. And after 
 a while the king dies and before he did he gave you a amulet. Amulet Of Kings. You gonna take it 
 to a person and his name is Jaufree and stuff. And then your adventure goes one. You get quests 
 from people talk to them and stuff. You go up in level when you train your Major skills but that 
 you can read in a game guide or in the manual or something and you while learn while playing. 
 
  
  And its a very big game and you can get member in guild and go in to Chavez and get member in 
 the Arena and much other things. So its much to do and thats very good.
  
  The graphics is very good its very good graphics on people and houses and all things is good grafic 
 on.
  
  Sound: The dialogues is good and the music is good sound is sound and its very good done.
  
 
  Value: Its worth the money and like i say you dont gonna get disappointed I promise. 
  
  Buy it 10/10 ! 
  
  Bye bye have a good day.
  
  // BloodMan444 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubesmind
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  This is actually a good topic, because I find myself comparing the two of them anyways. First off 
 it has been a while since I played Elder Scrolls 3. Really enjoyed it, which actually surprised 
 me because it was a single player game in a sea of the multi-player revolution. Anyways, on to 
 the topic.
  
  I can't argue with the fact that Oblivion has an amazingly beautiful and lush environment. There 
 were times when I would stand on top of the cliff just below a farm near Anvil watching day turn 
 to dusk over the ocean waters. At which point I would snap out of it and remember it is a game.
 
  But apart from the vibrant scenery and detailed towns, the items seem to lack. The weapons and 
 armor feel almost standard. The unique differences in ES3 gave each set of weapons and armor their 
 own personality. Almost like they actually were crafted by different races. While in Oblivion, 
 it seems that their was one armorer that traveled in and out of ever shop and oblivion gate in 
 the entire continent.
  I can understand why people see all the characters faces as being "fugly", but on second thought 
 look at the time period. These people would be lucky to own a tooth brush let alone botanical facial 
 creams. Expecting everyone to appear as a model would pull a way from the game world just as much, 
 if not more.
  
  As for this whole having things "adapt" to your level. That could have been done better. I don't 
 like that everything I come in contact with is random, don't get me wrong sometimes this is great. 
 But I like exploring all the caves, and I like to tell my friends where they can locate weapons 
 and armor that they can't find.
  This completely random everything becomes a little annoying. Not even items in treasure chests 
 are the same, giving the game a bit of an anti-social slant to it.
  The randomness also gives another problem. In ES3 it was hard to find certain equipment, even finding 
 sets of equipment was a bit of fun challenge. In Oblivion, I haven't done much in the way of the 
 main quest but just from running around I'm like level 28 and now everyone and their beggar's friend 
 is running around in full or half sets of Deadric armor. I mean where is the incentive to explore 
 the unexplored? I just don't get that treasure hunter feeling from Oblivion.
  
  As a couple of quick side notes. Enchanting, Spell Making, Soul Trapping, and aquatic life need 
 to be improved upon. Can't believe how anything exist in the world without aquatic animals. Just 
 boggles my mind!
  Well that's all I feel like typing right now. Have fun tearing it apart.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  After Rome: Total War and Rainbox Six: Lockdown, this is the third time I find myself in complete 
 disagreement with the Gamespot review. Oblivion isn't a particularly good RPG. It's just big and 
 long... and generic.
  
  However, after having spent 50+ hours, it is hard to say you didn't get your money's worth. Still 
 Oblivion disappoints. The graphics, are great for screenshots, but in motion the game looks a lot 
 less impressive. There are set distances when background blurry textures are replaced by a higher 
 level of detail. Unfortunately this happens in plain sight even with all ranges set to maximum. 
 The pop-in of grass is also evident. Self shadows (the shadow of a nose on a face for example) 
 are also of questionable quality. Faces range from beautiful looking to downright freaky in particular 
 lighting conditions. Textures of caves have the "DX9 plastic look" to them.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, there have been marked improvements compared to Morrowind, but 
 also dramatic failures. Combat is a much more rewarding experience, as is sneaking. Since Magicka 
 regenerates automatically, playing a mage is now actually possible, whereas in Morrowind it was 
 almost a no no. However, level-scaling (which has been the subject of heated discussions on the 
 Elderscrolls forums) does horrible things to the gameplay. Level-scaling is an auto-balancing feature 
 that makes sure creatures are generated for you based on your level. The same is true of loot. 
 And that's where things go dramatically wrong. When you're level 1 the world around you is filled 
 with rats, goblins, basic iron or leather weapons and armour and that's it. When you're level 30+ 
 the world around you is FILLED with supposedly rare items like Daedric/glass armour and Ebony weapons. 
 This nearly completely defeats the purpose of exploration and dungeon crawling. Everything that 
 you might think is rare the moment you find it, will be completely common a few levels later.. 
 In addition it means levelling-up is a _bad_ thing. Another completely illogical consequence is 
 that to power-play a mage, a viable strategy is to pick a warrior specialization.
  
  Then there is the interface... in contrast to Morrowinds fantasic interface Oblivion's is a pure 
 console interface. Very few things on screen at once, it takes many many mouse clicks to go over 
 your position on the map, your inventory and your spells. In Morrowind that was pretty much ONE 
 mouse click. Inexcusable.
  
  Boss battles are very disappointing. Something isn't right when the Mages Guild's nemesis, a powerful 
 mage, charges you with a simple dagger, only to get moved down. The main bad guy fight was also 
 badly orchestrated and really no different than any other fight. Why these guys aren't set to start 
 the fight with you all buffed up and ready, is beyond me.
  
  Regardless of all these negatives. The quests are quite good and a lot of fun. You can overhear 
 conversations that will trigger quests. Some quests are multiple part affairs. Some quests are 
 quite original, graphically. People will come to you at points. Each of the 4 "guilds" apparently 
 has a lengthy set of quests related to them (I've only done the mages guild ones) . The main storyline 
 is compelling, and has a great conclusion. And every so ofter the graphics will indeed make you 
 stand still just to watch the screen for a minute.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: the game looks unbelieaveable. there isent much u cant do impresive mix of game play.
 
  
  THE BAD: i have not played the origional but i have herd a lot of people say there they are very 
 similar. 
  
  fGRSFICKS: first i would like to mention the grafical power of this game. its very intense so you 
 have to have a higher end pc to play it. but the graficks are needed as they make the game fantastick 
 looking. the graficks are needed to make the world a more realistick aperarence, every think for 
 the main castle to the grass is fantastick and deatailed.
  10/10
  
  GAME PLAY: a good mix of RPG, melle, and exploration type gaming all mixed in to one. the RPG element 
 controls the experence systme of the game how the people level up and get better, and its not like 
 most prgs where u only get experence for direct fighting of or quests. in this game u can get exp 
 for running or using a spell aney time. the melle or combat system is anouther thinkg that seperats 
 this game from the advarage arg. the action is very intence where fighting can happen maney diffrent 
 ways with a sword or magick its simple but good. the last thing that makes the game stand out is 
 the large expancivines of the world you can go aney wehere and jest spend hours walking around 
 in the very good looking environment and find plenty of thinks to keep busiey with. 
  10/10
  
  PS: i think this game is amazing. although i have herd a lot about it being prety 
 much the same game as morrowind i am gessing that this might be a turn off for some players of 
 the game. but as this is my first time playing an elder scrolls game i cant relly say if former 
 elder scrolls fans will be that impressed but as a first timer i can say i am very impresed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are... just... amazing. Even at low resolutions. My setup is an Athlon 64 3200+, 6600GT 
 vid card, and 1 gig crucial ram. I run the game with bloom with all distant objects on at 1024x768. 
 I get 25-30 FPS generally. You could spend $500 on some snazzy video card, but in my opinion it's 
 a lot of money for only a small amount of improvement. The game on the settings I use looks fantastic 
 and runs smoothly.
  
  The fighting system is very well done, some big improvements over morrowind. Shields are manually 
 usable and you don't have to switch to magic-casting mode to cast spells. There is so much to do!! 
 Because the game is so immersive, it has tons of replay value. The ability to create and use mods 
 is a huge bonus. And for only $50 new? You might spend 600 hours and play through the game 3 times 
 before you get sick of it. Worth every penny and then some.
  
  There are some sound flaws, such as the voice volumes. You might walk 3 inches away from someone 
 and they say something to you, but if you enter talking mode, their voices are much louder. Somewhat 
 unrealistic, but I'm only nitpicking.
  
  I am rather ticked off that Bethesda released this when it has such ridiculous glitches. I've had 
 the game for just a couple days and it has crashed 6 times. Ridiculous. It happens when you enter 
 a new area; it typically loads, then there is a black screen, then the game shuts off. Other than 
 this, there are just small, unimportant, easy-to-ignore problems. PLEASE come out with a patch 
 soon to fix this Bethesda!!
  
  I don't play games much, so maybe I'm easily impressed, but graphically this game is better than 
 any other PC game I've seen on the market -- I'm comparing this to F. E. A. R., Battlefield 2, etc etc 
 (all the "good graphic" games) . Since this is like a first person shooter in many ways, it should 
 appeal to FPS fans whether or not they like RPGs. This game is very easy to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinkAlmighty
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ah Elder Scrolls, you never do seem to fail me. Every single time you show the gaming world what 
 "awe-inspiring graphics" really are and eventually show the the makings of a deep engrossing story... That 
 is if you want to follow it.
  
  And that is the thing about this game, your characters life can be as grand and honest or as shadowy 
 and conniving as you see fit. Do as you will, you will be appropriately rewarded or punished. 
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  This is the obvious focal point of the games hype and trust me it lives up to it. The grass sways 
 in the wind and blood glistens on your shield and sword in the mid-day sun. With a system that 
 is up to the task you will literally have your breath taken away the first time you enter the world.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  There is something for everyone. Magic/stealth/combat you name it and there will be a variation 
 to it. Everything from combat to just exploring the hillside by the town stables will be rewarding 
 in everysense of the word. Just traveling somewhere by foot is a fulfilling experience. I cannot 
 express enough how great it is just to be in the game. 
  
  How ever with the rose comes a thorn, the controls can be clunky and unforgiving to someone just 
 starting out. They were for me. Expect to accidentally steal a few items while browsing through 
 stores. It happens.
  
  Sound 9/10 
  Some would disagree but this was the best part for me. Everything sounds organic and real. The 
 soundtrack for this game is epic and worthy of being in the lord of the rings and yet you dont 
 actually notice it unless you listen for it. This is a good thing. It creates ambience without 
 distracting the player. I'll leave the creature sounds for you to hear... the zombies will creep 
 you out.
  
  Value 10/10 
  You will be playing this for quite some time. With over 200 dungeons and the shear amount of available 
 quests you will be exploring cyrodill for quite some time before you grow bored.
  
  Tilt 10/10 
  Not only does this game live up to the hype, it excedes it. This is a clear cut 
 winner for game of the year and I will be quite surprised if anything else proves to be better 
 in the RPG catagory for a very long time. Everything in this game is on par with itself it's original, 
 beautiful, fun, abient, and just plain fun. Enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marklax62
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I was really skeptical of this game at first because i am a stealth and shooter type guy. So i 
 thought i would wait and ask a couple people about it after they had played it for a good chunk 
 of time. So i figure I'll wait a week and then ask some people, but the first day it came out i 
 heard people talking about it everywhere. So i ended up getting it and let me tell you, once you 
 get the controls figured out and the graphics tweeked this game is a ton of fun. There are countless 
 places you can explore. I literally spent 15 hours doing random quests for people before i even 
 started the main quest. Once i started the main quest I found the oblivion gates alittle boring 
 and tedious especially ones that require you to jump through a bunch of hoops just to get to the 
 main tower. 
  But, some of the larger battles are a blast. The gameplay was pretty solid except for the occasional 
 wall glitch. Fighting is pretty solid and usually doesnt get boring because the difficulty ramps 
 up as your character gets better. The graphics are amazing if you have a nice graphics card. Id 
 recommend checking out the performance guide here on gamespot to tweak it. The sound is pretty 
 good but i found the voice acting to get repetitive because it seems like they used 10 voice actors 
 for 1000 characters. This game is well worth $50. You dont even have to like RPG's and ill garuntee 
 that you get addicted within the first hour. I know a bunch of people that dont play video games 
 very often but have spent twice as much time on this game as i have. But in the end the repetative 
 voice acting, tedious oblivion gate closing, and small glitches are all tiny details that can be 
 overlooked in this sweet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djtrancer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Top graphics with incredibly good physics, last time that happened was HL2.
  Then we got the cool "part of the world" feeling where you feel almost the same as playing a mmorpg.
 
  There have been talk about many hours of lines for the story but one thing i found out that made 
 me a little annoyed was that the same line was said often in common greets and rumors, i could 
 live with the same content but that they say it the same way. 
  And even sometimes your conversations are a little after, like one time i had closed 5-6 oblivion 
 gates and was to close one with a guard outside it.. he talked about the horror (as the rest) but 
 then i had 2 lines, one about me asking about the gates like i had never been in one and the other 
 on how to close one?.. pretty stupid.
  But there isn't much to do than to move on..
  Then we have the main quest, that wasn't long at all, felt like a little fly on the windshield 
 that i wipe away fast. But there are alot of other stuff in the world to do than the main quest 
 but it still feels a little screwed up.
  
  Then we have some minor glitches that becomes very annoying when people use them and tell me how 
 fun the game was.. like the man in Imperials city that gives you infinite cash.. christ, why use 
 it if it excist. it's till cheating!!
  
  Overall: Great game with glitches and AI problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon05
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited to play this game, as Gamespot was (and still is) giving it such a big hype. 
 Not just Gamespot either, but a couple of people I know were also looking forward to it. When I 
 did finally get this game and I got down to playing I thought "this is awesome". It all seemed 
 to get better too after my first hour or so of gameplay. However, this game which starts off so 
 well can gradually become slightly tedious.
  
  -Graphics-
  As far as graphics go, this game has it all. The environments are beautiful and vast. Rest assured 
 this game has amazing graphics. The sun will shine through trees, there are plenty of shadows and 
 there are also those little things like the water and reflections which make it oh-so pretty. Only 
 problem I have with the environments in this game is that a lot of them are dark for obvious reasons 
 (caves, mines etc) , meaning I found myself carrying a torch a LOT. This doesn't matter all that 
 much, I'd just rather have my weapon and shield at the ready.
  
  This game does demand much higher specs due to the sheer amount of graphical features this game 
 has, but there is no need to worry about this, as these features can be turned off or turned down 
 if necessary. Also note that your computer may not be able to play this game, so check out your 
 computer specs before you go ahead and buy it.
  
  -Sound-
  This is something I myself am unsure about. The background music in this game is perfectly fine, 
 there are no irritating BGMs that come to mind. There are a large collection of sounds to allow 
 more of an iteraction with the game environments.
  
  Something I feel I must comment on regarding the sound is that the way the developers have handled 
 the voices for each NPC (non-playable character) . For example, one moment you'll speak to a beggar 
 with a typical 'croaky voice (if you know what I mean) . This is all good, until I ask this NPC 
 about any rumours. This is when it hits me - the beggar's voice has miraculously changed! But hold 
 on, it gets better. This voice is exactly the same as the voices of a solider-type character. This 
 is not a rare occurance either, in fact, this has happened quite frequently for me. I felt that 
 this constant voice change somehow spoiled the game's beauty. This was something I was very sad 
 to see.
  
  -Gameplay-
  Not the game's best feature, but that doesnt mean it's bad. The battles in Oblivion are tense, 
 exciting and enjoyable. I was pleased to see that this game overall works quite well with its gameplay, 
 with the few odd exceptions. It would take far too long to explain how the game works, that is 
 how vast it is. The general overview is that this game works just like an RPG. You have health, 
 magic, skills, levels etc. You have to boost major skills such as blade, block, restoration etc. 
 Once your have boosted your skills enough, you will level up. The only flaw here is that you will 
 have to find a place to sleep to actually level up.
  
  Players can choose from a wide variety of character types and are able to customize their characters. 
 I was happy to see your could even alter their age! This is one of the many times players will 
 have complete freedom to do what they want.
  
  Is this freedom such a good thing though? I loved the way how the game started off dramatic and 
 thrilling. I thought to myself "this game will have a great story". After the start was over, I 
 could roam the entire world and do whatever I wanted to. This could be a minor flaw for the game 
 though, as I felt the game's freedom stopped the main plot from being emphasized as much as it 
 could. The game makes Mini-quests seem equally important to the main plot, which really won't do. 
 There are a large amount of quests to do, meaning there is almost always somethign to be done in 
 this game. Even a journey from one town to another may end up in being a quest on it's own, you 
 may end up finding a dungeon along the way or so-forth.
  One thing I must also say is that the quests can become a little repetitive over time. Once I did 
 about 30 I was already bored, as most of them are the same, just with a different scenario. This 
 could just be me, so don't let this put you off totally.
  
  The game's camera is set by default in 1st person, but you will be able to change it to 3rd person 
 if you desire. Im used to playing games in 3rd person, but I have to say this game has a tricky 
 3rd person to master. I will say 3rd person is necessary for some areas in the game, for example 
 horse riding. The horse controls are absolutely awful in 1st person, so make sure you remember 
 to switch if it bugs you. Seriously, if anyone can stand riding a horse in 1st person, I salute 
 you. I usually walk from one location to another as the temptation to jump off a cliff on horse-back 
 is too much to resist.
  
  There is way too much to explain about Gameplay, so if you're interested, you can find out the 
 rest for yourself when you play.
  
  -Value-
  What can I say? This game is garunteed to last a LONG, LONG time if you stick with it. Theres no 
 doubt about that. It will take longer than you might expect to level up, plus with all the other 
 extras and quests thrown in, you'll be hoooked on this for hours and hours. That is a promise, 
 if you do enjoy it.
  
  -Overall-
  A great game, but there are a couple of things I'd love to see tweaked. I would love a better 3rd 
 person, more emphasis on the main plot and most of all for that NPC voice issue to be fixed. Apart 
 from that, this game will offer a lot of gamers something they won't come across everyday in a 
 game. This will last them a long, long time and is well worth the money you will pay for it. All 
 I will say is go and buy it and enjoy!
  
  -Smallwood- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  I could write a book about all the merits inside Oblivion when it comes to RPG design, but one 
 of the most impressive accomplishments is the quest design. There's actual character development 
 between you and key NPCs in varied factions you rise in. The Fighters Guild quest line is just 
 a tangent in this game outside the Main Quest, and it has a full story arc with characters you'll 
 grow to like and want to stick up for, and some enemies you'll relish the chance to pound into 
 the ground toward the end. I've only started the initial quests in the Main storyline, and it's 
 the same thing there -- characters you care about, with the added perk of Sean Bean voicing a central 
 character.
  
  Some of the quests are honest-to-goodness *funny* -- discovering a ghost town devoid of life, only 
 to find out the whole town was turned invisible by a rogue mage nearby. Or saving an Orc Noble's 
 daughter from abduction and getting to hear the Orc Nobleman pathetically attempt to speak like 
 a sophisticate to you, only he sounds like Don King inventing hilarious bogus fancy words to hype 
 up a boxing match. I've barely made a dent in the overall quests here, and I can't wait to see 
 more.
  
  The other accomplishment worth mentioning is how good the combat design is. I'm playing a melee 
 warrior type, and there's true technique demanded for fights. Block-and-jab, darting in and out 
 of your opponent's range, opening the fights with poisoned arrows from distance and closing for 
 the kill, managing your buffs and potion effects. Different monsters require different melee tactics, 
 which feels very cool in-game and realistic. A heated fight really makes you feel like you're in 
 danger, using your surroundings for cover if needed, and using blocks as often as attacks. Overall, 
 the combat is leaps and bounds more interactive and rewarding than what you saw in Morrowind.
 
  
  All the other good points are covered in other reviews -- I just wanted to sign praises of the 
 combat and quest design, which are truly phenomenal and any fan of true RPGs will appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisJdemm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  ahhh elder scrools 4 oblivion is a vary good game indeed better than the rest of the games in the 
 series i will enshure you that. but there is one problem though. My freaken graphics card will not 
 cut the cheese to give me the quality that everybody is talking about. but i am thinking about 
 getting the radenX1900se to see if that will do but none the less even though i have my game on 
 its lowest quality its graphics are still way better than morrowinds so atleast i am proud of that. 
 well anyway the story to the game is pretty good so far but i am not one of the ones that usually 
 sticks to the storys in the elder scrools games until i have explored the map totally. lets cut 
 to the chase with the ai in the game . the monsters and the npcs move beleaveibly enough! i mean 
 really they have there own daily rotuines for crying out loud imean i saw a girl zap her pet dog 
 because it wouldent shut up. but any way the combat system has dramadicly improved sience morrowind 
 this time you can actually hit the people. well since i am getting kind of bord wrighting this 
 review this is it and i hope you like it and if you dont than go to hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NUTranceaddict
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I played Diablo when it first came out in the day and eventually lost interest. After that I never 
 really played anymore role playing games. But when my friend introduced me to this game and its 
 graphics, I was in love. The graphics are unbelievable, this game even inticed me enough to go 
 out and buy a better graphics card. The variety of quests that you can participate in is a plus 
 as well if you want to venture off the main storyline and have some fun stealing from people or 
 killing people. Oblivion made me interested in RPGs again and PC games as a whole for that matter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3lly
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  How often does a epic game comes along and rewrite everything we come to expected out of a video 
 game? ........... well about every year or so there is always one or two games that does this. eg: 
 Quake, Street Fighter, Final Fantasy, GTA, Metal Gear Solid, Gran Turismo, Resident Evil, WOW, 
 Warcraft, Farcry, Pac Man, Ninja Gaiden, Zelda, Halo, Tetris, Half Life, MegaMan, Lumines, Space 
 Invaders, Battlefield, Tekken, FEAR, Mario, Metroid, Pong, all those Star Wars crap but some of 
 them were quite good, DOD Xtreme Beach Volleyball, ET, The Extra Terrestrial, The Sims, Final Fantasy, 
 Daikatana etc. But this.... this is the game that will have the honour of being buried with me 
 to the grave when the day comes and i shall depart from this mortal realm. 
  
  OK thats enough for the intro time to start the review. Lets see ummm...........
  well you can 
 always tell something is good when its expensive right? If thats true then Oblivion must be off 
 the scale because it is the most expensive video game i every bought. You See I had trouble running 
 it on my Home PC here are the specs:
  
  P133
  16 mb RAM
  8x CD-ROM
  2 mb Mystique Trident
  SB awe32
  win95
  
  So when I called tech support for their infinite 
 wisdom they advised me that I may need to upgrade my PC a bit, I said "Ok", and they said "don't 
 ever call back" and also filed a restraining order (WTF!?!) .
  
  $2000 later..... I was ready to travel into the world of fantasy things and stuff the graphics 
 was so real I swear i pissed my pants when the giant rat came charging towards me! But what really 
 blew my mind was when I went outside and saw the landscape wow! Finally a reason to stay inside 
 I mean whats the point of going outside when I can do it on my PC, fresh air maybe , but just open 
 a window or something.
  
  The gameplay is fun and easy, if you ever played an FPS its the same thing except you dont have 
 headshots and people calling you n00b for TKing. The leveling system is easy to follow you start 
 of as level 1 and then as you progress the number goes up , which is good because that means your 
 stronger than level 1 and kill other things that are slightly stronger like mud crabs and giant 
 rat.
  
  The sound is so real that when someone talks to me I cant tell if its the game or someone telling 
 me to get off the PC.
  The soundtrack feels like Lord of the Rings because they're simliar
  and the Voice acting is good because the guy from star wars plays the king whats his face Captian 
 William Shatner of the USS Death Star.
  
  So if you want the greatest game in the world just wait longer but for now get Oblivion.
  
 
  The End! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeElohm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  The vampire of Cyrodiil varies greatly from its Morrowind counterpart: The Ash Vampire. Indeed, 
 many scholars agree that the Cyrodiilic Vampire is much more dangerous due to its ability to be 
 indistinguishable from a normal man until it strikes. I can assure you that these scholars are 
 correct, as I have been blessed with the Porphyrric Hemophilia for a good long while. In this treatise 
 I will outline exactly how vampirism works so that others in Cyrodiil may decide for themselves 
 whether or not they want to travel into some dank cave and be bitten.
  
  Vampirism comes in stages... of which I am aware of three. Each stage confers its own benefits 
 and has its own drawbacks. I will begin with the first phase.
  
  Phase I: Sated. I cal Phase one the Sated period due to the fact that Phase one occurs just after 
 you have fed. In the Sated period, vampires are indistinguishable from normal folks and can walk 
 around under the sun with no penalties whatsoever. This stage lasts around 24 hours. Feeding while 
 in this stage does nothing to forestall stage II: The Hunger, but after entering stage II or III 
 simply feeding will take the Vampirism back into stage I.
  Other bonuses conferred at Stage I: Vampiric Attributes (Speed, Strength, and Willpower) +5, Vampiric 
 Skills (Acrobatics, Athletics, Destruction, Hand to Hand, Illusion, Mysticism, and Sneak) +5. Resist 
 Paralysis 100, Resist Disease 100, Resist normal weapons 5, Lesser Power: Hunter's Sight (Night 
 Eye on self and Detect Life 100' for thirty seconds) Weakness to fire.
  
  Phase II: The Hunger. Phase II is entered into after resting or waiting. Those with very low personality 
 might be noticed as a vampire. At this stahe it is rare though. Vampiric skills and attributes 
 increase to +10. Resist normal weapons increases to 10. Greater Power: Vampiric Seduction (Charm 
 for 20' on touch) . Sun Damage, can not fast travel during the day. Weakness to fire increased.
 
  
  Phase III: The Starving. At this phase only those with the highest personalities will avoid being 
 recognized as a vampire.
  Vampiric skills and abilities increased to +15. Resist normal weapons increases to 15. Greater 
 Power: Reign of Terror (Silence 20' on touch and demoralize up to level 16 for 60 sec) Weakness 
 to fire increased.
  
  Feeding: You may only feed from people who are asleep. It is recomended that you have a decent 
 alteration or security skill. Otherwise? Beggars are free for picking... but you may never leave 
 town.. and the Gray Fox loves his beggars. Hmm.
  
  With this small bit of information on the Cyrodiilic vampire? One might hope an informed decision 
 might be made.
  
  It just the tinyest of sips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12VIPER21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of the game is very good, the game looks especially well with HDR turned on. The voice 
 acting is also superb. The storyline itself is very long and doesn't get boring. Apart from the 
 storyline There are tons of quests in the game, and this adds a lot to the length.
  
  The menu system of the game is not well suited for the PC but it can be changed easily thanks to 
 some mods that are already available.
  
  The game world is very big, there are a lot of cities and each of them is packet with dozens of 
 NPCs that are all different in their faces (thanks to the games amazing face generator program) . 
 There are a lot of quests for every city, and many cities have homes that you can buy. 
  
  Also, every line of the NPCs speech is voice acted, an the voice acting is very good. Different 
 races have different accents, and people will say diffrent things to you if they are either angry 
 or happy.
  
  The main problem of the game is performance. My computer is not very bad: GeForce 6600gt, 1GB ram, 
 and 2.0 MGHz processor, and still the game runs very badly. Even if I turn HDR and bloom off the 
 game still lags in some places (less then 10 FPS!) . In order for the game to be playable in some 
 areas, I had to change some of the game files.
  
  The game is very good, but only if you're PC can run it well enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlareBlade1211
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful game and has many excellent qualities and characteristics that make it a great RPG
  The fact that the graphics are brilliant and that there is just so much to do totally gives you 
 the immersive experience that you want in a good roleplaying game. The non-linear factor to it 
 also gives it a great amount of fun factor, making you free to make your own choices throughout 
 the game. The combat system is excellent, giving it a more hands-on feeling rather than in Morrowind. 
 Overall, this is just a brilliant game with some of the most amazing qualities that have been incorporated 
 into a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalpoisoned
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  For what seemed like years I had been wanting to play this game, and when it finally came out on 
 March 21st (no stores had it on the 20th... Monday) , I rushed out to get it as fast as I could. 
 Got home, poured the contents of the box all over my floor, and was mesmerized. "Omg, one disc!!" 
 Now, as you may notice, my dumb self didn't notice that it was a dvd game at the store or the millions 
 of websites that mentioned it. Lucky for me, I actually had a dvd drive. Whew, worried me for a 
 minute. Not like I ever play dvds on my pc.
  
  Installed the game, it took maybe 5-10 minutes for the whole process. Started the game up and created 
 my character (a rather ugly imperial guy) . First thing you notice when you get in the game is the 
 graphics of course. Anyway, blah blah blah the king comes and dies and then you have to save the 
 world.
  
  Advancing through the storyline, you actually feel like you can really roleplay, something you 
 can't really do in most roleplaying games. Why, I had fun simply hitting people and then running 
 away. Then coming back after things calmed down, and hit them again. 
  
  I played the game on nearly the easiest difficulty, because, well I'm a wussy. And even then it 
 provided fairly challenging, especially when fighting in the dark (and it got quite dark at times, 
 making me wish i had picked up that last torch to use with my sword.
  
  All in all, the game took me about 60 hours to get the main quest done (it lets you play after 
 you "beat it") and i played it for a couple more hours after that, before finally losing interest. 
 In a month or two or whatever, I'll probably play this game again as another class and race and 
 whatever, but I felt that even with the class I picked (a monk) that i still wanted to go around 
 with heavy armor and a sword! So I will have more discepline next time....
  
  Ummm anyway it's a good game, sound was really buggy on my computer, every sound effect was glitchy, 
 but the music was still nice. I had an average framerate of maybe 45fps, and the game actually 
 froze up a couple times on loads, which as you all might know, can really piss you off. If you 
 can, go to a friend's house and take up their time playing on their crappy computer, if you can't, 
 go ahead and get it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corey496
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Overall I think that oblivion is an amazing game although there are a few little bugs which really 
 annoy me as they have been overlooked. For instance when you shoot an arrow at a tree it seems 
 to stick in perfectly but as you look closer it is floating about 3 inches away from the tree. 
 Also when you smack a tree or wood with your sword it should not clang as if you are hitting a 
 steel block. I personally find these small mistakes very frustrating as the game is great but the 
 oblivion team should have noticed this but I still think it's one of the best games I've ever played. 
 OBLIVION ROCKS!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psyko-Genesis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion
  
  When I bought my new pc a month back, all I could think about was this game. How it would run ever 
 so smooth on my pc. I got this game a day before the European release, because some store decided 
 that was okay. I didnt mind at all. I installed it, I booted it up and I was quite disappointed 
 with how low it automatically set it. When I set it higher however it ran like a turtle. My framerate 
 had dropped below 30. Now, 30 is do-able with a shooter.
  But not with an immersive role-playing game. Two days later, someone gave me a few tips on how 
 to run it smooth. Well, it runs smooth. And truth be told Ive never seen a prettier game in my 
 life. It is absolutely astonishing. The freedom, the richness of the world. It all seemed to come 
 together perfectly.
  
  On to the game itself. It starts out quite interesting, with a lovely easy sort-of tutorial. You 
 get freed from prison by the Uriel Septim himself. Cheers to the voice acting. Kudos to Patrick 
 Stewart. Too bad we dont hear much more from him in the game. However, the first thing I noticed 
 was the combat system. Everybody was going on about how great it was. I hated it. I got my sword. 
 And I swung it. But, two basic attacks and a lot of camera motion just got to my head. Made me 
 dizzy and made me lose control. When fighting my first rat, I was swinging all over the place. 
 Then I tried magic. Now that, that felt good. Blasting rats with a big ball of fire oh yeah, couldnt 
 get much better. Or the bow, wonderful. Take an arrow, point, shoot. Kill. Felt good. So, chose 
 my birth sign, made a lovely dark elf out of myself, and made a new class all to fit my stuff. 
 I went outside, and I my jaw dropped. So did my framerate a little, but that doesnt matter. I 
 immediately started running around, checking stuff. Ran into a wolf, killed him. No problems there. 
 
  Then on to the main quest. It all seemed nice and wonderful. Go find the illegitimate heir to the 
 throne. Too bad his village just got destroyed by the Daedra. Go destroy that gate they tell me. 
 So, I walk into this massive, HUGE portal only to find myself standing in front of the gate of 
 Kvatch, the village where this heir was supposed to be. Now, to me, when I would walk straight 
 into a portal, Id think Id find myself sucked into another world. Not on the other side of it. 
 Okay, so you had to USE the portal to get to the Daedric world. So I did. Only to find a rather 
 unoriginal heap of lava and gothic structures. So far, I loved the look of the game, but the Daedric 
 world was just clich. And that startled me. Also, the lovely artificial intelligence theyve 
 been bragging about was getting to me. I tried to kill something, another guy got in the way. Now 
 to me, that does not seem smart, more incredibly stupid.
  Also, the radiant AI. When you go to town, people interact and they have their own lives and business 
 to attend to. Fine by me. However, they do it incredibly statically. Not a single person in Tamriel 
 breathes. Nor do they walk normally. Though their path finding is impeccable. Also, when you talk 
 to someone, the world around you freezes. As if time doesnt pass when you talk to someone. Now, 
 these are all minor things, but for a game thats said to have the liveliest world ever, these 
 minor things can really get to you.
  Back to the main quest. It got boring. Go do this. Go kill that. Go find this. It really got to 
 me. So I started randomly killing innocent people, until I woke up to find the Dark Brotherhood 
 Representative leaning over my head. So I joined the Dark Brotherhood. Sounded cool, a bunch of 
 assassins. Their questline was interesting to say the least. This was almost a game itself. Every 
 quest was new, different and original. I was startled. The dark brotherhoods questline was almost 
 better than the main questline. Astonishing.
  But, without wanting to completely criticize this game, it is beautiful and the gameplay does work. 
 Now, if you dont have much time on your hands, dont play this game. If you do, go play it. And 
 dont stop till youre either dead or you need sleep or food. This is a very good game. And Im 
 just nitpicky. If you can take all the tiny mistakes, the tiny errors, than this game will blow 
 you away. If not, then dont start. Youll be annoyed, constantly.
  Good luck and have a lot of Oblivion fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmoney128
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest. This is the first RPG I have ever played on an electronic device (not being 
 on the playing board, or with cards) , and all I have to say is WOW! I have a few friends that 
 were Morrowind addicts and I have never touched the game or seen it in action. Call me sheltered, 
 I know. I decided to become jaded to the RPG realm on a pc or console and purchased The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion. I didnt get the special edition version so the game didnt come with the greatest 
 case. The case was actually a paper sleeve. To put it straight this isnt a game you cant judge 
 by its cover. It just doesnt explain or capture a fraction of the glory of this game.
  
  From the start you are already thrown into an already very active world. The feeling you get when 
 you first start is probably very similar to being in coma for about 20 years, waking up, being 
 released, and not knowing where you are going (thats why the learning curve is so long, that game 
 is actually played very easily) . Except in this story instead of leaving a hospital youre escaping 
 from prison. It is a very objective world you go through. It is like you wake up, go to work, go 
 to bed, everyone has a schedule and a place to be (you can too if you make one for yourself) . You 
 can even eat and sleep, although everything has a special effect on you, from getting drunk from 
 beer, or restoring your energy from eating your veggies.
  
  Lets focus now on why I gave this game the numbers I gave it. First off is the gameplay. There 
 isnt much you can complain about when you move easily. Oblivion does motion, combat, skill level 
 ranking, percentages, and everything else you can find or imagine in this game very well. Who would 
 like being able to take a swig of your favorite draft and get all swashed before going into a cave 
 rooting out any evil that may come in your way? There are just so many possibilities from the streamlined 
 interface, smooth playability, and the immersive ever-changing world you are in has to offer. The 
 best part that makes it so good, the more you do something, the better and better you get at it 
 in the game. Say you do nothing but jump around, and you just keep hitting e or space (what 
 every your bounding is) your stats will show it. You can be an acrobatics expert, as simple and 
 ridiculous as it sounds.
  
  Second is the graphics. Can anyone say anything about the graphics, or is everyones jaws still 
 drop to the ground? Enough has just been said about the quality in Oblivion. Even on medium the 
 game looks incredibly life-like. Only thing is this game is a resource hog like every other review 
 has mentioned, and if you want the ultimate experience; you can spend a few Benjamins on a couple 
 of high-end Nvidia cards and SLi them together or go with ATIs latest advancements in gaming technology. 
 Either way to get the game looking as pristine as possible it will expensive, but very worth the 
 investment. Other than that my Pentium D (2.8 GHz) , 1GB of RAM, and a ATI Radeon X600, runs the 
 game rather smoothly in medium, just for a reference for you.
  
  Next off, the sound is superb. This really should go into gameplay because this is one of the things 
 that make the gameplay what it is. No one wants to play a FPS when the gun sounds are not ferocious 
 or dont have any body to them. Why would you want an adventure game that doesnt sound life like? 
 Not to worry here, other characters even hold full conversations with each other discuss rumors 
 around the town without you even having to ask them. Want to know what is going on in a town with 
 having to ask everyone? Go to a local pub (or INN) , and just sit there and listen to what the people 
 are saying. While in battle the sounds are crisp, realistic, and make everything feel like you 
 are physically in the middle of it - you are your character.
  
  Then the value Depending on your likings, or personality, this changes from player to player, 
 and coming from me, someone who has never touched an RPG on a computer screen, I found the value 
 of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion unprecedented. It is definitely worth every penny spent on this 
 immersive virtual, real working world. There is a near unlimited amount of things you can do in 
 this game. There are even some things that you want to keep doing over and over again because it 
 just so fun.
  
  This game will definitely keep anyone busy for hours. It has it all from immersion, realism (as 
 real as a fantasy can be) , sound quality, playability, its own special form of real time and keeping 
 that RPG feel, with all the aspects being meshed well to a very likable and well presented package 
 of a game. Now I know I left a very vague description of the game but that is all on purpose because 
 it is your turn to experience it for yourself. I definitely recommend buying The Elder Scroll IV: 
 Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_070
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  --Reconosco que se muy poco de este juego, pues lo unico que se es lo que se a explicado en esta 
 pajina. Pido (no de forma decesperada) , si se me pudiera enviar las modalidades de juego, de ste 
 juego, para saver si es de tercera persona. Tambien mi opiion (el puntaje que le di) se vasa en 
 lo que pude leer hacerca de este juego, y queria saver si es del estilo de juego del lineage2 c4??????
 
  
  gracias por todo: Tambien les informo que....... en relacion a los graficos y estilo de juego me 
 parecio muy bueno.. pero... el sonido, debo decir que apesta un poco!!!! (conclucion sacada de un 
 colega mo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joost2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  I was very sceptical about this game at first. I read some reviews about its predecessor morrowind 
 last year, and those convinced me to buy it. I bought the game of the year edition and.. was very 
 disappointed. The way of gaining levels, the difficulties of finding your way around, the feeling 
 of having to run annoying 'errants' all the time (including many boring walks through a not so 
 great/variable landscape) & the very unhandy menu's were, to say at least, unpleasant. What bothered 
 me even the most was the way quests were dealt with. Most of the time i didn't really know what 
 to do or where to go. The journal (auto-updated) was chaotic and too often incomplete. Another 
 minus was fighting: it didnt feel 'natural' & was even kind of boring...
  
  I think the developers listened well to the feedback of morrowindplayers, because everything disliked 
 about morrowind, has been improved. The menu's are a blessing now, same with the travellingsystem 
 (which allows you to quickly 'teleport' to already visited locations) and the fighting-part of 
 the game. Quests are stored nicely now and a compass will lead you the way. Add up-to date graphics 
 and all the positive points from morrowind (very large playingworld, lots of interaction, many 
 sidequests, non-linear) and you'll have a topclass game! 
  
  Oblivion will keep me occupied until Neverwinternights 2 reaches the stores, thats for sure. If 
 you like rpg's or if you want to try one (the rpg-facet isnt tht strong anyway) don't hesitate 
 and buy this game. If you just like playing games in general, try it out nevertheless, i doubt 
 you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchy2003
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Bethesda have made an excellent game in elder scrolls IV Oblivion. The graphics are stunning, the 
 gameplay is superb, and the Artifical intelligence is top draw. As i cant run this on full detail 
 due to my PC spec, it still looks great. The only problem i have with it is that i usually get 
 lag due to my PC Spec, but other than that i havent experienced any problems with oblivion to date. 
 The other thing that does impress me about this game is that u can become a vampire! how cool is 
 that! and u can also buy your own house!. I think bethesda should have allowed you to attack whilst 
 on your horse, which could become useful. 
  
  my PC Spec
  
  AMD ATHLON XP 2400+
  256MB RADEON 9600
  80GB HDD
  1GB PC 3200 RAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkinfan12341
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Oblvion the 4th game in the series takes you to Cyrodill. A huge place full of ruines and cities. 
 Altough most of the game is covered with woods and grass. It's a game that asks a lot of your computer 
 and it is worth every penny that you spend on a high end computer. The Ai is kinda weird though, 
 I was once chased by a troll that was in a cave and when i got out i ran as far as i could and 
 he still follows me. The computer also made a mistake when i was far away from a beast i couldn't 
 sleep because i had some beast chasing me. that for the minor points. It is large and i mean EVERYTHING 
 is large. The dungeons the cites the items you can get. It's so huge that it has about 100+ hours 
 gameplay. Well that if you are guildmaster of every guild if you did everything. But still when 
 you think you have done everything there is always a side quests. The addictivnes is great i got 
 addicted to it and i'm still now. It's almost perfect but dispite of the few minor thingies it 
 gets a 9.9 from me.
  
  Oh and the storymode is quite annoying because i hate the portals to oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pino88000
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to love this game, especially because of how much i enjoyed Morrowind. Oblivion 
 is nothing like Morrowind. Overall Oblivion is a nice game but its the little things that have 
 made the game lose its majestic feel and fantasy world setting. 
  
  Morrowind was great because of how alien the game-world was but how real it felt while you were 
 playing. For example, guar and other creatures, and buildings made of vines and carved from giant 
 shells. Morrowind took place in a fantasy world. Oblivion misses this point completely and only 
 makes real things seem real. WOW! do you see the bark on that tree sweet? Frankly this is terribly 
 boring.
  
  The radiant ai is overrated. The only thing it does is complicate things by having to search all 
 over town for someone for whom you need to speak with.
  
  I am also disappointed in the lack of a levitate spell in Oblivion, which could be used to truly 
 go anywhere in the game world. In Morrowind you could go anywhere and do anything the same is not 
 true with Oblivion. For example, every city is its own load zone and not something you can simply 
 walk in and out of.
  
  Also Oblivion does nothing new that Morrowind hasn't already besides horse travel which was nice 
 at first but also gets boring with the lack of mounted combat. Besides what is the point of a horse 
 with the new fast travel system?
  
  I hate to say it but I got bored with this game very quickly, don't believe the hype i like i did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigboss766
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game has it down. The combat is awsome, challanging, fun, and all in all just rite 
 for the game. The guys at 2K and Bethesda know what there doing. The game is not only fun to play 
 though... IT"S ABSOLUTLY BEAUTIFUL!!!
  Jeez does this game look good. You can go up to everything that you see and by the way you see 
 EVERYTHING. The enemy AI is actually realy smart. Of course they can be a little dumb at times... but 
 what AI isnt? The npc's have there own private conversations that work kind of like those bots 
 you can IM people with. They dont always get it rite but there pretty good. I mean comon people 
 there's no such thing as perfection but thats no reason to give a game like this a 4. I will add 
 though that the game is very damanding. You need a pretty good graphics card just to play the game 
 and you need a a good amount of space to play it. Im able to play the game on a little more than 
 medium with a 2.4 GHZ processor and a GeForce 6600GT (not overclocked) . So if you got a computer 
 thats a little on the low side i wouldnt suggest getting it for PC but if u got a 360 then totally 
 get it for that. I prolly would have if I had a 360. The music is great too. The only thing to 
 think about is that the guards are pretty much god's now. I mean they will litterally kick your 
 ass like you were a small child with a stick. So to rap it up I just want to say that i love the 
 game. If you like rpg's get it. If you like adventure games get it. If you like games at all get 
 it. the combat is in real time and works off contact now instead of a percentage so you wont find 
 yourself swinging like a maniac cause ull die.. trust me ull die. Oh and one more thing... The stealth 
 actually works in this... think of it as like playing theif.. or a sort of splinter cell/metalgear. 
 It's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the greatest RPG games ever created in Bethesda history.
  
  Not only is the graphic excellent but the gameplay as well. The fighting in the game isn't that 
 hard, depending on how you choose the difficulty in the, like me i have it one the easiest. Oblivion 
 is 1000000000 times better that Morrowing (duh) 
  
  Good stuff: Has a Physic Engine (the 2.0) , has a great gameplay with figting and everything. over 
 200 dungeons to explore and i have only found one with a great weapon in it so finding great weapons 
 are hard. And the graphic is purely excellent
  
  Bad Stuff: When you press kinda lay the game down to get some cheat and you bring it back up, the 
 game may freeze entirely so make sure you save alot. The jumping is still the same as morrowind, 
 and the horse jump is not real.
  
  In this game has great graphic engine that requires a very good graphic card to run it at Ultra 
 High (which i can) In that Ultra High the graphic is very beautiful and you see the world as it 
 is in reality, the forest, the world acts like it is in the Real Life.
  
  The guilds there are, is the Thieves Guild (Quest Line; Special)
  Fighters Guild (Quest Line; 
 Special)
  Mages Guild (Quest Line; Special)
  Arena (Quest Line; Normal)
  Dark Brotherhood (Quest Line; Special)
  Knights of the White Stallion (Quest Line; Special)
 
  Brotherhood of Blood (Quest Line; Normal) 
  
  Also, if you are bored, then visit www. elderscrolls. com/forums and enter the mod area, there are 
 more mods there then there are here. get ideas from there and work on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap, where to start with this game.
  
  Ok, lets just get the bad out of they way first. You need a BEAST of a machine to run it if you 
 want it to look good and play at decent framrates. Now that thats out of the way, on to the good.
 
  
  Everything about this game is what a game should be, NOT can be, should be. Its that f'ing good. 
 All the extras in the game alone is enough to last even the most of hardcore gamers months of playtime 
 without even touching the main story. The guild quests alone are huge. It took me a whole Saturday, 
 from about 1 in the afternoon to 2 in the morning Sunday, to become guild master of the theifs 
 guild and it doesnt stop there. Im in the Dark Brotherhood, Mages Guild, Vampire Hunters Guild, 
 and a few others.
  
  The game is so versitile. Take this for example: As I stated im in the Vampire Hunters Guild, but 
 while being in the Dark Brotherhood I had an offer to become a vampire and I took it. So now I 
 hunt my own kind, im like a midevil Blade, LOL. Its just crazy how much there is to do. Its not 
 only the main quest and guild quest that there is to do, but you also have people walking up to 
 you and asking for a favor, or you just stumble on to a area that will give you a quest, but you 
 dont have to take it at that very moment. Guy comes up and its like "OMG, I need your help" and 
 you say "Piss off, im trying to assassinate someone here." Well, it doesnt happen like that, but 
 you get the idea.
  
  The graphics are amazing and thats all I got to say about that, but like I said before you need 
 a beast of a machine to run everything a full settings.
  
  The sound was great but it could have been better. Like if your talking to a bum and he has this 
 sort of raspy, "I havent had a drink of water in a few days." voice and then you ask him about 
 something else and all of a sudden he talks like one of the guards, WTF!?!? But, you know, when 
 you record hours upon hours of voice work, your bound to take a few shortcuts once and again to 
 save on time.
  
  Just buy the game, if you can run it. You will be lost in the world of Oblivion for months just 
 completing every quest the game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  What can i say about Oblivion that hasn't already been said in the thousands of reviews that have 
 praised this gem from Obsidian? Probably nothing and seeing as how the game has upwards of 200 
 hours worth of gameplay, i've barely scratched the surface in terms of gamplay. Unlike games such 
 as World of Warcraft, this game has an ending. The main quest takes you on 10 or so major plot 
 runs to complete the game, but the 16 square miles built into this game (this is 16 real life square 
 miles) leaves for hundreds of dungeons, small towns and major cities to pick up thousands of quests. 
 Granted, most of them are the same, 'go get this item/person/kill this enemy' type of quest, but 
 the rewards are great and the experience is amazing. The various preset classes along with the 
 ability to create hundreds of custom classes all with their own attributes and skills make for 
 creation of a character one of the game's most fun quests. The physical character creation page 
 took me over an hour to tweak and change my character's physical appearance (only to have it destroyed 
 when i was bitten by a vampire - and now i look like an old man) . The AI is top notch and overhearing 
 conversations between NPCs in the game is both amazing and quite funny. If you played Morrowind, 
 then take that amazing experience, minus most of the bugs (albeit, there are a few bugs, pre-first 
 patch) and multiply the excitement and experience by ten. And what can be said about the graphics 
 engine? This is one of the most realistically looking games i've ever played. Graphically, this 
 game easily compares to Half Life 2. And since this game is a single player game only, you dont' 
 have to deal with online issues like full servers, queues, gankers or monthly fees. If you are 
 looking for a fully engrossing, amazingly fun game that can become a bit addictive, then waste 
 no time and pick up Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfwood001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  WOW! what to say about Oblivion??? Well to start Graphics are one of the greatest i have ever seen 
 yet, i mean when you walk araound the forest or any nature like enviroment it just take your breath 
 away. But the negative side about graphic is comupeter preformance, you have to have a flying spaceship 
 to run it on best graphic, but on deafault is fearly ok so its not big minus. Now sound, one word 
 REALISTIC. Sound is one of the best that oblivion has to offer (along side graphic) . You just stand 
 there and close youre eyes and would think that youre are outside somewhere in some park or something 
 like that just amazing. Gameplay is lets just say i went to bed around 6 o'clock and i work in 
 8 o'clock so for me its BIG minus :) . This is one of the few games that have all that needs to 
 be a great game. If someone didnt buy this game well what are you waiting for go to your nearest 
 game store and spit that money out of your pocket and get ready to get fired by your boss!!!! LOVE 
 AND PEACE by Wolfwood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Now the last one i disscised was about the x360, if u dont know check the one at the x360 category 
 of this game for the x360 and seach for my review,
  the graphics i wold chose let see um the higp ones its even better than the x360 but what is dissapointing 
 is the low one well the place is to foggy and you might not know the monsters that are lurking 
 in the dark due to the fogness especially big ones and the one flying but the medium graphics lets 
 see ah yes there different to the x360 but at least its better to the low one i mean its a little 
 clearer and the high ah yes its better to the x360 this time i mean the x360 dosent have any difference 
 to the medium one but the PC beated x360 in the high one
  
  PC version of the movement is better to the xbox 360 because the x360 has a slower movement and 
 its quite hard to target the enemy sometimes by the time you want to defeat 5 monsters your dead 
 any through it all you only killed 1 out of 5 which is not good but the PC has a faster ans easyer 
 way of control its like playing Counter Strike combine with Final Fantasy 
  
  Well between it all the PC won the xbox360
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lewin-Hulk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the 
 best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the 
 best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the 
 best games ever made in the universe !
  This is probably one of the best games ever made in the universe ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaggerooh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is quite simply fantastic. The graphics are stunning, the gameplay is engaging and feeling 
 of progression and achievement is great. You truly feeling like you are in another world and collection 
 of wealth and special weapons is not easy but very worthwhile. 
  
  It is also important to get a scale of just how big this world is, it is massive, and you can go 
 anywhere in it that you wish (unlike guildwars where you are corralled to the areas they want tou 
 go to) .
  
  There are a couple of issues around the level scaling that the game has but various mods have already 
 fixed this for the better (in my opinion) . 
  
  Great game and a must play for everyone, no matter wether you are a RPG fam or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game, ladies and gentlemen, is THE game of the year, if not the greatest game of the new millennium 
 so far!
  
  This game has it all, an extremely immersive world, incredible graphics, fantastic gameplay!
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Those who have previously played Morrowind, have a good idea of what to expect here. The game is 
 initially played from the first-person perspective, with the availability of a change to 3rd-person 
 (not recommended, there is no cross-hair, and you miss out on a lot of details) . The controls are 
 also mapped like a FPS, which should make a lot of people feel right at home. 
  
  Like other RPG's, you choose what style you want to play. Are you going to be a sword-wielding 
 Nord, who storms the enemies and brutally butchers them, or are you going to be a Sorcerer High 
 Elf, who keeps his distance, assaulting with magic and summoned creatures. Perhaps, you want to 
 be a thief, lurking in the dark, waiting for your enemies to turn their backs on you, so you may 
 put an end to their miserable existence? Whatever you choose, chances are, you'll have a great 
 time playing. The abovementioned classes are only three out of many more, so chances are. that 
 you will find a class suitable for your liking. 
  
  The game is really compelling , from the get-go you feel like you character is somehow intertwined 
 in the happenings of the game. The great thing is, the game does not force you to pursue the main 
 quest (storyline) at all. You can do just about everything else, before you even wish to start 
 the storyline. Although this is the case, you never feel like being left on your own. In Morrowind, 
 you started out not knowing what the hell was going on, having absolutely no idea where to start, 
 in Oblivion you have a pretty good idea where you have to go.
  
  There are so many different concepts in this game, that it would be hubris to try and count them 
 all up, so I'll just finish this section by saying: "You will not find this varied gameplay anywhere... 
 period!"
  
  Graphics: 
  Ahhh... Who remembers the first time they saw the first few screenshots of Oblivion? I, for one, 
 do! They looked incredible... and guess what? So does the finished game! The way this game makes 
 use of it's engine, is absolutely stunning. From the incredible view-distance, to the hi-res textures, 
 to the water mirroring the world above it. This game has it all. The forests look lush and dense, 
 the cities look inhabited and in-use, the dungeons look dark and damp. Of course, you'll need a 
 rig capable of showing these delicacies, but even on a medium rig, the game looks stunning, to 
 say the least. There is not not much else to say, really, check out the screenshots all over the 
 place. Words just don't do the graphics justice. If I were to describe the graphics in a simple 
 sentence: "They are the kind of graphics, you'll want show off in front of all your friends." :)
 
  
  Sound: Excellent, again. The sounds in this game are great. It's sounds cool to smash you claymore 
 on a foes shield, and hear him moan, only to lunge forward to hit you with a counter-attack that 
 sends you staggering. The voice work is really cool too, it's amusing to hear NPC's have conversations 
 about all sorts of things, and although they might not sound too bright, it all adds to the overall 
 feel of the game. The music is good too, allthough nothing special really. Typical fantasy soundtrack 
 ala LOTR. But I usually turn the music quite a bit, because it can be disturbing. I tend to immerse 
 a lot more, when all I can hear are the birds singing, and the wind grabbing the trees by their 
 leaves. 
  
  AI: 
  So... the Radiant Artificial Intelligence, huh? I wasn't really sure of what to expect, in this 
 regard, because some of the news from Bethesda sounded to good to be true. Well, the AI is different 
 from other games. Just not as much as I had expected. The NPC's have their daily routines (wake 
 up, work, eat, work, gossip, drink, sleep) and you can follow them around and watch them doing 
 these things. I have yet to encounter simple problem-solving on their behalf (like Bethesda told 
 us) though, something like not having any food, and therefore going to a shop to buy some. The 
 NPS's, in my experience, usually just go to an inn and eat there (what luxury!) . I have seen some 
 NPC's hunting, although it seemes like they were placed there specifically by the programmers, 
 which kinda robs away the 'radiant' part of the AI. 
  
  All hype aside, the AI is quite good, and you can provoke the NPC's to some really strange behaviour 
 if you experiment a bit. The same goes for the foes you'll encounter, if they have a shield, they 
 will try to block your attacks and sidestep and so on and so forth. 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This game is amazing! If you feel like playing a game that really takes you in and captivates you, 
 this is it. I have never been so immersed in a game before, partly due to the enourmous scale of 
 the world in which you play, partly to the awesome graphics and sound effects. There is just so 
 much to do, and so much to explore, and with the downloadable Construction Kit, with which you 
 can create just about anything for the game, the replay value is enormous (even without this, the 
 game can certainly be played a number of times) . Henceforth, all RPG's will have to answer to Oblivion, 
 that's for sure.
  
  Only a few things annoyed me in this game I will list them here:
  
  *Spoilers*
  -- I wish there had been more traffic between the towns, you only seldom run into 
 people in the countryside, the odd legion here, and the odd newspaper boy there. 
  --The guards are a bit too psychic, if you ask me. If you kill someone, and a guard is within 150 
 feet, chances are they'll know about your dirty deed, and act accordingly. 
  --Your foes scale their power to you current level. This has both upsides and downsides. It's great 
 in the beginning, where you don't get smashed by a pint sized crab, however later in the game you 
 will get beaten, and severely at that. I also like the concept of being chased by creatues that 
 will kill you with a single blow, it just adds to the tension of any game. however, with the game's 
 scaling, chances are, you'll never run into this situation. The scaling also applies to the things 
 you find in dungeons and on the mutilated bodies of your foes, which means that there really are 
 no super-items at the beginning. I have yet to find any. 
  --The Unicorn!!! Man, I found this enchanted creature by chance, and thought "Cool, now I have 
 a friggin' unicorn. My own pimped-up horse!" What I didn't know was, that this unicorn is one sick 
 bastard. I left him near a little town, while I was in a dungeon, and when I returned he had killed 
 off several horseback-guards and a load of townspeople, apparently for no reason whatsoever. Aren't 
 unicorns supposed to be good, luck-bringers or something? I guess not, and by the looks of it, 
 neither do the victims on his black consciousness. I ended up killing the unicorn, for his own 
 good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I won't go into inordinate details of the game, primarily because other reviews already do that, 
 and also because there's just too much detail to comment on.
  
  The game is enormous in every way - environment, character richness, combat, exploration, NPC interaction, 
 quests, loot, weapons, armor, spells, alchemy, etc - many many many months of gameplay here.
  
  I must say that the MOD community has already added some fantastic elements to the game that 
 are not part of the "vanilla" version. Whether or not Bethesda could have or should have included 
 them in their release is a debate I'm not going into. But that's the strength of the game - you 
 can add and tweak it till the cows come home....
  
  Speaking of tweaking - most NORMAL graphics cards will struggle deeply to keep up with the rich 
 world on offer. I have a 7800GTX and I only get around 25fps outside on full details at 1680 x 
 1050. But oh my is it ever gorgeous! If you have a lesser capable card, you will need to tweak 
 the .INI file and reduce stuff, making it less gorgeous. A good reason to upgrade if you are going 
 to be playing this for a while, as cutting out graphics options really does not do this game justice. 
 I will mention that the GRASS DENSITY has an ENORMOUS impact to the performance of this game on 
 anything other than an ATI X1900XT. Bethesda should have made a grass density slider, a very silly 
 oversight considering it can literally HALF your frame rate on default. I changed my density from 
 80 to 130 (the higher the number, the LESS dense the grass - go figure) , and that made it playable 
 outside. On that setting I could swing the grass draw distance to full - which is nice. Other performance 
 tweaks may improve little things here and there, but GRASS is the big one.
  
  Anyway, the game is wonderful, and it is the ONLY game in 18 months to tear me away from WoW for 
 more than 1 week! I can see WoW getting shelved until the expansion comes out to be honest - and 
 that is saying something. I will miss multiplayer, but I won't miss all the jerks and pimple-faced 
 bossy teens ordering me around. I'm married, so having a fantasy "chat room" like WoW was never 
 a comfortable thing for my wife anyway. I digress.
  
  Summary - if you have the hardware capability, this is a must-have gaming experience. It's not 
 perfect (what ever is in life apart from Jessica Alba) , the radiant AI can suck sometimes, and 
 the quests can be a little simplistic. Also armour sets and weapons are a bit too common and easy 
 to get. Enchanting though is an awesome thing in Oblivion, and that makes the common armour gear 
 and weapons more diverse. Plus MODders will put more of that in the game anyway.
  
  9.3/10 - I concur with Gamespot on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esimning
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  So I can now say it, I played oblivion for the first time on xbox 360 and i was like blown away 
 at how much ass it kickes compared to "Morowind". The character customazation is superb along with 
 the class creation. I gave it a bout a 9.0 since it is super cool. Anyways the Physics are soo 
 good along with the blood/killing effects. The quest times and all around time im sure the creators 
 put in to this game must be years or a lifetime. I am almost sure that someone, one of the creators 
 died and passed the leagacy of this game on, thats how much time and creativity they put into this 
 game. A must play/buy game and a fo-sur top 10 game of this year.
  
  The new Reviewer in town....
  Eric 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathail
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I've long been a fan of The Elder Scrolls series, from Daggerfall at it's initial buggy release 
 to now. Morrowind was a masterpiece, among the best RPGs I've played on computer. That makes Oblivion 
 all the more disappointing.
  
  The interface is clumsy at best, requiring both mouse and keyboard to navigate to and from inventory, 
 map, skills, and spells. It is clear the interface was designed for the x-box, not the pc.
  
  The combat system has been dumbed down to the point of being a basic fantasy FPS, far beyond 
 even what one might find in console RPGs. I had my concerns when Bethesda original mentioned they 
 were going to do away with character combat skill, instead defering to the player skill. Not only 
 have character skills been minimized, but weapons and armor have had anything resembling randomness 
 removed from the players awareness, now presenting only a single rating.
  
  The graphics too are quite disappointing. Most of the indoor settings look far too smooth, almost 
 like plastic. The character faces resemble over-inflated ballons with fingers poking through them. 
 Many of the weapons look like my kids plastic toy weapons. That said, there are a few weapons and 
 armor that are very impressive, and the outdoors including many of the castles and houses, obviously 
 taken from Morrowind, look phenomenal.
  
  The music is nearly non-existant and uninspiring. A sad reminder of how good Morrowind music was. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The best offline RPG I have played since FFVII, although it's a totally different style of role 
 playing. I can still compare the fun factor to its release. The various aspects included in this 
 game make it hard to get away from.
  
  PC specs:
  It's reasonably enjoyable but still occasionally disappointing playing Oblivion with...
  
  
 3.4 GHZ Processor w/ HT
  1mb DDR2 PC4200 ram
  256mb Geforce 6800 GT GPU
  
  If you want to play this game without getting bothered by the graphical flaws, get it for xbox 
 360 or.... play it on a computer that costs more than 5 xbox 360's combined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulwynd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Machine:
  Athlon 1600+
  1Gb ram
  xfx geforce 6800GT
  
  First of all, I'd like to point out that my computer's cpu is lower than the minimum required. 
 I've been to the official forum before actually playing the game and noticed several people complaining 
 the game wouldn't run or would be slow. It -is- a heavy game in a heavy 4gb package. If you doubt 
 your machine, get it for xbox. I haven't had any real bugs so far, despise all the complains I 
 hear here and there and the performance is acceptable with most settings high up, except for a 
 few distances maybe.
  
  Gameplay:
  Several things have changed since Daggerfall, but if you're new to the series, it doesn't matter. 
 Gameplay is slightly more fast paced in Oblivion. Mana regens over time and being out of endurance 
 doesn't paralyze you anymore. You get power attacks and fast attacks while armor and weapons only 
 have one value. So it's pretty easy to decide what to wear, just get the ones with highest attack 
 or defense values. You can now cast spells while holding a weapon and also, blocking is player 
 triggered. Skills have been cut down to a minimum which is rather sad but in some cases understandable, 
 if they put everything Daggerfall/morrowind had with the sizes everything requires nowadays, we 
 would be seeing a 8gb package instead.
  
  When it comes to combat, Oblivion is slightly strategic, you will have to try to keep your distance 
 from your opponents, block at the right times, fast attack or power attack at demand, watch your 
 mana as you try to attack your enemies or heal yourself and so on. It's really fast paced and if 
 you stall for a moment your character might end up dead. At this point anyone will find out the 
 magic hot keys are quite annoying, you use them to switch your spell and -then- you have to cast 
 them, so it's slightly slow sometimes and requires some coordination.
  
  Oblivion also features a couple minigames, one of them is the lockpicking one where you can see 
 a stylized mechanism of a lock and work with it but once you learn to 'hear' the lock, you will 
 be able to open any lock with whatever security skill you have. The second minigame is the persuasion 
 one where you have to pay attention to the NPC's face and reactions to what you do. It's refreshing 
 but over time they can get annoying, so you will either end up bribing or auto-picking the locks.
 
  
  The quests are way easier to follow now, each with their own thread and map markers, which are 
 helped by the fast travel option. If you have been somewhere before you can just click its icon 
 on the map to fast travel there (while outside) which makes everything much faster. The wilderness 
 is rather unpopulated, maybe you will see a few wolves, lions, bears, thieves but that's it. Daedra 
 only appear near the gates, as far as I've seen and other creatures only appear near their dungeons. 
 Speaking of dungeons, there are plenty of them. Maybe too many of them. Unlike Daggerfal, they 
 are not randomly generated but the contents are based on your level, except for quest related things 
 and whatnot.
  
  Graphics:
  The screenshots speak for themselves, if you have a good machine, that is. The graphics are superb 
 BUT at the expense of performance. I've been getting as low as 8fps but as high as 80fps depending 
 on where I am in the game. On average I get 20-30fps so it's okay. The problem is, when a huge 
 fight starts, your fps will drop and that will make things really annoying.
  
  You can customize the appearance of your character any way you want, or rather, any way they allow 
 you, which is plenty. You can get an unique character (in facial appearance) almost every time 
 you create one. NPCs however will almost always end up with look alikes but you can notice the 
 difference from one to another.
  
  If you google for Oblivion tweaks you will find tips on how to make the game run faster, which 
 actually helped me a lot. Defraging helps a big deal as well as using the latest nvidea beta drivers 
 (84.25) but I will let you figure out the rest.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are high quality but they do tend to get repetitive with only 6 or 7 voice actors maybe. 
 The good thing is that almost every NPC has unique dialogs with voice. So unlike Morrowind you 
 will be hearing chatters most of the time. Another nice thing is that you can hear npcs talking 
 to each other and sometimes they will mention things to each other that are quest related and the 
 game will add the subject to your list. Facial motions match the voices with near perfection as 
 well as the expressions. You can see the NPCs frown, smile, roll their eyes and so on. However, 
 your own character is rather voiceless, except for a few cries of pain.
  
  Value:
  It's a huge open ended RPG. It cannot get any better than that. You can do anything you want at 
 anytime you want (or nearly) . It's not as huge as daggerfal or as complete as morrowind (and daggerfal 
 for that matter) , but it still fulfills its role. If you play the game freely, overlook the few 
 bugs and exploits, and enjoy the little jokes (even the sick ones like necrophilia and girls gone 
 wild. Yes you will have to play to check them out, I'm not telling.) it will give you hours of 
 entertainment.
  
  Tilt:
  I'm slightly disappointed with the removal of skills and content, but I'm glad I'm only wasting 
 4gb of space and not 8gb. If you're an old timer fan of the elder scrolls series, I think you will 
 be slightly disappointed as well, but like me, you will prolly get over it.
  
  To all the kids who say this game is , if it's not your style, go for diablo or some other game 
 like that. And to all who say this game is revolutionary, well, I guess you weren't able to play 
 rpg games 15 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrovian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Oblivion, there isn't really anything that I can find wrong with this game. The graphics are wonderful, 
 and it is just a great game. I don't have the best graphics card in the world, a GEForce 6600, 
 but I am still rather amazed by the graphics, and I forget what it is called, but where bushes 
 and such pop up in front of you while you are walking. 
  
  One of the things that I think makes me like Oblivion better than Morrowind, is the fact that it 
 seems a bit easier. I've not had any problems with dying as I did in Morrowind, and in my mind 
 that makes the game a lot more fun. I think that it took too much time to do anything in Morrowind, 
 and am glad to see that they had changed that for Oblivion, or at least it feels that way.
  
  There are a few things though, that aren't all that great about Oblivion, though some of them 
 are at least a little helpful, like the quick traveling. Though a lot of people have complained 
 about it, there was still something similiar to it in Morrowind, where you could ride that creature, 
 I forget what it was called. 
  
  Something I miss that was in Morrwind, that isn't in Oblivion, is the ability to set your scroll 
 wheel to change between weapons, and be able to set another key for changing spells. Sure, you 
 can do it with hotkeys, but you only have eight of those, and that is not nearly enough, at least 
 to me it is not. I'd like to see my hotkeys in the game, but I suppose it's best to just find what 
 you want to use, and then switch them out as needed.
  
  Overall- I think Oblivion is a great game, and think that it will be a classic like most of the 
 other Elder Scroll line of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteiro20
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting and waiting forever for something really good to come out in the RPG area. The 
 world is beautiful and the environment is so real that i feel I'm really there. There is so much 
 to do and so many personalities to interact with. You can hagle and barter information and services 
 out of npc's. Combat is a blast although if I had to say anything slightly bad about this game 
 is that the melea combat graphics movement is a bit abrupt. Entire bodies move as one graphic from 
 side to side, sometimes turning without actually turning. The AI that drives this seems outdated 
 for today's standards. Still, everything else about the game makes up for that. America! We got 
 a hot one tonight!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nt-Jerk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Elder Scroll IV has really everything.. If you like adventure games, this is just the game you 
 must have.. The game gives you the oppotunity to make you own character in almost any way you want. 
 
  
  Many different races.. Lots of class.. Even which starsign you wish to have. Every race, class 
 etc. gives your character an identity, and better abilities. You can also join guilds and get jobs 
 and newer abilities. 
  
  I joined the thieves guild - lead by the gray fox that nobody know who is. I fight, sneak and steal 
 to make sure my guild can survive the constant thread from the guards who wish to catch The Gray 
 Fox and everyone in the Thieves' Guild.
  
  You really get to live into your character and feel the pressure of fighting, the sweat of picking 
 a lock etc. 
  
  The main quest is actually to find the killer of the emperor, but I've totally forgotten all about 
 it. I enjoy getting jobs from my guild, and can't really leave. This way, the game never really 
 ends, because you don't have to follow a certain path. I've been gaming for more than 24 hours, 
 and I've only just begun. I haven't even started doing my REAL quests yet..
  
  I can only come up with examples how good a game this is - no negatives.. You will need a rather 
 good comp though. Because it really needs a lot of rescources, but can your comp take the pressure 
 - and can you - then this is just the game for you. 
  
  50 Dollars is not much when you consider how long lasting this game can be. Many games, you finish 
 in maybe a week.. But not this one.. And even if you do finish the game, you can always start over 
 with a new character, cause the game will change totally this way..
  
  Enjoy: Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
  
  Best of luck to you all
  
  Nt-Jerk
  
  \\OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion1142
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  this game is the best i have ever seen. its graphics are amazing and i don't have SUCH a good computer... well 
 not the best. I have right now 512 mb of ram and a Ge Force 6 600 GT 128 mb DDR. The graphics are 
 still mind blowing. The lip syncing is great and the storyline is just magnificent.
  
  The game play is just as good. I love the way Bethesda has put magic melee and archery in the same 
 system, so it enables you to switch quickly. also thieving is great. i waited outside the armour 
 shop for a while for it to close and then used a lock pick to break in. i stole all the armour 
 and escaped the guards by sneaking around them.
  
  The fast travel system is extremely helpful but you must know you are missing out on a lot of adventures 
 if you use it. The sound is perfect, when there is a storm its sounds like it is right outside 
 your house. Plus it sounds very good with weapon effects, especially when blocking.
  
  overall you must get this game, the things i have mentioned are only some of the things you can 
 do, there is way more. buy this game, and if i have not convinced you, borrow it from a friend 
 to try it out.
  
  ps. Anyone who says this game is bad, don't listen they are stupid.
  remember..... 10/10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, while keeping mindful of the strengths of the last game in the 
 series, Morrowind, has in turn shamelessly abandoned most of it's predecessors weaknesses. On top 
 of everything else about this game that stuns the senses, fans of the series will notice several 
 huge improvements right off the bat.
  The fighting system has been greatly updated. No longer will a beginning fighter swing a sword 
 harmlessly at his opponent during the heat of battle. Instead, a novices weapon will simply cause 
 less damage then an experienced wielder's. And learning to use your skills has gone from a repetitive 
 chore to an enjoyable exercise. The way they did this is in simple and often clever little ways. 
 For example, sneaking and arching can both be learned by hunting the lifelike deer that frolic 
 throughout the countryside.
  The AI is greatly improved, as well as the character animations and the consistently superb voice 
 acting.
  The scale of this world is absolutely unbelievable! It is HUGE and stunningly beautiful. Full of 
 trees, vegetation and animal life that is varied enough to convince players they have stepped into 
 a completely different world.
  There is a main quest, which I haven't completed yet but so far it is exciting and full of adventure. 
 Throughout the main quest you will be invited to participate in any number of side quests which 
 add to the overall scope of the game and make repeatedly replaying the game a great possibility.
 
  Anyone will find something to love about this game if they play it long enough. From the unrivalled 
 graphics to the near-perfected play control to the massive and gripping plot to the unbelievable 
 amount of extra content, Oblivion is a game that everyone with a PC should have in their library.
 
  One thing of note, the graphics, while perfect in their own right, do stutter on my PWNAGE rig 
 (3700+ oced to 2.64GHz, 2gig OCZ Titanium, eVGA 7900gt CO, NForce 4 SLI motherboard) from time 
 to time on maxed out settings. So for those of you wanting the full effect, without any issues start 
 saving for SLI now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnbach
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  They say three time's a charm: well, four times has to be great, and with Oblivion, it's absolutely 
 true!
  
  It has taken me two weeks to get around to this review. I just haven't wanted to take away from 
 play time. I've gone through three characters trying to find the right fit -- I still haven't found 
 him. The character system is so in-depth I may never find it. But it'll be damn fun trying! 
  
  My favorite thing is the open-ended world TES series creates in every game. This is true RPing 
 folks! You can go anywhere, anytime even though you may find yourself overwhelmed by choices. I've 
 quite often sat staring at my screen debating what to do next. The guilds, Dark Brotherhood, and 
 random Joes will give you more work and challenge than any game I've seen since, well, Morrowind 
 (TES3) . Then you have the main quest which is awesomely voice-acted by real, actually good, well-known 
 actors. Actually all NPCs have voice-over but the main quest is where the money was spent. Kudos 
 to Sean Bean and Patrick Stewart for doing a video game! 
  
  The only drawback to the PC version is that it'll bring 90% of people's boxes to their knees. If 
 you poke around the web, there's plenty of tweaks to help while making it even more beautiful and 
 most importantly bloodier. Even with the steep system requirements, I still recommend the PC over 
 the 360 for two reasons: 1. The game looks a lot better on PC than even a HDTV; 2. Mods. I've found 
 a ton of mods already that make the game more fun and user friendly. And there will be an expansion.
 
  
  If you like RPGs at all, get this game now. You may lose your significant other a couple weeks 
 later, but who needs loving when you can become an assassin? Or a vampire? Or an archmage? Or a 
 . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xlaten
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Note: I have just beaten the enitre main quest and have done most of the sidequests, most other 
 reviewers instantly popped the game in and gave a 10point review so read those reviews at your 
 own discretion but I will tell you how it is. (this review may contain very small spoilers but 
 ill try to avoid them)
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I like the gameplay in this title. The melee combat in this game is great the sounds of the swords 
 and shields clashing are very realistic and when you hit them your characters body reacts accordingly. 
 You can even hit a guy hard enough to knock him down. I played a fighting character so I didn't 
 get a chance to use much magic but from fighting magic based opponents it looks like it could be 
 kind of fun running around shooting at your enemies, really resembling a FPS. 
  
  Also this radiant AI they brag about it isnt sophisticated at all. Example: I once saw a guard 
 kill a man, then bend down and say "the body is still warm, looks like we got a killer on the prowl" 
 keep in mind he killed him. Also I saw a woman citizen get injured by many arrows that she was 
 accidently hit with while the guards were trying to kill a man. She had about 5 arrows in her after 
 all was done, she then proceeds to walk up to a guard and start talking about mudcrabs, with 5 
 arrows sticking out of her back. Dumb Dumb Dumb!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Note: I am playing on a highend computer with a 7800GT slightly overclocked and am playing on ultra 
 high settings with AA disabled and HDR enabled. I can also mantain a stable framerate anywhere 
 I go no performance issues so that was a big + for this game.
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic at times... When I was fighting my way through the begining 
 dungeon I really liked the dark creepy look it had it was really well put together. Once I entered 
 the wilderness I was also very happy with what I saw until I looked into the distance... anything 
 you can look at thats more than 100 yards or so away will look like its from a game that was made 
 10 years ago, only way I can describe it is green and brown blobs and thats not far from the truth. 
 As for character models, so look good really good but other models you will look at their faces 
 and wonder what happened. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The good.. combat sounds, some dialogue from big actors like Sean Bean and Patrick Stuart is nice.
 
  
  The bad.. It appears that they had 1 voice actor for each race, and I have found while talking to 
 some npc's usually beggers their voices will change from a dirty old man to a powerful commanding 
 voice and that kind of ruins the experience..
  
  Value:
  
  I wont tell you how this game ends but I will say that the main quest is SHORT and EASY and the 
 ending was the BIGGEST LETDOWN OF THIS GAME! and I dont see any reason to replay this game because 
 the main quest did not have me on the edge of my seat at any point. All the different guild sidequests 
 are very entertaining. But all these quests will seem very easy to the seasoned elderscrolls player.
 
  
  ALTHOUGH, this game is still a great piece of work and I wouldnt go back in time to stop this purchase. 
 So you should pick it up if you can, but I reccomend the Xbox 360 version if you have a low end 
 computer or you wont enjoy this game much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategy_god
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This really has it all. Excellent graphics, fantastic atmosphere, scaled enemies that grow in difficulty 
 with your own progress (why has no one done that before?)
  
  It reminds me of the first time I played NWN... I'd get home from work
  
  "... just play for 
 a bit before dinner..." and then its 3am!! Utterly absorbing, you HAVE to see what that next dungeon 
 holds, or whats over the brow of that next hill.
  
  I did have a few technical glitches at the beginning, but they soon disappeared once I finally 
 upgraded my graphics card after two years.
  
  Bethesda have triumphed with this, I can't recommend it enough! BioWare and Blizzard should take 
 SERIOUS notes on this game.. it IS the future of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  
  Oblivion is 16 square miles of pure pwnage. The graphics are the best I have ever seen on a RPG. 
 The gameplay is wonderful and the lifespan will last you to your grave.
  
  Graphics.
  
   Just wonderful. The sunsets are eye -wateringly realistic 
 and the grass and trees are incredibly detailed. Soil erodes for crying out loud! SOIL! The graphics 
 on the cutscenes are the same as in-game graphics.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Huge varieties of gameplay. It depends on what character you are and how you play on the gameplay 
 side of this game. It is really fast paced slashing and bashing once you are face to face with 
 an enemy. But most of it is walking around and admiring the view.
  
  Cons.
  
  The framerate in cutscenes can be quite noticable and the loading times do get annoying.
  
 
  Being a vampire sucks and can ruin the game.
  
  Cheers, recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was developed since 2002 and it was one of the most long awaited 
 games I've ever known. The storyline is good told. The Emperor of Tamriel, Uriel Septim, is being 
 escorted by his bodyguards - The Blades - to some safe place. His sons were killed by assassins 
 and the Emperor is next. He and The Blades fear that Uriel could be killed by assassins and try 
 to protect him at all costs. Alas, Septim dies. He gives you the Amulet of Kings - a sacred coronation 
 signet - to deliver it to brother Jauffre, quickly before his death. Then, you start a new life 
 - as a freelancer. You can join guilds like Thieves Guild or become an Arena combatant. You can 
 kill who you want, steal what you want, etc. But the official merchants won't buy stolen goods 
 - you must to become a member of Thieves Guild, then talk to the others. The game is much farther 
 complex than Morrowind. You can lose yourself in Tamriel from time to time!
  Gameplay has changed since TES3. The fights are still sloppy, but the opponent's life meter is 
 great. Now you can aim at your enemy while checking his life points. The inventory has changed 
 into multi-task machine, which I like. Everything is visible on your hand. Graphics kicks ass. 
 Oblivion is one of the most visually impressive games I've ever played. Sound is as good as in 
 Morrowind. You know the value, I don't need to tell you how addicting TES4 is. Go, buy, play and 
 die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogity1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this off and on for a week now (you know, work and school tends to get in the 
 way of gaming, damn it!) and I can honestly say that this is as addictive a game as you can get. 
 I was hesitant at first to get an "emmersive" first person RPG, but Oblivion truely sucks you in 
 to feeling like and for your character. You actually find yourself making potions for no other 
 reason than to get that alchemy skill up, you are casting fire bolts at damn near everything to 
 get your destruction magic up, and you are actually spending a butt load of time in the city, trading, 
 haggling, and working that wonderful speechcraft/mercantile skill up just so YOU (okay... your 
 character) can get better and take out that many more bad-guys single handedly. 
  
  Honestly, get this game - you will love it (assuming that your system can handle it) . 
  
  Belive 
 me! 
  
  - a skeptic reformed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Statistic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting and waiting forever for something really good to come out in the RPG area. The 
 world is beautiful and the environment is so real that i feel I'm really there. There is so much 
 to do and so many personalities to interact with. You can hagle and barter information and services 
 out of npc's. Combat is a blast although if I had to say anything slightly bad about this game 
 is that the melea combat graphics movement is a bit abrupt. Entire bodies move as one graphic from 
 side to side, sometimes turning without actually turning. The AI that drives this seems outdated 
 for today's standards. Still, everything else about the game makes up for that. America! We got 
 a hot one tonight!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tenshin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  First, I'll say I'm still halfway through (or 10% through, actually, it's huge) . I'm a level 11 
 acrobat relying on mainly on stealth and marksman. Early in the game I had a lot of problems finding/buying 
 arrows so I could even persist, but I pulled through. 
  
  In the beginning I thought it was awesome, I would go around the cave sneaking and doing 1 shot 
 kills and it felt oh so good. But now I'm starting to skip the boring dialogue, I'm noticing I 
 need 20 arrows to kill trolls and goblins (it's ridiculous, I'm running around and shooting, where's 
 the "sneak" in that? My sneak attack does maybe 10% damage) , I'm noticing I can barely pick up 
 anything because I have low strength, I'm tired of traveling so I just double click the map.
  
  Oblivion could have learned:
  
  From Shenmue -  City life kinda sucks in Oblivion. The 
 bases are there, but where are the children? Where are the cows and chickens? Why are there so 
 little bystanders! The Imperial city is almost deserted. If you're gonna bother to do it, at least 
 do it right.
  
  From Fable -  Fable makes such a good job at quick quests. No going to A and B and then A again 
 and then C and then look for person D and then find document E and take it to A who is 2 frigging 
 towns away and then go to cave F and kill everything, recover the ring, bring it back to A. In 
 Fable you get the quest, you do the deed, you collect the reward.
  
  From Thief -  Sneak is great and all, but some environments don't help at all. It'd be cool if 
 you could put lights out and the sneak factor wasn't just based on a skill number.
  
  From Dungeon Siege -  Wow, is this where current RPGs and Online RPGs are going? 1 on 1? God forbid 
 you "aggro" a second monster or else you're dead! I wish we could have a lot bigger battles in 
 Oblivion and not "always" the 1 lone monster patrolling the hall or the final boss who is just 
 waiting for you "alone". More like Dungeon siege or Might and Magic with huge amounts of monsters 
 coming at you would be an improvement.
  
  In conclusion, at first it'll be great, then it'll be boring and you'll be skipping all the dialogues 
 and cursing the fact that you're arena Grand Champion and just beat one of the princes of oblivion 
 quite easily, but a bear, a mountain lion, brother Martin or any of the Blades will still kick 
 your ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_louis
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  Simply the best game since ... Morrowind. A bit less open and a bit more directive in quest, it's 
 a good thing if you dont want to play for more then 100 hour. But there is still the same open 
 land, dungeons and caves like Morrowind. They add a fast travel fonction that's easy and really 
 usefull. There are the guild you could join the fighter guild, the mage guild, the darkbrother 
 hood (assasins) and finally the thief guild. Lots of side quests to do along the way of the main 
 quest. Lot's of caracter details in the level up and a lot of planification to optimise the caracter. 
 Loads of plant to collect to make potions and poisons.
  
  It's really a game to try. It's easy to get in the game and easy to stay in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marijn97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  A really cool game with a wonderful graphics and great sound. The gameplay is wonderful and the 
 freedom is just superb. If you liked the previous titles you will be blown away by this part. There's 
 a lot to choose from, from different classes to different races and weapons. I have played it for 
 about 13 hours or so, and I still want to play more and more. I recommend this game to every fan 
 of RPG's or adventure games. The grapics are beatifull and the story of the game is cool, and if 
 you don't care about helping people or a boring story you can just do whatever you want. I liked 
 the previous titles of the elder scrolls but this is defenitly the best part. Oiptions like the 
 guant fight-arena or stealing everything you can grab are just super-cool and add a lot to the 
 gameplay. The possibilities are just endless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayBlades
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  I cant believe my eyes, such beautiful graphics and such a poor game-play. A waste of time and 
 money if u ask me, but well, life's good anyway :) , guess i'll get back to my Guild Wars, or my 
 Morrowind, plus one more thing to do: sell Oblivion on ebay for 1$
  
  The idea is that games meant for pc should remain for pc, too bad we have a console market that 
 get's bigger and bigger and that more and more kids that don't know the 90' think that what they 
 see now it's the thing but all they see it's fancy graphics and The Great Market For Hardware.
 
  
  No, i'm not frustrated cuz the game moves bad, the game works perfect on my rig in high detail, 
 well my frustration comes from the fact that this game was made more for xbox or whatever and it 
 has serious problems in game design like the rpg system, the leveling problem, the combat system 
 and allot more. No patch can cure this one.
  
  And one more thing, the hype and the graphics makes people appreciate a game like Oblivion, not 
 the the game itself. But hey, they have too sell the NEW 7900GT'WHATEVER, right?! And they all 
 "buy" that. Shame....
  
  They once said: "... by gamers, for gamers", but those times ar long gone : (
  
  I "can" handle 
 the truth and I ont "thrust" the hype again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmrysJ
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Before I start let me just say one thing... this game is UN-FRIKKIN-BELIEVABLE. I'm sorry but when 
 I got this game it just blew my mind! There was so much hype, so much expectation, they said you 
 would be able to do pretty much anything... they didn't lie. I thought it would be a disappointment, 
 however it wasn't. There is something here for everybody. Do you want to be a mage who wears heavy 
 armour and assassinates people, fine. Do you want to pe a peaceful trader who by night become an 
 icon for the poor, fine. This game lets you do it all. For those of you who played Morrowind, this 
 game is everything Morrowind tried to be plus being about twice as good again. The graphics on 
 both platforms are totally lifelike. The physics engine is the best in any game out at the moment. 
 The characters, quests and storyline are all totally believable and the voice acting is brilliant 
 (yes, everything is voiced now) . The user interface is even easier to use than before and as for 
 the music , it makes you believe you are really there! I could go on like this forever but to cut 
 it short: BUY THIS GAME.
  
  Emrys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKokopelli
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Once again, the creative talent at Bethesda Softworks have proven their ability to deliver a rich 
 and enveloping game. To say this game is beyond amazing would not do it justice. This is game is 
 more than words can describe. If it this a movie, it would be the type that everyone holds in their 
 collection for their children, and their childrens children to watch. Unlike previous titles that 
 grow bland with each new release, the stuff Bethesda puts out gets 100xs better than the previous 
 title.
  
  I could go on and on about the features of this game, but lets be honest here. Any gamer with 
 half a brain already knows the features this game holds. So I will keep it simple and offer this 
 bit of info to anyone debating the purchase of this game. I have played it every night since I 
 bought it, logging several hours of gameplay and losing several hours of sleep in the process. 
 I have raided a lot of dungeons, crypts, forts, caves, mines, etc. When I look over the things 
 that I have explored in this game, I am still amazed that I have not even touched a quarter of 
 the stuff around the game world. (I have hit three towns so far) Not to mention, I have yet to 
 begin the main quest, despite doing several side missions in the town where the main quest begins.
 
  
  So do yourself favor, and buy this game. I and anyone here will guaranteed that you will not be 
 disappointed.
  
  I hope this helps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gekko101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and additcting its a lot of fun.
  The sound is amazing its like LOTR in a game the music is so cool.
  when running accros the amazing 
 landscape and listening to the music draws you into the game so much.
  Plus the game is easy to get into to. There is a fast jump for all the lazy people out there who 
 dont want to spend time running from town to town.
  The horses are cool the whole game is cool.
  The only downside is.... it will get boring after 
 a while and leveling thing is a little messed up... but still amazing game and you must get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homosygus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very hard to discribe because of the way it pulls you in and makes you want more. 
 Everything is top of the line, from the astonishing graphics to every small miniscule detail. The 
 amazing details in this game are amazing, everything looks like they took a lot of time of doing, 
 this is deffinatly a game that we can classify as "A Masterpeice". 
  
  As most people know the game starts you out in jail (just like Morrowind) and you get set free 
 by the Emperor, who you later see get killed. The man that is in the cell across from you is quite 
 funny becasause of how he taunts you saying how he could keep you wife company (If your a male 
 charecter) becasue he is getting out in a few days. The gaurds come the Emperor says he has seen 
 you before.... BAM!! you done with the tutorial... what to do now is the first thing that caught 
 me mind, the world just seemed so huge, and almost intimidating. So i walked around killed some 
 wolfs. Did i mention that every thing looks amazing?? This game has it all, really the cities are 
 seem real, the AI is really facinating to watch. I over heard a conversation and i got a quests, 
 however i was side trackted because i saw a sign that said "ARENA". I thought that this could be 
 a fun way to make money, and maybe get some good exp. Blah blah blah i had fun killed some people 
 was sweet. 
  
  ok i can cut the crap now, GET THIS GAME IT IS AMAZING!!! BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beesond
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say I have gotten a fair amount into the game, but I am yet to complete it. I 
 am writing this hoping it will help those who on the fence about wether or not to get this game, 
 and if so, should they upgrade their system?
  
  First, yes buy this game it is excellent, fantastic, every complementary word in the dicitionary. 
 The Graphics are exceptional, from random objects lieing on the floor of a darkand musty dungeon, 
 to the beautiful reflection effects off the churning waters of a river passing through a forest. 
 That was sappy I know but this game kicks the reverse lap in the graphics area.
  
  The sound is amazing to, from opening various containers, to wading in rivers, to blocking arrows 
 with your shield. The voice overs of all the charcters is amazing all the voices sound exceptional, 
 paired with the highly detailed facial expressions, gives you a great feel. Also the music is awesome, 
 and adds alot to the gameplay.
  
  This game truely offers so much, especially in story, and much of it is hard to explain without 
 spoilers. So I wont, lol. But the story is good, and having every line of dialogue voiced adds 
 a overwheliming feel of being immersed into the actual story, and numerous random side quests
 
  
  So is it worth upgrading your system? I am not really that big on PC games so upgrading to me was 
 a huge gamble. But luckly I was able to put together a nice system allowing me to run Obilivion 
 full blast. This game would be fantastic without the superior graphics, because of its powerful 
 content and gameplay, but you wont be truely immersed as you would be if you could pump this game 
 at full. Plus now I can run many other games that I never would have because it was not worth building 
 a system just to play them.
  
  ___________
  
  Here are my specs of my PC (by the way, the game auto set my video settings at Ultra High Quality!, 
 then max out all the range sliders and HDR effects, move up to max resolution, waalaa Full blast!)
 
  
  --------AMD 64 (939 pin) 3500+ (very important)
  --------Invidia 7800GTX 256MB (Video card is important people)
  (just 1, someday 2 w/ SLI, or 
 maybe 2x 7900 512MBs SWEET! lol yeah
  right not on my salary)
  --------Gigabyte nforce4 SLI board
  II
  II with a 
  II
  \/
  --------Ingreated sound card 
 (uses your proccessor to function)
  (these will hurt your Proccessor effeicency, next week i am buying a X- Fi sound card ~ $120, helps 
 processor not have to do as much work,
  but it isnt a huge deal, I am already running full blast with no lag, but
  will be nice for future 
 games that may be even more demanding)
  --------Enhanced 7200RPM Western Digital 160GB Hard drive
  (wish I had a SATA, but not a biggy 
 when it comes to gaming)
  --------1GB Corsair Ram (very important)
  (only $100 for another Gig, think I will go for it)
  
  I am not a computer wiz, and wont pretend 
 to be, but I read alot all over the internet and got adivce from freinds and cousins in order to 
 build my current system. I learned alot and recommened reading alot, and talking to your local 
 computer dude, friend family member, not a salesmen, they lie, THEY LIE!!!
  For gaming, the Video Card is your god, you meat, you need a good one, and in my experience, they 
 are the most expensive peice of a computer. Apparently there are generations for these video cards. 
 The Invidia FX and GT series are the last gens, and the GTXs are the new. YOU DO NOT NEED A GTX. 
 I am not saying that, an GT will allow you to run most games perfectly fine, but not full blast, 
 and in the case of Oblivion, no where near full, but enough to still look great and enjoy the game. 
 My 7800GTX is amazing I love it but it is expensive as hell, like in my case, one whole pay check 
 expensive, they are running at about $359 now. Which pisses me off because they were about $550 
 when I bought mine I believe. But if you can get a 6800 GTX 256MB or 7800 GTX 256MB, or if your 
 really in the dough a 6800 GTX 512MB, or even a 7900GTX 256MB or 512MB (the 512MB is invidia's 
 current god card as far as i know) , you should have no problem with any game as long as you have 
 1GB ram and a decent proccessor. I know nothing about ATI cards, so I am staying away from that 
 subject completey.
  Fortunately Ram is much cheaper and can make a huge difference in system performance. 1GB is enough 
 for pretty much anything and it costs about $100 for to 512MB sticks (2x 512MB = 1GB yeah I didnt 
 even know this until i took it upon myself to read and learn.) Apparently the consturction set 
 download of Obilvion recommends 2GBs! Holy Hell! I am yet to try that, and will update when I have.
 
  Next is your processor, The AMD 64 3500+ does an amazing job, especially for not being anywhere 
 near top notch, and by adding various things such as an actual sound card, can help maximize the 
 strength you get from your processor. My cousin has a AMD 64 3200+ (939 pin) which is about $150. 
 Mine Is a AMD 64 3500+ (939) at $180, the $30's more helps alot.
  One of things I did get fooled into when I bought my computer was buying a motherboard with an 
 integrated sound card. I was like, "Sweet two birds with one stone". WRONG, unfortunatley I found 
 out an integrated card had no where the strength of an actual sound card you place in a AGP or 
 PCI slot. But having other good hardware peices can make up for that, so it isnt a neccesity, but 
 you can get some real good cards such as; the Creative Labs sound blaster Audiugy 4 for like $80. 
 I plan on buying a X-Fi for $120 (another Creative Labs product) , a really nice sound card, not 
 top of the line, but only $40 more. When you have an integrated sound card, it isnt powerful enough 
 on its own and partially relies on your proccessor, so having a weak proccessor will be worse with 
 a sound card that leeches off of your proccessor. The again if your processor is pretty nice dont 
 worry about it. But a seperate sound card works on its own, its pelnty buff enough to do its own 
 job, and overall helps your computer run better.
  No I am not rich, I say things like; oh only, or cheap, and stuff like that, I just mean in relation 
 to video cards and proccessors. I make little more than minimum wage, so I fear your pain of poorness. 
 I check pricewatch. com alot. I order quite a few peices off of that site and had no problems. That 
 is also where I get my price quotes for things like this review.
  Also another important feature is the motherboard. This is where I know the least. All I know there 
 are various brands, I have a Gigabyte brand, which apparently is okay but nothing amazing. But 
 it does support SLI. I have no idea what it stands for but it is important, because an SLI motherboard 
 means it can run 2 video cards at once, you bridge them together. There are NO games that need 
 two cards! Maybe in the future sure, but buying one awesome card is better than buying two mediocre 
 cards. Especially when that awesome card goes down in price and some day you can buy another of 
 those and double it up. But my one, single, lonely, 7800GTX 256MB is plenty for this game at full 
 blast, plenty for Doom 3 at full blast, plenty for everything at full blast that I have come across. 
 I havent got F. E. A. R. yet, but my cousin said with his set up he can acheive full, but it isnt 
 smooth, and his card is a 6800GT. So I am sure I can hit full. But then again he is a pompus liar, 
 and over inflates everything he talks about from his car to his computer, so take that with a grain 
 of salt lol. But I am sure the 7800GTX 256MB can handle any game out now at full. But soon there 
 will be a game that will knock it from its pedistole.
  OH!!! and PCI express slots on your Motherboard are very important. Apparently AGP is a thing of 
 the past, I did not know this at the time of purchase, but I got lucky and got a SLI board with 
 PCI express slots. They allow your cards; sound, video, blah blah, to run faster, so it is worthless 
 to buy a AGP board, apparently my best friend's dad says they aren't even making AGP cards anymore, 
 not totally sure of that though. 
  
  Yeah well next week is spring break, so I am really looking forward to nerding it up and shutting 
 myself in my room the entire break with jars and jars of Kool-Aid and grilled cheese sandwhichs 
 to play Oblivion with!!! So I hope this helps, to sum up, GET IT NOW FOOL!!! I will add more to 
 this review as I get further into the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbordi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  is there anything better than this ?? NO! nothing beats this game, its amazing, feels like another 
 world that only you can master.. whats great about the game... every goddamn piece of this game 
 is great. its the RPG's GTA.. never have i put so much in a videogame.. this can last forever!
 
  the graphics is absolutly amazing, allmost like the real world after adding a little imagination 
 ^^, but there can be a little lagging =/ but not to much..
  the gameplay.. well, nothing beats this game on gameplay. its the BEST!
  the world.. damn its 
 large.. really LARGE.. HUGE... whatever.. its allso an amazing enviroment..
  didnt like the x-box version.. felt more in controll of my character on the pc.
  dont know why.. 
 gues im one of those x-box sucks ass gamers =)
  BUY THIS GAME... IT BEATS WOW MAN.. IT BEATS WOW!! ^^,
  
  gues this is the game of the games.. 
 after my opinion its just up to youre own decision.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fantact
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The last time i played an Elder Scrolls Game, was when i booted up Morrowind on my PC.
  I was met by an enormous world with lots of people and creatures. I saw potential for a lot of 
 adventure, but i could not help the feeling of disconnection.
  Ok i was there, but at the same time i was not there.
  Too much text, it felt like a Text game/3D 
 game crossover.
  So i put it away.
  
  Later on, i booted up Oblivion on my 360 to see if I still got the same disconnection.
  
  When 
 i first got out of the prison, gleaming upon the forest and mountains in the background, i was 
 mesmerized! Not only did i feel connected to the game, i felt extraordinary!
  It was magical, i had goosebumps all over myself!
  
  As you, gentle reader, might have noticed, 
 i do not focus upon gameplay and graphisc in depth analysis in my review (and you might notice alot 
 of bad grammar, this is because i am norwegian :P) i do not want to follow that template, i simply 
 want to give you my description of how i experienced the game head on.
  
  No game since Metal Gear Solid for the PSX have made me feel like this before, and the feeling 
 was amplefied! With metal gear, i felt so deeply for the story. With this game i feel like i have 
 endless posibilities.
  I forgot completly about the main story at first, i just went looking at trees and the scenery. 
 It was beautiful! never have i seen such a great world to game in.
  
  Off course this feeling isnt what it was back then at this time. But the game made me feel special.
 
  And its still a great game.
  
  The A. I is somewhat dissapointing though, ive heard stories about these "random" events, and the 
 NPC's random behaviour, but they all seem to be about the same stuff, like the VID most of us have 
 seen, depicting a lady in her house getting annoyed by the dog, these things ive never seen in 
 the game. Maybe i havent looked hard enough? Maybe the A. I is insufficient. I do not know.
  
  If you havent played this game yet, do so, it is well worth the time and/or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzalesski
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Best Single player, (One Character I. e. ROLE (1) Playing not role's playing witch requires multiple 
 personalities) , game I've played to date. The AI, the Graphics, and finally its awesomely and 
 totally NON-Linier!!! meaning I"M PLAYING (not actively watching/participating) Awesome! The thing 
 I like best is the quest organization and selection ability! For example you can turn on/off the 
 ACTIVE quest you wish to work on and the map/compass markers accommodates. You can or dont ever 
 have to work on the quests You want in your order when You want to if you want to at all AWSOME!! 
 By far the most time saving feature is fast travel meaning no more taping the forward button to 
 get somewhere but even thats covered by an auto move feature walks/runs for you!! The positives 
 out way to negatives but the negatives are annoying. 
  
  The cons;
  
   Cant save game by writing the name of your save game/save 
  file.
   Cant rename or even 
 name you Houses, Horses etc. 
   No transparent mini map option
   No zoom in/out feature in 1st or 2nd person view
   In 2nd person view cant interact with environment 
 I. e. pick up 
  things
   When buying an selling no drag and drop seams like a Consol
  type of interface very Crappy not up to PC standard (which 
  usually is 10X the power of those 
 calculators you hook up to a 
  TV lol)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I would be in error if I did not say that Oblivion is a great improvement over Morrowind, which 
 was in its own rights a fairly solid game. The graphics are phenomenal and create a remarkable 
 setting for such a rich deep world. Unlike many I know, my budget does not allow a major upgrade 
 to my system for the sake of graphics, so I was greatly sorrowed to have to turn them down. Such 
 attention to detail deserves to be seen and those of you who have what it takes to see them, I 
 salute you. To my disappointment though, the Bethesda engineers failed, in my opinion to correctly 
 state the system requirements. Although I easily meet the recommended requirements which are usually 
 well beyond the minimum, I am unable to set the graphic levels to what in my opinion are representative 
 of "Recommended" requirements. Point being, beware when considering system specs.
  
  The voice acting is pretty good as well, but, like Morrowind, often the actors seem "uninspired" 
 and ho-hum. Patrick Stewart was a nice, albeit brief addition, but I couldn't help but feel the 
 face they put on the emperor did not fit his voice. Also, after the Emperor is killed early on, 
 as you talk to townspeople, their actor responses about it seem like they did not really know the 
 emperor was killed, but they didn't want me to know they didn't know. For the love of God, your 
 Emperor was just killed in the sewers! It's NOT just another day in the life! Nevertheless, all 
 in all voice acting has improved over Morrowind. The musical score, in a word - quality.
  
  All that said, I'd like to go straight to my issues with the game. Admittedly, 1st person melee 
 can't be easy to program. However, I would think after 4 tries, they could get the feel a little 
 more accurate. I can't help but rate the combat game play as clunky. It is a marked improvement 
 over the previous titles, but still it lacks a sense of realism that I've hungered for. Something 
 about walking backwards in a circle around a rock while fighting something, hoping for a moment 
 to regain stamina so I can swing my blade in hopes of doing any damage at all gets rather tedious. 
 The novelty of the stamina bar has worn off, and in my opinion is something they should just do 
 without. It's gotten to be simply annoying. As far as the animation feel I get from the action 
 of combat, it's similar to my being a floating orb with arms hovering about. I'd like the creators 
 to give me that feel of "hauling ass" like Id does with their FPS games. Combat and movement has 
 a rhythm to it that Bethesda just can't seem to nail down. Of all the Elder Scroll games, this 
 flaw seems to consistently bother me from title to title. Oblivion does the best job to date, but 
 still..... something is just not right.
  
  Perhaps as I grow older and put more gaming years under my belt, I'm getting pickier about storyline. 
 If I'm going to take on an epic quest, I need epic inspiration to do it. Although Oblivion has 
 a solid storyline, it is presented in a way that just doesn't make me feel like I have an urgent 
 duty to save the world. It's not linear, as that would suggest you must move from one designated 
 quest to the next, but while I sit and stare across the beautiful landscape around the Imperial 
 City, I feel more like sitting in the grass writing poetry than saving the world. All the quests 
 are presented in a fashion that really seems like "We need to do this, but, you know, take your 
 time, there's no hurry. Have you seen the lake around the Imperial City? I hear it's lovely this 
 time of year." Also, completion of the quests, offers little reward except the next lead to another 
 seemingly insignificant epic quest. It's almost as if everyone in the world is mesmerized by the 
 beautiful graphics and has no cares to worry about.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a great game. If you care about graphics at all, expect to be wowed, but past 
 that, you'll find some unfortunate similarities with previous Elder Scrolls titles. Every area 
 of the game has noticeable improvement, but a boat with a half plugged leak is still sinking. They 
 got the graphics nailed down, lets work on the game play and drive the story home! Vastness is 
 a great feature, but throw me a bone here!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam29
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is the most addicting, fun and just plane amazing game ever made! Their are so many improvements 
 in this game from Morrowind like the melee fighting is so much more interesting and fun. The size 
 of the game in every aspect is just simply amazing. The world is really big, their are so many 
 side quest that you just stumble into, like one time i was sleeping at this tavern that was on 
 a boat and when i woke up, the boat was being high-jacked and i had to save the day (so cool, lol) . 
 The NPC AI is so amazing, one time i was gonna talk to this person and this guy snuck up on him 
 and pickpocketed him! I was just like "wow! i just saw some guy pickpocket another guy!" So me 
 and a guard chase him down and kill him and i look to see what he stole, and it was a potato! The 
 guy must of been hungry, lol. Their is just so much stuff to this game, it will keep you busy for 
 a very, very long time. Their is still people playing Morrowind to this day even. Theis games are 
 just very well done and worth every peny. So if your looking for a game with an amazing story and 
 awesome gameplay that you can play for ever, this is defently the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipStrike
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  It is with a heavy heart that I must pronounce this work of art dead on arrival.
  
  Graphics, despite the oddities and weak points and the high system requirements, still 10/10. The 
 landscapes and architecture is artistic and beautiful to behold, even at medium grapihcs settings 
 and all the tiny details inside homes and such must've taken ages to hand-craft. 
  Sounds are great, 9/10, voices are generally well done, though the dialogue got repetitive and 
 annoying after a few hours.
  
  Now that that's out of the way, I gave a 6 for gameplay, 6 for value, and 7 for tilt. I think that 
 Morrowind is a tragic failure and a symbol of what seems incresingly to be going horribly wrong 
 in game design these days, especially where RPGs are concerned. 
  
  Besides the shiny graphical upgrade, the game remains identical to Morrowind, with all of that 
 game's problems and glaring shortcomings. Morrowind has always been a game of breadth more than 
 depth, but having seen all that Morrowind has to offer, I find that there's nothing new to explore 
 in Oblivion as it seems literally nothing has changed.
  Let me put it this way: If it weren't for the graphics and voice-overs (which are really more of 
 a shortcoming than an advantage, as it limits the variety of dialogue considerably) , this game 
 would be a large expansion to Morrowind (with a painfully crappy plot somehow made more painful 
 by the inclusion of star voice acting, it's like they think players are getting dumber... or younger...) .
 
  If you ever played Thief 3: Deadly Shadows or Deus Ex 2: Invisible War and thought those sequels 
 sucked by improving nothing, taking away some good things, and featuring annoying console-style 
 interfaces and clunky, unresponsive movement then you'll know exactly why Oblivion was such a huge 
 disappointment. 
  
  That, essentially, was the short version of my review.
  Now for the long version:
  
  First off, this game seems to feature no advancement, as all loot 
 and difficulty is scaled to you. You gain a level, automatically find more coin to get a stronger 
 weapon to kill an enemy that just got that much more resilient. Net result: nothing has changed. 
 This results in a whole slew of horrible, horrible problems:
  
  -I've heard stories of people just staying at level 1 for most of the game, and that it can actually 
 be easier that way
  -Advancement now has no tangible benefits
  -Odd bugs/problems, for example if you try a quest when you're higher level, your NPC allies won't 
 scale up with your enemies and will be cut down imediately
  -Randomized, tailored-to-level loot removes all exitement and interest from it (which compounds 
 the fact that it's useless)
  -No feeling of accomplishment from completely outclassing a challenge, and by the same token, no 
 cool fleeing from fleeing from enemies completely beyond your power, only to conquer them later.
 
  -Contributes massively to shattered immersion, as the artificiality of scaled loot and challenges 
 makes it PAINFULLY obvious that the world revolves around you... 
  -Which led to an odd and creepy thought: I found myself wondering why I had to travel to find enemies 
 when (since they were put on in Tamriel by the gods for my benefit) , it seemed natural that they 
 might as well come to me! Everything else revolved around me! It seemed odd that space (instead 
 of just time and matter) didn't contract around me as well. 
  
  -I remember in Morrowind going to the capital city and trying to rob the great house vaults, which 
 were guarded by multiple layers of gates, unbreakable locks and guards watching nearly every point 
 of entry. After spending hours trying, I finally accepted that I couldn't do it, but breaking in 
 became a mad obsession and constant focus for improvement to me. 
  One day, much later, I finally managed to get into the vault undetected only to discover (to my 
 surprise and joy) that I couldn't carry most of the treasure and that it was too expensive to sell 
 to most vendors (a 50,000 gold shield to vendors with a maximum of 1200 gold?) , forcing me to use 
 the barter feature to trade one ebony breastplate for a whole pile of cheap, light goods (gems, 
 enchanted jewellery, ebony darts were good for that too) that had to be distributed to other vendors 
 in other cities for all the coin they had. I actually never ended up selling all of those hugely 
 expensive items and kept most of them as beautiul decorations in my home. All in all, just this 
 "laundering" process was so involved and interesting that it made my incredile theft worthwhile. 
 It gave what I stole a feeling of real value and was a nice touch of rich depth that the world's 
 economy actually couldn't absorb hugely expensive items so easily.
  It would be unfortunate if Oblivion failed to improve on an experience like that, but NO, it seems 
 rather than actually trying to improve that... THEY COMPLETELY REMOVED IT FROM THE GAME!
  (whoa, reliving that memory made me angrier than I expected)
  
  Secondly, the careful manipulation 
 of abilities, skills, spells and equipment is the bread and butter of RPGs, and one of the most 
 potentially rewarding activities is the science of better combat ability through analysis, innovation 
 and work. Often, the more options a game gives you, the better, and I was hoping to find more such 
 options to play around with in Oblivion. I was sadly mistaken:
  
  -All armor and weapons are identical to those of Morrowind. Leather, fur, glass, silver, ebony, 
 yeah... been there, used that.
  -Alchemy is identical to that in Morrowind, only some herb and food names are different, with slightly 
 more boring names than in Morrowind (I have onions and apples at home, but I'll never forget saltrice 
 an ash yam as some staples of another world) 
  -This is made worse by the fact that the magical effects system has been completely ported over 
 from Morrowind. The same damage, the same (target, touch, radius options) , the same attribute damage 
 and recovery, the same summons, exactly the same effects as in Morrowind. The mechanics, options, 
 and even the feel of the system is identical. There are no new strategies to be discovered here. 
 
  -And I don't see any jump or fly spells available... probably because the shiny new graphics engine 
 can't handle the possibility of high-speed movement (the old Morrowind had loading trouble when 
 you tried to jump from one capital city to another in a single catastropic leap, but I can just 
 imagine Oblivion having a brain aneurism trying to load that much data) . Also think teleports were 
 removed, but who needs them with fast travel?
  -Stealth is identical, with the same AI problems and nasty limitations/unrealism as before. Though 
 they did integrate the effects of lighting and darkness at least
  
  Combat remains a boring hack and slash-fest, though they made some progress in making it more "actiony". 
 I think the best it got was in the arena against an archer and sword wielder duo, as I danced backwards 
 out of range, starting and stopping to both avoid arrows and the giant sword right in front of 
 me. The best part was when the arrows actually hit my opponent a couple times. That said...
  -The ranged attack system has the same problem as in Morrowind, where all projectiles travel in 
 slow motion and are very easy to avoid or miss with. The enemy alway fires directly at you, or 
 calculates exactly where to lead their target based on your direction and movement speed.
  -The melee combat remains a hack and slash fest, even though you can dodge and power attack, it 
 gets repeitive very, very quickly. It's also obviously subject to the classic problems inherent 
 in first person melee combat, and the somewhat clunky character movement (and performance issues 
 against multiple opponents) still keep you disoriented and off balance.
  -To use an example, if you're creeping along a corridor with the emperor and his guards and an 
 enemy jumps out nearby, you're essentially paralyzed. A slight choppiness/delay degrades you accuracy 
 and reflexes and your allies and enemies rush about (with the signature "instant direction change" 
 annoyance from the original Morrowind) all in all making you as likely to hit allies as enemies 
 if you launch any attacks. 
  
  All in all it seems that the developers of Oblivion have no idea of what makes RPG combat fun. 
 The opportunity for creative, tactical thought, rather than twitch action is what makes it rewarding. 
 This is why I often find myself going back to Diablo 2 and Guild Wars, oddly enough. Those games 
 make you think tactically about the use of a wide variety of abilties, and the possibilities for 
 experimentation are considerable. 
  In fact, I think that's one of the reasons why fantasy games and RPG's go hand in hand so naturally, 
 since a world full of monsters and magic and complex, varying equipment is perfectly suited to 
 the kind of RPG strategy that somehow makes things exciting when the actual combat is slow, or 
 even turn-based.
  There never really was much opportunity for experimentation in Morrowind. Only increasingly powerful 
 swords, bows and fireballs to replace the previous ones. They have done nothing to remedy this 
 problem in Oblivion. Not only that, but every strategy you can try in Oblivion, I've already tried 
 1000 times in Morrowind, making the limited strategic options instantly boring for me.
  Rather than try to address this problem, and help Oblivion excel in the kind of combat depth that 
 RPG's are known for, they instead focused on the "action/arcade" facet of things, as if trying 
 to make an RPG with Counterstrike or Quake 4 style action.
  
  Oh, and don't get me started about roleplaying possibilities. The lack of party members is an automatic 
 and serious limitation made far worse by a lack of control over dialogue or interactions (you occasionally 
 get to choose between two stereotypically heroic responses) . The fact that every word said by NPCs 
 must be part of voice-acted dialogue contributes to the feeling that roleplaying-wise, this game 
 is a one-way railroad with hundreds of little prepackaged linear side-quests along the way.
  Oh, and from what I've seen and heard of the radiant AI, nothing special was done with it. Guards 
 patrol the roads, wolves (and sometimes unicorns?) chase deer, and people go to sleep at night. 
 Beyond that, they just wander around aimlessly. You can't do something cool like toss around furniture 
 and have some react appropriately or burn half of the settlement's food and see food shortages 
 and food prices go up e. t. c. Crime is also limited by the trademark telepathic guards that were 
 a major annoyance in Morrowind. 
  
  So all in all, this game does not have RPG combat, magic, stealth, roleplaying, interaction, a 
 good story or even exploration going for it (as the ruins, settlements e. t. c are exactly like the 
 sort you'd see in Morrowind, right down to the daedra ruins) . All it really has is stunted arcade 
 combat and good graphics.
  
  In conclusion I feel I should mention that I fuond it amusing to see how successive Tomb Raider 
 games recieved scores about 10% lower than the previous one, or reflect what happens when you release 
 the same game a year or more after the last one with no new innovations.
  On Gamespot, Morrowind recieved and 8.7, which I agree with entirely, but their 9.3 for Oblivion 
 was shameful. I find a 7.2 to be harsh, but it is entirely fitting that, like a tomb raider sequel, 
 this game lose 10% for making no real improvements to the game, and that it lose another 5% for 
 the changes that actually made this game worse than it predecessor (terrible story, voice acting 
 limitations, console interface e. t. c) .
  
  Honestly, I feel like giving this game a 1 out 10 just due to emotion, indignation, and the nagging 
 but far more logical claim that this game is not an RPG at all. I can't help but wonder what the 
 developers were thinking when they released a beautiful, anticipated RPG that featured neither 
 character advancement, strategy or roleplaying. 
  
  I can only assume that if it was a conscious decision at all, they likely decided to cater to the 
 hundreds of satisfied player-reviewers on this site alone who gave this game between 9.1 and 10 
 out of 10.
  And against that kind of unanimous acclaim, how can I possibly argue? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggies11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  If you go in expecting this game to be the Holy Grail of gaming, like all the buzz would have you 
 believe, you are bound to be dissapointed. No game can live up to those expectations.
  
  What this game is though, is the Half Life 2 of roleplaying games.
  
  Exceptional presentation, 
 both the visuals and the sounds are stunning. Add to that an absolute insane attention to detail 
 in both visuals, but also gameplay and story, and you are left with one of the most immersive gaming 
 experiences out there. Oblivion definite puts YOU in the game.
  
  I'm not a big RPG fan, as I tend to like the action a bit more, and this game seems to be the perfect 
 balance. All the RPG dressings of leveling up, gaining skills, getting more powerfull as the game 
 progresses, are there, but the action really is left up to you the player as it's your deeds, not 
 your characters stats, that determine the winner of battles.
  
  Tons of Fun, Interesting things to do, and lots of different ways to play the game. It's a game 
 that should keep you interested for quite some time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I don't usually write reviews because I'm too busy playing games but this one deserves recognition. 
 If you've played Morrowind, this is the ultimate sequel. The one thing that really stands out is 
 the "lives" that people have. You can watch them leave home and go to work and then go hang out 
 at the church after work or go to the local tavern and then go home to sleep at night. It's really 
 awesome. The skill set is slightly improved. Now, there are 5 levels; Novice, Apprentice, Journeyman, 
 Expert, and finally Master at level 100. The only level 100 I have is in alchemy which allows you 
 to create potions from just one ingredient. Even making a ton of restore fatigue potions rewards 
 me with lots of gold.
  
  Also, the stealth gameplay is done perfectly. 95% of games out there involving stealth really rub 
 me the wrong way like fingernails on a chalkboard. This game really lets you play the thief or 
 assassin and if an area is tough, merely use a special ability, item, or potion to become invisible.
 
  
  I hate to voice another cliche' but if you haven't played an Morrowind or Oblivion, think GTA meets 
 LOTR. You can steal horses, run rampant through the world, do whatever you want without ever playing 
 one of the main missions. You can be noble and good or cunning and evil. I prefer a mixture of 
 the two..... Well, I am the Listener of the Dark Brotherhood so being the head of a worldwide assassins 
 organization makes me pretty evil. I'm also Grand Champion of the arena and Master Thief for the 
 Gray Fox. Being the best fighter and best assassin in the world makes me pretty bad ass.
  
  Now to nitpick. I love this game but I really miss the flying that Morrowind allowed. That was 
 really fun to play around with. However, the upside is that whenever you are in a dungeon or city, 
 if you can't get somewhere by jumping, there is nothing there too see. Also, they only let you 
 train 5 times in any skill per level. I remember hording gold in Morrowind and just training 20 
 to 30 times in a skill, all in a row. But... these are both ultimately small and don't really do 
 anything to spoil the game.
  
  One warning; if you want this for PC, it will drain your graphics card. I've got 3.2 ghz, 2 gb 
 of Ram, and an old Nvidia 5900 ultra. My video card is what makes the game go slow. However, the 
 upside is with everything turned down, the graphics are still pretty darn good. The most frame 
 rate lag I found was inside buildings where there are a lot of smaller objects, all solid physical 
 objects in the game. The sound is incredible. When you hear bugs chirping at night, you feel like 
 your in the woods near your house where you grew up. The last time sounds in a video game were 
 that good was the first time I played Grand Theft Auto III and felt like I was standing on a street 
 corner in Chicago.
  
  If you are a RPG fan, get this game. If you aren't a FPS fan, get this game. If you are a gamer 
 period, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric2980
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  I just recently got the game and it is amazing. I have a high end computer so I put it on ultra 
 high settings. If you don't have a high end computer then don't worry because my sister's computer 
 is a little over minimum requirements and it runs oblivion fine on low settings. I have no complaints 
 about this game; I have already made a lot of characters to try to find the best combination of 
 skills. The games combat system is revolutionary, compared to morrowind, oblivion is much better. 
 I have not seen a lot of the spells yet but most of the basic one's. I enjoy this game immensely 
 and encourage others to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bill787
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  After reading many reviews both postive and negative, I decided to go and spend the $50.00 dollars 
 on this game. Now for me that is unusal I normal only like to spend $30.00 or less sometime $40.00. 
 Anways it was well worth it, I have never played a better first and third person role-playing game 
 yet. The graphics are amazing, the characters are so rich in detail and alive. The world You are 
 in is so alive and just walking around is amazing. I will say though that I hightly recommend You 
 have a computer that can run this game well. I have a new HP Media computer 19"lcd,1.5g of hard 
 drive intel 920dual core processer 2.8ghz, and a Nivida Geforce 6800gs Over clocked. It runs great 
 on my system with all the settings on high. The game does at time crash just so ya, hopefully a 
 patch some out soon. It didnt happened to me frequently, normaly when exiting the game or saving. 
 And it only happened a couple of times. Anyways, I hightly recommend this game if You like games 
 like, Star Wars knights of the Old republic or a roleplaying game like that. There is such endless 
 context to game and it will probaly take many, many hours to see it all. Last but not least I would 
 urge You again if Your system doesnt meet the recommened requirements at least You may want to 
 upgrade first or wait and try a freinds or a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leavemebe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  It was a rare moment indeed, and was the point that tipped me from wondering if I would ever see 
 the future-of-gaming in an actual game, rather than a glossy ad in some magazine on a shelf. After 
 frustrating and frequently bewildering testing sessions, resetting video clock frequencies, and 
 gleaning what certain variables do and do not do in the .ini file, and not quite happy with the 
 results even with my 7800GT and 3800+ CPU. Heavy hitting hardware that was chugging along.
  
  But it happened, after stumbling upon the right combination, I found myself continuing a gaming 
 session focused on the artistry and majesty of the environment, rather than the magic scaffolding 
 holding up the digital facade. It was a game-time late afternoon and I was riding on a palomino 
 horse along a shoreline path, when this DeBussy-esque semi-submerged cathedral with a fancy horse 
 statue in the middle of it, all in the shallows of a lake, became illuminated by the orangy afternoon 
 light. I was semi-naked, of course, tan with a broadsword scabbard tan-line and quiver strapped 
 across my impossibly broad back. Lest that seem overly masculine, I did marvel at the floating 
 water hyacinth, and wort growing lesiurely in the bushes. from a distance I could make out each 
 different petal, that looked like for the first time, petals!
  
  The illusion of that pastoral setting was complete and breathtaking, combined with the impressionistic 
 soundtrack, with accurate ambient noises such as insects and rustling debris it was a quality moment 
 when everything came together with virtuosity aforethought. Bravo! I can't wait for the other moments 
 to come.
  
  If you are interested what settings I have finally settled on, they are as follows, what gives 
 me a playable FPS on my PC:
  
  1280x960@85Hz
  2xFSAA (No Multi/Super Sampling) (Gamma correct Off)
  2x Aniso Trilinear mipmaps, bias clamped
 
  Nvidia driver IQ optimizations On (all 3)
  Vsync, triple buffering, Off
  
  Running On:
  2.5G AMD64
  7800GT @ 410/450/1.0G [Vertex/Pixel/Memory] 
  2G DDR3500 2-3-3-6 
 @ 218Mhz
  Nforce4
  Audigy 2 ZS
  21" CRT
  
  Game Settings:
  Bloom
  Draw distances Maximum
  Fade distances Maximum
  Shadows, 2 ticks from Minimum, fitering low, 
 soft.
  bAllow30Shaders=1 (oblivion. ini)
  iPreloadSizeLimit=100000000 (oblivion. ini)
  bForceFullLOD=1 (oblivion. ini)
  iMinGrassSize=120 (oblivion. ini)
  
  I found that this game 
 was very sensitive to overclocking on my pc, especially the gpu texture memory, and while 1600x1200 
 was my first choice, the raw image needed FSAA (especially the marvelous faces) and 1600x1200 with 
 2xFSAA was just too slow in large outdoor areas, I would upgrade to sli just to achieve that resolution, 
 the game rewards it.
  
  With an average FPS in the 40's, and minimum in the 30's, I have found, for my tastes and hardware, 
 that magic spot that allows the undeniable talent of splendid creation that this game has to offer. 
 Good luck to everyone on their selfsame journey, it's worth it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboy144
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This is an outstanding game. Truly one not to be missed. I have not played a game this way since 
 Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Putting this game in league with Zelda is a fantastic compliment. I don't 
 play RPG's typically, but I am making an exception for the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion because I 
 think it is the best game to have come out this decade. The puzzles, combat, style of playing, 
 culture, it's all fantastic. The world of Oblivion is incredibly immersive. You can talk with nearly 
 all of the hundreds of highly believable characters that populate this game, read every book that 
 you see (which must have been quite painstaking to facilitate) , and even see different styles of 
 architecture and culture. The combat is possibly the only thing that is not quite as good as it 
 feels it should be, but I certainly can't think of anyway they'd improve it. From picking locks 
 to speechcraft, this gameplay is very solid. The graphics are breathtaking. The best I have ever 
 seen. This game is a work of art in every respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiddlemaster56
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very well done, the lighting is exceptional. The AI is just as clever as they 
 suggested it would be.
  
  However, the controls, especially how the character moves, is extremely sluggish. In 3rd person, 
 the character slides diagonally when moving. In first person, the fighting itself is difficult 
 to manipulate at times. For example, swinging a sword really is slow and tough to pick up on the 
 screen (I'm using an Xbox 360, on an HDTV) . Raising a shield is quite good as it blocks most of 
 the screen as would in real life. But the movement seems to be more mechanical and not quite as 
 organic as I would have expected. The sliding really is annoying. They could have done a LOT better 
 with the movement animations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhemberger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  There is little to criticize when it comes to the graphics and sound in this game. They are what 
 you can expect of a next-gen game in all respects. The game has total depth as a RPG with excellent 
 game play. The problem arises when an average gamer attempts to get into the game for more than 
 8 or so hours. It tends to get a little too involved and slow paced. If I could make a comparison 
 it is like a well-oiled machine as a simulator, but not enough arcade like elements to keep the 
 average gamer going. This is great news for the die hard RPG fans, but the average gamer would 
 lose interest at the slow pace. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vieyra
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I turned up all the video settings on my Nvidia 6800 pci express and ran perfect. It was better 
 than farcry. This game is #1...
  The only thing I would say for Bethesda to do is improve on sound. When I pushed a dead animal 
 off a cliff I heard no noise on the fall. The same whent with objects. The game overall ran smooth 
 and the fighting was excellent in comparison to morrowind. I liked the massive endless possible 
 facial creations from tones to facial structure. The last thing I have to say is I love the races. 
 Evryon in game is unique unlike morrowind wheir everyone looked alike in every town. You will see 
 the best graphics up to date when playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordVodka
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest RPG's of all time, and I know alot of you people are skeptical saying 
 rpgs with such poished graphic just arn't as good or as big, but your dead wrong in this case Oblivion 
 has one of the biggest worlds in gaming history and the gameplay is nothing short of spectacular, 
 and it has a slight GTA feel. From the very beginning you can go anywhere and kill anything if 
 you can stay alive while doing this... If killings not your style though you can become a theif 
 or join the mages or fighting guild or just stick with the story line. The sound in this game is 
 nothing short of awsome, besides the repetition in NPC's sayings. The learning curve is about 2 
 to 3 hours because it takes some time to figure out where all the stats and options are, took me 
 over 4 hours to figure out where my stats chart was, it may help to read the tutorials when they 
 pop up though. In conclusion oblivion is a highly polished RPG that has a good gameplay and almost 
 endless amounts of quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmos55
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  I've played all Elder Scroll games since Arena. I liked them for their immersion, their ambiance, 
 there was something interesting to be developed there. I never beat them : they all got boring 
 after a while, because the actual gameplay was flawed.
  
  Oblivion has the same strength and weaknesses as it's predecessors, but more so. It has better 
 ambiance, dialogues, voice acting, quests, graphics, music , books ; all elements that contributes 
 to good immersion, althought the main plot is really clich. The adventure part of the game is 
 good : you walk around in a pretty , lively world, with a lot of characters. Most people agree 
 that was well done.
  
  On the other hand, the actual gameplay is weaker. The skill / leveling system is almost the same 
 as Arena, which is more than 10 years old. Basically, you need to pay attention to when you gain 
 levels so you don't screw up your attributes. You need to be careful to not use certain skills 
 too much if you want your character to be like you want it to be. When you level, the monsters 
 are scaled to your strength, so it's almost pointless to get stronger. This isn't fun. 
  
  They changed the combat, which is better and worse at the same time. It's better because you have 
 more control over what you do : you manually dodge, block and hit your enemies in an action RPG 
 kind of way. It's worse because their combat system is too simplistic to work, and it has obvious 
 holes that made me wonder how they got past beta. For instance, projectiles are totally non lethal 
 in this game : they are so slow that you can dodge them by simply side stepping. My grandma is 
 fast enough to evade them. Every spellcasters and archers can be beaten easily. Yes, you can dodge 
 arrows. As for close combat, it's above the average rpg, but what is so special about "block and 
 counter"? Does that impress you? Wait till your enemy strikes, block, then counter. That's hardly 
 as "revolutionary" as their radiant AI. 
  
  Why didn't they include their superior AI in their combat system? Would you rather have characters 
 sleep and do daily tasks like chatting and gathering food to look realistic or have monsters that 
 actually fight intelligently? What's the point of spending so much effort on a virtual world? What 
 is fun about watching NPC's talk to each other? I concede that it's a plus, for the ambiance. But 
 it's not worth it considering they could have spent their effort on actual game-play instead. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellz666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  By now, you have heard the hype surrounding Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. I am here to tell you that 
 the hype is real. The game is fantastic. The graphics are unreal-they really took them to the next 
 level. The play mechanics are straight forward for the average PC RPG fan, but there is enough 
 depth to make any hard core gamer happy! I think the designers hit a perfect balance for any type 
 of fan. 
  
  As computer owners, we are constantly reminded that it is expensive to upgrade hardware. Every 
 once and a while, a game comes out that justifies those expenses. I think this is the game that 
 should make people upgrade. And, if you do it now, you won't have to worry about upgrading for 
 the next generation of games. My computer is plenty powerful enough to run it (Dell Dimension 8400: 
 P4 3.4 ghz, 2GB RAM, 128 MB Nvidia 6800, 21" Digital LCD Monitor) . 
  
  However, if my computer was too slow, I know I would upgrade in order to play this game, it is 
 that good. Even after a few hours of playing, I am confident in saying that this game is fantastic! 
 Any money you spend on your computer will be well worth it! 
  
  The beginning level acts as a tutorial. Instead of being ordered how to do things, the game starts 
 open ended (a clue that the entire game will be this open ended as well) . It gives suggestions 
 on things, such as how to use the bow and how to cast spells. But if you choose to not be an archer 
 or a magician, you can still proceed. You customize your character at different points based on 
 how you were playing. I think that is an original design for character creation, as opposed to 
 creating a character from scratch before ever playing the game. 
  
  I have walked through several large cities, talked to citizens, obtained quests, finished quests, 
 bartered at the shops, changed my equipment, leveled-up some skills, used swords, hammers, bows, 
 magic, etc.-that was all in the first few hours. I am taking my time walking through the game. 
 Yes, the graphics are that good, and you may want to take the time to admire the world that you 
 are walking through. Personally, I sometimes rush through games and forget to look around at the 
 world. This game makes you want to look around, to see what is around the corner, to explore the 
 areas and see what is next. 
  
  Oblivion is going to be huge! I have read that the main quest is about 25 hours. If you explore 
 the entire island, and attempt the side quests, the game is hundreds and hundreds of hours. I still 
 know people playing Morrowind-I expect Oblivion to last as long, if not longer. 
  
  Yes, my computer is setup for games and the gaming experience. So far, Oblivion has proved to be 
 a worthwhile experience. Even for those computers with lower setting should still enjoy this game-the 
 designers made sure that the game was just more than graphics. How it looks should not stop you 
 from buying this game-it is the game experience you should come for. The fact that it is possibly 
 the best computer RPG ever should make you want to play it no matter what. 
  
  The bottom line is: combat is fun, and I look forward to unlocking skills that let me target with 
 my bow, roll out of the way of combat, and summon creatures to help me fight. The game play is 
 deep and accessible. There are more items, weapons, magic combinations, character types, NPCs, 
 quests etc. than you know what to do with! The graphics are outstanding. The voice acting is some 
 of the best in any game. The game wants you, the player, to be involved. You play however you want 
 and whoever you want to be. 
  
  And truthfully, the game is just fun. What more can you ask for in a computer game? 
  Note: The 
 Collectors Edition is the same game, but this box comes with a collector's coin and a book that 
 give you detailed background of the world of Oblivion, including characters, places, and story. 
 
  
  UPDATE: Someone wrote earlier (in other reviews) that you can only play in 1st person. This is 
 not true. Use the mouse wheel to scroll back and you can set the distance you want to view your 
 character in 3rd person. Also, you can hot key 8 items (both on the PC and XBox 360) with keys 
 1-8. I wish there were more, but it seems to be a strategy type thing set by the designers. What 
 is important to you? Well, you get 8 things to hot key. The keys F1-F4 call up your character page, 
 inventory, spells, and map/journal. This should make inventory management a snap. Hopefully, those 
 who are making comments about these things either read their manuals or try things out before making 
 it a negative complaint about the game. 
  
  I started a new character already and I am enjoying the game so much more with this custom Battle 
 Mage! This game is great because it encourages experimentation and exploration. Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: papepipopu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Wow men,
  it has been a very long time but it's finally here. All over this years we have seen an apogee 
 of MMORPG's but a game like this one, last child of the Elder Scrolls series, had long been expected. 
 This is the next-gen RPG, with no monthly fees, with a great editor, and with all those elements 
 that make an RPG great quality, and that I at least had not seen at this level since Morrowind 
 or, say, the BG: Dark Alliance games from the PS2. Add the great graphics (HDR!) , sounds and the 
 general ambient (probably given by the new Radiant AI) and you'll have more than you bargained 
 for. Ladies and gentlemen: this is The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and believe me, you had never 
 played something like this before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kewler
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  The first thing that need to be said, is that I have followed every update on Oblivion, at the 
 homepage ever since I played Morrowind - which is like 2 years now or so.
  I must admit that I really have been looking forward for this game to be released!
  And I can 
 only say, that id doesn't disappoint.
  
  You start off in a really nice looking (graphically meant) jail. High above you, the light streams 
 through a small barred window.
  In front of you, hangs handcuffs from the ceiling, and on the floor lies the bones of the former 
 prisoner from this cell.
  
  A prisoner is speaking to you from his cell across the hallway, when you can hear steps outside 
 your cell.
  Suddenly, two guards and a nobleman (!) comes to enter you cell, telling you to step backward and 
 stay away.
  When they passes you, the nobleman looks at you and tell you that you were in his dreams...
  
 
  From this point, you have to escape the jail together with the two guards and the nobleman.
  
 Either by stealth, magic or raw power!
  The way you play the game out of jail, in any of the mentioned ways or a mix between these, makes 
 a class description to one of the guards in the end of the pre-game (jail) .
  You can always choose another or customize your own character.
  
  When you are ready, you head 
 out in the real world of Cyrodiil.
  
  And lets not hold it back - THIS IS JUST SO AMAZING!
  The view distance and distant buildings 
 etc. feature, really shows off!
  In Morrowind you always had that fog-thing in the background which always made the weather look 
 a bit cold.
  In Oblivion, Bethesda Works have really NEW invented the weather-system. When the sun shines, the 
 grass is much more green and you can almost feel the skin burn and the sweat dripping under your 
 heavy armor.
  
  The AI and fighting is also very realistic! Only one thing can be said about the AI (being too 
 clever actually) , is when you meet a necromancer and they keep fleeing from you and your touch-destruction 
 spells, and all his summonings, like skeletons zombies and other undead stuff, keep on blocking 
 you way in those VERY NICE dungeons and ruins.
  
  Talking about ruins, which brings us the great topic: "Are there more dungeons and caves to explore 
 than in Morrowind?"
  And to that I can only say: "How do you spell 1.575.250 with letters?"
  No, really - there's 
 just SO many ruins, caves, camps, mines and dungeons for the adventuring like to explore.
  I haven't been travelling between two cities without exploring 5-10 dungeons on my way, which makes 
 me go into them, and explore them. They lure you, with great treasure and powerful artifacts.
 
  
  As you might notice, this game only get positive reactions from people around the world, but it's 
 true - it really deserves such good reviews!
  
  Only thing that needs to be said is if you haven't tried the game yet - THEN WHAT ARE YOU DOING 
 READING THIS REVIEW?! GO BUY IT - NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBonez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Very impressed with this game. Skeptical at first because I thought it was going to be another 
 game for the teeny-bopper generation. I'm glad I was wrong. I saw the video review that CNET did 
 and found it to be a little dorky however, intreging because of the shear depth of the game that 
 was shown. I thought it would be worth a try. I am a loyal Diablo fan, thought that was a game 
 that took too long to make but boy when it came out really shocked the public with the addiction 
 factor. Looking at this game I also was skeptical about the many other versions that lead up to 
 part 6. However, when I started playing it found the game to be playable right from the start. 
 You don't need to know about the other 5 games to enjoy this one. The only negative thing I can 
 say is that for how large the world is, they might have included more NPC's running around, I"m 
 sure that takes up too much processing power to include all that. Excellent depth though.
  
  All in all you won't be dissappointed with Oblivion, it truly is a great game.
  
  Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 6, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  ES: Oblivion is a rare feat. It's been 4-5 years since we've seen a PC game that's generated this 
 much buzz and positive feedback.
  
  RPG fans loved the previous ES: Morrowind for what it managed to achieve and present, but it's 
 flaws kept it short of true greatness. You either loved it ultimately, or hated it. It required 
 some patience and understanding.
  
  Oblivion is an improved Morrowind with a new engine, havok physics and their patented "Radiant 
 AI." It's also more console-friendly (interface and menus) , but it does not detract from the PC 
 experience in this case, at all. In fact the new menu style and interface is true to Morrowind, 
 and much more accessible. (The Tab key accesses everything out of game)
  
  It's a clever, polished game, with more quests and open-ended gameplay than I ever thought was 
 possible.
  
  And the quests themselves are often well scripted and interesting, some requiring an amount of 
 actual thought/common sense, along with some minor puzzles.
  
  The fast travel feature is a welcome addition to RPG's in general, very well done and removes the 
 painfully long treks Morrowind required.
  
  The combat is updated to be a bit more fun and fluid, it's better, not perfect, but it's definitely 
 improved, and the graphics are unparalleled at the highest details. This game is definitely ahead 
 of the hardware curve and will look amazing for years to come, like Morrowind did.
  
  Oblivion is not RPG light, there's a lot to this game, and a lot of variables in character classes 
 to play with. I love the alchemy interface and the repair function as well, console-friendly works 
 in this case. 
  
  Bethesda listened to it's fans apparently, and has created an amazingly good game. 
  
  I really 
 don't have any major complaints about Oblivion other than the occassional desktop crashes and performance 
 issues on above average machines. It is a playable game though with enough options to tweak it 
 to your liking.
  
  Every RPG fan should own and play this game. Possibly the best RPG game ever created, and arguably 
 the best PC game ever made, and I go back a long way. Bravo Bethesda.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moffe12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Great visuals, incredible value, very good music, beautiful design, many of the negative 
 aspescts from previous games removed, solid plot.
  
  THE BAD: The animations are still far from good, serious performance issues, no excitement in dungeons, 
 the interface was obviously made for consoles, frequent loading times, many bugs, AI is far from 
 what was promised (not promised really, the fanboys just over-hyped it.)
  
  GAMEPLAY: One of the very good things about this game is that many bad things from Morrowind has 
 been removed. Includung the very bad combat, here the combat is violent, fast paced and exciting. 
 Not only melee combat but also stealth and magic is now fun and interesting. The quest are also 
 a huge step forwards involving exciting stories and scripted events. Many of the thing wich were 
 previously automatic like lockpicking is now fun minigames. The character creation system and the 
 skill are far more balanced and the "dumbing down" of certain skills really is for the better sice 
 you now can have more of the skills you want. But then there are some problems too. The leveled 
 creatures and loot have ruined every sense of excitement from the dungeons. It is extremely unrewarding 
 going into a dungeon and knowing excactly what loot is in there, i actually caugth myself just 
 running past dungeons. Pff! There is only fur armor there anyway. (or glass later on.) And then 
 there is one of the major letdowns on the PC, the menus very obviously designed for consoles and 
 are very far from ideal. Altthogh they do get the job done. Another thing is the radiant AI, i 
 have played for abot 35 hours now and i still haven noticed it excisiting. Pepole go to bed, wake 
 up to walk a bit or stand in their shops all the day. Then they go to bed. I have tried stealing 
 food, but they do nothing special. Probably because i have never seen them actually eat.
  
  GRAPHICS: The visulas in this game is as you have probably noticed on the screenshots amazing. 
 Incredible special effects and high res. textures really brings this game alive. The design is 
 also great and really gives this game atmosphere and charm. But then there is the issues. Although 
 the animations are definatively an improvement over the earlier games they are far from perfect. 
 Try jumping from a rock in third-person perspective and your character will just lift his/hers 
 feet up in the air and not move until he/her hits the ground. Looks weird an unatural. The performance 
 issues are also very annoying, The game ran acceptable on the recommended settings but i had frequent 
 lag and pauses. This shouldnt be the case on the recommended settings. ( I run FEAR perfectly on 
 maxed settings. )
  
  SOUND: The music is perfect, i can't imagine better music for a fantasy RPG than this, althogh 
 the combat music isn't always perfect the rest of the music is. And it really brings this game 
 alive. The combat and magic sound is also very good. You really feel like you are figthing violent 
 intense battles, and the magid feels powerfull, just like magic should. The voice work is also 
 solid althogh notting memorable either. And it has some wird issues, when youy talk to a beggar 
 he will ask you for a coin with a thin voice. But ask him a few other thing and he will suddenly 
 talk in the "normal" imperial way. (or whatever race he is.)
  
  VALUE: What can i say, you can play this game for months. There is so much too see and do. And 
 then there is the mods, this game will live for many, many years to come. It is incredible to get 
 all this for the same price as say FEAR, wich gives you ten hours of repetive shooting and then 
 some uninspired multiplayer.
  
  TILT: I think i have told you mostly everything now. Some parts of the game are great. But its 
 not quite up there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  How often would you spend the whole night up watching a guy you don't know play a game you don't 
 have. Maybe when it an amazing game. And when you get it you spend the whole night playing it. 
 That when you knows it a good game and deserves greatness.
  
  The game is well dersering of the score of 9.6. The gameplay is fun and the graphics are great 
 so just how does oblivion accoplish this is only 7gb like people say couldnt be done well #1 7gb 
 is still quite a lot not much but still alot.
  So the fighting in the game feels more rewarding than in Morrorwind which I did play but did not 
 like. The graphics are amaizng but slow down does accur in out door arear but looks good in inside 
 ones and run smooth throught most of the inside.
  
  Runs well but not well enoght for me that why i give it a no to the 10 in gfx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  On a 2.8 GHz PC with 1 Gb RAM and a GeForce 6600, the game plays well (little hesitation) and looks 
 beautiful. I'm surprised however, that release wasn't delayed a bit or that a patch wasn't released 
 simultaneously with the game going to the stores.
  
  I have only had one game session last over an hour and have had all but that one session end with 
 a crash. The problems are clearly graphics related; within the various dungeons, caves, and ruins, 
 the game plays smoothly. Outside in the larger world, game play starts slowing down (suggestive 
 of memory fragmentation) and ultimately locks up, leading to the infamous Microsoft dialoghas 
 encountered a problem." Fill in "Oblivion" for . Just guessing, since outside world game play requires 
 frequent area loads, the problem is related to storage of 3D objects for the various areas. Edit: 
 The more you play this game, the more often crashes occur. Some of these are "hard crashes" completely 
 locking up the PC; under Windows XP, that's pretty hard to do. Bethesda definitely has programming 
 issues with this game. At first I could reduce the rate of crashing by lowering the graphics resolution; 
 after a while, that no longer works. Some of this is apparently due to memory leaks; some from 
 improper use of DirectX (based on the error reports) .
  
  I have also "fallen through the world" a number of times. This almost seems to be a random event. 
 After reloading, it is possible to subsequently pass over the same location without falling through 
 the world. Accordingly, this is probably not a geometry problem; more likely, it is an algorithmic 
 problem (where calculated Z-coordinates for avatars end up less than the local movement plane) .
 
  
  Compared to Morrowind, the GUI has been changed significantly. From my perspective, the changes 
 to the interface are largely an improvement. Most functionality has to be accessed indirectly through 
 the TAB key, followed by subsequent selection of various icons with the mouse. Want to see the 
 map? Press the TAB key and then select an icon. Want to see the character sheet? Press the TAB 
 key and then select an icon. Want to manipulate the inventory? Press the TAB key and then select 
 an icon. Etcetera... In the Readme. txt file, Bethesda thankfully added some function key support 
 to shortcut these actions. Instead of having the miniature icons we suffered with in Morrowind, 
 the new GUI also provides larger icons in scrolling lists with feedback that wasn't as readily 
 obtained in Morrowind. On the plus side, the reliance on the TAB key, followed by mouse selection 
 of icons, means the left and right hand do not need to move from the controls and the player does 
 not need to shift his eyes from the screen. Edit: The new GUI is far superior to the old Morrowind 
 GUI.
  
  The general lack of "hot keys", though, is an impediment; the inability (or at least I haven't 
 found a way to do this) to keep the hot key dialog on the screen (so you can remember what keys 
 do what action) is a problem. While there are only 8 hot keys, in the heat of battle it is not 
 always easy to remember which key you've set for the offensive spell and which was set for the 
 healing spell; which key you've set for the bow and which was set for the sword; which key was 
 set for the shield and which was set for the torch; etc. Pulling your torch out in a battle when 
 you need your shield or pulling out your bow when you're in close combat isn't usually a recommended 
 tactic.
  
  So far, the dialog system has been refreshing (compared to other games) and the animation of characters 
 while talking has been quite well done. The quality of facial depiction and improvement in general 
 3D object modeling does much to add to immersion.
  
  If you liked Morrowind, this game is a significant step forward ... but the bugs need to be corrected 
 before the game is worthy of a high score.
  
  A comment on packaging: while all gameboxes come with a list of minimum system requirements, Oblivion 
 also has a list of "graphics cards supported". In my experience, nobody reads this list. I know 
 several people (to include myself initially before I reinstalled on my second machine) that read 
 the minimum requirements, met the requirements, bought the game, installed it, then found that 
 the graphics card wasn't on the supported list -- and the game literally only works for those listed 
 cards. While the gamebox does provide a list of supported graphics cards, it's provided in a mundane 
 little box with small print. While I'm not going to accuse Bethesda and supporting companies of 
 deceptive marketing practices, it would have been more appropriate if the list of limitations on 
 supported hardware had been given significantly more emphasis on the game packaging. I imagine 
 retailers are having to accept a lot of product returns as a result.
  Edit: As a result of the very poor stability of the game, I have lowered the "Reviewer's Tilt" 
 to "poor". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barzenak_40
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  I have to admit when I first fired up Morrowind I was awed by the graphics but the gameplay didn't 
 inspire me. After a day or two I actually uninstalled it thinking it was just not my bag. Then 
 reading all the reviews I desided to reinstall it and I "got it" after putting the time into it. 
 I finished it and the expansions and just recently uninstalled it.
  
  Obivion I was worried about as I feared it would be too consolish now as so many games are. (Lockdown 
 comes to mind) I installed it and was happy to say that , for the most part, there is only hints 
 of consolitis and most of that is the look of the menus.
  
  They have tweaked the gameplay to be easier to get into for those who were lost in Morrowind or 
 ... bored. The visuals are incredible and the animations are much better than what Morrowind had.
 
  
  I also love the fact that the npcs all speak to you. I am so tired of reading all the time and 
 they have a life now too. There seems to be less of them in this land but I do not know that for 
 a fact. 
  
  I was unhappy to find I can not use the dmr lighting as I have a x850xt card but I have tweaked 
 the ini file to get more visuals out of what I have. I am using a 3.2 gig ee processor , a gig 
 of 3200 memory and the game runs smooth. I wish they could of used shader 2 technology or stepped 
 down to it if you did not have shader 3 ala HL2. Oh well..... not worth the investment just for 
 one effect imo.
  
  If you enjoy deep rpg's and have a powerful computer pick this up. If not it might be the title 
 to buy a 360 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the idols for every other game production studios. Such a huge job that've 
 been done by Bethesda softworks company and Bethesda studio is a really heavy stuff. This game 
 was in development for 4 years and it approve each month that have been wasted on its development.
 
  The graphics in the game is just awesome! Such a beautifull places, sunrises and sunsets! Sometimes 
 you just forget that it is virtual and not real world. 
  The sound is also nearly to perfect. The dialogues with NPC, the sounds of nature, everything make 
 you fill like in real forest or field.
  Another point is music. As I think the music from Oblivion deserve to become the best in game soundtrack 
 ever! The mix between classics and modern styles make you just forget about everything and enjoy 
 the game.
  The gameplay is the same. But the really good innovasion is hotkeys option. Now it is easy to switch 
 between the weapones or spells and it really helps you in battles through the Oblivion.
  As the conclusion I would like to say:
  "This game is a masterpiece, are you an RPG fan or not 
 you MUST play this game to enjoy it and be able to say: I've been there and I had closed the doors 
 of Oblivion!"
  
  Tahir "Yazon" Tillyaev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealhalofan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  
  I'm writing this review 50 hours into the game. I am going to write it as if I had only played 
 it 50 as opposed to 51. In the 51'st hour my game went corrupt and stole 51 hours of my life. 
 
  
  Oblivion is a far step ahead of morrowind. I had my sneak skill at only 50 but with all the enchantments 
 I had on it was more like 70. My magic skills were all 70 and above. My fighting skills were around 
 50 or so. There are so many more possibilities on Oblivion than ever existed in morrowind ( even 
 with the loss of recall and levitiing spells) . You can actually stalk someone and find out their 
 schedule then when you see them a lone the next day stab them in the back for an 8x bonus because 
 you were undetected :) . 
  Fighting is very fun. my fighting skill isnt high enough to do everything but I can attack while 
 jumping, attack while jumping from side to side and get a few combos in. The mages stafff is great. 
 depending on what its spells are you can shoot it at the ground between severall enemies and watch 
 them all die :) .
  
  This is a terrible review i know but I gotta fix oblivion now. bye
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewjackman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat I have to admit that this reviewer did not like Morrowind. In fact I hated it. 
 So when I heard that Oblivion has addressed many of the issues that kept me away from the previous 
 title I was both hopeful and anxious.
  
  After many hours of play I can safely say that Bethesda has succeeded in making an Elderscrolls 
 game that is more accessible while losing none of the depth that the series is famed for.
  
  Oblivion is a great game, an epic game and a truly enjoyable game that I would recommend to 
 almost anyone. But it does have its flaws. I'll leave everything the game is great for to other 
 reviews and I'm sure if you are reading this you will already be aware of all of the great aspects 
 of the game. For the rest of this review I want to look at the things that make Oblivion a great 
 game but not (as some would have it) the be all and end all title.
  
  The amount of content in the game is staggering, take a trip cross country and you will bump into 
 so many dungeons, caves and old forts that one has to wonder what actually keeps buildings from 
 sinking into the ground. But this huge amount of content means one thing - lack of variety. So 
 many quests centre around getting to the end of a dungeon to either find something, kill something 
 or escort someone. This can get repetitive and boring because while each area might look amazing 
 each cave looks like the next cave, each elven ruin had the same architect.
  
  This is not to say the only quests take place in dungeons, many will have you running around in 
 the many towns and these are a welcome break to cleaving your way down dungeons. But again, with 
 the vast majority of these quests being unrelated to the main storyline there is only so many forms 
 these quests can take.
  
  The second gripe that many PC owners have is the user interface. It rapidly becomes apparent that 
 the UI was designed for the 360 and not redone for the extra options a keyboard and mouse combination 
 offers. With only eight hotkeys available many players will find themselves restricting their style 
 of play because accessing the items and spells during a fight can be a hassel.
  
  Oblvion is a great game, nothing can take that away from Bethesda but I approached the game with 
 mixed feelings and I still have this mix of trepidation and excitement whenever I fire up the game. 
 I want to play the game but at the same time don't want to be forced down another dark, and monotonous 
 hole in the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynebow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  
  
  The aspect of Oblivion I have enjoyed the most is the freedom it allows. If I want to be an arrow 
 shooting elf who also happens to be good at magical conjuring, I can be that. Some other games 
 on the market have tightly-fitting pre-defined (cookie-cutter) character classes that do not allow 
 much freedom of player expression. Oblivion is definitely not like that.
  
  Of course, the freedom Oblivion offers allows great re-playability; next time I might play as a 
 kamakaze axe-wielding orc (who also happens to be particularly charming when talking) . Such a different 
 character would mean a whole different experience from the first character. 
  
  The freedom of character-expression is further reflected in the excellent ability to shape and 
 mould your character's facial appearance (bodies all appear race/gender standard) . Pretty/ugly, 
 young/old, pointy nose, flat nose -the choice is yours. Whilst Oblivion is not a MMORPG, if such 
 a face-creation engine was used for a MMORPG it would be very difficult to have 'twins' appearing 
 because of the level of sophistication involved. In short, you can really create the character 
 you want - both in looks and abilities.
  
  There is also freedom in combat. Combat requires tactics; if you do not plan ahead you will end 
 up as rat-dinner on the dungeon floor. But there is a vast array of tactics available. Of course, 
 tactics are informed by your character's skills, but even so, you can approach battles in numerous 
 ways. For example, my wood-elf often sneaks up on a foe and crits an arrow in its back, using her 
 Markmanship/Sneak in combination. As an Alchemist, she has many poisons she can apply to the arrows 
 before firing, with many different effects. As a Conjurer, she can also call upon a skeleton or 
 a ghost to help her out. Oh, and she also has a fire-ball spell that, whilst she's not hot at it 
 (pardon the pun) , it can still be very useful. As a Mystic, she can see enemies in dark places 
 and through walls, making sneaking up on them much easier. So, as you can see, there is a wide 
 variety of ways of taking down the foe. Different character constructions will have different means 
 (e. g. blasting with lightning, smashing with a sword, shielding self with spells etc) .
  
  The main storyline is not so tight as to hold you to it alone, like what can happen in other games. 
 You can ignore the main storyline if you want, do other stuff and come back to it later. There 
 are numerous other quests, including guild and miscellaneous quests. There are also many dungeons 
 dotted throughout the land if you want to go on a good old-fashioned dungeon-crawl for no reason 
 other than to kill monsters, get loot and (of course) improve your skills. (And these dungeons 
 have different designs; populated with different foes - again no 'cookie cutter' stuff here) .
 
  
  Oblivion is fantastic in the freedom it offers the player and that is what I like the best about 
 it. I also like: the graphics (from splendid scenery to believable rats) , the physics (take down 
 a goblin with an arrow and watch him fly back against the dungeon wall) , the sounds (I love how 
 my summoned skeleton creaks) , and the realism (NPC's have real lives, you can retrieve shot arrows, 
 walking into a shop-keeper's counter can knock his stuff onto the floor, put a ring on and you 
 can see it on your finger...) . The character advancement system also reflects a more realistic 
 and natural progression, as opposed to standard 'levelling-up' seen in other game systems.
  
  If you are the sort of person who wants to play a mindless game of hack and slash; or if you 
 prefer playing with other humans, this game is not for you. It is a solo game and you do have to 
 think about what you are doing. For me, that only adds to the fun - it is a challenge.
  
  To summarise, Oblivion has depth, flexibility and intelligence in its design. People who are deep 
 (rather than superficial) , enjoy flexibility and using their brains will enjoy playing it. (Of 
 course, you have to be reasonably agile with your fingers too if you are to block that sword-stroke 
 in time!) I believe this game will revolutionise many aspects of the RPG gaming industry; it has 
 definitely raised the bar in many respects. This game is huge and will satisfy my gaming hunger 
 for months to come - and after that, I sincerely hope there will be an expansion!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reebus
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This has easily got to be one of the greatest games fabricated by the hand of man. It's just impossible 
 to truly summarise this game. It has exceedingly good quality and will keep me occupied for months 
 on end.
  
  To make a long story short; the Emperor has been assassinated and you have to find his heir and 
 restore order to Tamriel. After an excellent tutorial part you are thrown into the imperial province 
 of Cyrodil. Another thing that is linked with the assassination is that portals ave sprung up all 
 over the land and demonic forces are pouring out from them. You have to seal these portals, known 
 as oblivion gates, by entering them. Inside you will encounter a hellish-like realm where you battle 
 to close it. Apart from this task there are hundreds of quests to fulfill be it either a lone traveller 
 or a respected figure of authority. 
  
  The gameplay is exceptional with the first person perspective, although it can be third person, 
 and so far have not been upset with this game. You can join guilds, battle in the arena, assassinate 
 people, steal from the rich and give to the poor. You can learn various techniques, gain a trusty 
 steed, learn magic and even become a travelling bard; no you can't really but wouldn't that be 
 cool. 
  
  Basically you cannot surmise this game you have to experience the experience for yourself. Get 
 it for your PC or your XBox 360, dump your nagging girlfriend, get rations to last you a year (i 
 survive on tea, coffee, coca cola, crisps, chocolate and pizza) and your set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderRadeon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  The sword fighting is somewhat like the combat system in starwars galaxies, first person.... But 
 Oblivion does such a great combat system that it should be game of the year.... This game will 
 change alot in first person games and RPG games for a long time.... Must buy right here! Not only 
 the game has good graphics it has great loading times... ON top of that the missions are fun and 
 easy to get to and from, another plus... The loot system is new and better... Stealing items as 
 seen in fable, is upgraded...
  Pick it up... try it out... because its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehockeyman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for quite some time now, and I figured it should be time to review it. I've 
 been reading some reviews on here about the game being "broken" and I've been playing this game 
 non stop since I got it and I haven't had a single problem concerning lock ups and the like. It 
 also seems some of the better points of the game, like fast travel, have been dismissed as taking 
 some of the fun out of the game. No one is making you do it, why should it bother you? I found 
 it to be a great help, I have been playing a long time and I wouldn't be half as far if I had to 
 deal with walking everywhere all the time. I also feel the storyline to be a little more immersive 
 than Morrowind. I've played Morrowind for a long time, but only completed the main quest once, 
 and that was just because I wanted to do it. It didn't get my attention, as a matter of fact I 
 rarely ever did any of the main quest. But in Oblivion I jumped right into it, the story seemed 
 more urgent and meaningful. I have already beaten the main quest on Oblivion and I'm sure I'll 
 do it again sometime.
  
  The exploring factor has also come up multiple times, and I can't understand that either. I have 
 a great time just exploring the whole map, I look for caves and other things to find loot and adventure. 
 The combat system has also been revamped since Morrowind, and I didn't realize how much I disliked 
 Morrowind's combat system until now. Oblivions makes much more sense, and it's more fluid. I really 
 like the idea that every time it looks like you are going to hit something you do, I firmly believe 
 that all RPG games should take that into consideration. You might not inflict that much damage, 
 but it's not as annoying as a swing that goes right through something, but is calculated as a miss.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are stunning, and I can only run the game on medium settings. It's very 
 fluid and I rarely have much problem with it, if I upgraded my video card, which is a 6600GT, I 
 could probably boost up my settings to high. The sound in the game is great as well, but the soundtrack 
 really isn't in the forefront like in Morrowind, it's more like ambient music now. I'm a pretty 
 big fan of The Elder Scrolls Series of games and I'm more than happy to say that Oblivion didn't 
 disappoint in the least. There are lots of things to do and I should be kept busy with it for some 
 time. It's not hard to say that this is the best RPG game I've ever played, and it seems to be 
 the best game I've ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to go in depth as to why this game is currently so weak, mainly because I am quite 
 sure that other people have made my points already. In short, the game is, at present, broken. 
 
  
  Gone from TES-IV is the feeling of necessity. Remember playing though Morrowind's main quest and 
 coming to a cave littered with Golden Saints, Atronauches and other creatures that would absolutely 
 destroy you? Remember saying, "Well, I guess I'm going to have to go do something else for a while 
 and come back to this when I can actually make a dent in these dudes," and going on to explore 
 other quests? Yeah, that's gone. All of it. The need to level is gone, completely. Also gone is 
 the need to explore the vast world. Part of TES-III that is missing -- as mentioned -- is the need 
 to level, and the main way that you leveled? Exploration. Going into all those dungeons a) looking 
 for loot, and b) looking to level up, that worked together to further the experience. What reason 
 is there to explore now? The only possible answers are, "Because," and "To look at everything." 
 Wow, strong points. The implementation of the 'fast travel' system seemed like a double-edged sword 
 when I read of it: how the hell were you supposed to level without exploring and constantly having 
 to fight the enemies on the beaten path and in all the caves/forts/ruins you were liable to find 
 along the way? Oh! You mean you don't even need to level anymore?! Well, that solves the problem.
 
  
  There are, however, a handful of mods already circling the community that help to fix the game 
 and get it playing more like a TES game should. With mods, this is an 8.7 (value and tilt at 9) . 
 Out of the box, however, this is not a TES game; this is a game aimed at all those who couldn't 
 get into TES games because of their depth. If this weren't (supposedly) a TES game and I didn't 
 expect it to, get this, actually feel and play like a TES game, I would probably say it were a 
 gorgeous, yet incredibly tedious and eventually boring, action/adventure-RPG game. Thankfully, 
 the mods helped to fix this. Now Im not running into a world where everyone and their mother has 
 Daedric weaponry, but, rather, instead of it spawning 3 enemies with Daedric gear, it spawns 9 
 with lower-level gear, which makes the game equally difficult (if not harder) and far more realistic 
 with regards to Elder Scrolls lore.
  
  If youre interested in trying this mod (along with the others I am using) , the links for them 
 are:
  
  Enemy spawns (this comes with the next mod, as well) : http://www. elderscrolls. com/forums/index. php? showtopic=349782
 
  Item drops: http://www. elderscrolls. com/forums/index. php? showtopic=311609
  Kajiit night-eye toggle: http://www. elderscrolls. com/forums/index. php? showtopic=282188
  
  There 
 are others to be had, especially if you play a different style than I do. Browse these lists for 
 more:
  
  http://www. elderscrolls. com/forums/index. php? showtopic=324335
  http://www. elderscrolls. com/forums/index. php? showtopic=373306
  
  And now all you fanboys can 
 proceed to not-recommend this because, God forbid, I don't share your opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneBlackBear
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  plain and simple is the way i like to put things so the game even with higher than recommended 
 it STILL LAGS like a **** to i've died 5playing on 20 1/2 hours" or 6 times because of lag. 
 And no people don't think this is a nub reviewing this game i've played on and owned most systems 
 released in the US. Though it is pretty and very detailed it is so high end that most casual gamers 
 will not be able to run it and if your not able to run it and play it then your going to be pissed. 
 And it is not only the pc version that is this way but XB360 is still lagy and the game was made 
 for it. All and all it is Pretty and very detailed is has a decent story and a massive amounts 
 of extras but it lags its twitchy and the main story tends to get dry and dull 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejia13fernando
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Well I have not played the previous games I was lucky enough to try this game out. So I went out 
 and bought it. I installed it and played around. The graphics is amazing. The gameplay is very 
 fun. The story is very compelling though. I think over in all this game is very worthy to add to 
 my collection of pc video games. Everything clicks too. I have also never seen a game like this 
 to really exceed with all the embellishments and that crazy but still excellent first person view 
 point. It took me while to learn to play it but the time spent was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bretwalda
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Can't say enough, I'm hooked. Oblivion does the best job of any RPG creating a large and immursive 
 world to get lost in. Everything feels free to explore at will, and random as a living world. Not 
 many games have brought me to playing 12 hr marathons since the original Diablo. You'll be hardly 
 looking up from the monitor. Graphics really sell the immursion level of this game too, so you'll 
 want to turn up everything as far as you can, which might be dissappointing if your vidcard is 
 older. 
  
  Of all the fine points to Oblivion, I'd have to say the combat keeps the game exciting and suspenseful 
 as a 3d shooter. Gone are the point-and-click target auto-atttacks of most online style games... 
 the sword fighting is really visceral, you'll real back from blows to your shield, then try to 
 flank your enemy, slicing and blocking away, just waiting for the right moment to land a power 
 hit.. Overall the AI critters never swarm you either, but still provides a serious challenge up 
 close - the pacing is just right for ranged and melee comboes.
  
  A real explorers' game... Buy it now, worth every penny and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I've played countless computer games over the years, but OMFG, this game beats all I've ever seen! 
 I've played all the other Elder Scrolls games (and which I thought were all only so-so) , and many 
 many other RPGs, which has made me kind of jaded towards these kinds of games.
  Even all the pre-release hype didn't affect me much. Nevertheless, since I did play all the earlier 
 TES games, I did finally go out and get it. And as soon as the game finished installing, and I 
 started playing, I was completely bowled over. The graphics, sound and gameplay are unfreaking 
 believeable; they make Morrowind look like a Commodore 64 game in comparison.
  I still haven't gotten over the graphics, but the gameplay is even more incredible. I've ended 
 up completely side-tracked from the main quest; there is so much to see and do it may be weeks 
 or months before I get back to it!
  Around every corner is something new to see and do; I estimate there are hundreds of game hours 
 needed to see everything in the game. And that's not even mentioning all the user-created mods 
 that will be made! There are a few small problems with the game. Biggest is that you need the system 
 from Hell (or is that Oblivion) to run it with all the bells & whistles. Surprisingly, faraway 
 hills & ground don't look so good (limitations of the engine?) , but all the rest looks fantastic. 
 The lockpicking seems bugged, and there are some random crashes. Hopefully an update will fix these 
 minor problems. The only thing that really irritates me is the lack of voice actors. 9 people to 
 voice over 1000 characters? I mean, come on! Surely they could have found a few more folks to give 
 the voices some variety!
  Ah well, guess we can't have everything.
  But the worst problem with the game is that, I 
  In another month 
 or two, someone will probably find my moldering bones slumped over the keyboard, and a houseful 
 of untouched food... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Not too much to add here, but since I gave its predecessor such a low score, I felt I should give 
 this one a chance. Great graphics, tons of playability, interesting story, and wide open to explore.
 
  
  This game delivers for me what I felt was lacking in the previous game. A compelling story and 
 world. I felt Morrowind to be "ugly". Not that the graphics were bad, but that the game world itself 
 was not compelling. This game does not suffer that. You could leave the game on as eye-candy. 
 
  
  Although very easy to play, the game is challenging and deep. You don't need to read a huge manual 
 to play the game (though it can help) but there is much to learn and do in the game as you play 
 along/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lLord_Mihajlo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This is the first game which hold me this long close to the monitor. The Elder Scrolls thoesn't 
 alow interfirences like eating, drinking, sleeping or going outside of your house. This game is big, this 
 game is great, this game is beautifull, this game is adicctive, and this game..... sory, this is not 
 -game this is art. With this sead I will now explayne the marks I gave to game.
  Gameplay: This RPG has every single good idea from every other good RPG packed in one big world. Game 
 ofers about 100 hours great gameplay, it is incredibly how this game just take tou into it's world. So 
 the mark is logical.
  Graphics: I have no intensions to explaine this. Just look at the screenshots for god sake.
  Sound: Sound 
 of NPC's, fighting, nature, and the enviroment is simply sead real, and in game music is alsou great.
 
  Value: This game is worth any money you invest. Iven if you have to buy new PC or XBOX 360.
  Reviewers Tilt: I wanted to place picture of me after plaeying Oblivion for 10 hours simultanosly, but 
 I don't know how.
  Word's for end: Just buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AidenPryde3025
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has been around for years and hardcore fans will not be dissappointed 
 with the fourth installment, Oblivion. However for a full review a reviewer must not give into 
 the hype about a game and look at it critically taking into account what games are doing at the 
 present time and what they have done in the past.
  
  The Good:
  
  Narrative: Oblivion, first and foremost, has an excellent storyline. Though there could have been 
 more plot twists besides the ending which was a huge shocker. Besides the main quests there are 
 many side quests that players can take a part in, though again these quests seem to be run of the 
 mill types and there are very few surprises to be found within them.
  
  Graphics: Oblivion has some of the best graphics that this reviewer has seen in a Role-Playing 
 Game. The terrain, unlike the previous intallments in the series, looks real. The trees, when first 
 viewing them, will most likely blow anyone away. In addition to these geographical features Bethesda 
 did an excellent job at bump mapping on the various items and environments found within the game. 
 Just looking at the ebony shield for the first time made me giggle with glee. The spell effects 
 are also pretty unique, though it doesnt seem that Bethesda took advantage of the blur and heat 
 wave effects that can be found in such games as F. E. A. R and Advent Rising.
  
  Game-Play: Game-play wise Oblivion beats its predecessor, Morrowind, hands down. Instead of the 
 standard "use the side attack because this is a sword" mentallity that Morrowind promoted Oblivion 
 uses a special attack bonus that goes along with your current weapon skill level. An expert at 
 blocking for example has a chance to use his or her shield as a weapon when an enemy hits his or 
 her shield. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Sound: While Bethesda did a superb job at both the spell and weapons sound effects and of course 
 the sound track the voice acting was rather bland for most of the game. After the first couple 
 hours I found myself skipping through dialouge because the sound director did not deign to use 
 more than five or so voice actors to play the hundreds of NPCs that populate Oblivion. This definately 
 breaks the emersion that the player would have experienced had the game had more voice actors. 
 However the voice acting of both Sean Bean and Patrick Stewart was top notch and felt original.
 
  
  Dumbing Down: Oblivion, for all its graphics and game-play elements, seems to lack a few things 
 when one compares it to Morrowind. The fast travel system for example definately cuts down on the 
 time that a player would use to explore the world. I think that a better solution would have to 
 not had fast travel and instead used the waypoint system with the imbedded "show nearby points 
 of interest" icons that pop up when you are near a dungeon you havent been to yet. At the very 
 least they should have had a transport system instead (especially since they made it dangerous 
 for Vampire to fast travel) .
  
  Quests/Factions: There is also the matter of taking out such factions as the Imperial Legion. There 
 are currently (that I know of) only five major factions and only four of those listed below gives 
 a series of quests. (Thieves Guild, Mages Guild, Dark Brotherhood, Fighters Guild, Blades) . In 
 Morrowind there were fifteen overt factions that players could join. (Thieves Guild, Mages Guild, 
 Fighters Guild, Morag Tong, Blades, Imperial Legion, Imperial Cult, The Temple, 3 Vampire Factions, 
 House Hlaalu (SP?) , House Redoran, House Telvanni - and probably others that I have forgotten) Now 
 I haven't played through every quest there is in the game I believe that my listing of overt factions 
 (by overt I mean factions that give a series quests, allow rank advancement, and show up in the 
 factions tab) though I suppose The Arena could be considered a faction. But all in all I feel that 
 the developers at Bethesda took a step back in terms of content that the player could take an active 
 part in. At least when compared to Morrowind. I was expecting, especially with the fast travel 
 system, that there would be even more factions that the players could join in Oblivion than there 
 were in Morrowind. 
  
  But I degress. I suppose that it is possible that Betheda is planning on making Oblivion a modular 
 game in that there are six different areas of the game that can be seen on the map (Skyrim, Hammerfell, 
 Morrowind, Valenwood, Elsweyr, and Blackmarsh) suggesting that there might be expansions in the 
 works to add some or all of those lands with the lands found in Oblivion at the center. This possibility 
 opens up a whole new world and might make my factions/quests critique a moot point.
  
  The random miscellaneous quests that are included in the game are on the same level of those that 
 can be found in Morrowind (I think as I havent gone through and counted but I imagine they are) .
 
  
  Artificial Intelligence: While the AI in Oblivion is good at combat and can to a limited extent 
 respond to the actions of the player there is still the issue of pathfinding. Oftentimes, especially 
 in caves and on those wierdly shaped steps in the Oblivion realms the AI will get stuck on objects 
 and will run in place allowing the player to take potshots at them until the AI gets "unstuck." 
 Morrowind had a similar problem however I will say that the problem is far less evident in Oblivion 
 than it was in Morrowind. I also find that spellcasting enemies will often back themselves into 
 a corner making it very easy for a melee character to hack them up. Though this occurs only half 
 the time and the other half of the time is spent chasing ranged enemies around the room. (Btw Bethesda, 
 Manamarco, The Worm King, was a joke, most powerful necromancer and hero of the Sload my butt! 
 Took me twenty seconds to kill him.)
  
  Dungeon Design: The dungeons in Oblivion, especially the caves, often made me feel like they were 
 cookie cut. Meaning that they were more of the same but with a few different twists and turns. 
 This I think is a problem that both Morrowind and Oblivion share but its not as big of a problem 
 as the AI and the next issue I will mention.
  
  The next issue is of course the misalignment of certain construction set assets in Oblivion. This 
 really became evident the more I played the game. Before describing the problem it must be known 
 how the level designers at Bethesda put the interior spaces together. With dungeons, such as caves 
 and the Oblivion towers the level designers used prefabricated pieces that were supposed to fit 
 together (snap vertices anyone?) . But it seems that in certain dungeons the level designers or 
 maybe even the 3D modelers failed to do this correctly. So basically at certain points within a 
 given dungeon the player will see a line in the walls or floors of the dungeon. Upon closer inspection 
 they will come to the realization that these are graphical artifacts which allow the player to 
 see through the current area they are in and into the nothingness that lies beyond. Definate immersion 
 breaker here.
  
  All in All:
  
  All in all I think Oblivion could easily win Game of the Year (as long as Spore doesn't come out 
 as scheduled) . The fact that is dumbed down I think is not so much because Betheda was lazy but 
 probably so that they could attract a greater audience, or maybe they plan to release a number 
 of expansions (open world map spaces) .
  
  -Aiden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbounder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  You can read on and on about the great graphics of this game, the great sound, solid battle etc', 
 and rightfully so, but I won't join the choir.
  
  Instead I would like to talk about the game content! It is overwhelmingly rich and deep, unlike 
 any game I've played before (Fable comes to mind, but falls short) . 
  
  You can get so immersed in your adventures, that you actually speculate how the story will develop 
 as you go on! It is a fantastic feeling that you sometimes get when reading a good fantasy book 
 - you are curious or anxious to know what will happen, and you cheer the character for his actions.
 
  
  Another strong point is that you don't *need* to look through every book, and talk to every person 
 to get some action going. Oblivion is action oriented as much as it is quest oriented. Some people 
 consider that a minus, but I think it just makes the game more appealing for all of those FPS gamers, 
 who want to get in the action fast without too much blabbering.
  
  So there you have it, a superb game that has no match in his RPG department. And it tops most games 
 from other genres as well with it slick presentation ,diverse fighting styles, and the already 
 too much talked about awesome graphics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rusty150
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  this game is truely amazing, aside from the crashing, the game runs great, looks great, and the 
 gameplay is out of this world. Thought its not much of a rpg as it is an fps, it is still one of 
 the best offline rpgs i have ever played in my life. This is a must buy, or if not buy, then pirate 
 it, its just that worth it. If your computer cant run this, then go and buy a new computer NOW 
 and then buy/pirate this game imidiatly, its **** amazing. Some can afford to do all of this, so 
 then resort to a life of crime and steal all of this stuff i mentioned, and maybe even a camera, 
 then play this game like there is no tomorow and like you still live in your mothers basement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigspawn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  After losing several months of my life playing Elder Scrolls: Morrowind; I couldn't wait for Oblivion. 
 It was worth the wait.
  
  The graphics are spectacular; the way the trees and grass sway with the wind, the sun reflecting 
 off of the water; it almost makes it feel like a real world you access periodically.
  
  The tutorial was a nice introduction to the commands and new functions of the game. The amount 
 of options when you customize the appearance of your character was also a pleasant surprise. I 
 spent a fair amount of time customizing a character who would look like I wanted since I plan on 
 using him for a while.
  
  Once I dove into the world for a few hours I realized several important things compared to Morrowind. 
 The combat system is much improved. The button mashing fighting systems are OK, but dont make 
 combat that challenging. Oblivion does just that. You must learn when to Block, Sidestep, use quick 
 hits, perform full power swings etc. 
  The Magic system is improved over the last game as well. The spell effects are well done and look 
 great.
  
  The only problems I have with the game are minor. Being able to make notes on the map would have 
 been nice. A second set of Hot Keys would have been nice as well.
  
  I only have about 2 dozen hours into the game but have to say I am quite pleased with it and am 
 glad they made the game as good as I hoped it would be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul51423
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  
  you know what i didnt like this game... at first. im all up for making characters faces and everything 
 but it took so long to make a character i wos getting quite pised off. no matter what i did it looked 
 like a face with big nose. lol.
  but then the game started and from morrowind to this there has been so much development. the starter 
 dungeon is brilliant way they decideed to teach the controls and when you get out its jus amazing 
 freedom. for a while i said nah to the main quest and did anything i wanted. then i went to the 
 main quest and fort wow, shulda done this first. the oblivion world is so cool and a brilliant idea. 
 the traps are cool especially for low level characters. the weapons and armour are so cool escpecially 
 elven which i wear. the gameplay is better then morrowind because it really feels lifelike like 
 how u can smack enemys to ground with your shield wen u have a high enuf block level. the monsters 
 are so much more accesible i think because there are more believable ones and the world is more 
 believable. like in morrowind u would be in nice terrain and suddenly in the blusting sandstorms 
 but oblivion had meddled it all together so amazingly well. this game is guna go on forever and 
 with mods even longer. amazing. paul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Some people have written reviews saying this isnt an RPG because it plays like a first person shooter. 
 Those looking for a pen-and-paper RPG game with a graphical interface will want to steer clear, 
 while those looking for a progressive RPG that smacks of Deus Ex style gameplay with a fantasy 
 setting will want to buy this immediately.
  
  THis game is amazing, there is so much to do. I loaded it up and spent 20 minutes making my character. 
 After the tutorial (which is wonderfully incorporated into the main story) , quests start to pile 
 up as you go from town to town. It can be a little overwhelming at first... all I can say is dont 
 rush to do the main quests, do the quests the townspeople give you.
  
  THe only problem I have is the bugginess of the game. Sometimes, even in places where the graphics 
 arent pushed to the limits, the game bogs down. THis only affects my playtime for maybe 5 minites 
 out of a few hours, so it is a very minor problem.
  
  I recommend the PC version as it has a toolkit so players can make dungeons and custom mods.
 
  
  Buy this game if:
  -you loved Deus Ex 1
  -you need a change from the classic RPG formula or you need to fill the void left by cancelling 
 your MMORPG account
  -consider yourself a lover of fine video games
  -Oh yea, its really fun to be a bad guy in this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I have heard way too much about this game lately. I decided to check it out and have been playing 
 it quite a bit these last few days so I can be objective in my review. I would like to start off 
 by saying this is a good game but not as good as people make it out to be.
  
  Graphics: The landscape is amazing! I can't believe how far you can see and things like that but, 
 when I go across on a horse the game gets SO choppy! Also, the brush on the ground isn't visible 
 until you get right up to it. Overall, the graphics look good but they aren't the best on 360. 
 Not even close. GRAW is by far the best looking game out so far period!
  
  Gameplay: I have been having fun with the gameplay because it is solid for the most part. I do 
 get annoyed sometimes with the fighting because it seems slow and unrealistic at times. I understand 
 some swords are heavier and would take more effort to swing (I also play as a character who isn't 
 the strongest or anything like that) but even with smaller weapons it seems to be one swing and 
 then my character has to take a breath even if it's a light swing. Also, the wolves just act fake. 
 They pop out in a fake way and they chase and attack in a fake way. Don't even get me started on 
 the stupid guards. I stole an awesome sword and step out and there is a guard right there and then, 
 every door I run through, all the guards know what I did, even when they are all the way across 
 the city at the other doors without anybody saying what's going on. I understand they are chasing 
 me so that might be something but they automatically know once it pops me in from the loading screen 
 (which there are too many of and it takes forever on some!)
  
  Sound: I really like the sound effects and voice acting. It makes for a well rounded sound experience
 
  
  Overall: It's a good game, but it's not nearly the best 360 to date, that game is GRAW because 
 of all the stuff you can do with it and the amazing graphics and gameplay. I have enjoyed my time 
 with Oblivion, but it has shown me that the hype was warranted to a degree. To me though, there 
 are things that people are overlooking in this game that they don't overlook in others just so 
 they can still give it such a high score. It's a very good game that falls a bit short from reaching 
 true greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  I consider myself more of an actiongamer than roleplayer. Roleplaying often incorporates more intricate 
 interface, lots of stuff to read, and other time consuming stuff.
  
  Played Morrowind for about 6-7 hours, but the slow tempo and a bit clumsy fighting system eventually 
 got me bored.
  
  Elder Scrolls 4 is just simply amazing. The action is intense and well made, the graphics are awesome, 
 the sound and music are also excellent... in fact, the entire game is top notch.
  
  Actually I didnt think that a game like this could be made. 
  
  Graphics: Superb. Playing 
 at 1280x1024, 16xAF, everything on max, HDR on. Since I have 2 GF7800gtx cards, I cant use both 
 HDR and antialiasing at the same time. My choice is HDR, definately. The glow from the sun, or 
 flares, or other lightsources look simply amazing with HDR.
  
  Sound: Excellent. Moody music, good sound fx.
  
  Gameplay: Completely up to you how you want 
 to play the game. You can play it as an action game, adventure game, "The Sims"-like game etc etc. 
 Great freedom to choose whatever suits you.
  
  Overall: As I said, I didnt think a game like this could be made. Its overall presentation and 
 functionality is just top notch.
  
  Just go out and buy the game, you wont regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fujiarmu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  When Morrowind orignally came out, it was quite a spectacular feat in open-ended gaming and a staggering 
 amount of content. Now, just about four years later, the sequel has come out and surpassed almost 
 every aspect of its predecessor. To compare Oblivion to Morrowind is somewhat akin to the measurement 
 of Warcraft III alongside Warcraft II. The graphics have been greatly updated: each character, 
 item, and texture creates is so well rendered as to perpetuate a thick and enveloping atmosphere. 
 Unlike Morrowind, there is nothing terribly formulaic about appearances. While there are a number 
 of similar set-ups within various shops and some dungeon areas, there is a distinct feel to each 
 area which gives an impression that maticulous care was taken to make each gaming area seem unique.
 
  The game is also vast enough to draw the attention away from the main story line for hours. With 
 just the mere number of things to do, it might be possible just to get the retail price's worth 
 through exploration alone.
  While those completely devoted to the Elder Scrolls series as interpreted by Morrowind might complain 
 about certian details, the game's content should already satisfy most players who aren't so finiky.
 
  The only area which the game could make a significant improvement in is the music. The sound isn't 
 bad; it is in fact, well played. The problem lies in the originality of the scores. When playing 
 Oblivion, it shouldn't be an expectation to hear anything epic, nor new, for it is indeed a tipified 
 fantasy genre soundtrack.
  However, while the music isn't anything terribly exciting, the voice acting is indeed superb. Characters 
 whom you speak to, more often than not, talk like plausable people. The only annoyance is the occasional 
 voice change when an individual's unique dialoge lines up with his generic phrases.
  Overall, this game is quite a bargain for the price asked as it will most likely entertain most 
 fans of action games as well as action RPGs for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I love RPG's. Going back through my gaming life some of my best moments have been with RPG's: Fallout 
 1&2, BG 1&2, Icewind Dale, Planescape, Kotor 1&2, NWN etc etc even Morrowind. Unfortunately, Oblivion 
 doesn't really feel like an RPG to me.
  
  For over 18 hours I've played Oblivion to get to know it before writing this review and to be fair 
 it has many positive points. It's gorgeous. No doubt about it, one of the prettiest games ever. 
 And not just pretty, it's very detailed too. House interiors look different, riding your horse 
 between towns is worthwhile for the things you can see: little bridges, fallen down forts, temples 
 and more. No doubt about it, this is a very pretty game. However this comes at a cost to the machine. 
 On my P4 3.0Ghz with 2Mb Ram and a Radeon 850xt the graphics can only be turned about half way 
 up without it becoming too jerky to play.
  
  So Oblivion is nice to look at, what about playing it? Well this is the downfall of the game. Yes 
 there are more quests than you could hope to complete and plenty of characters to meet, but there 
 seems to be a serious flaw. When you're playing the game your character gains experience that can 
 be turned into levelling up. It seems that as you level up, the monsters also level up, so levelling 
 becomes worthless and you may as well do the end game at level 1. Let me give you an example without 
 revealing any spoilers.
  
  Travelling out of the main city as a fresh faced level 1 my character stopped to pick up a quest 
 from a man who needed some dangerous fish killing. I decided to leave this until later and returned 
 to it as a level 5 - easy you should think? No way. The fish had levelled up too! Instead of being 
 easy kills, they were just as hard at level 5 as they would have been at level 1. So what is the 
 point in levelling the character? 
  
  Also, some of the quests are bugged and unable to be completed. In the fish gathering example the 
 quest map made me go to a location that was a rock. No fishes to be found. I left it, did a couple 
 of other quests and came back. It took me back to the same rock.
  
  So how is this game more of a FPS than a RPG? Let's take an Oblivion gate for example. Currently 
 the character is inside his second. He wanders about the plane of Oblivion seeing corpses hanging 
 in a decomposing state. I started thinking of Doom 3 at this point and the parallels struck me 
 more and more. In both games you wander about the alien landscape trying to close this portal or 
 kill that boss. And since levelling makes no difference to the difficulty, you're always on the 
 lookout for the next big weapon to take down the monsters with.
  
  Where's the party? Other classic RPG's, even Action RPG's like KOTOR, have given you a party to 
 interact with and manage. Sometimes they drive you crazy, disapproving of your actions. Sometimes 
 they can surprise you and make you laugh with a comment. Oblivion has you alone against the onslaught 
 - Doom 3 style but without the frantic pace of a FPS. Games like Balder's Gate had a lot of pace 
 too, even in the side quests. Oblivion feels slow by comparison.
  
  All in all Oblivion is perhaps the prettiest game on the PC at the moment, plays like a FPS rather 
 than a RPG and is a little bit dull.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faelas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow... This is simply the best game I have ever played. I have played it for about 30 hours, and 
 it still amazes me in any way! Despite what everyone sais about the nVidia 7000 series it's a lie!! 
 My 7800gt runs this game on almost maxed out settings! It looks amazing, best I have ever seen. 
 The sound is amazing, really works with surround! The gameplay- WOW!! SO much improved from Morrowind, 
 worlds different. Not to mention that the quests are awesome to play! TIP: Join the Assassins guild. 
 It's really funny!
  
  There is no reason for not wanting this game! GET IT!!
  
  This is a game you fall inlove with! You think about it all day. You dream of it at night! It's 
 dangerously good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maslowo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Why on earth did Bethesda create such a hardware demanding game? Is poor programming to blame for 
 the terrible graphics Im seeing, or is my PC already out of date. Ok Im only running a XFX 6600 
 GPU but give me a break most games are still running at high settings with this bad boy. Although, 
 Ive seen the game run on better GPUs which show little improvement, & only better game stability. 
 Enough about hardware issues, its time to talk about the gameplay.
  
  I have to admit, Im not a big fan of RPG. Nevertheless, with all the hype surrounding this game, 
 how could I refuse. At first, I was very excited to be hearing Patrick Stewarts voice (Big ST: 
 TNG Fan) . So why did the story have to end after ten minutes. I even enjoyed the beginning tutorial; 
 however, the tutorial did not get me familiar with any of the menus or items to use. It then became 
 clear after playing the game for a few hours, I had no idea what was going on. My other big problem 
 is the combat, is it just hack & slash, & ineffective arrows. Im I missing something, or does 
 the combat eventually improve throughout the game.
  
  So heres the thing, I cant understand why so many people are creaming themselves over this game. 
 Im beginning to think that all those hardcore Elder Scrolls Fans would have given anything in 
 this realm a 10/10. I find myself very confused & really bored with this game. Im not ready to 
 give up yet though, with the manual in hand Im going to try & discover what all the freaks love 
 about this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game, I had never played any of the elder scrolls games, but I 
 saw great reviews on this one so I thought I would give it a shot. Boy was I disappointed.
  
  I will first admit, I only played this game for about 5 hours... but absolutely nothing that 
 happened in that time made me want to play more. 
  
  The long list of problems:
  
  1. You walk excruciatingly slow. Running is also slow. Until you get a horse outdoor travel is 
 tedious at best. Don't hold you breath though, once you get a horse... it actually walks SLOWER 
 than you walk without it! So get used to running about. 
  
  2. While I'm on the topic, hopefully you dont get attacked while you're on your horse. You'll have 
 to suffer through dismounting and re-arming your weapon, meanwhile whatever is attacking you is 
 hitting you and your horse. Yah, you cant fight on horseback.
  
  3. Boring quests. I did 2 quests which were cookie cutter and bland. Perhaps there are more and 
 better later... but I doubt it. On my various travels from city to city (which consisted of watching 
 recycled terrain pass by) I sporadically encountered vast forts, ruins, and caves to explore. They 
 must have all been built during the same period, because they all looked the same. Recycled textures, 
 recycled creatures to fight, and no story or incentive to go through them other than for the hell 
 of it. Find a cave/fort, go in, kill ___ many skeletons/bandits, loot, and.... leave? Why? After 
 5 of these I began hoping I wouldn't see anymore... I feel obligated to go in, maybe I'll miss 
 something, but its the same crap over and over again. They'll make you suffer through an entire 
 dungeon with no purpose or story whatsoever to see one new booby trap each.
  
  4. Game is made for good players only. Playing evil is not an option. They tout that you can, but 
 you cant. AI gaurds put the smack down, extremely limited dialogue options... its just not feasible. 
 For such a "non-linear" game it just feels like a linear quest with a few hack'n'slash dungeons 
 sprinkled about for filler.
  
  5. Inventory system is a mess. Its clunkly, unintuitive... I still cant figure out how to drop 
 something unless I open a container and move it in there. 
  
  6. Food? Why? Does my character get hungry? Doesnt seem like it. I collected enough food throughout 
 the game to feed an army and never needed to use it.
  
  7. Find a corner anywhere and rest 1 hour to 100% restore health, magic, etc. Effectively removes 
 any challenge from teh game.
  
  8. Characters are too non-specialized. Want to make a fighter? Great. You get a fighter mage theif 
 cleric. The plethora of options leaves you feeling like you have no options. You get a watered 
 down jack of all trades character.
  
  9. Meaningless time wasting filler. I hope you like repairing your gear... its really fun and satisfying 
 to constantly have you sword "break" in the middle of a fight! Better get your "repair hammer" 
 and fix it. Whats the point... adds nothing to the game.
  
  10. Stealth is made pointless by the simple fact that it will take you 20 minutes to crawl up to 
 any enemy. Unless that is appealing to you. I never seemed able to get within range anyway (even 
 though I was in the shadows and creeping) Although I did manage to land "sneak attacks" with my 
 bow for a whopping x2 damage...
  
  Fact of the matter is this game is just plain boring... theres no sense of character advancement.. 
 no sense of adventure or purpose... the story is grandeous and ... played out. Im used to playing 
 RPG's that grab your attention adn dont let go. You feel invested in the character and the story, 
 and you drive ahead to find out what will happen next. This game just doesnt have that. Go find 
 a cave and kill the imps. Rinse and Repeat.
  
  No thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronmoxxley
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I've spent days already just exploring the world and completing some extremely dynamic and surprising 
 sidequests. Many improvements from Morrowind include simpler spell management and skill focus, 
 more versatility between spells and abilities - such as being able to quickly cast and perform 
 melee maneuvers, more logical (as in "consider what you would do in this situation if it were real) 
 construction of interaction with the environment of all types, and balance of gameplay while leveling 
 to keep the game challenging (the same dungeon you enter at level 4 will be just as difficult - 
 ie. better rewards, more difficult mobs, and difficult locks - as it is at level 40.
  
  My complaints about the graphics are as follows: The textures and specular effects should load 
 much further out. In the least the textures on distant mountains, landscape, etc should load to 
 depict the realism of the landscapes. I would gladly sacrifice some performance to gain a little 
 more aesthetics. The other complaint is placement and interaction of the world physics. Often doing 
 things like sitting or entering a room will cause items to "shift" throwing them around the room. 
 Dropping items on occasion (that were not stolen) causes people to call you "thief" and gets the 
 guards attention.
  
  I would quickly recommend the game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is special, its only once in a lifetime that we see a great storyteller come along, we 
 had tolkien, Lucas, and now we have the story of elder scrolls... The game grpahically is amazing, 
 even on a mid range rig like mine (3200amd,6600gt) the story line is beautiful, the first thing 
 that they say to you quickly draws you into the game... when I usually play games I'm usually a 
 good guy.. but this game actually dosent let you decide to be a good guy, diffrent situations draw 
 diffrent reactions and this game made my guy a not so nice guy from the very beginning.... Gameplay 
 wise its super smooth, a lot more fun then a shooter can be... this game is definatlly going to 
 ruin many peoples lives. The games sound is as well done as a star wars musical, it is a breakthrough 
 on the graphics, It is the most intrignig saga ever. Exellent game! Only thing bad about the pc 
 version is the resources it sucks on. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myrmidian
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  AI:
  Ally NPCs will run in front of your shots when you're trying to land a long-range attack. They 
 seem to have a death wish, as they will run right into an enemy without regard for their safety. 
 Usually their wish is granted, and they die horrible deaths. Also, for having such a highly touted 
 AI, I was surprised to find that time after time I'd be jarred out of the experience by terrible 
 AI. For example, in one quest you talk to an NPC who tells you to investigate a guard who's suspected 
 of being a spy. As I'm talking to the NPC, the guard walks by. He stops next to us while we're 
 talking about him. He looks around, but doesn't respond to us at all. 
  
  RPG?:
  Try actually role-playing an evil character. I don't just mean stealing horses, pickpocketing and 
 murdering people. I mean talking to people and interacting as though you were evil. You just don't 
 have the option to do so if you wish to quest. You don't get any "evil" or "nasty" responses you 
 can give a quest NPC. They're just not there.
  
  Buggy:
  Many times I've had to reload a savegame due to some bug that prevented me from going on. Some 
 of these are terrible. For example, when you enter some inns you'll see all the NPCs inside the 
 inn stacked on each other in one spot. You enter the room and then their scripts kick in and they 
 move to what they should be doing. It's like the designers didn't initialize the NPCs. You'd think 
 that someone who actually played the game would have noticed that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokko360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary, huge, fantastic, realistisc, amazing, incredible, and astonishing. You 
 can't get better Role Playing game or just a more realistic world engine in our world these days.
 
  AMAZING!!!
  Guild wars, World Of Warcraft, Ninja Gaiden and Fable etc... IS NOTHING COMPARED TO THIS!!!! (when 
 it comes to playing)
  Though you need high performance pc... But im judging the game.. not the reqs.
  
  1 more bad 
 thing... you can go lost in this game if you dont use your map ; )
  and the robbers are quite scary in the nights ;)
  You really made it Bethesda Softworks after 
 3Years of making oblivion.. you made it even better than we thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxdaddy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were Astonishing. An unbelievable experience as a hardcore gamer myself! The world 
 is amazing. You actually think you are in the game! As a gamer this is the best RPG since Guild 
 Wars and an even better first person "shooter" Then Call of Duty 2. I love the environment in which 
 you immerse yourself in! Don't think twice about buying this game!
  If you love Morrowind and are still playing it then put it down and get this game now! You can 
 enroll in an infinite amount of quests and there is an endless amount of weapons armor and miscellaneous. 
 I dont think any game will top this. Even Guild Wars Factions will have a hard time beating this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurse71
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Amazing visuals, stunning graphics, sound, storyline. Oblivion provides a huge world to explore, 
 with tons of quests, and other missons. You can play however you'd like, there is no fixed path. 
 You can complete the main quest line at your leisure, or never at all. The AI is great, and the 
 animations of the characters are amazingly realistic in most cases.
  
  Oblivion also has a toolset you can download to create your own modules or campaigns, spells, classes, 
 etc. This game is fully customizable if you learn how to use the toolkit.
  
  The only downside to this game is that it requires a very strong system to play. Last years model 
 just aint gonna cut it, and you can be sure the older your hardware is, the more problems you will 
 have. Frequent crashes and graphical glitches are common, and I did have problems with software 
 incompatibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmittyIsTheBest
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, It's an RPG which does exactly what an RPG should do. You're in a huge world 
 of Swords, Magic, Monsters and phat loot, and you can do whatever you want in it.
  
  The obvious defining feature to all the Elder Scrolls games holds not only true, but more amazing 
 than ever in Oblivion, the open endedness of this game is enough to amaze anyone. Though there 
 is an amazing line of main quests, you could play the game for weeks without starting them. There's 
 so much more to do. Not only are there several factions to join but there are countless quests 
 availiable from random townsfolk and an endless supply of caves, dungeons and ruins to explore 
 on your own.
  
  The details are great and the fact that now, every word in the game is voice spoken makes the world 
 seem all the more real.
  
  The graphics are among the best of any game out right now, the music is fitting and the gameplay 
 is endless. This game gets full marks.
  
  The delays were worth it. Totally. Everyone should go out and buy this game right now, and if your 
 PC isn't up for the job and you don't own a 360, now is the time to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Styraxus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is simply one of the best RPG' s available now. Not only it has breathtaking graphics 
 and sounds, but also it has a dynamic AI. These dynamic AI rarely fails to fit NPC's to current 
 situation, but mostly it handles everyone well. All people around you behave independent from you 
 (eating, sleeping working) and this is a very good step in RPG (Not everyone wait in the same spot 
 24 hours for 200 game-days) . Difficulty is ideal; it is not too easy nor too difficult. As for 
 graphics, it is very good to have a extensive control over adjustments. You can increase or close 
 most graphical applications for performance tuning. Sounds are also superb. Compared to Morrowind, 
 there are fewer character voices, but this do not disturb gaming experience.
  There is much to say, but my advice is to buy and play this game. One of the games that worth playing 
 for long hours :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  I have played many rpg's in my life. About 20 years worth of rpg's to be exact. I have to admint 
 I never played an elder scroll game so this is my first. I didn't know what to expect and even 
 doubted it a little. Over 200 hours of game play? Yeah right, how many square miles of land? Now 
 I know you are pulling on my leg.
  
  So I picked this game up to see what the hype is about and I cant even put the game down. (spet 
 for now but thats becuase I am sick and having a hard time doing much of any thing) This game is 
 all they say it is. I have finished the main quest after 5 days of playing, I have done few side 
 quest and I am level 20. I still play when I can becuase there is so much to do and I can't seam 
 to do it all withing a short span of time.
  
  The graphic's and sound in this game are not the perfect. But they come close. The game play and 
 engine are great as well. I find myself fighting many of the same mobs some times but every time 
 I fight them its like a whole new battle with the radient AI and how they level with you.
  
  All in all this game is a 10 in my book. I have yet to see any game, past or not yet released 
 be any where near this game. Trust them when they say the game offers alot of game hours and alot 
 of dungeons to always explore. Its kinda like a single player mmorpg... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexy_po_paul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was waiting this game for so long and now that i have it I can't stop playing lol The storyline 
 is almost perfect and catch us all until the end. The graphics are incredible but you need a strong 
 machine, I changed mine for this game. I 've put in it an ATI 1900 XT and a P4 extreme 3.4 and 
 there still some lag when I put everything at ultra quality. The combats are well designed and 
 they're full of action, a very important point that change my perceptions about rpg. You can't 
 be disappointed about this game, it worths his price and the possibility are endless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  First with the good. All the reviews you have read on all the major sites including here at Gamespot 
 are basically spot on so i will not really go into great deal ill just talk about my favorite things 
 with the game, then my dislikes.
  
  First the graphics, simply stunning. You need a good rig for this on a pc but it is worth it. Also 
 the details on everything, such as the architecture of the different towns really gives a sense 
 of realism to this imaginary world. The way the characters move throughout the world really brings 
 it to life as well.
  
  The game play is solid. I especially enjoy the entire sneak system. Playing a thief type character 
 is very rewarding in this game though it can get hard after a few levels.
  
  Now i will explain my dislikes. At a point in the game there are gates that open up to "Oblivion", 
 at first it was neat but they are everywhere, and when you are in them there is very little variety 
 to them, its always the same goal.
  
  Also you have to be somewhat careful what you pick when you level. If you try the personality route 
 at the beginning you will be to weak to fight anything since they level with you. Its not a huge 
 deal just be sure to manage your main attributes first.
  
  There are also some crash issues that happen just before you finish one of the gates i talked about. 
 The game just closes. Not a big issue i just make sure i quick save before i complete it but its 
 almost 100% of the time i have to restart the game once for each oblivion gate.
  
  All and all this game is simply stunning, and very fun to play. There are so many combinations 
 on how to play it that i can see myself playing it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Instead of actually telling you exactly what the game is about, I'll concentrate on good and bad 
 stuff's about Oblivion, since that alone is quite massive thing to do.
  
  Good
  
  - Massive world. If you see a hill in distance, there's good chance you can climb on it. Even with 
 the fastest horse, it'll take approx. 15-20 minutes to get from one end to another. And it will 
 take hours if you stop to check out even half of the dungeons, forts etc.
  
  - Graphics in general. Excellent, just pure eyecandy, if your machine can take it. NPC's have excellent 
 facial expressions, and their lips mimic what they say quite well. You can also see the mood of 
 the person by his facial expression, not just by how he/she talks to you. Forests are lush with 
 woods, grass, flowers, bushes and so on.
  
  - Quests. Interesting stories with interesting and varying stuff to do (and I've only done Thieves 
 Guild's, Dark Brotherhood and some Mage Guild recommendation quests, plus various single one's) 
 with some interesting and witty dialog. Some may not like it, but I don't think there's another 
 game with such great amount of great quests to play.
  
  - NPC routines. They sleep, they walk around the streets, they talk with eachother, guards have 
 shifts, etc. Even when the routines are quite simple, it still adds some variety on stuff like 
 quests and thievery. "Meet me there at midnight" now really means that, you can even follow the 
 guy to walk from his/her shop (for example) to your meeting place. 
  
  - Stuff & Gear. Lots of both. Especially random, useless stuff too. Lot of alchemy ingredients 
 just waiting you to pick'em in the wild. Pretty much any item you see, you can grab with you if 
 you wish to do so.
  
  - Physics. While not being totally flawless, it still adds a fun-factor to the game. It's quite 
 amusing to hit an elf across the room with your hammer, for example.
  
  - TES Construction Kit. While I have no skill to use the tool, there are lot of people who have, 
 and they've already produced bunch of more or less usefull mod's.
  
  Negative stuff
  
  - Whole inventory and the quest book etc. This suffers a bit from being made to console's as well. 
 It works reasonably good, but could have been so much better. 
  
  - Can't sleep anywhere outside anymore. Even with occasional interrupting of the sleep when some 
 monster etc. attacks would have been better than not being able to sleep in the wild at all. 
 
  
  - Requirements from your computer. Of course it was clear from the beginning that Oblivion's gonna 
 need a high-end performer, but still. On the plus side, the game runs well enough with 1024x768 
 with 2xAA etc. Of course I had to drop out stuff like shadows, but it still works well enough. 
 But then again, so much potential is now lost, that I'm planning on buying a new GFX-card. 
  
  - Quests. While being good, there's quite rarely any difference whether you're good or bad, 
 the options and results are still the same. You may get a quest, where you're supposed to kill 
 a person for someone else. If you don't kill that person but come up with a plan with your target 
 to save his life and still do the mission, in the end that person may still end up dead, so it 
 rarely makes any real difference. Little option to do stuff wouldn't have hurt.
  
  Good&Negative (stuff that are good in someway, but still kind of negative and vice versa)
  
 
  - The scaling of enemy's. The level of enemies reflect your own level. So it's 100% possible to 
 be Arena Master, for example, at Level 1, or complete the game without reaching Lvl 10 etc. What 
 sucked a bit, was the fact that I made an Assassin, who's not really hot in melee, but excells 
 in archery, sneaking and so on, thief-skills in general. Now, after getting some levels under my 
 belt, but still lacking in gear a bit, I get my ass handed to me by a god damn wolf (granted, it 
 was a Timber Wolf, but still) . Sure, you can make it easier from the difficulty slider, but that 
 reminds me more of cheating than making the game more fun (and I don't mean "kill everyone with 
 one shot" fun, but some realism-resembling hacking would be nice) .
  
  - Scaling of items. "A crate! I wonder what's inside..." *open* "Ooh! 20 gold and 5x rice! Not 
 the best score, but good enough... oh nice, a chest! A locked one too! Lock's difficulty is hard... well 
 I'll try it anyway." *20 lockpicks later* "Hmmh, a spoon, bolt of cloth and, yes - an apple." The 
 loot also is based on your level. At low levels, bandits have iron swords and so on. 20 levels 
 or so later, they've grown balls and have glass-weapons. When you've jumped from having 20 gold 
 worth of gear to having 2000 gold worth of a weapon, you HAVE to be doing all banditry just for 
 the sake of having fun, right? Not.
  And like, Mage Guild for example - you'd think ArchMages and such would have tons of valuable stuff 
 around, at least somewhere in their rooms, right? Or maybe they're just so good mages, that they 
 have cast "Hide Item In The Eyes of Below Level 30 Character" on their stuff.
  
  Both of those two are aggravating, but on the other hand, they're balancing the game in some way. 
 Yes, it is true that it would be massively fun to actually know that there's a guy in that certain 
 cave/whatever, who'd have some sweet weapon for you, IF you can kill him. But then again, now there's 
 challenge whenever and wherever you go, and not a dull "oh this is full of rats that die just by 
 looking at'em" -cave everywhere you go. Of course the bandits should have been left out of this, 
 but I guess you can't have everything.
  
  Also the fast-travel's and quest pointer on the map are good additions too and they save you lot 
 of time running around places, but also they strip away some of the ideal feeling of playing a 
 role in a game, and not playing a roleplaying game. On the good side, however, to this and other 
 points I've mentioned, there are already suitable mods available. I haven't tried'em all, since 
 I'd like to play the game as the genuine thing and not spoil it all by extra stuff, so I've sticked 
 mostly with the logical stuff (not all wolves attack on sight, alchemy stuff weight half what they 
 originally did, etc) that have some relief on some petty things.
  
  All in all, it's a great game, probably best this year, even when it's too early to tell. At least 
 it's the best roleplaying game to me, and I've only played ~38 hours so far (around 30 mins of 
 the main quest) and reached level 15. I'm not saying the place is huge, but I haven't even *been* 
 in all cities yet... I just hope my Life can wait and watch TV or something for the next hundred 
 hours or so, 'cause I'm nowhere near of being done. And above all that, I'm having a huge amount 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gincheshire
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, I tried Morrowind and didn't care for it. Oblivion is action, adventure, WOW 
 ! 
  I can hardly wait to play, being a caregiver I find myself looking forward to getting my daily 
 chores done so I can play.
  This game has it all. It will be one of the games that stays installed on my computer. 
  I'm 
 a huge fan of 1st person shooters, and Oblivion ranks right up there with Doom, Quake 1,2,3,4., 
 Halflife, Battlefield 1942. 
  You'll need a good graphics card, I have a NVIDIA GeForce 6600 GT, other than that I can't think 
 of anything bad about this game.
  I'm really enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdietz2000
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Everyone is missing the point. This is a level loot game, or the monsters become more challenging 
 as you become better. There is no reason whatsoever to do anything other than the main quest. With 
 monsters and their equipment, adapting to your level there is no incentive to level up or learn 
 new skills. Hell, I closed three gates and have no desire to do any of the side quests. Why would 
 I want to? I wont gain any advantage in the game whatsoever. There is no reward. Not too much 
 changes when the only difference is the amount of money the shops give you for your looted year. 
 I was fighting a guy with wimpy armor and a wimpy sword and it took me a minute to kill him and 
 now Im fighting a badass guy with badass armor and a badass sword and it still took me a minute 
 to kill him big improvement with my badass sword and armor. This is by far the worst aspect of 
 the game effectively ruining the experience for me. I have not played the game since. If someone 
 makes a mod to change the offending aspects to something similar to the far superior game, Morrowind, 
 I may purchase it again. And people who complain about being able to get the glass armor early 
 in Morrowind should not CHEAT. Never had that problem because I didn't cheat. You wouldn't have 
 that problem if you did not taint your experience with the stink and rancor of self-deception... 
 I never played Diablo or have any desire to play a level loot game again. Mediocrity reigns supreme. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game takes place in a world that has never looked so good, its replay value rules, so if you 
 think about playng the game again ,go right ahead and play it again because you just wont play 
 it the same way you played it the first time. The graphics in the game are so amazing that its 
 unbelieveble to the human EYE. It actually scarry to think what games are going to look like in 
 the FUTURE.
  
  But like I said Buy this game lend it from someone or snatch it somewhere, you'll never want to 
 stop playing this game, so go on and treat your self and just PLAY the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GGGtaManiac
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  As someone who has enjoyed the Elder Scrolls series since Arena, Oblivion is somewhat of a disappointing 
 installment to the series.
  
  It's important to note that, whatever your platform, Oblivion is a beautiful game. Not since Far 
 Cry have I been "wowed" as much. The sheer detail of the models and the glistening lighting will 
 leave you speechless as you travel through the introductory part of the game. It's obvious Bethesda 
 spend a great deal of time making absolutely sure Oblivion looked and felt next-gen; and believe 
 me, it shows. However, the faces are some of the ugliest I've ever seen.
  
  On the gameplay side of things, Oblivion retains the open-ended, do-anything gameplay style that 
 past games of the franchise have had. Yet leaves behind key RPG features, resulting in what feels 
 more like an action-adventure game rather than an Elder Scrolls.
  
  Combat in Oblivion, while fun, is less stat-based and more twitch, almost to the point of feeling 
 Counterstrike-esque in its jumpiness during melee combat. This will not appeal to most RPG fans 
 who favor chance-based combat instead of the jump-towards your opponent, slash and block-type fighting. 
 Magic and Marksmanship feel considerably better, but ultimately fail in the same sense.
  
  Oblivion's world is dynamic and changes according to your player's level and some certain quests. 
 This was a good idea on paper, but ends up as a terrible decision. Unlike past games in the franchise, 
 that gave you an actual sense of scale and danger, Oblivion's world feels like fluff. 
  
  There are no longer incentives to leveling. Shiny armor and quest requirements are the only reason 
 one might even consider it. Enemies are just as powerful when you were level one, as they are when 
 you are level 20. Variations in weaponry, size and epithets is all that this ends up as. Only quests 
 and some occasional chance leads to powerful artifacts and such. At level 1 you'll be hard pressed 
 to find anything worth picking up, the highest version of alchemic tools I ever managed to find 
 by level 18 was a Journeyman Retort in a Master Alchemist's private Quarters. Certainly higher 
 quality items were not magically developed over a few game days and level ups on my part, but that 
 is how it goes in Oblivion. The game could, in theory, be beaten at level 1 if not for main quest 
 level restrictions.
  
  Another one of Oblivion's new features is the Radiant AI, that while interesting, is also fluff 
 attempting to make the world feel more dynamic. Among the new things these Radiant NPCs do are; 
 eat, sleep and loop conversations. While the concept of having NPCs eat is a nice idea, I never 
 once felt blown away when an NPC picked up some food and started eating it. In truth, I felt like 
 my CPU was wasting clock cycles on something I hardly ever noticed. This technology is still in 
 it's infancy, so I can't fault them, for it. It was a decent try, but didn't live up to the hype 
 surrounding it.
  
  The game is also relatively short compared to previous games in the series. I blew through the 
 main quest in about 12hrs, whereas Morrowind's took me weeks.
  
  Oblivion is not all downsides though. It still retains the vast amounts of quests, choices and 
 longevity that RPG fans love. Each faction, guild and the lot all have their own personality and 
 agenda to them. The Dark Brotherhood, while evil, truly makes you feel like part of a Brotherhood. 
 In fact, I tend to forget I'm killing innocent people when I'm around them, as disturbing as that 
 may be. The Mage's guild feels like the stuck-up private school that it should be. Good luck finding 
 respect out of most until you atleast outrank them.
  
  Oblivion's leveling system also remains quite well, despite lumping together Daggers and Claymores 
 under the same skill category and removing medium armor as well as other skills I would have liked 
 to see. It's not longer 5 majors, 5 minors, but only 7 majors. This feels more refined and works 
 well, but die-hard RPGers may still be unsatisfied with the changes.
  
  The game is also relatively short compared to previous games in the series. I blew through the 
 main quest in about 12 hrs, whereas Morrowind's took me weeks.
  
  TES4 Oblivion is truly so feature-packed and expansive that you could write about it forever. RPG 
 fans should give it a try and Action-Adventure fans should pick it up right now.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a solid, highly enjoyable game that has it's fair share of problems, including 
 catering to the wrong audience. Despite that, it remains very fun and should last anyone quite 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzearing
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Warning, I mention a few limitations of the game mechanics here, which could be considered spoilers, 
 so don't read this if you don't want your experience to be spoiled. :)
  
  First I'll say this is one of my favorite games currently. I've always dreamed of being in a virtual 
 world where I could do whatever I wanted to, walk where I wanted to, without a hallway being my 
 limitation. I LOVE the graphics, I love riding around on a horse just exploring, I love the architecture, 
 the day and night, the weather, the water, the flora and the fauna. I even saw a unicorn in the 
 forest once. Crazy stuff. I love the physics, I very rarely see weird stuff I am used to like people's 
 body parts going through things and not bouncing off each other. The bodies in this game really 
 look and feel like physical things that you can toss around.
  
  So what's there not to like?
  
  A couple years ago Morrowind came out and it was a dream come 
 true, very much different from all of the other linear games. I could walk whereever I wanted, 
 do whatever i wanted, loved it. My biggest complaints however were travel times, the amount of 
 grinding you had to do in the game (rembember jumping every place to increase your acrobatics?) , 
 and the lack of a challenge the game became once you got to a certain level.
  
  Enter Oblivion. Traveling times have been fixed. Sweet. Maxing out still makes the game somewhat 
 of a challenge since the NPCs max out with you. Cool. There is still a lot of grinding in the game 
 though, and frankly it makes me feel like i'm cheating.
  
  For example, you can cast the cheapest little detect magic spell over and over and over again, 
 and your skill will just keep going up, regardless of the cost of the spell. What does that mean? 
 Stick a heavy object on your "fire spell" button of your keyboard and let it keep casting over 
 and over again all night. And presto, you have a maxed our skill! Stupid. If the game lets me do 
 stuff like that, it's lame. Because I'll do it, feeling clever that I beat the system but bored 
 after the fact.
  
  Same goes for many other limitations of the game. For example, if a bad guy comes to attack you, 
 they have no concept of jumping typically, so if you jump up top of a medium sized boulder, they'll 
 just keep walking into the bolder swinging at it like idiots. And you can just pummel them with 
 flares, and increase your destruction still like nothing. Stupid. You can very easily become the 
 grand champion in the arena this way.
  
  Also, once you get invisibility, the game just becomes even more tedious. You can basically walk 
 right up to a person, jump around them, and they won't be phased. It means you can walk right into 
 an oblivion gate, bypass all the baddies, and grab the stone in a handful of minutes. Garr!
  
  I've read other reviews about how the characters are not memorable, and mostly I agree. They're 
 all so similar and they all say the same stupid lines that it's really difficult to remember anybody 
 specifically. I thought the fan boy was cool when I became the grand champion in the arena. The 
 worm king guy could have been a LOT more memorable (like his face was covered with worms or something??) ... 
 vampires look like everyone else and have no gothic transelvanian nature to them. All of the shopkeepers 
 look different and sound different but they say the same things over and over and really it's boring. 
 The characters are dull and don't really stick out with personality...
  
  My only complaints with the graphics are that the thing is a hog on resources and framerates stink 
 outdoors, even on my 7800gt. Also it's a little visually annoying how the landscape "clicks" in 
 rather than fades in (as enemies do) when you get closer to it. I have distant objects turned on 
 though.
  
  All that said, I still am in love with the game. it's beautiful, it's a lot of fun, it's interesting.... 
 and it's big. I probably have a good couple more weeks until I get bored with it and move onto 
 something else. I would absolutely recommend it to anyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatz1968
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  I only received tES IV: O yesterday, but my first impressions are very, very favourable. It looks 
 simply stunning, and ( so far ) I'm having little or no problem with frame rate, a glitch that 
 seems to have affected more than one person.
  I'll openly admit that my experience of RPG's is fairly basic - I've only really played Guild Wars 
 - but so far so very good. I've died a few too many times ( even on the early stages - my combat 
 needs a bit of re-hash ) , but this hasn't deterred me any.
  The 'world' just looks great, and the interaction between the character and his/her environment 
 seems very flexible - I particularly like the traps !!
  Actually, the open feel of the world has led me to my only real problem - which way to go next. 
 : )
  
  Enemy AI works well - foe will run out of harm's way, and often race up staircases/down passageways 
 to confront you in combat.
  
  Magic - initially - seemed a tad clunky, but once I'd assigned hot keys to my spells I soon got 
 the hang of it ( Note to self - I really should read the manual all the way through. Too much pausing 
 to find out what a particular icon means ) .
  
  Voice acting is believable - as one would expect from the likes of Patrick Stewart.
  
  As I've 
 already stated - I've only just started playing, so I may amend my scoring in the future. But for 
 now, this gets a BIG thumbs up !!
  
  M.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERCHIEFUSMA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This games is what RPG's should be, wonderful graphics, in depth gameplay, physics engine, and 
 the ability to do what you want makes this game one of the best RPG's out on the market right now. 
 This game (because it is on the 360 and PC) also supports High Definition, what more could u ask 
 for? although i have played both versions and the 360 version has better lighting and more in depth 
 facial expressions. But although the PC verison loads faster, if you want to play oblivion to its 
 fullest extent then get it for the Xbox 360. But be sure to have alot of time, a comfy chair, and 
 a nice High definition to sink your eyes into the true glory of the xbox 360 and the Elder Scrolls 
 IV: oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wosuh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I played Bulder's Gate and loved it, loved Neverwinter knights. I loved WOW, but after two characters 
 got sick of it and stopped playing it, mostly because of its lack of any story. 
  
  I played Morrowind and after about ten hours of playing, got sick of it mostly because of the annoyingly 
 inconvenient interface and impossible to use combat system.
  
  So naturally i had doubts about Oblivion. I was wrong. Everything about it is about right with 
 only a few minor exceptions. My system isn't fast and I'm playing it at low res and it's still 
 beautiful, probably one of the best at the moment. The interface issue has been mostly resolved 
 and now it's as stream-lined as it can be. The storyline is rock solid, well, so far. From the 
 first moment my character started in the cell, i knew i was hook on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrhk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is by far the greatest game to come out this year and by far the best in the Elder Scrolls 
 Series. It takes everything from the previous version and polishes them to a new level of playability. 
 Its amazing how they managed to pull it off, a game of such scope and ambition. Its 
 very easy for a game like this to overstretch itself and turn out to be a buggy, unplayable mess. 
 Somehow the team managed to pull through a deliver one hell of a great product. 
  
  Morrowinds gameplay was bland and tedious at best. It wasnt fast paced or interactive 
 enough. Oblivion changes all this, now you feel like youre actually fighting. Its 
 faster, more desperate and theres been more than a few times when the games gotten 
 my adrenaline pumping during a particularly frantic battle. Everything else is great to from the 
 game structure to difficulty, which is just right. The AI is a little patch at best but in a wide 
 open world such as Oblivion, players are bound to find a sniping spot.
  
  Graphics are unbelievable, especially running on a low-mid end rig, it looks amazing. After some 
 tweaking I managed to get it running at a whopping 1280x1024 with HDR at High Textures. Unfortunately 
 due to VRAM my game kept crashing every 30 minutes or so. I ended up with 1280x1024 with HDR at 
 Medium textures. Shadows were completely disabled but I had distant rendering on. The FPS is sometimes 
 unstable while in heavy combat but otherwise its jaw-dropping. It really helps immerse you 
 into the world. Also the slight blur after being hit and the great staggering animation really 
 helps flesh out the combat system. 
  
  Every conversion has voice overs making it incredibly immersive. Although some could use a bit 
 more work to make it more dramatic it is still amazing on the amount of voices in the game. The 
 music is great and sounds like it could come from a movie but isnt varied enough. Ive 
 heard the same few tracks over and over again. The sounds are great but could use some variations. 
 When Im hitting wood it should sound like it and not just give me any generic sound.
  
  Value is where Elder Scrolls really shines. Not only is there a huge world to explore with 
 hundreds of quests and things to do but theres also TES. The construction set lets you make 
 your own content. If you dont want to do that then you can explore the online realm and 
 find hundreds of mods for the game. Well not now but later. So far Ive already downloaded 
 an inventory mod to make the UI look considerably better. Some great mods includes a Middle-Earth 
 mod which is making a complete rendition of Tolkiens Middle-Earth. After playing Oblivion 
 you can play this. The possibilities are endless. You could end up with hundreds of hours logged 
 into Oblivion. 
  
  Ive had a lot of fun playing this, so much better than Morrowind, which I found bland and 
 tedious. Although I've encountered a couple of annoying situations (Crashes) , retarded AI and NPCs 
 (Terrible Pathfinding) and dumb conversions the NPCs attempt to have with each other. It's still 
 been one hell of an experience. Oblivion added that spark into Elder Scrolls that changed it from 
 a failed ambitious project into a successful addictive game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Step by step review of TES:4 OblIVion.
  Graphics - Easily the best graphics I have ever seen. Incredible levels of detail when close up 
 to an object such as grass, a flower, a weapon, or an npc. At long distances, say looking over 
 a vally, the graphics are a masterstroke. Similar to that of Everquest, however, they seem to be 
 handled easier by my GPU.
  Sound - Fabulous. You can here characters walking in the room above you, there must be 1000 hours 
 of character dialogue, battles sound realistic and the music fits the game perfectly.
  Gameplay - This is my first journey into tes series and I have to say the gameplay was quite unique, 
 and i like it. I never thought it possible to create such a good and fun combat system for medieval 
 weapons and magic. But its been done, after playing for many..... many hours, fighting still hasnt 
 become tedious. The only point I deduct from gameplay is the bugs that occasionally occur. Although 
 they are always minor and never really affect the game they are a tad annoying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zey2k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I personally like the fighting style..... and... erm....
  I haven't played much but the shadows in the game ar awful, never saw so many bugs on something 
 so easy.. as shadows. the story remains a la elder scrolls, big dialogues and complex story.
  the thing that impressed me the most in this game (on screenshots, and video, u know, before we 
 play =P ) were the graphics. FEAR is harder on my pc than this game. 4 years of development is 
 a long time to keep changing textures. my guess is that did not use highend technology, that why 
 the graphics ar so lame. 
  As for the comparison Xbox360 and the pc, i gotta say that the game looks nicer in the PC, cause 
 xbox only runs the textures at medium high. If u got a p4 3.2,1gb ram, and an 7800GTX512mb, this 
 game will flow, dont worry.
  not a very elaborate review, but its not one of those who say that the game SUCKS or that the game 
 is AWESOME.
  it's entertaining, its just nothing out of the ordinary as we all expected
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric360
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  There are some issues with the game but overall I love it and it will only get better as the mod 
 community continues to discover new things. The graphics are amazing and the sounds are top notch. 
 If you want a RPG that is worth playing you have found it. If your a power gamer that wants to 
 kill everything you see you have it here as well. If you want to sneek around and hurt no one you 
 can do that for the most part as well. This is truely a game you can do what you want when you 
 want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzi_whizzi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Final Conclusion of Oblivion
  
  Well I have played through every quest going with this game, so now I will tell you what I finally 
 think of this game. 
  
  To start with on the plus side the graphics are absolutely superb, I can not think of a more wonderfully 
 rendered gaming world. The breath taking beauty of the superbly rendered world is simply amazing. 
 From the vast but not exhaustive countryside to the beautifully crafted towns very nice indeed, 
 One slight criticism though the architecture could have been less generic and there also could 
 have been a little more focus on variety especially concerning Elven and Orcish structural design.
 
  
  Also the fantastic detail of the armor and weapons is simply incredible  the only armor I dont 
 like is the glass armor it looks far to space rangers for my liking and does blend well with the 
 over all feel of the game (personal opinion only) .
  
  There is also a vast array of content to this game from the main story, all the way through the 
 side quests and guild related quests, nearly all of which I have completed. And on the whole enjoyed 
 most of them. They range in difficulty from very easy to quite hard, but not impossible depending 
 on your character class and its associated skill levels. 
  
  Game play is pretty straightforward and not to difficult really, in fact I personally found it 
 rather easy, but then again I did use the internet to source information on any quest that I found 
 confusing, but I think there is no quest in the game that will tax you too much to be honest. 
 
  
  Now on the down side, this game has so many glitches and bugs that I have lost count of how many 
 times the game has crashed, corrupted save files and simply just stopped responding. As well on 
 2 occasions I experienced broken quests that due to bug related issues I am unable to complete. 
 Also the poor frame rates at times (even with optimal settings applied) can make for a deeply frustrating 
 gaming experience. 
  
  The UI also hampers game play, having to pause the game to check your inventory or map co-ordinates 
 interrupts the gaming experience. The way the UI has been conceived is obviously aimed at the console 
 user, but to a PC user it is slow and clumsy and I think this could have been better implemented 
 into the game. 
  
  But despite the criticisms of this game, which I have to say, does have some serious problems, 
 and also the fact that the game is extremely system hungry and will drain your pc, and the fact 
 that its a shame that this game is so demanding that many people who do not have the income to 
 run a fairly high end pc are not really going to able to enjoy this game to its fullest. I would 
 say if you could put up with technical problems of this game and have a fairly decent pc to run. 
 I would recommend it simply because it looks amazing and has a huge amount of content that will 
 keep you going for quite some time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whomite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  At first sight the game looks fantastic, great graphics, great sound (Its got Patrick Stewart and 
 Sean Bean) . The story is a little bit original you know the whole world going to end Hell on Earth 
 kind of thing but with Oblivion they have been able to make it more interesting with the traveling 
 to the realm of oblivion and destroying the gates by fight your way up towers.
  The AI has been done well, i can see that they put a lot of work to try and make this game as great 
 as possible its just a shame that the characters sometimes talk with a different voice, they all 
 have to have the same views with the same punctuation. But a part from the few minor glitches like 
 on the PC when the game likes to slow when a lot of units are around. Also i want to know why there 
 isnt any dual weilding in the game, no two handed swords, dual sword and dagger. Also no mounted 
 combat, come on i like the fact they've added horses but mounted combat would of made it that bit 
 better.
  
  Put simply the Game is a great achievement and extremely addictive. You cant go play it and say 
 ill only play 10 minutes you'll end up on it for an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta_157
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This games is awesome. I've only been playing it for a few hours but this games gets you right 
 in the action from the get go. Game makes it easy for people starting off in the game to get used 
 to the controls without having to go though a boring tutorial. The story line is definitely the 
 best so far it seems. In my opinion, the best Elder Scrolls game thus far. If you haven't played 
 this game yet, you don't know what your missing. The graphics engine is probably the most attractive 
 part of this game. I'm playing the game on a P4 3.0 w/ a 1 Gig RAM and a 7800 GT, and its running 
 awesome. This games is a definite must for any RPG enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlas120
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Out of all the games I've bought over the past eight years since I have gotten a computer, this 
 is the best game by far. The graphics are the most beautiful thing I have seen in awhile and the 
 combat is great. No matter what you do, you will always have fun with combat. There are so many 
 different outcomes to a battle and you are never the clear cut victor from the beginning. This 
 makes the combat thrilling and makes you feel like you've accomplished something after you have 
 spent the last 2 minutes taking on that creature or bandit.
  
  The story line is probably the best in a game I've played in a couple of years. Having just beat 
 it I can say that it never gets old and there's a few big surprises that you would never expect. 
 But why ruin it for ya? I'll just say it's a great compelling story that you'll love no matter 
 what.
  
  You also don't have to play the story at all. You can play however you want. Be a thief and rob 
 people right under their noses as they sleep. Be a warrior and go through all the dungeons or join 
 the fighters guild. Be a mage and join the mages guild and learn magic. Heck, be an alchemist and 
 collect plants and make potions to sell for money. You can even end up investing your gold in a 
 shop at a certain point. There are so many possibilities.
  
  This game will never get old. I'm playing on one character and I'm still not done with ALL the 
 quests. Not only that but there are mods becoming available everyday to make new quests, new places, 
 and new races. It's a game you'll never get tired of and should be on your must buy list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1eepy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  While overall a gorgeous game, i felt there was quite a bit missing. the same bit that made morrowind 
 a complete game. Initially i was stunned at the detail and beauty of Oblivion, dont get me wrong 
 here, the game is great, however, the variety is not. Once I got around 10 hours into it i started 
 getting tired of just seeing forrest, just seeing the same types of enemies, and how all the caves 
 and ruins seem to look alike with little variance. I was also dissappointed with the lack of armor 
 types and lack of weapon types, such as the removal of the spear and medium armor. And if they 
 were going to give you bonuses for weapon skill advancment (journeyman, expert. . ect) they could 
 have at least made them different. the powerattacks for all weapons do the same thing, aside from 
 appearance, theres not really any difference between blunts and blades. I'm hoping they fix a lot 
 of this when they come out with an expansion, because quite frankly, morrowind was a much more 
 fufilling expierience.
  
  The way the enemies and drops scale to your level detracts a lot from the game imo, it takes away 
 a lot of the reward to be had with character advancement leaving not much to aspire to.
  
  I'm tired of people saying this is the best game ever only playing a few minutes into it, yes it 
 is great, but by comparison to its predecessor oblivion is nothing groundbreaking. the main thing 
 the game has going for it is graphics, still worth playing, but morrowind was a much more complete 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beersnob
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  I was an avid Ultima player on my C64 in the mid 80s, when my high school buddies' and my idea 
 of multiplayer was whose turn it was the "drive" the C64.
  I've drifted away from RPGs in favor of FPSs over the years. This game brings me back full circle.
 
  
  It has all the depth and detail of the early Ultima games, but realized in full 3D.
  
  I won't repeat all the comments regarding detail, immersion, huge, countless things to do. Suffice 
 to say, if you're an old school RPG guy who likes the first person perspective today's games can 
 provide, this one will make you want to relive those days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Really should i explain more than the title?
  
  This game is largely based on hype and mass-marketing via paper media, radio, podcast and TV. This 
 is how this game got famous basically.
  
  Bethesda has built a falsified reputation that lulls you into to believe that anything they will 
 do will be great.
  
  However in this game, couple average quests which usually mean you go about killing somebody then... thats 
 it. Generic dungeons, the most RUBBISH scripted A. I ever used by NPCs ever and you have this game.
 
  
  One minute the NPC you talk to is young and a women, the next their voice turns into an old male's 
 beggar voice.... absurd.
  
  The music, well. Another man who makes music for money is the guy who did the music for this game, 
 Jeremy Soule. Listen to his other work side by side and you'll realise two things:
  
  1: It all has the same theme 
  
  2: Largely undynamic music, fight music sequences are so flat 
 its almost contradictory to the whole situation.
  
  I emailed this man about my opinions of his music in this game and he threatened to sue me for 
 me not liking his music. He went on to say about his industry qualifications about about how much 
 money he makes etc - Basically thats what its all about in the end of the day.
  
  Bethesda produces this game for consoles, which immedietly dumbs down most aspects of game mechanic 
 in the game. They do this because Microsoft will PR them like the new bubonic plague, and therefore 
 $$$ ! Same goes for Mr Soule's music - make the same crap, get money back.
  
  Comparing this game to REAL RPGs like Baldurs Gate, Fallout, Planescape: Torment is futile. This 
 game is a joke hack and slash fest which doesn't even hold any merit to a real RPG 
 
  
  Another form of mass mainstream media control over quality control (and theres little quality in 
 this product as it is) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game is so rich with content and detail. There is loads to do and with its promise of 200+ 
 hours of gameplay I don't deny its claim. All the dialogue has been recorded; it boggles my mind 
 to realize the amount of recording time in the studio that was necessary to compile all this. The 
 action is superb, the graphics are beautiful, and the addiction is very potent! I just can't explain 
 the genius and superbness this game offers! You must play it in this lifetime! This is what makes 
 gaming so great.
  
  There are some things I'd like to say about the story. Just some of the parts of it seem too.. 
 lenient and unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kztyle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  i m gonna make this very simple with my personal opinions of pros and cons.
  
  PROS
  -beautiful HUGE world, beautiful.
  -amazing graphix.
  -I really like the music, feels a lot 
 like Lord of the Ring.
  -open-ended, FREEDOM!!
  -loading time is pretty fast.
  -menu is quite easy to use. I really like the mission feature where it gives u the direction u 
 need to go for the mission and the objectives and all that.
  -you do NOT need a super computer to run it. because even if u turn the settings to medium, the 
 game still looks pretty amazing. I have a 6600GT with AMD 3200+ 2.0GHz 1.5g ram and I NEVER lagged 
 a bit.
  
  CONS
  -yes, the HUGE world is a good thing. but TOO BIG makes it somewhat annoying when u travel around. 
 even though u can transport from one place to another by a simple click on the map. I dont use 
 that cause it takes away the realism. it takes A LOT of TIME just traveling around walking, running 
 and even with a horse.
  -I played for like 5 hours and my head is hurting like crazy.... very very bad headache from all 
 the traveling, running, turning around in the dungeon.. (people who are not used to 1st person 
 games will probably all experience this..)
  -lack of emotions unlike Japanese RPGs. I didnt feel ANY emotion at all in the first 5 hours of 
 play. Japanese RPGs are made like movies with cut-scenes which some of them are highly emotional 
 which makes the story much more attractive.
  
  CONCLUSION
  -it's definately a fun experience to feel that u're in a fantasy world. but I dont think this game 
 is for everyone. after playing for 5 hours, I personally still prefer Japanese RPGs like Final 
 Fantasy, Shin Megami Tensei, Xenosaga ... games that have great deep stories with lots of emotions 
 like movies.
  
  these are just my personal opinions, but also a warning to the people who are Japanese RPG fans 
 wanting to try this out. overall, it's a good game and I enjoyed the experience.
  
  ***currently expecting a lot from Suikoden V.... can't wait to get it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaSlskjdf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is such a great game. It is highly addictive and you can do whatever you want in it. This 
 is my first game to play from the elder scrolls series and it's definitely got me addicted.
  
  From the first minute i played this game I loved it. The graphics are so nice and the fights 
 are impressive. You can use your melee or magic attacks. It isn't just a small game where you play 
 by the story, it has a lot more dimensions than that.
  
  The sound is also great, each character talks when you interact with it. The game was made with 
 a great detail of precision both in graphics and sound wise.
  
  The story pulls you the more you play into it, you can't stop it will pull you to the gates of 
 hell (addiction) . whether you like rpg games or not this game is for you and if you don't believe 
 me just try it once and you'll do.
  
  If you like sword games You'll love this game
  If you like long story games You'll love this game
  If you like Action Games You'll love this 
 game
  
  Conclusion:-
  IF YOU LIKE VIDEO GAMES BUY THIS GAME ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  My specs:
  
  AMD 2.2g
  1 gig or ram
  geforce 5200fx
  
  Oblivion does not run on system because of my lame graphics card. 
  
  Installation was fine, 
 game started up with no dramas, it all went the hell when i clicked 'new game' It starts loading 
 up & never stops. I even left it over night to see if it was just taking alone time! hell no! Im 
 upgrading to 6800 which will fix the problem.
  
  If you want to run it, make sure your packing a Geforce 6600 or higher. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, 
 its obviouse this is an awsome game, just read gamespots review ; )
  
  hope this helps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb81
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  You can do so much in this game and you don't have to walk around for hours trying to do it. There 
 is a sweet quick travel, but finding all the locations and leveling up is what I've been doing. 
 Been playing for hours and still haven't done any of the major mission yet. So many side missions 
 and dungeons to go through. Some boring, some good. 
  
  The fighting and graphics are, of course, greatly improved from ES III. If you don't have a good 
 card, go get one and experience the HDR lighting effects with the torch. The rag doll effects are 
 excellent as well. Bodies actually remain where they were killed. You can hit the bodies after 
 they're dead and they flop around for some funny effects. Arrows are great too. If you get hit, 
 they stay stuck in your body!!
  
  I bought Fable a couple of months ago and was sorely dissapointed. This game kills it. If you haven't 
 played this game or if you like RPGs, go get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I dont wanna go too in depth but i will go over the basics that you've probably heard before.
 
  
  Graphics are probably the best graphics seen in a game to date if your computer can handle it that 
 is. If you have a mid range or low range system its definetly worth a play but its also worth upgrading 
 for. The world is huge and the graphics do just about every part of it justice.
  
  Gameplay is solid with a great amount of things to do and experience. Very in depth magic system 
 with easy to use features, and for the most part weapons are pretty basic with blocking and slashing. 
 Theres not too many different things to do with weapons but you can add Fire/Shock damage and various 
 different poison types to weapons that will have sum cool effects. Besides that its pretty straight 
 forward, when you level up you will be able to unlock new moves like being able to knock weapons 
 out of your enemies hands and stunning them.
  
  Theres almost too many things to discuss in a simple review so I will just hit the tip of the iceberg 
 here with random things to describe. Theres a large amount of skills to choose from in this game, 
 whatever you pick will effect your character in a major way so be sure to choose the right ones 
 you will stick with. Everything you do has an effect on you, and every time you level up you will 
 unlock new features, such as when you level up in Alchemy you will be able to make more use of 
 Plants/Fungi and other objects you'll find in the world which will make better potions of higher 
 value and better effects. Theres a massive amount of missions and in depth quests in the game for 
 the world that is massive itself so the fun never really ends and sum quests can take you up to 
 an hour or two alone. Theres 16 Oblivion gates and i spent 3 hours just in one.... do I need to 
 mention the 200+ dungeons and thousand side quests? 
  
  Sound effects are good as the world sounds realistic no matter where you are. Magic sounds are 
 pretty good and weapon sounds are pretty standard. When your out in the world you'll hear birds 
 chirping amongst other things. The voicing in the game is overall pretty good. Theres thousands 
 of NPC's so alotta voices are repetitive which is the downside, but there are a few voice overs 
 that are really really good and definetly sum of the best i've seen in a game. The repetitive ones 
 are a drag however because you could have just talked to an Orc then 2 seconds later talk to a 
 Nord and they have the exact same voice... not all but sum
  
  And I cant mention this game without mentioning the modding community. Theres already a dozen mods 
 that improve this game in various ways, not that it needs improvement but little things like improved 
 view distance textures for those high end pc users are a beautiful thing. Theres also a mod for 
 more hair styles which this game was certaintly lacking. Its just an amazing modding community 
 and the graphics in the faces will be improved shortly as well because they seemed to be lo textured. 
 There's been gameplay improvements with the arrows, and i expect there to be many more dungeons 
 and modded in creatures in the future.
  
  Now the downside to this game is theres a few bugs and glitches that should be patched but atleast 
 the game wasnt delayed. Sum low res textures in the faces it seems where they should be the highest 
 of all. And the fact that it takes a pretty nice computer to play it the way it was meant to be 
 played, i meet the recommended settings and it recommended on High but i have to turn the grass/shadows 
 completely off to play it stable for the most part. Also if your new to the series it might take 
 sum time to get used to, I wasnt new to the series but it still took me a good hour to learn the 
 controls and all the new features again.
  
  I give it a 9.6 for stunning graphics, huge amount of features, seemingly endless amount of activities, 
 and a vastly large world that can entertain you for months at least. Again the modding community 
 will ensure that this game lasts much longer then mosts games and I'm almost positive it will get 
 Game Of The Year if not it will definetly be runner up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superfly045
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This Game is a work of art by Bethesda softworks... If i were to go into detail in why this game 
 is so amazing you would be reading this until you were 87 years old... I do not agree with GS's 
 review of 9.3 for the PC version.. If anything the PC is equal to the XBOX 360 version if not better.. 
 SUre there is the performance issues you can enounter if you dont have the recommended system requirements 
 but even still thereis the limitless amount of gameplay added to Oblivion whenever someone makes 
 a newmod which can be downloaded off of many sites... the 360 does not have this key attribute, 
 which sets it apart from the PC. This was the same with Morrowind even with the GOTY edition which 
 included all the expansion packs... Oblivion for the 360 is good but withe the proper system specs 
 and a few more months to let the mods start to be released the 360 version will not hold a candle 
 to the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlaheji
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  feels just like the real world!!!
  waving grass, realistic rain, facegen faces (everyone is unique) , beautiful sky, excellent use of 
 pixel shaders!!
  awesome music and sound effects.
  great battles!
  though i never noticed the lack of bathrooms here, nor in morrowind... its not like we need them.
 
  worked unexpectedly smooth, considering my laptop isnt really cutting edge (1.73GHZ sonoma, 1GB 
 ddr2, X700 128mb) .
  i could run it at 1280x800 with most features on low-medium and still get an average fps of around 
 20 (just doesnt look as sharp on lowr resolutions... especially on lcds)
  game of the century~ was awake 2 whole nights playing this :-p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrEeNy619
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i have played in ages, so well put together and represented on screen.
  - I havent played any of the other games of the series but now im willing to give them a shot.
 
  - The Map is huge and it takes me ages to get from one side to the other.
  - The in game graphics are nothing short of fantastis and realistic.
  - So many quests to complete 
 plus a storyline to progress through aswell.
  - It can go as long as you make it go which is cool, it isnt just one borig storyline it varies 
 everytime you play it.
  
  Great game i give it a 9.6 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuthedog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has given me countless hours of enjoyment and fun. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing, some of the best to date. Unfortunately, graphics 
 this good require great computers. If you do not have a nice video card you will most likely experience 
 lagging. I used an Nvidia 6800 128 mb card and it runs great. 
  
  Gameplay: Oblivion offers a unque combat system that is both fun and easy and allows you to quickly 
 access spells and weapons. The Level system is good to. At normal difficulty it is pretty hard 
 to level up so if you are a beginner I reccomend you lower the difficulty level. I have been playing 
 it at a little above medium difficulty and I have been finding it easy enough to finish most of 
 my quests. Lockpicking is also fun and not that difficult which makes it easy to steal from peoples 
 houses or even kill them if you want to. I have found that the best weapons are found on the dead 
 bodies of enemies. The AI is absolutely brilliant in Oblivion. One example is if you are fighting 
 two skeletons and one dies and you break the other ones weapon, the one with the broken weapon 
 will go and pick up the dead ones weapon. Also there are tons of quests to play and many races 
 and classes to be. you also get to pick a sign ypu were born under like Shadow which is what I 
 picked and gives you 60 seconds of invisibility a day which comes in handy when stealing stuff. 
 Also the quest system is great and will allow you to easily look at what to do in the quest. There 
 are also makers on the map that tell you exactly where to go.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is great. The one bad part is that you'll often be talking to someone 
 and their voice will completely change halfway through the conversation. For instance, if you talk 
 to a beggar they will have an Irish accent voice and then when you give them a coin they will suddenly 
 have a voice like the guards which is an American voice. Other than that it is great.
  
  Value: This will supply you with endless hours of fun and thousands of things to do and explore 
 the Elder Scrolls games are known for thir excellent replay value and this game lives up to the 
 reputation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Cheap AI that cheats from the kill a gaurd when no one is around and get an instant fine to the 
 moronic aggro horse, tech glitches and various other bugs it took them this long to make this game 
 and it came out like this.
  
  more of the same really oh and radiant AI has been done already you are not the first to do it 
 Bethesda there is two games called gothic and gothic 2 where the npc behaviour allows them to go 
 eat sleep goto the job they have so thats not impressive or ground breaking.
  
  not a bad game once you get past all the tech glitches but not really fun when you upgrade your 
 pc so that you can use all of it's features and they still don't work properly.
  
  wait to play it when one of your friends has it or until they release a patch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Getting into this game was easy. After setting up the options, and tweaking my machine. I couldn't 
 get over how fascinating the graphics look. Very crisp, and smooth. FPS got upto 123. This rolled 
 up to my second best game I've ever played. I love the Character creator which is very vast on 
 morphing your player into your own. Seems a game with this size could have used a couple more different 
 races?? It almost reminds me of a Zelda for adults. The way you interact with the world is great. 
 Just about anything can be picked up (stolen) . You can interact with anyone in the game which in 
 turn the AI is wonderful. I stole a horse accidentally, and riding out a bit I took a rest, and 
 low and behold there's two guards chasing after me... even on horse!! I got a kick out of that. 
 Seems plenty of quests to indulge yourself into as well. I know I'm going to enjoy this one. Wonder 
 if the ending will holds up it's reputation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbomadic121
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything I could hope for and more. I played Morrowwind on the Xbox and was fairly 
 dissapointed. The combat in this game is much improved. It is exciting and fresh, easy to learn, 
 difficult to master. The graphics are the best I have ever seen on the PC. The game is also smooth, 
 even the 20 fps my computer pulled in some outdoor areas was sufficiently playable. This game is 
 a system hog. I am running at 1280x1024, most of the detail settings on high, draw distance lowered 
 a bit. The lowest fps ive hit is 14, highest is 60 due to my monitor. This is with a geforce 6800 
 GS oced to 490/1.1 on an Athlon 64 3500+.
  
  This game is beautiful, fun and engaging. the audio design is nice, the score is epic and well 
 done. The surround sound was done well, and is one of the first games where i truely noticed it 
 on my setup.
  
  If your computer can run it, great at $10 less than the xb360 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Hello Again
  I thought that maybe I was to hard on the game while writing my last review about it, so I played 
 it again today, with a clear mind. My best mate was with me this time and we both sat down and 
 checked it out in detail. 
  Turns out that I wasnt that hard on the game after all. Both I and my best mate, think that it 
 lacks "GAME GLUE"!. 
  
  
  
   When I play an RPG I dont want to run around hacking and slashing! Ok, if I am a console player, 
 maybe the game is good, but for PC players things could have been so much better! 
   What is it with the HUGE interfaces menus, 
   What is it with all the bloody lock picking! 
 I remember choosing a Battle Mage Class, not a Thief Class. I dont want to spend my time, picking 
 locks in the game and I am NOT a fan of cheats! 
   How can anybody move around without having a mini map on the screen? Is the compass enough? 
 
   Riding a horse is like the worse game play ever! Talk about NOT user friendly horse manipulation. 
 
   AI is NOT good! 
   Also, I tried liking the Character Creation process Well I didnt! I think that the graphics 
 for the face are not as customizable as the creators want us to believe. 
   Why do other attributes have to change when I move the slider of a chosen attribute? 
   Why 
 do all my human characters have to look like apes, or like primates? 
  
  I consider my self lucky having a 7800 GTX otherwise I would have to play the game at 800x600! 
 Why is it so heavy? Anyway, I am through with this game, what a waste of my money Personally I 
 think that most reviews about this game are PROFIT ORIENTED, marketing scams, so that innocent 
 gamers buy the game! I mean, hey, 10 value for money?!!? If this game has a 10 with a cost of 50$ 
 then what should we grade DIABLO, BALDURS GATE or NEVER WINTER NIGHTS with? A score of 20!?!?
 
  Hope some REAL RPGs come out soon. RPGs that look and feel like RPGs not like 1st person shooters! 
 Dont forget why RPG gamers like RPGs. They like them because they ARE RPGs and not hybrid 1st 
 person shooters!!!
  
  Have a nice day! 
  P. S. Here is my Old review for all you that didnt read it yesterday 
  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 
  Well, I cant say that I went crazy after playing 5 hours of Oblivion. I was expecting much more. 
 As a very old PC Platform RPG player, I must note that Oblivion doesnt have a very strong story, 
 you can get lost easily unless you have the Game Guide and as far as combating goes it reminds 
 me more of a 1st person shoot m up / hack and slash than a proper RPG. My favorite RPG remains 
 Never Winter Nights, The Baldurs Gate series and Guild Wars.
  So before you go buying the game, go check it out at the house of a friend. You might love it, 
 or you might not. Well, I am sorry I spent my money on this, I could of lived without it easily!
 
  
  So until Never Winter Nights 2 is released
  Bye! 
  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in ES4 (Elder Scrolls 4) is captivating, innovative and loads of fun but I would not 
 call it groundbreaking. Though the game offers a lot of new elements above its predecessor Elder 
 Scrolls 3 it is pretty much based around the same setup. It is clearly a fanbased production, while 
 it also manages to offer a great system to newcomers as well. It has all the right elements to 
 be the best RPG but minor flaws can make it somewhat boring in some parts.
  
  ES4 is a game for the player who likes to abide his time by exploring, questing and experiencing 
 the game as a whole. Instead of getting the highest level as fast as possible and rush through 
 the story itself. The game offers what any RPG player would want out of a RPG, it is in short nearly 
 perfect. Its a total upgrade of any of the later installments and for the first moments of playing 
 you cant help yourself but being awed by the greatness of it all. It has tons of quests, world 
 to explore and enemies to fight. It has the great guild system as well as one of the most innovative 
 and rewarding character building I have yet to experience from any other RPG. Running around in 
 this game is an experience every gamer should have at least once to even be considered a true game 
 fan.
  
  That was the candy, and here is my selected few flaws.
  
  Repetitive Nature
  As most RPGs ES4 is no different when it comes to repetitive experiences. Though the game is enjoyable 
 in almost every aspect from fighting, sneaking and investigating the game isnt as groundbreaking 
 as publicists would lead us to believe. But repetition is something one cannot avoid in a RPG as 
 quests usually tends to end up in the same manner anyways. At least ES4 has a few endings instead 
 of the one single ending every time.
  
  Artificial Intelligence
  When someone tells me this games A. I. is pretty much groundbreaking, I am thinking this is going 
 to change the way of life playing a game. But as every other game its not so. Although every single 
 A. I. is scripted to live their lives 24/7 not doing the same thing over and over again over the 
 course of a single day it does not really recognize the player as well as I had hoped. You have 
 the random Hi there or you can engage in conversation but it doesnt really make you feel like 
 a character amongst other characters. I believe a strong AI system is a system that makes you feel 
 youre playing a hero in the world of common folks and other heroes. Like walking to the mountain 
 of eternal doom and maybe coming across a wizard fighting daemons. Or walking around in a city, 
 and just out of the blue experience the Dark Brotherhood carrying out a contract on one of the 
 common folk. All in all the AI is a slight improvement of what you would see in another RPG but 
 it still feels very static after a while. People engaging in the same conversations with each other 
 over and over not really recognizing what kind of person they are talking to. None of the AIs 
 have friends or enemies except maybe you, and if A. I. is to be innovative by standards making it 
 groundbreaking it has to be a lot more dynamic than what ES4 offers.
  When you can take a game, be a bird and fly over endless of countries and experience a game that 
 can play itself without you really being a part of it. With heroes, villains, wars and common folk, 
 playing out their own lives as you would nearly expect from a human player. Then you can label 
 it groundbreaking and amazing.
  
  The World
  The world of ES4 is by far one of the best things about this game. Its a world you wont mind exploring 
 just to experience the scenery. If something is perfect in this game, its the world that it presents 
 you with. From the mountains, forests, dungeons to the cities its a sight to behold and you can 
 clearly see the love and attention put into details. The game is almost worth buying just for the 
 world to experience itself.
  
  
  Graphics & Sound
  
  There is not much to say about the graphics in ES4, its basically what you would expect from a 
 next-gen game and then some. I wont really write about it because its simply put Amazing. From 
 shadows, the huge open world, the forests and dungeons. Night and day, blur and sharpness. Spell 
 effects and weapons, armor and shields. Its all like it should be, its selected look works with 
 its selected work.
  
  The sound in ES4 is a selection of great music, great voice acting, and great lip syncing, and 
 great ambient and great effects. It sounds like every RPG should sound like. From the ground you 
 walk on, sword youre wielding or magic you are casting. Its as nearly perfect as it can be and 
 I cant see or hear anything that can be changed in this department.
  
  
  Value / My Tilt / Ending Comments
  
  I am not into writing a massive review, although it could 
 be done if you pick the whole experience and its offerings off piece by piece. My first days and 
 many hours in this game have left me with a total impression of the strongest RPG package you can 
 buy to date. It has everything you want in a RPG and the minor flaws are not so noticeable as to 
 break your total experience. It is fun and entertaining and that is what every game is about. Of 
 course this game as every other game created could be better, but it is hardly much needed to be 
 done to make it so. It keeps true to its fan base, and opens up a whole new experience. It also 
 attracts new people to come visit the world that will captivate you for hours, days, weeks, months 
 or even years. I enjoyed my ES4 experience a lot, and I still am but as many others I tend to overplay 
 my experience and have to leave it alone for a while before I can get back to enjoying its contents. 
 This is a game I will be coming back to a lot, and that in itself is a lot coming from me. As I 
 am extremely picky and get bored extremely fast with ordinary fast produced games. This game 
 deserves the praise it has gotten, but as always this is just my own opinions about a game that 
 was almost on the line of perfect but could quite reach the top of ultimate gamming experience 
 of the genre RPG.
  
  Definitly something every gamer needs in his/her collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwingfie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion:
  
  An excellent successor to Marrow-wind, but suffers from some of the same type of problems. Namely 
 not enough dynamic interaction between the NPCs in the World. This plus a few areas where you 
 feel like you are walking though an abandoned country and not necessarily for plot reasons. The 
 same bland loner feel as TES 3, its a shame really that you dont get more integrated play right 
 of the bat, it almost like stumbling though someone elses dream. Still for its few faults it is 
 an extravagant gaming experience, the environs leave you palpitating for more and the almost expansive 
 dungeons that you encounter throughout the countryside make for a pleasant diversion that will 
 leave you questing for more. Just like the good open-ended RPG that Oblivion is, once the main 
 storyline gets underway things seem to get a little better in terms of realism and immersion and 
 you will find an overall satisfying experience questing against the forces of Oblivion. 
  
  The voice acting is superb, the voice of (Patrick Stewart as the Emperor) is an excellent choice 
 that adds depth, foreshadowing and charisma to an otherwise formulaic (save the world from the 
 forces of Hell) RPG plot. The Random dialogue that occurs in the background helps you forget that 
 its just a game, particularly since ease dropping often pays off in the form of side quests that 
 help raise skills and attributes. 
  
  The inventory interface is significantly better than TES3, but the spell list is worse since its 
 sorted by mastery instead of both alphabetically and mastery level. The AI in general is better 
 but still has some flaws, namely allowing you to walk in wake them up in the middle of the night 
 and have a good reaction to you, much less calling the guards when a stranger suddenly appears 
 in their in the middle of the night. 
  
  The last best thing in my opinion is the stability issues that TES 3 had problems have for the 
 most part been corrected, leaving only a few general performance issues for games to deal with. 
 Not a perfect game but one that will by viable for YEARS TO COME
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iggy_23
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this game is MOTHER F!@#$%* AMAZING!!! 
  
  If you at all like medieval fighting or the idea of spell casting, or just great graphics, this 
 game is for you.
  
  I have played the game for a small amount of time compared to what the game is actually worth in 
 playing time. This game may take you a short time to actually beat the story mode, but if thats 
 all your going to do, then you may as well go back and beat the game again with a different character 
 with different stats, and join a different guild. This adds LOTS of replayability to the game and 
 makes it incredibly interesting.
  
  The spells in this game are incredibly fun to watch. I'm a sucker for good graphics, and especially 
 well made spells, combine these two together, and you have an incredibly fun time as a wizard. 
 If your into the idea of bashing your enemy into little pieces, then you can be a warrior, if you 
 like to steal from the many NPCs, then you can be a thief. YOU CAN PRACTICALLY BE ANYTHING IN THIS 
 GAME!!!
  
  This game is practically as real as you can get. The NPCs all have their own relations, schedules, 
 and personalities. This game makes it seem so real life that it's amazing.
  
  I'm running out of time, but just to tell you, this game is near perfection. Great graphics, exceptional 
 realism, and more weapons and spells than you can bash an orc over the head with. Buy this game 
 if you like any type of weaponry and magicianship or just plain good old fashioned midevil violence, 
 the buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexcastle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game ROCKS. Its lucky I have an Alienware computer really. I have experienced some technical 
 problems such as ubber frame rate drop. Fortunatly thats the only bad thing.
  The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is brilliant. The voice acting is also pretty dam good 
 as well (although I don't see the major fuss about Patrick Stewart [He gets mullered about 30mins 
 in!] )
  The combat is a vast improvement to Morrowinds chance of hitting theory of combat, the ability 
 to defend is great in huge fights. The arena is better than the film 'Gladiator' and some of the 
 fighting AI could give Russell Crowe a run for his money!
  The addition of 'Thief' like stealth allows for some cool stealth kills and uber yoinkage (thank 
 god for lockpicks.) Although the AI does prove to be quite dumb as they can see you, but due to 
 the fact that you are standing in some shadow, they don't acknowledge your existence. Well that 
 is better then Morrowinds over-observative AI, I suppose....
  Even though I wasn't that bothered by the whole 'realistic forest' thing, it made my jaw drop. 
 Seeing wild deer being chased by other animals is great.
  Oblivion itself reminds me of the last few levels of the original Half Life as there isnt an exact 
 route through the level and you can be left a bit puzzled at times.
  Overall, this game is PERFECT. If you don't have a great computer, you need to upgrade to play 
 this game. Bring on Elder Scrolls V!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n_iklas9
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth every damn cent, if not more. This is NOT a play for 10 hours and throw away 
 kind of game. This one will make you have something to play maybe for months, years.
  
  Some people are still playing the prequel TES 3 Morrowind, and have reached 1500 h's , and the 
 world are still fascinating them.
  
  Now, this world is VAST, and its Alive. You can walk aroun, find yourself under a bandit hold up, 
 but become rescued by the nearby patrolling guardsmen, see how the guards take the loot they think 
 belongs to them...
  
  If you think Fable or FF are RPG, youre wrong, i wouldnt call them RPG. I would call OBLIVION a 
 true RPG. 
  
  And when you start to feel tired about the game: Create your own content with the TES Construction 
 Set, and the game has a really user welcome mod community ('wiki-community') .
  
  The only thorn i have in bethesdas side, is that maybe they could come up with a larger variety 
 of voice actors. Sometimes you may find yourself in the game listening on to two NPC's rambling 
 about, sounding exactly the same. You may become confused about who's talking. The more voice-actors, 
 the lesser chance of that happening is my verdict.
  
  Oh, and also make sure, before you buy the game, that you have what it takes to run it. The specs 
 are on the website and on the box. Some people tend to buy without looking up that info, and surprisingly 
 become very angry.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljkhor1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that is a fantastic ambassador to both the uninitiated and the experienced RPG 
 game-player. With an enormous free-play world, good story-lines and fantastic graphics and sound 
 I was blown away with just the fact that it has taken me this long to discover the series.
  It won't take you long to pick up the controls and this highly addictive game will keep you playing 
 long after RSI has kicked in.
  The computational level you will need for this title is great but it will still be an enjoyable 
 experience even with a few tidbits turned off.
  
  Well done to the developers and I Highly Recommend this title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KCgirlgeek1963
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  To the ONE person that gave this game a 1.1... you have GOT to be kidding me!!! You listed your 
 computer specs, but I'm wondering if your computer has a virus or something. Perhaps you should 
 upgrade your computer further before saying the GAME is garbage. Just because a game requires some 
 decent technology to perform, does NOT mean it is garbage.
  
  Oblivion runs beautifully and flawlessly on my PC. I have an AMD Athlon FX-57 processor, 4G Ballistix 
 by Crucial RAM, Hitachi 500G 300kbps 16mb cache hard drive, and two nVidia 7800 GTX 512mb cards 
 running SLI. Yes, that's fairly high end, but it runs like BUTTER. And it is SO worth it to be 
 playing such an amazing game!
  
  From the opening scene on, this gameworld and all of it's many NPCs grabbed me and never let me 
 go. They have created a virtual world that almost rivals reality on many levels. At each turn I 
 have been amazed at the game's AI. NPCs remember small acts of kindness (and UNkindness, so beware) , 
 and you truly have the feeling that you are not playing the game alone. It almost has the FEEL 
 of an MMORPG more than a single player RPG, due to the tremendous usage of NPCs independent schedules 
 and "memories."
  
  The choices you make truly do affect the way "others" in the game react to you, your presence, 
 and your conversations. Also, the new radiant AI/speechcraft is not only fun (and a little challenging) , 
 it makes the game ultimately even more immersive.
  
  At first, the UI felt a bit clumsy on the PC, but I rapidly adjusted to it and it now seems second 
 nature. I actually LIKE it now. The quests are fun and not your generic "kill 15 or this or that" 
 sort of thing. Some very original quests in the game.
  
  As far as the way the game LOOKS.... O M G!! This is the most GORGEOUS thing I have ever seen next 
 to real life! I would almost rather go sit in a field of wild flower ingame than in real life! 
 (I have allergies.... lol!)
  
  I just cannot say enough good things about Oblivion, and I'm ready to get back to playing it, so 
 I must end my positive rantings here. If you don't have it, and you have a GOOD PC (with video 
 cards that are nVidia 6800 series or above, in my opinion - or their equivalent) ..... RUN do not 
 walk..... GO BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpappas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Unbelievable! This is a ride not a video game... From the moment you you start in your cell until 
 you finish off oblivion. this game is by far the most in depth and beautiful gaming experience 
 I have ever experienced. This world is bigger and better then Morrowing and pssibly bigger then 
 all the continents combined in WOW.... the gaming experience is unique in its own right.. the environments 
 are beautiful, from lush forests to detailed dungeons and towns where the AI interact with each 
 other. You can break into peoples houses while they r sleeping and steal from them. You can join 
 4 major factions and get the benefits of them all. You can even become a vampire and get stronger 
 as the blood lust builds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all I would like to mention the fact that I was unable to procure an X Box 360 which 
 was my first choice when it cam down to which system I wanted to play Oblivion on. However, when 
 I realized that I would not be able to get a 360 I got a high end laptop, which turned out to be 
 somewhat of a mixed experience, more on that latter. As for the game it self, seeing that I have 
 just started playing, this will not be a complete review, rather it will cover my experience thus 
 far. 
  
  As all you gamers out there are aware, before playing any game on a PC one must first install the 
 game. This usually means that you are required to wait as each individual CD downloads, and usually 
 there are any where from two to four CDs, and each of them would take about twenty to thirty minutes 
 to fully download. It does not matter what kind of math you want to use, in the end that equals 
 a lot of time just waiting to play. Now that I have said that, Oblivion is nothing like that at 
 all, in fact, the whole game comes on one disk which took some twenty minutes in total to download, 
 that in it self is fantastic. As I started the game the opening presentation was nothing short 
 of fabulous. I would like nothing more than to describe every beautiful detail to you, however, 
 I do not want to take away from the experience that you will have as you see it for your self for 
 the first time. As I said before, I would like to spend a great deal more time with the game before 
 I attempt to write a proper review, but I will say, Oblivion is fantastically, Fabulous in every 
 way. Those of you, who do not have yet, excuse me as I point and laugh at your misfortune because 
 I am sure that you are fully aware of what you are missing.
  
  Now, I said that I would mention my experience with playing Oblivion on the PC, so here it is. 
 On the positive side, the graphics are fantastic; however, the devs have said that because of the 
 new technology that is being used in the 360 there is not much difference between them. I will 
 have to play it on the 360 before I can comment on accuracy of that statement. The sound, music 
 background noises, voice overs all of it is full and adds to a lot to the experience, however, 
 I like many others have surround sound with theater like quality, so again the 360 will not fall 
 flat on this point. The load times are very short from room to room and the only time you would 
 have to wait a little longer is when you enter or leave a city or cave, you get the point, or when 
 you fast travel, which is a great idea by the way. All in al the PC does a good job of playing 
 the game. Now for the Negative points. The first thing comes to mind is the controls, you can customize 
 your controls, however, you can not set your controls so that you can only use the keyboard with 
 out the mouse. You are required to use the mouse to turn your character in the desired direction; 
 the arrow keys can only be customized to allow you to move ahead, back and strife left or right, 
 you can not set them to allow you to turn around. For me this is a bad thing, add to that the fact 
 that I play on a laptop with a touch pad muse system. The muse is also used to attack your enemy, 
 however, this you can change. So if you are going to get Oblivion for the PC make sure that you 
 buy a controller at the same time, this will help to save you some frustration. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, Im a realist according to my opinion. What that means is that i dont review 
 a game based off of genre, other games in a series, or even for my particular interest in the subject 
 matter. I do however choose to play a particular game based on those - I just dont review them 
 based on that.
  
  So, where does that leave Oblivion. I havent beaten it yet, but you dont have to check and see 
 if the person's dead when they've been hit by a train either. Thus, onto my review....
  
  Oblivion is quite simply one of the best games Ive played in quite sometime, and Ive played a few 
 good ones lately. Basically, the short and pretty of it is that this game has nice graphics, sound, 
 gameplay, and so far an interesting storyline, albeit familiar.
  
  So anyways, Im not going to write some big ordeal explaining all the ins and outs of what the game 
 offers. Ill just leave it with this - Its a good game worth playing. It has all the stuff there 
 that a good game should have.
  
  Sure it has its problems, but what game doesnt? Why go into a game expecting it to be perfect? 
 What game has ever been perfect? Well... besides SWG of course (little joke there hehe *hides behind 
 shield*) Hey... at least its Iconic!
  
  At any rate, all in all, if you like games, and youve been looking for something that offers a 
 lot of different gameplay mechanics, and offers them all with pretty good design, then Oblivion 
 is your game. Its not like you havent spent $50 bucks on some other game that probably wasnt even 
 that good in the first place *cough* SWG *cough*....
  
  Ahem.... Right! So just go get it. Try it out. At worst youll come out saying youve already been 
 there and done that. But really, is too much the same thing bad - especially when its pretty good 
 in the first place?
  
  Oh yeah... one other thing. As far as technical issues go. I have minimal issues that I basically 
 have with any other game. I CTD about once in a four to six hour session... which is pretty good.
 
  
  P4 2.4GHz
  1 GB DDR
  256 MB X850 Pro
  
  I run the game on
  1152 x 864 Res
  All the sliders maxed except for Int and Ext Shadows which are set to 2
  Everything ON excpet 
 for HDR Lighting which my GFX card doesnt support
  Water Detail on Normal
  Shadow on grass is OFF
  And no Anti Aliasing and my game runs fine.
  
  By no means do I consider 
 my computer as being good. Its like in the bottom half of the middle row. I havent tweaked any 
 files or anything. I have no super Catalyst Drivers - just standard 6.3.
  
  The only thing I had to do in order to run the game smoothly was mess around with my GFX Card options 
 such as Mip Mapping Detail and other things like that, and theyre all on at least the second highest 
 option. And truthfully, I see no difference between the different settings in game.
  
  Other than that, its relatively easy to tinker with the different graphic options in game to find 
 out whats the best for you as far as Quality vs Performance is concerned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dustinian
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after looking at the screen shots and seeing the awesome reviews for it. Everyone 
 is claiming it is the greatest but what they are not telling you is that it doesnt work for a 
 HUGE portion of the populace. This game is ridiculously buggy even for those individuals with great 
 systems. 
  
  My comp is running with a 3.2 Ghz 64 bit process, 1 gig of ram, and 256 MB graphic card and it 
 still doesnt work!!!
  
  If you dont believe the people giving this game a poor review I urge you to go to the Oblivion 
 forums and check it out. People are reporting bugs every minute. Its a constant spam. This game 
 is not done and needs some serious bug fixing. 
  
  Many people cant edit the video settings, have crashes after every quest, and some cant even 
 move in the game. 
  
  !!!! If you do decide to but it please purchase the Xbox version, it does not have any of the compatibility 
 issues that the PC version has.!!!!
  
  PROS: I am sure this game will be great! Just give it like 3 months before you go and spend all 
 that money on a game that chances are will not work. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skid9999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a good, open world, single player RPG. It tightens up some of the mechanics from Morrowind 
 like adding a haggle slider bar for dealing with merchants and a simple puzzle mini-game for increasing 
 your persuasion with NPC's. It also removes some of the haziness of the skills system with well 
 defined bonuses at each skill level. The quest system is easy to follow so you'll never be wondering 
 what to do next. In some cases it's almost too easy and will actually point you to the exact location 
 of the next quest objective with an arrow on the in-game compass where in "reality" the PC would 
 not know exactly where these objectives are.
  
  Like Morrowind, the game world is richly detailed and the foliage and weather system create a realistic, 
 organic and often beautiful looking environment. At least close up. When viewing distances really 
 open up (like looking at far off mountains) the engine falters a bit with large, blurry landscape 
 textures and obvious tiling.
  
  The rag doll physics is a nice touch and leads to some cool situations as bodies can pile up on 
 one another, get blown off their feet by spells, or go tumbling down slopes (making trying to loot 
 the corpse an adventure in itself) .
  
  One of the games weaker elements is the punishment system. As many people have said, the omnipotent 
 AI with regards to thieving and killing ruins much of the games immersiveness and can be quite 
 frustrating. As I generally play "honest" characters it doesn't really impact me but in the course 
 of doing some quests that required a bit of BnE and being caught by guards that came out of nowhere, 
 I know what people are talking about.
  
  Beyond that is the poor voice work. The voice actors themselves aren't particularly bad but neither 
 are they inspired. The big problem is that it sounds like there are only four to six actors voicing 
 the entire population. It's fine to hear a city guard call out "Greetings citizen" with a voice 
 that could belong to a TV news anchor but hearing that same voice from 18 year old farm boy or 
 a 60 year old beggar really destroys the immersiveness. On top of that, NPC voices will sometimes 
 change to a completely different voice actor, usually when responding to a player question or in 
 the persuasion mini-game. Finally, the game has a system so that two NPC's will sometimes strike 
 up a conversation between themselves. The whole point of this is to create an additional level 
 of immersion for the player but when two people are chatting and they have the exact same voice, 
 all it does is highlight the fact that it's an artificial construct.
  
  Beyond that, the only other problems I have seen so far is that a few times my character has gotten 
 stuck in terrain geometry and been unable to get out forcing a reload to an autosave. Fortunately 
 the game autosaves quite regularly so not too much effort was lost. Also, the character creation 
 system, while including a lot of face morphing options to allow players to create a unique character, 
 doesn't really let you create characters that are particularly appealing or heroic. Pudgy faces 
 and bad complexions seem to be the order of the day.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a good, entertaining RPG with lots to explore in a truly beautiful and immersive 
 environment. Unfortunately, the poor NPC speech is jarring enough to pull me out of that immersion 
 to the point where I actually dislike entering cities and talking with NPCs to get quests and buy 
 or sell gear. Combined with a few technical glitches and a sometimes frustrating punishment system, 
 Oblivion falls just short of being a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  I have already played the game for about 70 hours. I have never played such a great game not even 
 The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind which I spent about 7 full months with that game and I strongly 
 believe that The Elder Scrolls IV: OBLIVION is not only a better game than The Elder Scrolls III: 
 Morrowind but for me is the best of the best games ever come. Even though it has some bad things 
 such as fairly brief loadings etc, I can't think of any reason why I should not say that this game 
 is a worth playing game even for those who don't like RPGs. The Elder Scrolls IV: OBLIVION has 
 a huge amount of action and adventure, excellent sound and an excellent designed world with gorgeous 
 graphics, very good combat magic and stealth mode, and .... a lot of fun. ENJOY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfpast5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I've spent over 200 hours of my so call "Life" on Morrowind, had all sorts of Mods ETC over the 
 past 2 years. I never thought Oblivion could surpass what Morrow have established nearly 4 years 
 ago.
  
  The Graphics is pure eye candy - aside for many issues with even the Top of all Graphics Card, 
 my "Humble Low End" ATi 9600 made gaming at Low STILL good with IMO good FPS (Note: Require about 
 30mins to tweak to get a good comprimise between Graphics and FPS, do not just rely on Default)
 
  
  The controls to the game have changed significantly, we get more control to the Combat - such as 
 control of Blocking, Power attacks ETC.
  Many have claimed that Oblivion is a stripped down version of Morrowind, with eye candy. However, 
 I've got to disagree - Bethesda Softworks' Team managed to even out the game, with less "Cheating" 
 stuff like "levitation", selling stolen stuff to other Honest Shop merchant ETC 
  I also like that I can finally cast a spell whilst holding my sword and shield - more realistic 
 IMO.
  
  The most impressive is the idea of "The World Level up along side you". It plays a significant 
 role to RPG games, it shows "Time Moving On" with everyone else, NPC are not trapped in their own 
 Time Bubble.
  
  Yes, there's a lack of "Morrowind" Arsenal of weapons, they've "gone back to basics" with weapon 
 and armor - which isn't a bad thing, too much "skills" for us to try and level up = slightly too 
 much complication. However, I'll have to agree with the "HardCore" RP Gamers, it makes the RP world 
 ever so slightly unrealistic. 
  
  Radiant AI is one of the main feature to this game, IMHO, Radiant AI is good, it makes the world 
 come alive - with NPC doing their stuff, talking, gossiping, buying food and sleeping. But it is 
 NOT perfect. Nothing can be so perfect as to imitate real life and reaction - such as an instance, 
 if I sneak into someone's looked room, NPC is sleeping and she suddenly woke up, she doesn't call 
 the guards or anything, she just merrily talks to me like I'm just paying a simple visit.
  
  All in all, this is the game to start a revolution to RPG. It is not "Perfect", but right now, 
 this is as close to complete RPG as life can provide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finishliner
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Absolutely amazing already winnning 5 various E3 Awards and Game of the Year if you 
 have a Performance PC that can handle this game at it's Full Potential and you like Adventure Games 
 this game is for you. Do countless Quest's and Mission's and Journey the land of Tamriel and fight 
 your way through tons of different Creature's and Enemie's. The Downside is this Game has such 
 good Graphic's and look' so good that you need a good PC to get the full effect but don't worry 
 it stil look's great no matter what you have the settings on. So hurry to your nearlest Game Retailer 
 and pick this one up because The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion destorys and toaly beats any other Adventure 
 Game out so try this game I guarentee you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Although so many other thought it was great, I thought it was alright. Its almost like morrowind 
 except w/ real time combat. Combat is decent, you have power attacks, which makes the fighting 
 nearly interesting. Spells are the same from morrowind, and so are stats. You get the same equipments 
 from morrowind, maybe a few new items. 
  They say the AI is smart on the game.. no, they're very unrealistic. I drank invisible potion and 
 they were still following me. I ran into a different room and closed door and hid, they ran STRAIGHT 
 to me. The NPC conversations are pretty weak too.. I started talking to a guy I jailed in prison 
 and we talked about the oblivion gate that he somehow knew about and how he will get out of there 
 if nobody is going to do anything about it.. The conversations are so repedative. I heard "I heard 
 you knew how to move in light armor" and "Look at the muscles on you!" And "You look handy with 
 a blade." too many times. 
  The animations for it is pretty weak too. Like third person and you jump. Those rolls looks hilarious, 
 especially back rolls. Game has some bugs in it too, weak quests. Was hoping the fights would be 
 more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elegrand
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Absolutely perfect, really. You can play the game in any of the 3 specializations and hybrids, 
 and I can gauruntee you you'll have a blast. The game does not naturally force you into a combat 
 character like Morrowind did, and a lot of the quests can be done with no combat at all.
  Speaking of quests, the voice acting really gives it some feeling, and the quests don't feel like 
 "do this, go there, kill, go back" even if they might be just that, they don't feel so because 
 of the excellent script. One issue I had that I'll put undergameplay was the inventory was really 
 big, and only displayed 6 items at once, but if you go to the official forums they've already fixed 
 that, so this gets a perfect score.
  
  Graphics:
  Totally amazing, except for some texture issues, like the texture of the neck to the body not being 
 seamless. The people are often very ugly, not in terms of polygons and creation, I actually mean 
 the look ugly. "Blah blah, not everyone's perfect" But it would be nice to see at least a few pretty 
 faces. Not everyone is beautiful, but some are... Otherwise, shaders and reflections and all that 
 are completly amazing.
  
  Sound:
  Absolutely masterful. Jeremy Soule knows his stuff, in creating out-of-the-way music, that sets 
 the tone perfectly. Voice acting was also amazing, with the actors reading with feeling and passion.
 
  
  Value:
  This game is one that truly never ends. There are nearly infinite character classes to be, quests 
 to do, and exploring. If you buy this game now, it will last until TESV.
  
  Tilt:
  I knocked off one point for tilt because the games programming can be a bit unstable. I've encountered 
 2 crashes so far, and also there's a bug if you have joysticks/gamepads plugged in that you're 
 not using, but obviously these can be fixed in future patchs.
  
  I put difficulty as Just Right because you can set it from ridiculously easy to insanely hard, 
 pretty much, so you can suit your style however you wish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind was a good game on the PC and an okay game on the Xbox. The Xbox version, in all honesty, 
 was hampered by exceedingly slow load times and lack of Tribunal's improved journal.
  
  Morrowind as a game though, was hampered by many problems, including a horrid quest system, poor 
 dialogue with NPCs, and an uneven difficulty level. In the end it was hard to know what you were 
 supposed to do and it was easy to die. Also, it was too easy to steal things from people and the 
 game could really devolve into a Grand Theft Fantasy, which just isn't a whole lotta fun.
  
  Oblivion, on the other hand, has fixed just about every problem Morrowind had. To start with, 
 the graphics are sharp, and even on my 2 GHz P4 with 768 MB RAM and 128 MB Radeon 9600 Pro, performance 
 is good. I had to twiddle the various options multiple times (don't believe the defaults -- you 
 can probably do much better) and outdoors things are slightly sluggish but not enough to affect 
 game play at all.
  
  Difficulty of opponents varies depending on your character's level which means you are less likely 
 to wander into a dungeon and get killed. I have spent all of my time so far either pillaging dungeons 
 or doing side quests and the challenge has been just about right. The new quest system is slick, 
 with a journal that's actually useful and the map, inventory, etc., are all easy to use and helpful.
 
  
  Dialogue with NPCs is more like I'm used to seeing in RPGs, which at least makes it familiar. Now 
 shop keepers and individuals are less willing to have you part with their stuff, which means if 
 you want to steal you have to make it something you really work at. Even killing innocents is harder 
 to get away with, which again makes you focus on the game and less on the holes in the game.
  
  I of course have only scratched the surface of this game, and every body loves it so it's unlikely 
 I'm telling you something you don't know. So if you don't come away with anything else just know 
 this game works well on mid range systems and it's fun to play. Much more fun than Morrowind was.
 
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is well done, and immersive, but im not going to say its the best RPG ive ever played 
 (it doesnt compare to Ocarina of time or Link's Awakening) . Controls with a mouse and keyboard 
 can be diffucult but i can manage, graphics can be astounding if set on the highest quality. U 
 need a pretty powerful machine to run it at its full power though. I can run F. E. A. R. and Star 
 wars: empire at war just fine, but if i put everything on high, in combat i run into some lag. 
 But this game will most likely be quickly forgotten, but it really deserves a lot of recognition. 
 I ve been going at it for like a dozen hours and im no where near to being finished. So give it 
 a try, but if u have an X360, buy that 1, it looks more polished and controls are easier, but if 
 u feel like saving $10 or cant get ur hands on an xbox 360, give this game a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunishedOne
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  *CONTAINS NO SPOILERS*
  
  Yes yes, I am asking for a flame war from the Bethesda fanboys! Fear not! They are blinded by their 
 sheer "faith" to Bethesda. There are MUCH better RPGs out there, such as Breakdown (Not full RPG) , 
 Deus Ex, Vampire: The Masquerade: Bloodlines, Neverwinter Nights, Dungeon Siege, and Shenmue II.
 
  
  Oblivion sets you in a world where the Imperial Legion is ruling, and blah blah blah, like the 
 story matters anyway. Story buffs would read up on the lore or the manual. 
  
  The Emperor gives you this "Amulet of Kings", and only those in the Emperor's bloodline can wear 
 it. You have to give it to Jaufre (SP?) , who knows where the last heir is. 
  
  After that, and you get out of the sewers, the whole Oblivion world is unleashed to you. 
  
 
  Well, here's what I'll have to say to you: Your going to think, "WOW! This looks absolutely amazing!".
 
  
  Yeah yeah, the entire world looks like numerous other RPGs. Lack of innovation and bland amount 
 of detail. The graphical detail is meant to distract you from the actual shallow gameplay and tedious 
 and often stupid quests. Not to mention the "All-knowing" guards.
  
  The game is UN-OPTIMIZED TO HELL! Dear God! I was forced to edit the .ini in the My Documents/My 
 Games/Oblivion folder just to get it to run good outside. Figures that Bethesda set the grass amount 
 too high. It actually doesn't even look like grass, just a bunch of bushes sprawling around. The 
 grass isn't even modeled with GRASS BLADES! Hello laziness!
  
  There is no motivation present in the game. The game doesn't make you say, "I must get to lvl so 
 I can get this awesome looking sword and fight these uber big enemies with my uber explosive new 
 Destruction spell!" In fact, it's more like, "God dammit, when am I going to fight the good stuff?"
 
  
  The Dark Brotherhood also seems to be an attempt to allow assassinations. Yet, the "All-knowing" 
 AI will know where you are when you sneak, EVEN WHEN YOUR A MASTER IN IT. (I purposely did modpcs 
 Sneak, 100 to see if they would detect me. They did.)
  
  The Combat system is fun, but very lacking in actual depth. It's just a few simple attacks and 
 a block button. That's it. There's no cool amount of blood flying about (Although you can edit 
 the .ini to at least get SOME blood out) , or special effects or awesome melee abilities.
  
  What I also find funny about the "All-knowing" AI is this.
  
  For example, you steal a horse 
 from a stable. You ride it to the Imperial City, and stop in front of the guard. You get off it. 
 You go inside, do some stuff, and get back to your horse. You get back on it. "STOP! I hope your 
 not breaking the law on MY watch!". 
  
  How interesting, he knows I'm stealing when I CAME UP TO HIM WHEN I ALREADY HAD THE HORSE. How 
 the hell would he know I stole it?
  
  And this is also interesting about the Combat system. Shields can block ANYTHING but magic. So, 
 that means your Mithril Shield can't block a tiny fireball. And the fact that shields can block 
 a WARHAMMER is insane. The Hammer would just DESTROY that shield.
  
  There are also numerous graphical glitches. Shadows over-lap, shadows don't cast at some times, 
 With Distant Land ON, the textures from fair away look like utter crap. Blood stretches out too 
 far, Self-Shadowing looks like utter garbage, and my GOD! THE PEOPLE LOOK LIKE UTTER CRAP! THE 
 LOW-RES FACE TEXTURES! MY EYES!
  
  Oblivion is yet another, un-inspired, big name RPG. Avoid this one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Yeah thats right... this game contains a little bit more flavor from the graphics and the gameplay 
 comes to the top for me....
  but I doesn't last in rpg games cuse it's not my type of games actually it is difficult and a lot 
 of info to read and it takes time so I need a simple game to play... but when it comes to The Elders 
 Scrolls series u gotta try it... worth every cent and sec u play..
  So this game is a long story and u can build it however u want... make sure to make it right or 
 u gonna regret it.... it's a thinking game with no limits and very intelligent done with every move 
 u make. So it's a game that gives u the best thinking moments in ur life and gives u a hard dessision 
 to make for every time u reach a level... the point is there is nothing that could be better in 
 this game in this time or for a while I will say... Buy it play it and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I have only played this game for about 10+ hours so far, and let me tell you, I am loving it. I 
 have restarted the game three times as I have tried to get the feel for playing different style 
 characters, and have finally settled on my own custom class of character. The creation process 
 is fun and seamless, integrated into the introduction gameplay (similar to Morrowind's process) . 
 The most difficult part is deciding what way you want to play the game. Are you the stealthy kind 
 that wants to pick locks, pick pockets, and get 2x, 4x, or 6x damage from steathy attacks? Do you 
 prefer the straight in bash attack? Are you more of an intellectual spell-wielding walking tome 
 of destruction? OR - do you prefer to take aspects of each and incorporate them into your own style 
 of play? 
  
  This is the beauty of Oblivion. Not only does it give you that "Old-fashioned" dungeon crawl experience, 
 it truly is a Role-playing Game, one where you choose how to behave in the world. If you want to 
 be dastardly and kill all, you could try, but make sure you avoid the guards afterward. Your actions 
 really do affect the NPC's that populate the world, and word will get around of your actions. I 
 wandered into a dungeon off the side of a road nestled in some ruins, and as I spent time killing 
 undead, I found someone wandering below me in another room. As I tried to sneak up on him to determine 
 his threat, I sprung a trap that knocked me off the bridge and dropped me into the room. I promptly 
 panicked and attacked him, only to discover afterwards that he was just an adventurer like me. 
 Later on, I rested in a secluded area only to be awoken by a dark brotherhood member who had "observed" 
 my "assassination" and invited me to join the dark brotherhood by killing another innocent with 
 a "virgin blade thirsting for blood". Keep in mind that all this happened within the first two 
 "game world" days of play for me. Not to mention the Necromancer I killed to help the local Inn 
 Keeper, or the vampire hunters I fought down by the lake, or even the main quest to find the Emperor's 
 last heir and restore order to the land! I even spent some time chasing a herd of deer in the dusk, 
 trying to hunt one down with my bow.
  
  As for performance, I only run an Athlon XP 2600+ with 1GB RAM, a GeForce 6600 GT 256 MB, and a 
 Raid-0 configured set of hard drives. I thought I would be seeing some seriously lacking graphics, 
 but I was very pleasantly surprised. The world is beautiful, and the outdoor effects are amazing. 
 I noticed a bit of lag right after loading a level as the data was caching, but that was it. If 
 I ended up fighting with more than 4 characters on screen, I also noticed some degradation to my 
 framerate. I haven't had the game crash on me yet, but when I shut down the game, I do get a Microsoft 
 error dialog for a problem with Oblivion. exe. Not sure what that is all about, but I haven't had 
 any game corruption or lost data, so I'm willing to live with it. This is a great return of a classic 
 series with some good old fashioned single-player RPG dungeon crawling fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is the first time that i have tried an RPG that was not a let down. The story is good and 
 the sheer size of the map will keep ypu up for hours. Very addictive, fun and also entertaining. 
 The game is superb. I dont just have one route to follow. I choose where I want to go. The graphics 
 is another spectacular feature that blows me away especially when you go outdoors. The forest looks 
 phenomenal. I have a few beef with the AI but it is well done especially when they attack you. 
 HDR will make you weep if your PC cant handle it because it looks beautiful. I have not seen mouth 
 muscle movement that was jaw dropping since Half Life 2 untill this game arrived. The sound is 
 superb but it should have been better if they added Xfi into it but this is only my opinion. Overall 
 value of this game is perfect. I can always go back to this game whenever i want to and never get 
 bored. The downside is that the game is demanding graphically. My anger is that i was expecting 
 my 7800GT to work some magic but i had to turn down the res. and reduce some features to the medium 
 bar just so I can enjoy the game. This game will suck your PC dry. This is almost next gen to me. 
 I would be happy to add another 7800GT just to play this game in its full glory. This is a very 
 addictive game indeed. I wonder why bethesda has not decided to patch this game up because some 
 things just dont feel right while you are playing it. The guilds are fun and challenging. I dont 
 know which guild is the best but I can guarantee that no matter guild you join, you will be faced 
 with enough challenges that you wish it did not end. The amazing thing is that this guilds are 
 supposed to like add ons when the main game is released but it was included with the bundle which 
 makes the value extremely valuable.
  
  The mages guild was rather short in my opinion but a lot creepier than the rest. The fighters guild 
 is good because if you are a fighter that uses swords and blunts and have block skills, then this 
 guild is for you. The thief's guild is also fun and sneaky. I guess that if you want to create 
 a character, thievery skills has to top priority along with conjuration and destruction skills. 
 The dark brother is also superb and I like the way it ended. I wish it did not end.
  
  Here is my rating abut the guilds:
  Main Quest : 9.4/10
  Mages guild : 9/10
  Thief's guild 
 : 9.5/10
  Dark brotherhood: 9.2/10
  Fighters guild : 9.3/10
  Arena: 9.6/10
  
  Other quest: 8.9/10
  People sending you on quests : 9.2/10 Overall i am extremely satisfied with 
 the contents of this software. It deserves every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endocrine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has improved greatly over its predecessors. One of the main improvements is plot/story. 
 This one throws you right into, as well as giving many side plots as well. Morrowind seemed like 
 its story did not even exist at times, which is why I enjoy Oblivion and did not enjoy Morrowind.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are excellent. The outside areas are beautiful and diverse. However, 
 all of the interior areas are very cookie cutter. Every dungeon I go into looks the same as the 
 last. When I go into the guild halls I sometimes forget what town I am because they look so similar.
 
  
  The AI can be fairly smart at times, but the pathing is awful. They get stuck everywhere and ranged 
 creatures spend more time shooting walls then anything else.
  
  The sound in this game is excellent. Being able to listen to every character speak really brings 
 you into the game.
  
  With all that said, this game is very addicting. There is so much to do and so much to achieve 
 that you will just keep on wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtkinsac2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls has always been a great series and always had a big fan-base. Although, the less 
 than recent Morrowind seemed a dissapointment to most with a boring storyline and horrid combat, 
 but then Oblivion comes! Oblivion is one of the best of the RPG games and does good at every element 
 it has in the game. It's action is intense, it's storyline is more than engaging, it's stealth 
 doesn't dissapoint, etc. Also, the graphics are some of the best I have seen running at the frame 
 rate it does. The new quick travel feature leaves you open to explore the other side of the world 
 without having to worry about the travel back with a simple click to return to where you wanted 
 to be. Also, owning a horse or a house is pretty cool and makes it where you dont have to break 
 the law to own one. The combat has taken a dive and seems to have made the touchdown with the best 
 an RPG can have to real-time combat. The physics also make the combat cool, as you take a hammer 
 to a goblin and send it flying to your right from the impact. This game seems flawless; I give 
 it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtl68170
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Wow, what can you say. This 'thing' that Bethesda has created is a culmination of modern technology 
 and Bethesda's unequaled talent in all aspects of this games design. While Morrowind was a good 
 game, it was obvious that the game engine couldnt do what Bethesda's creativity and imagination 
 could. Problem solved. The game just FEELS right.
  
  I dont even know where to begin. Let me first start by saying that this is, by far, the greatest 
 RPG experience ever made. It may even be the greatest game ever made in my opinion, bar none. Yes, 
 the graphics are amazing. But it's the little things that just add to the already total immersion 
 into this world. Things like your horse rearing up and fighting off attackers. The way NPS's will 
 turn their head over their shoulder if you speak to them from behind. Galloping through the forest 
 and landscape on a black stallion with the beautiful score playing in the background. Top notch 
 voiceover (everything is voice, hallelujah) . I could go on and on.
  
  I dont even use map travel anymore unless absolutely necessary. Galloping through the land to my 
 destination point is so immersive and fun. Rather than map port with Martin and Jauffe to the cloud 
 temple, we rode together through dangerous country and up through the snowy mountain passes of 
 Bruma. WOW. All I can say.
  
  Everyone at BSW should get a huge raise. Im alittle saddened that this experience will come to 
 an end eventually. But wait! Expansion packs? They have the foundation laid for some awesome game 
 expansions. 
  
  This is a life changing experience if your an RPGer. Dont even thing about it. Buy it and savor 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short in saying that this game is simply great. Its the zenith of what I hope becomes 
 a new genre of free-form gameplay. If you haven't played or heard of Morrowind, then I would compare 
 this game to a medieval GTA where the structured story can be ignored while still allowing you 
 to progress further.
  
  You can be good, you can be evil, or you can be both. You can make yourself a holy knight, dark 
 summoner, or a stealthy thief with a passion for murder. But aside from all this, the world is 
 simply awe-inspring.
  
  Playing this game and analyzing the similarities, now I can only look forward to a Fallout 3 all 
 the more. I was sceptical before playing Oblivion, but since they will be using this engine... 
 there are no more worries.
  
  As a last note, I would like to post my system specs. I found this game VERY playable, though you'll 
 have to send me a message if you want to find out the settings I used. I don't have the time as 
 of writing this. I run the game at the lowest widescreen res without AA (glitch makes performance 
 drop while looking at certain "objects" with AA enabled) . The bloom and bumpmapping does a find 
 job of hiding the "jaggies".
  
  AMD 3000+ Processor
  1gig DDR 333mhz RAM
  ATI Radeon 9800 Pro 128mb
  MSI KT4V Motherboard
  80gig WD Hard Drive 100 w/8mb Cache 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasmoVT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Definitly is to RPGs what HL2 and FEAR were to FPS. Great scenery. Unlimited experience possibilities. 
 Even some reasonably good physics. Things, including bodies falling on a slope will slide roll 
 down hill. Destruction speels knock targets backwards. ( Hit a vampire coming over the top of a 
 pit with a destruction spells that sent its flaming body in an arch back across the pit with various 
 pieces of equipment coming off and following thier own flight path.
  
  World is the RPG environment I have seen. While you can quick travel I strongly advise doing a 
 lot of exploring. Take the priory horse you are offered early on and go exploring cross country. 
 First of all the scenery is the next best thing to actually being out in the country. Second you 
 discover all kinds of things you would never discover if you just follow the main and guild quests. 
 Find a herd of deer and go heunting. Take a bath under a waterfall. All the main quests level with 
 the player so take time do a lot of exploring and random dungeon and temple diving. You won't regret 
 it. Archers shooting at you out of the shadows which unless you see an arrow in flight or hitting 
 another object you have no idea where they are. Stealth kills and great. Just a fantastic experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadisticSid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  You'll realise how sweet Oblivion is after just an hour's play - once you get outside the tutorial 
 dungeon, you realise just how epic and beautiful modern games can be with the right amount of development 
 and content production. Oblivion boasts so many gameplay branches that you could spend days a time 
 exploring ther quests and the myriad ways of accomplishing them, depending upon what type of character 
 you create. The skills are fairly balanced, with useful perks for each giving you greater advantages 
 at higher levels. 
  
  The only gripe I have is that enemies and loot level with you, so you could well see a highwayman 
 in glass armor wielding enchanted weapons that cost thousands of gold. It's done so you never run 
 out of challenges, but then you never really find any accomplishment in being able to slaughter 
 low-level foes. It's not quite as freeform as Morrowind before it, but more than makes up for it 
 in other areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Awesome. I had high expectations and Oblivion blew right through them. So far the best of Morrowind 
 has been exceeded, and the nagging things you wanted fixed have been fixed.
  
  GRAPHICS: Stunning. The light, shadows, physics are unreal. I shot 8 arrows into a zombie and they 
 all stuck out where they should have based on the angles of attack etc. Also i have had ZERO crashes 
 to desktop so far, which i couldnt say for Morrowind at first. My PC is an Alienware with an Nvidia 
 GeForce 6800. New faces for NPC's as well, none are the same as the game seems to have a randomizing 
 slider with 25+ sliders for facial attributes etc.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Combat is great fun as always, with the freedom to maneuver, and the archer class is 
 now more playable. The autotravel feature is a great addition, though they could tweak a few things 
 with the inventory management and the maps. The quests so far have nice twists and aren't completely 
 "Fedex" style. The world is incredibly beautiful and fun to explore.
  
  I LOVE IT! if you like RPG's or Morrowind at all, you will love Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatedemon13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game by far, surpasses every thing that Morrowind has accomplished. There is so much to do 
 and top it off, the world is just so big and lavish, it makes you literally want to see it in person. 
 Yes, it is that good. I am not too far into the game, but being an ex-Morrowind-Addict, I know 
 that I will spend many nights staying up late trying to finish that one quest that needs doing 
 or looking for that certain secret area with a great reward. Simply put, this is by far the best 
 RPG ever made for the PC. Period. Props to Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series isn't exactly known for it's stable-ness, every game in the series had/has 
 a large amount of bugs, most game breaking bugs were removed in patched but the threat is always 
 there.
  
  This, along with the combat and bugs, my main concern for Oblivion was the fact that they included 
 a fast travel option and you could see every hidden location on your compass, i think we all agreed 
 from the start that the game looks absolutely fantastic.
  Besides that the world is huge and detailed with a lot of different towns and npc's, the game offers 
 a lot of replayability.
  
  The best thing about this series is that you can always just go out and do things you like without 
 any restrictions and OB lives up to that quite well.
  
  The Radiant AI thing might be a bit overhyped, NPC's do appear to be going about their lives, but 
 when you look close it's actually pretty sloppy, things like conversations could have been much 
 more realistic, often they'll just make a chat and suddenly say goodbye, i think this could have 
 been much better if only the dialogs were written a bit smoother.
  You'll often see NPC's go to bed, get out of it after a few seconds and start doing something in 
 the middle of the night, or when you wake them up they just start their day like if they had woke 
 up by themselves, they also quit what they're doing after a few minutes too, that doesn't make 
 it very believeable, it's still a vast improvement of course, but Bethesda made it sound like they 
 had an almost completely realistic AI in there, totally not the case, but that's pretty much impossible 
 for the next decade (s) i guess.
  
  The combat has been greatly improved, i always thought that they should have refined the combat 
 system from Arena, which was needlessly complicated but this works great too, it reminds me a lot 
 of Rune multiplayer but Rune was a lot less precise then here mostly because it was 3rd person, 
 which can either be a good or a bad thing, personally i like it in OB better, there's also some 
 different ways to go about melee fighting: 
  The most obvious is of course just watching for your enemy to swing and then quickly block, when 
 he's recovering you swing at him. But you can also play it a more dodgey style, quickly walking 
 backwards when they swing and then delivering a crushing blow, it's great, and it never gets boring 
 as long as you and your opponent are matched, the Arena in the capital is great for this case. 
 It's also great that you can cast spells while holding your weapons, this makes melee-mages a lot 
 more effective to play, in the previous games you always needed to wait for an good moment to switch 
 to spellcasting mode, do your thing and then switch back in time to make a good hit.
  Stealth is a lot more viable here too, enemies don't see you as fast as they used to, i think. 
 This is a great oppertunity to deliver some extra damage with a sneak attack, harhar!
  
  One thing i didn't like was that you saw all the dungeons and ruins and such on your compass. Bad 
 move that, why make such a huge world with so much to explore and then just point everyone to it?
 
  Luckily there was a mod out for this after like, a day, which removed those indicators from the 
 compass, so i could get comfortably get lost in the wilds again! I don't use the fast travel feature 
 either, real fans of the series might have been dissappointed when they heard about these features, 
 i for one can't stand those games who try to go mainstream and forsake a lot of "hardcore" features, 
 luckily this wasn't the case, except for the compass maybe.
  
  When i received the game i obviously popped it into my drive as quickly as possbile, but to my 
 surprise my drive wouldn't read the DVD, so i got all stressed out but then i tried it on my dads 
 and it worked fine, so i took an old DVD drive i had lying around and it worked fine too, pretty 
 strange, and not a good start at all.
  Surprisingly, the few crashes i have experienced (about 3 in one week?) came only after i had just 
 saved the game, so no worries there, i haven't had any problems with unfinished part of such yet, 
 the only thing that wasn't exactly right was the opening movie, but that was more about me not 
 having the correct codecs installed.
  
  Overall, this game improved on all fronts and gets rid of the worse parts of the previous games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lammejan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  this game rules, after the initial problems with performance.
  if seen heavy games but this one is extremely hard on your videocard.
  after the initial playing 
 around with the grapic settings you can create a player.
  this choices are amazing, you can see why it took a long time to create this game, its quality 
 shows everyware, from fighting to sneaking, to spells and arcery, this is just a great game, fable: 
 the lost chapters was cool but this game really rules.
  the inventory is really getting used to, also the weaponselect is a bit cluncky, you cant select 
 another weapon during a fight and that is pretty hard.
  also if you think about walking to every quest, i dont think so, this game is so big it whould 
 take a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  I just got the game yesterday and what can I say? Totally addictive!
  I figured that my system wouldnt be able to run it too well (AMD 64, x700Pro, 1gig RAM) but still 
 on the medium settings the game looks absolutely amazing! 
  
  The world in which this game plays out just smells of well-planned ideas integrated with the storyline, 
 even though there are some bugs here and there the overall feeling of the game just struck me like 
 a hammer in the head. Who in their right state of mind would come up with the idea of placing a 
 quest in the middle of absolute Nowhere and then integrate it with a quest that you overheard some 
 NPC's talking about at the local pub 8 hours ago?
  
  Word of warning though: The game is super-addictive. I suggest you go get yourself a really nasty 
 cold so that the co-workers at work won't start crying when you don't show up for the rest of the 
 week.
  
  Now I must go back to the wilderness and play baseball with the imps - Nothing beats a bloodstained 
 armor in the sunset!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_NHB
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Well for starter THIS GAME ROCKS...
  
  I just bought it today and you really got to love this game its one if its kind never been a 
 game like this since Diablo 2 for instans.
  
  Really good game play, story, graphic and lots of other stuff that like heaven in this game.
 
  
  There are many classes to choose from and youll always found things to do so you dont get bored 
 really fast and this game is BIG well not the file size hehe but the world that your in.
  
  This game kicks as against Far Cry ok Far Cry is good and another genre but now im talking about 
 the graphic part Far Cry go home and cry thats the diffrent between Far Cry and OBLIVION.
  
  One thing buy it youll will not regret it I promise if you do than you dont got any taste 
 and should not even playing games.
  
  Well have fun with the new Oblivion I know I have bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobaFett2040
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. Okay. The begining. When I first fired up Oblivion it automatically detected 
 my hardware and adjusted itself accordintly. A deffinate plus. The difificulty is a slider so you 
 can truly fine tune the difficulty. It's the first time I've ever seen that. So I fire it up and 
 jump right in. Right off the bat the game shows off the power of it's engine. The graphics are 
 spectacular. The level of interactivity is also incredable. You can pick up just about anything. 
 The tutorial doesn't even feel like one, it feels like your playing the main game with a few simple 
 tool tips along the way. Then you leave the tutorial and emerge in the expansive world of Elder 
 Scrolls 4: Oblivion. The world is amazingly detailed. With time changes, season changes, plant 
 growth, and nearly infinite explorable areas, it's not only easy to get lost, but because of the 
 compass it's easy to find your way back. The loading areas are fast and efficient. I have a 2 second 
 frame rate drop as the new area loads and then it's nice and smooth yet again. Truly amazing. I 
 haven't seen a loading area like that since Half Life. But even Half Life couldn't match this. 
 But, the bad news. There are a few issues with the game that are address on the forums. One I found 
 the hard was the inabiltity to save if you hit the tab key durring character creation. A deffinate 
 down side. There are a few issues that are fully addressed in the forums and I have no doubt that 
 they'll be address with the first patch. But all in all this game is a must add to ANY fan of RPGs. 
 Even those that have never played any Elder Scrolls games. Trullly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CKYHellview96
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Having played and not really enjoyed the previous Elder Scrolls game, Morrowind, I was very skeptical 
 towards Oblivion, however I still picked it up a few days ago. What a great decision it was! Oblivion 
 is far, FAR greater than most action RPGs I've played, and is one of my favourite games of all 
 time - and I haven't even started the main quest yet!
  
  I'm one of the lucky folks who has a high end PC (Radeon x1900 anyone?) , so I can safely say the 
 graphics are absolutely fantastic, from the incredible reflections in the water on a sunny day 
 to the dark, goblin-infested caves, the world of Tamriel looks stunning.
  The only problem I have with the graphics really is when you create your character - it's really 
 hard to not make them look ugly! Best to spend a while (20-30 mins at least) messing about with 
 the tons of options to make a good looking character.
  
  Oblivion also sounds pretty good too, a nice orchestral soundtrack and hours upon hours of excellent 
 voice work, not to mention the sickening sounds of steel on flesh! Lovely...
  The voice acting isn't all that great though - you'll occasionally find some NPCs having the same 
 voices or in some cases using different voices for saying different things. This is mostly the 
 non-important NPCs though, such as town guards, etc.
  
  The gameplay in Oblivion is fantastic, it controls really well with a Keyboard and Mouse, and once 
 you're out of the initial dungeon, you'll pretty much know everything you need to know to get by 
 in Tamriel.
  The combat is awesome, and feels like you're actually fighting the creatures/bandits/etc - you'll 
 get knocked back when you block an attack, and a well-timed power attack will send your opponent 
 flying. And with the bow, a nice detail is when your character takes an arrow from his/her quiver, 
 it's actually removed, whereas in other games your character took arrows but there was always one 
 there to replace it. Magic is another good thing here, as you don't have to equip it separately 
 - you'll cast the selected spell with your free hand at the touch of a button, so you can heal 
 yourself then quickly get back to hammering away with a sword, or you can mix your attacks, for 
 example you can launch a fireball and follow it up with a quick stab!
  The levelling up is pretty nice too - you get to pick 7 major skills, and when you increase your 
 abilities in those skills (simply by using them! Want to increase your blade level? Slice some 
 rats up! Want to increase your armorer skill? Get repairing your weapons and armor!) you'll eventually 
 level up, which requires you to rest at a house or local inn. After this you can increase 3 of 
 your main attributes (Strength, Endurance, Speed, etc) , and there you go! Simple as that.
  I'm yet to properly delve into such things as alchemy and magic beyond the basic spells you're 
 given at the start of the game, but from what I've seen so far, it won't disappoint!
  
  Well there you have it! If you need more convincing to buy this unbelievable game, you must be 
 crazy! Definitely worth every penny and every hour of my life it will now consume!
  
  EDIT, Apr 13: Almost done with the main quest (tiny little spoiler coming up here!) , and to be 
 honest it's somewhat short, and the Oblivion gates get repetitive. Finally checked out some of 
 the more advanced magic, and it's hilarious to use paralysing spells and such on NPCs! The physics 
 are awesome, spent a good couple of hours knocking some NPCs around, the amount of weird positions 
 you can knock them into is funny, and dragging them around is pretty daft too.
  I took my gameplay score down by one point due to the shortness of the main quest and the repetitiveness 
 of the Oblivion gates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chokedoke
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Im going to start by saying that this game is amazing if you have any sort of real life issues 
 get them sorted first, say farwell to family and friends, feed the dog/cat and then finally you 
 can start up the game and get going.
  
  The first thing your presented with is the charcter creation screen which gives you such a diverse 
 amount of options you can get your charcter looking however you want which is pretty cool. Before 
 you jump in to the looks you really need to decide on which class and race you are going to be. 
 Now in this game race really does effect class alot. If you want to be a mage then choose a magical 
 race eg breton and the same for the other classes. While you wont be able to choose your class 
 now what race you choose will effect your class. The sheer amout of facial options denotes good 
 things to come in that there is plenty of options in the game itself.
  
  When you get into the game you are in a dungeon where the emperor comes in. Now i was playing the 
 game on nearly full everything with only grass density tweaked and the detail of the models was 
 frankly amazing. Even there facial expressions and lip synching was great. And when the emperor 
 spoke and patrick stweats (Cpt Pickard) came out it was a good feeling.
  
  After your short soujorn through the starting dungeon you are left on an island near to the capital 
 city looking at a massive landscape in front of you. And the first option you get is do the quest 
 or not its totally up to you. And thats whats so good about this game the direction you want to 
 take is totally up to you. 
  
  While traveling around the world you will notice there are abundant things to explore and find 
 so much so that the fast travilling can make you miss so much stuff its un-true. 
  
  When i say you can do anything i really mean it for a quick example i found a small cottage in 
 the middle of a forest in the cottage was a man and his wife who had lots of nice convorsations 
 (A. I system at work) and while listening to one of these i discovered that the wife had had a little 
 argument with the husband so thinking i could get a nice little house and wifey into the bargain 
 i waited till the guy went outside to farm a bit and blew the guy up. I left for a day or so came 
 back and went to the women who was sad because her husband had left so to end the sadness i left 
 poision all over the house which she proceded to drink and died. Although didnt get the cottage 
 out of it : (.
  
  As you can see the main story is only really a guidline alot of people actuallt ignore it and do 
 other things first.
  
  Now thats all the good stuff the bad stuff pops up now and again as well. Mainly this is a very 
 intensive game that needs one hell of a rig to run well. Also with the way the game levels you 
 and the mobs things can get messed up very easily so read the forums and understand it before you 
 start the game
  
  Other than that a very enjoyable game that i can see myself playing for some time now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero1970
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is good very immersive and full of different quest to discover, the only downside could 
 be the dungeon design and layouts to similar to each other but it's just a minor issue very easy 
 to overlook on a game this big. the few bad reviews are coming from people who can't or couldn't 
 run the game. guys what do u expect!!!! this is a monster of a game it needs a lot of graphic power 
 to run so stop whining about your poor geforce 5200 not able to keep it up. somebody even complained 
 about his intel video gpu (some onboard gpu) not working C'MOOON!!!! i got a 7800gt; 3ghz of corsair 
 and amd x2 44000 and sometimes ('very very rarely') when too much action is going on it slow down 
 a lil bit. Oblivion gives you this amazing feeling of freedom to do anything you wont that no other 
 game ever did to me before (Beside Morrowind) . And also with 200 hours of gameplay what else can 
 you ask? i mean do u remember the lenght of games like half life 2 and fear??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The first time I reviewed this game it was new and new to me. I blazed through the Dark Brotherhood 
 quests and the Theives Guild which was a worthwhile experience in itself. Then came the rest of 
 the game. Some quests are rather enjoyable, others monotonous and boring. The exploration game 
 is ruined once you realize there is nothing to explore. Once you have seen a few caves, mines, 
 tombs, ruins, etc, you have seen them all. The graphics are amazing on a high end system, but once 
 you have looked around a bit there is not much new out there to find. Not to mention the loot is 
 terrible. Usually random items with random effects on them. I found myself bored soon after the 
 urge to explore came and went. Great experience and I recommend playing it, but overhyped, I was 
 guilty of it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browneyeeye
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Best of 2006 so far
  
  Combat seems to be fairly simple and enjoyable and the spell system, as well as inventory management, 
 looting and such are easier than they were in morrowind. Also, either my reflexes have gotten better 
 since i last played morrowind, or archery has dramatically improved, the arrows sticking out of 
 an enemy and them tumbling down the hill is a very nice touch.
  
  Sound and music is very good, the background music (composed by Jeremy Soule) is very good and 
 close to Morrowind, and like the music back then it changes according to what is happening on screen, 
 at times too drastic, but most of the times slowly and subtely, which helps the player immersing 
 into the game. All voice-acting is of a very high quality, all voice-actors seemed to have enjoyed 
 themselves during production, at no point the voices get static or monotonous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  Where do i start? Graphics well they beat any i have seen so far and realism that Morrowind fail 
 to grasp i have to say this game is much better to play then previous games, this could even rival 
 Daggerfall which i thought was the best of the series. 
  
  So far the story seems way more involving then Morrowind and instead of being bored in 5 mins and 
 looking for some cool mod to make the game better i find myself with the erge to adventure and 
 explore this realistic world Bethesda have built for us.
  
  Full credit to the work that has gone into this Mammoth game i can only prasie game makers who 
 take the time to take games to a new level like that have done with Oblivion.
  Well done this game gets close to a perfect score from me.
  So if your thinking about buying 
 this game BUY IT its worth paying for such art.
  As for game play very similar to morrowind in how things work and leveling differs slightly but 
 all is pretty much the same.
  Character creation is awesome now you can really play as yourself with detailed creation tools 
 to make the character you always wanted to play.
  
  As for the games sound its gets top marks too an inspiring sound track that really fits the game 
 which only helps to enhance the games atmosphere.
  
  Could say more but i miss Oblivion already i new a quick fix C ya!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingworks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  First off Ive got to say this is still a very good game and though it does not deserve the very 
 generous score by the Gamespot reviewer it is defiantly a game you should consider buying.
  
  Right ill get to the point the reasons why I believe this game does not deserve the 9.3 are 
 as follows:
  Wow, are there NPC AI errors! Speech errors mostly, you will find the characters frequently change 
 voice for no apparent reason to completely uncharacteristic voices (an example I was speaking to 
 an elderly female tramp who had a voice that began very much akin to this character but when I 
 selected a certain question the voice suddenly changed to a young upper-class voice from a completely 
 different character) . Oh and then theres the NPC conversations :) . This just made me laugh at 
 first because of course as the game stated in its previews nearly all the in-game conversations 
 held between NPC's are none scripted. This unfortunately has lead to them bidding each other good 
 by then talking directly afterwards and begging with "Hello again"! Also you will over hear conversations 
 that go something like this: "I hear that the guards in Klatch were overrun." "The guards in Klatch 
 were overrun." "Thats what I heard." "Good bye. which is just a stupid and pointless conversation. 
 These are funny at first but after a while they just get annoying. Therefore I gave the "Sound" 
 section a: 7, as the environment, weapon and various other sounds are superb but dont quite make 
 up for these errors. Another AI error there seems to be a major flaw with is recognising who owns 
 an item. This is particularly annoying as I manage to dismount from my horse only to get back on 
 it again and be accused of a THIEF!! A kind of super natural AI reigns as well. As guards some 
 how (even mystically) know you have killed someone or stolen something, even when they could not 
 possibly have seen you commit the crime.
  
  Graphical errors are few and far between but when they do occur you will defiantly notice them. 
 These range from amazing flashing floor panels (yes I am sure this wasnt magic or some kind of 
 in-game trap :) to shadows going right through walls so you can seem where the NPC's are even if 
 you are not in the same room. As I say these errors are far to small to really have much effect 
 on your enjoyment for this game so I gave the "Graphics" a well deserved 10 because the game environments 
 and items are beautiful and will hold you in a kind of stunned awe as you could just run around 
 the huge environments and just look around and that in itself would probably sell this game!
  
  Although most of the NPC's faces look nearly life-like and generally very well presented there 
 are a few faces which just look ugly. Among these "people" unfortunately is the emperor (voice 
 acted by Patrick Stewart) whos face in-game (not including the small FMV at the beginning) is 
 terribly bland and just bad in comparison to the other characters. 
  
  Ok other than these errors, the game is very well made and you can tell a lot of thought and effort 
 has gone into making it play, look and sound (though not quite as well as they could have done.) 
 great. So I give this game a good but not perfect score of: 8.5.
  
  Thank you,
  Flamingwoks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beh64
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Words truly do not begin to describe how great this game is. One of my first computer rpg games 
 was elder scrolls: arena many years ago and morrowind was a great game as well but this game transcends 
 and blurs the lines of what a game is and can be. Oblivion is to single player rpg's what half-life 
 was to fps's and there can be no higher praise than that. Once in an armor shop i snuck up the 
 stairs and quickly jimmied the lock to see what i could pilfer. I was confronted by a vicious guard 
 dog and promptly killed it. I left the shop and explored other areas; when i returned to the shop 
 i found the shopkeeper with a pained look on her face because someone had killed her dog! I felt 
 palpable remorse at having done such a despicable deed. I can't wait to see what bethesda does 
 with the fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael48742
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This review is being written by the older gamer that came from the atari days. What a change in 
 gaming the industry has made. Been playing games a long time and this game completely blew me away 
 and still is. I played morrorwind until i got sick of walking from place to place. Still probably 
 had a 100 hours on it. The AI in the game and the graphics is unbeleivable. Can't put it to words. 
 A 9.3 from gamespot is a joke. I buy every big game that comes out and this is the BEST GAME in 
 my opinion to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: formaldehyde27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for 2 days now. Installed with a XFX 7800 GT powerhouse card and 1Gig 
 random access memory. My only bug is that it likes to crash every so often. But being able to play 
 it for any amount of time is well worth it. Crashing is the only reason i give it a 8.9 instead 
 of it's above 9 rating by the readers.
  
  I've read many fourms on this game and noone can solve the crashing issue. I guess all us PC players 
 will have to wait just a little longer for the first patch to be released. I think perhaps, the 
 company may have rushed this PC version a little.
  
  Dorman. T Rain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10Footpole
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  For this game.. words is a waste of time. Experience it, enjoy it, explore it all. This game is 
 by far one of the best games in the world. But since this review demands that I write atleast a 
 hundred of them, I will do so :)
  
  If you have ever played Morrowind, you know what to expect. I did too, and boy was I surprised. 
 This was Morrowind in a new and better suit, with more gameplay than ever, more quests, a bigger 
 world, and a facelift you wouldn`t belive. 
  
  You can go horsebackriding for hours at a time, just for the hell of it, or you can "fast travel" 
 between actionfilled adventures, to make time fly. YOU decide how the game will be played, 100% 
 freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  You can really see where the four years of development went to: everything. This game is so amazingly 
 complete it's scary.
  
  Gameplay: First person magic, archery and sword fighting, and done in such a good way. Usually 
 such combat would be done in third person but Oblivion pulls it off excellently. There's a wide 
 range of different enemies and each requires a different approach. Though sometimes the fighting 
 falls a little through minor pathing issues and the fact that you'll often be able to run away 
 from melee enemies as a magician or archer. I encountered a weird bug though where I actually could 
 walk in the air, but a reload solved this. (no other bugs whatsoever)
  Fighting isn't the only gameplay in Oblivion, not by a long shot. You get to break into houses 
 and pick locks, sneak up on enemies create potions, use magic on your environment or just walk 
 around the beautifully crafted environments. Whatever you're doing it's fun.
  Graphics: The environments are simply amazing, when you have all the items on fade the farthest 
 away you'll be absolutely stunned. (Turn of v-sync and set texture to medium, this won't really 
 affect the graphics but increase performance significantly) . Whatever you're doing, wherever you're 
 going everything looks good. The requirements are pretty steep but hell, if something looks like 
 this it's worth getting a new computer for. (and the other upcoming next gen games of course)
 
  Sound: Most voice acting is very good, though sometimes it's a bit slacking. The overall sounds 
 are superb, it sounds almost as good as it looks. The music is very good as well and well orchestrated 
 and falls excellently with what you're doing at the time.
  Value: There is just so much, it'll take hundreds of hours of playing before you've completed the 
 game and all the side quests and dungeons and Oblivion zones, and then there's the other game styles. 
 I'd give it an 11 in value if it were possible.
  Tilt: The game is incredibly addictive and fun, time will fly away, soon to replace WoW as nr.1 
 divorce cause.
  Difficulty: Is adjustable to your skills at all time.
  Learning Curve: You'll get the basics pretty quick but even after dozens of hours of play you'll 
 learn how to utilise new things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyeron13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion draws on everything that Morrowind did right, and then adds everything else you could 
 possibly want, except toilets. The graphics, phyics, sound, gameplay and story is amazing and immersive. 
 I'm giving everything a 10 because it is awesome. I usually am a warrior in RPGs, but the spells 
 look so cool in this game I'm actually using magic, and I can't wait to remake the game and be 
 the ultimate theif chatacter, and then again as the ultimate warrior, and then again as a pure 
 mage (right now I'm a battlemage/theif of sorts :) ) . This game is so much fun, and it runs on 
 high with this PC:
  
  P4 2.8Ghz (With HT)
  1 GB DDR400
  Game installed on 2 WD Raptors (@ 10k rpm) in raid0
  ATI Radeon X800 XT All In Wonder
  
  
 And it looks absolutely gorgeous with the settings it recommended, usually I turn up some stuff 
 but I haven't even touched the graphic options of Oblivion because there is no need to. I couldn't 
 find anything lacking at all, and the only thing I am going to touch is the view distance (you 
 can sometimes make out the grass coming in the distance, like any other game) . Get oblivion, you 
 won't be dissapointed, just like every other review has said, it is the best RPG to date. Oh yeah, 
 don't ask why there isn't multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewyDeng2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  To make a long story short, this is one of the best RPs ever and hands down the best singleplayer 
 RP ever. But in reality you couldnt expect anything less than perfect from a game that has been 
 in development since 2002, more than four years of work. The graphics are awsome, the casting and 
 the combat system is revolutionary. Very versatile in that you can do what you want, you dont have 
 to do the main quests, you can go off into the Dark Brotherhood and become an assassin or you could 
 be a powerful wizard and join the mages guild to become even more powerful. Theres also the Thief's 
 guild and the Fighters's guild. You can also join all four of them if you desire. The character 
 creation system is the best I've ever experienced. Your not limited to certain abilities, you can 
 be a mage, a thief, and a strong fighter all at the same time. 
  
  The only thing is, because it is so huge, your basically lost without the game guide. It may be 
 expensive but it will help you decide on what class/race/birthsign you want and it will help you 
 out with everything else so you have the oppurtunity to experience everything in the game that 
 you may not have know of without the guide, so its worth every penny. 
  
  I give this a 10 because it deserves nothing less, it is perfect in every aspect. But make sure 
 your computer is good enough before purchasing, seeing as the minimum requirements are pretty high. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannonballa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the greatest all-around game ever made. Make your own unique character, kill stuff, 
 steal stuff, make stuff, do whatever stuff you want and it doesnt matter. Do you want a good story 
 line that you can follow at your own leisure? Oblivion has that too. This game is essentially for 
 everyone.
  Graphics- Pretty amazing, great lighting, shadowing, and the weapons look amazing. No major complaints 
 (every game isnt perfect)
  Sound- THe sound is uber high quality, everything sounds authentic, good voice acting as well. 
 
  Value- I will play this for months and hours on end. If you get sick of your character and the 
 stuff you are doing just make a new one and do somthing totally different.
  
  GREATEST GAME EVER MADE PEOPLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Can I just say that Elder Scrolls 4 is the best RPG game ever! There are so much things in this 
 game that this review will be very long, so I will just state the incredible things in this game. 
 First off, the graphics are gorgeous. If you have a extreme pc, then this game's graphics will 
 make your jaw dropping. The sound in this game is phenomenal, it sounds so real like when you go 
 in a battle, the sounds sound like if there was a sword fight in your room, not to mention the 
 voice acting is excellent. 
  
  The thing is in this game is that you can do almost anything like in real medieval times. Like 
 buying your own house, having your own horse (s) and that you can commit crimes like murder, stealing, 
 trespassing, etc. The thing that makes this game wonderful is building up your character to be more 
 powerful. Right now I'm building my character to become a powerful crusader and yes you get to 
 pick what your character be like. Like a thief, warrior, knight, mage, assassin, etc. But the 2 
 things that I wish they done is if it were online and the other thing is there was no children. 
 I mean surely in medieval times or something they had children. O well it doesn't matter.
  
  Another thing is that the world map in this game is gigantic. So huge, that even when you use 
 a horse in this game it still takes a very very long time just to cross the whole map, I don't 
 know how long but I just cross a quarter of the map and still took me like half hour. So there 
 is a lot of exploring in this game so don't you worry. Not to mention all the items and quests 
 there are, there are so many quests to do in the game it goes forever. There is no worries that 
 this game's value will last more than a 100 hours. But it is a shame that not all people can try 
 this game out. I mean if you have a really nice pc then this game will be great. But if not, then 
 this game will keep crashing on you.
  
  The reason why I think that elder scrolls 4 is the best rpg is because it doesn't just attract 
 rpg fans or elder scroll fans.. but it also attracts other gamers. Because of the game's graphics, 
 gameplay and its great value. I mean I don't like rpgs at all, but this game grabbed my attention 
 and it hasn't disappoint me. So this game I say is a must buy no matter what (if you have a super 
 pc or something then it will be best) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeze893
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying that if you don't have this game already, then you need to stop reading 
 the review right now and go get the game.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. My system runs the graphics at a high setting and the world is beautiful, 
 especially considering how large this game is. The characters arn't perfect, but they are extremely 
 good looking. All of the envirnments are real-working envirnments and aren't pre-rendered.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are excellent. Vioce acting is excellent, though conversations repeat 
 often. It doesn't really take away from the game that much though. At night you can hear the bugs 
 chirping... its effects like that that really emmerse you into the world of the the game.
  
  Gameplay: Combat has been changed to be much more exiting than it was in Morrowind. Now when you 
 hit something you ACTUALLY hit it. Unlike in Morrowind where it looked like you hit something but 
 you really didn't. In Oblivion you gain experience based on what you actually do. Want to be better 
 at archery? Use the bow. No more generic experience points. the combat is even just more realistic 
 and fun to watch.
  
  Value: This game is huge. I honestly don't know how long it is going to take for me to finish it. 
 I've been playing about 6 hours so far and still haven't gotten that far into the main story line. 
 When you do finish the game however, thier are so many side quests that you will stay busy for 
 hours. Even if you finish those, you still can create more characters and play through the game 
 again for a completely new and unique experiance.
  
  I recommend this game to any PC gamer whose PC can run the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pointblank187
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has exceeded my expectations on so many levels. It's truly one of the very few games 
 that lives up to the major hype it has gotten. Playing this on a high end PC is a great experience 
 and with the modding abilities I could see getting caught up in this game for an extreme amount 
 of time. 
  
  While I got the game on March 20 at the time of this I've already put in over 60 hours and still 
 haven't gotten very far into the main quest. I've become guild master of the thieves guild and 
 am close to finishing the Dark Brotherhood line as well. Both of these series of quests were very 
 well thought out and delivered perfectly. 
  
  The only gripes that I have is the fact that the textures from far look very very bland compared 
 to the immense beauty of the visuals. This is partially remedied by editing the .ini though there's 
 still some work to be done as it's still young in it's modding and retail life I'm sure it will 
 work out in the end. Also, I've gotten quite a few crashes and though it hasn't bothered me as 
 much as other games would have, it is still present. Thankfully, most of the crashes have been 
 when I was exiting out of the game for a break or when I was done playing. 
  
  These gripes are very minor though and aside from the sometimes quirky A. I nothing can really break 
 you out of being immersed in this engaging and lovingly crafted world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stray18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  There are only so many games that make it up there in History. Games that will not be let down 
 in 6 months or even years! Games that People will remember, & spawn a new Generation of Play. 
 
  
  Oblivion is one of these games! The story of the Elder Scrolls has been a story of open-ended and 
 lush game play, where you can be what you want to be. But Oblivion has taken that to the next level. 
 The game shows not just a new world, but a New Combat system. The Combat system is better then 
 ever be for! Now showing that you need skill to fight off just one enemy. And when hits are made, 
 you can feel them.
  
  The Complex Ways you make it into a guild are also a new add to the Elder Scrolls series. For eg. 
 in order to make it into the Thief's guild you have to track them down, you cant just walk up to 
 them and ask them to join. No no, you have to play detective, and talk to people and get info out 
 of them about there where abouts.
  
  The game has so much that it becomes hard to think about "should I Do the Story mission? Side quest? 
 Go hunting? Explore?" and on and on.
  
  With all this in mind the game is not for those with a Low Grade PC. Even those with High Grade 
 are finding it hard to get the game running. But for all the detail in the game, it runs almost 
 god-like.
  
  In any case. the game is a masterpiece! If Leonardo da Vinci made a game Elder Scrolls would beat 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAnxiety
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, amazing game! I've played it straight since Friday lunchtime (and it's now 1:14am Monday) 
 and i would have gone on only i've got work tomorrow!
  
  Anyway i just had to stop by and tell you guys how absolutely amazing this game is! I've been playing 
 for around 58 hours and i still haven't even been to every city, once you get a quest you want 
 to do it straight away and once you have done that another one pops up and off you go on that one, 
 pretty much because fast travel only becomes appealing after you've traveled somewhere, so you 
 know you've got every little place that's one the way to that city or cave marked in so you can 
 come back later (it could take months to actually explore everywhere away from the main roads) . 
 When you do eventually get a horse, one is given to you in a quest and i appreciated that a lot 
 even tho i could try to buy one i was still poor at this time and they're quite expensive, after 
 traveling all the way to a location you still want to travel all the way back on ye little horsey 
 cause it's so much fun! Incidentally i lost the horse during the trip back. The one i had been 
 given was apparently a lot stronger than the other types but not as fast and on the way back we 
 got chased by a wolf that we couldn't out run so when we met a second one i decided to get off 
 and kill them. Unfortunately while swinging my sword around i accidentally hit my horse, not strongly 
 enough to kill it, and it bolted, at a speed it never reached while i was on it's back, with the 
 wolves in tow!
  
  The scenery is absolutely gorgeous and one of the most impressive things in the game and this is 
 for all to see right from the start but the most impressive views are when you get high up. For 
 example after finishing the quest i mentioned earlier i was coming down a mountain returning to 
 where i came on the back on my horse and while coming down a twisting steep road out of the corner 
 of my eye i saw something that at first i thought to have been a ruin i should mark but it turned 
 out to be a city, about ten fifteen minutes away (which is a huge distance ingame) , it was a perfect 
 screenshot picture, dense forest sprawling down the mountain and thru the trees you look down upon 
 a city with the head of the horse you sit upon in the bottom right corner, what a damn and bloody 
 same i couldn't take one! In another quest i was taken up right near the top of one of these mountains 
 and since by this time i no longer had a horse i decided to fast travel back to the city i came 
 from. However before i left, and i bet you'll all do this after every quest just like me, i took 
 in the scenery and to my surprise not only could i see Chorral from my location (which was miles 
 away) but past that i could see a large part of the Imperial City! I could not believe it, another 
 screeny missed! I've gotta tell ya that the far distance options are well worth turning on, and 
 too maximum, despite the lag and increased outdoor loading times.
  
  Now i could go on about how the spells look brilliant, take my advice enhance a shield with shield, 
 or how great it feels to take a leftward swipe at a zombie with your sword and to not only see 
 him fly/fall in the direction your sword was heading but to also, if your near a wall/object, see 
 him hit a wall/object and slide down it into a crumpled up position or i could also go on about 
 how i came across a NPC who's actor wasn't that fussed and it sounded like he was reading off of 
 a card, which rather than annoyed me with the flaw made me realise/remember that the rest of the 
 voices are not only actors but extremely good actors that made me believe enough to forget these 
 voices belonged too someone else. But i won't because it's 1am and this is my very first review 
 and i doubt i can do it true justice. All i really wanted to do was give a summery of how fantastic 
 Oblivion is and how you should all go out and get it, i was so desperate to get it that when i 
 finally found it on friday (after going to 4 shops in 2 different towns) i forked out the extra 
 for the collector's edition cause they didn't have any of the normals (which i'm also glad happened 
 cause the accompanying map has been useful in planning trips and working out stuff) and that was 
 before i truly knew how amazing, how genius this game is! 
  
  This is possibly one of the best games made for sometime and do you know why? Cause it makes you 
 want to tell people what you got up too in it, how one quest ended abruptly cause you accidentally 
 murdered some guy or how you lost your very first horse, you want too share the joys and woes of 
 this marvelous game with anyone who will listen, even when you have to get up for work in less 
 than 5 hours time!
  
  So i'll end on two notes: 1) Go out and buy this game now! and 2) Oblivion is the best game i've 
 ever played, and that list contains a lot of the greats! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Another great RPG delivered by Bethesda Softworks. Everyone knew the graphics, sound, and storyline 
 would incredible. This was no surprise. Of course, what makes a great game if not for new content? 
 The AI is what sticks out the most for me. The interactive AI experience for this game is very 
 unique for an RPG. You really have to experience it for yourself.
  
  Most of the loose ends from Morrowind were cleaned up and improved. The quest log has been improved 
 so that it is no longer confusing in any way. 
  
  There are also a few things that are easier, but not necessarily better. Haggling for a better 
 price for instance. It is less realistic, but certainly easier. Speechcraft is considerably easier 
 too. Almost too easy, but it makes for a fun mini game to distract from the main story now and 
 then. The fast travel system is also a great addition. I didn't want to use it at first because 
 I knew my athletic skill would increase if I ran and I'd find more caves, villages, and random 
 people if I traveled manually. As you start completing more quests it becomes very essential for 
 those that don't want to waste valuable hours simply running.
  
  This game is a great buy and a must have for any true RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tisseyre
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  It has finally arrived. One of the most-if not THE most- anticipated games of the year is finally 
 here, and I'm not going to beat around the bush : It was more than worth the 4 years of grueling 
 wait. Yes, the Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion has been immensely hyped, but rightfully so. This is 
 that rare game that comes once in a while that just makes you proud that you play videogames and 
 see how high Bethesda Softworks has been able to raise the bar. Raise the bar, indeed. The screenshots 
 nor the videos do not give Oblivion justice. You need to play it for yourself. Graphically, it's 
 unlike anything I've ever seen. The attention to the slightest detail is payed here, and it's brilliant. 
 The sound, from the voice acting to swords clashing to the mere sound of rain, is literally perfect 
 and it immerses one like never before. As many of you already know, the Elder Scrolls series is 
 known for its massive, open-ended world, and well Oblivion is certainly no exception. It really 
 gives the genreROLE-PLAYING-GAME" justice unlike recent RPG's. This is the sort of game where 
 you can do anything you set your mind to. There are many gameplay types, and they are ALL done 
 masterfully well. It has been in development since 2002 and it shows. However, there a few setbacks 
 such as the system requirements for the PC version of the game. If you possess a high-end PC, then 
 you should own it and should be able to run it at medium or high settings. 
  To conclude, The Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion is more than a game, it's an experience and it just 
 makes one so proud to play games.
  Pick it up, you owe it to yourself as a gamer and witness the next-generation of gaming before 
 your very eyes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoP-Falcon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a nice game and a worthy Sequel to Morrowind, but various bugs and a bad Performance 
 make the Game very frustrating and nearly unplayable.... Some of the Quests are a bit boring.... 
 after 4 Oblivion Gates closed I started hating those Things... And in some parts its too much dungeon 
 crawling for my tastes... why do you need a nice lush landscape, when you crawl through tombs most 
 of the Time? Besides that I can clearly see the End of the Mainquest coming too early.... things 
 happen too fast..... The World is big, but with the fast travel Function and the boring wold between 
 the Town etc. It's not that huge..... The Enemys you encounter on manual travels are mainly Wolves 
 and a few Bandits.... thats all I saw until now.... 
  
  There is much to improve in Oblivion and I really hope that Bethesda releases a Patch very soon.... 
 I can't take anymore CTDs and stupid bugs that ruin the gameplay..... 
  
  Maybe its better to wait some weeks before buying Oblivion.... at the Moment the only heroic Quest 
 is to fight back stupid bugs and sneaking around Crash to Desktops..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  If you like RPG games then Oblivion has everything you can want. 
  
  Graphics are on par with other titles being released and look beautiful. I have mid level hard 
 ware 2ghz cpu with ATI x800xl video card and I can play 1280x1024 with most of the pretty features 
 turned on.
  
  Sound is amazing. Real world effects will have you looking over you shoulder from time to time 
 if you have a 5.1 setup. The random and soemtimes not so random chatter of citizens on the street 
 gives a very "real" feeling to the cities.
  
  Gameplay is fun. Seems a bit too simplisic but the bottom line is that a game has to be fun and 
 this game definately is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denbak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Before i heard about this game i've actually never heard of elder scrolls, and after playing Oblivion 
 i wish i had heard of the series before.
  
  lets start the review now :) graphics - stunning ,just stunnig im playing it on high (which is 
 almost the highest there is also very high option) and it looks amazing! the faces, the  
 everything looks amazing. sound- i dont know i never pay attention to it but as long as is doesnt 
 annoy me (and it dosent) its perfect for me: D controls-grest just great simple well working great 
 . and now for the important part gameplay-well, the gamplay like everyting else in the game is ... 
 you got it, great, amazing.... at first you choose your charcter's race and looks this system is nice 
 and very detaild. Then you start the game you start with a main mission that you have to do untill 
 you get out of the donguen oh and before that you costomize your skills and attributes. after getting 
 out of the donguen the huge world of Obloivion opens in front of you then the game really begins 
 you can use your fast travel to continue your main quest or explore this huge world, you can visit 
 towns and get side quests (many many many of them...) fight at areans, joins diffrent guilds with 
 diffrent rules and missions for you, steal frome people, bribe them for information, help the poor, close 
 oblivion gates (kind of helish world gates ) and much ,much more and unbelivably everyone of these 
 things is so so well done and fun so how can you say know to a game that has so much options and 
 each and everyone of them is amazing!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  So many reviews here, so I will make mine snappy:
  
  REALLY BAD THINGS
  
  - Frequent crashes, I experience one or two crashes every time I play. Save often!
  
  - Low 
 framerate compared to other games with similar quality graphics. I have Geforce 7900 GT, 2GB RAM 
 and Dual Core AMD 4600+, but I still suffer some serious framerate problems during hectic battles 
 that makes it very hard to play.
  
  ANNOYANCES
  
  - Long loading times.
  
  - Self shadowing looks really bad, especially on characters faces. But, you can turn the feature 
 off.
  
  - Even with all settings maxed out, the outdoor view looks a bit plain in the distance compared 
 to for example Far Cry, with very noticeable object pop-ups (up close the outdoors looks amazing 
 though)
  
  - Some indicator showing how much various quests contributes to advancing to the next level would 
 be nice. You never really know if something generates XP or not, or how much.
  
  GREAT THINGS
  
  - The scale of everything is just awesome.
  
  - Lots of replayability, 
 enormous amount of things to do.
  
  - Graphics looks really nice and varied, especially the outdoors are truly remarkable. I was especially 
 impressed with the fresh and alive looking forest.
  
  - Spoken dialogue all the way sets the atmosphere perfectly.
  
  - Varied quests, absolutely 
 not your typical hack and slash dungeon crawler.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexiska
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  THE GAME IS REALLY COOL AMAZING GRAPHICS AND SOUND.
  REALLY LONG AND REALLY FUN AND I WANT BETTER PC TO PLAY THISGAME SMOOTHLY. I THINK THAT THE GAME 
 IS REALLY FUN AND I WILL SPEND A LOT OF TIME PLAYING IT. Unfortunately i cant see all graphics 
 in the game because my videocard is not really good. i can advice to play this game everybody. 
 I was downloading this game for 20 hours and now a d like to play 20 hours a day. i'm really stupid 
 but the game is cool bye it, do it for the developers they need money for another elder scrolls.
 
  next year with elder scroll V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goalie8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Well I was very hyped about this game, played Morrowind for tons of hours, and still see it as 
 one of the best games ever. And I have to say, all my positive thoughts about it were right. If 
 you finally come through the tutorial, a bright new wonderful world appeared. Even the compass 
 and fast travel aren't as bad as I thought. The only thing I can think which is not great, are 
 the amounts of creatures in wildlife, but that is logical if you mind that Cyrodill is a more civilized 
 world then Vvardenfell was. Everyone who likes RPG even a bit, must get this game now, it's just 
 amazing. And don't mind the crashes, they will be solved within a few weeks. And get the PC version, 
 the Construction Set will extend the playtime with uncountable much hours. It's a Masterpiece!
 
  
  But after playing some days I get a bad feeling about it. I'm level 19, and almost got a full set 
 of Ebony (which was almost the best you can get in morrowind) . The lvl based enemies arent always 
 that nice. I never get the feeling that I'm really strong, and most bandits wear much to valuable 
 armor. They shouldn't always lvl up with you. Luckily some guys at the Elder Scrolls Forums are 
 developing a mod, which enhances this. Get the PC version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milkfilk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  When you look out at the mountains, you can go there. When you climb the mountain, covered with 
 snow and look down at the river and valley, you can go there. When you see a tower in the distance, 
 you can get there.
  
  A friend of mine worked on ES4. I might be bias, but there is an army of reviewers that are waving 
 the same flag I am. ES4 was 4 years in development including work on the new and experimental xbox 
 360 (at the time) . The countless hours of voice work and game design are singing on my PC.
  
  Morrowind was 'ok' in my opinion, I only played 20 hours or so on it. But ES4 is another beast. 
 It is a preview of a believable virtual world. You see what a game can be and you want the hardware 
 to go even farther, finish the last 10% and make it undeniably real to the eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is a total masterpeice of art in its finest glory! Bethesda did a wonderful job with the story, 
 graphics and art, sound, and interface, that makes this game so great! It was hyped for so long. 
 Usuallyy when that happens it means there it doesn't live up to it, not in this case, it far exceeds 
 any and all hype that was given especially with the construction set where you can make and trade 
 plugins that modify or add to the game, to make replay value limtitless. IT is just as immersive 
 and free form if not more so then its predessors , Morrowind ( also Daggerfall and Arena) all great 
 limitless games. Oblivion is like playing the best features from those games and adding new dialog 
 and interface along with the BEST GRAPHICS I have ever seen. Alot of games with good gfrx are lackingin 
 other area not this one, if you don't just do the main quest and actually explore (don't fast travel 
 much) and do the faction and random quests the way its meant to be played you will get absorbed 
 into it I gareentee it! 
  
  I must say I am down right angry at the folks who erite lousy reviews on this game because the 
 have a budget nvidia fx card and can't play the game to it's glory! Have you people been playing 
 games for the last 2 years it seems like you all have been stuck playing games from 5 yesars ago 
 and then bought Oblivion expecting you card to make it look like the screenshots. Well I've got 
 news for you! Those FX cards sucked when they came out 3 yes 3 years ago!!! How the hell can you 
 expect to get adaqute performance and visuals from this next gen title when you are using that 
 ancient and horrible for it's time card? When you can get a now low midrang 6600gt for the price 
 you probably paid for your card! I blame retail chains like staples and circuit city as they seem 
 to only carry budget FX cards and maybe a budget 6 series (6200) cards these young kids (most likely 
 otherwise they would just upgrade the damn card) in their naitivity and ignorance, don't reseach 
 there card before they buy it they just go threr and pick the cheapest one up and expect it to 
 run everything great. FOR one the FX cards partucarlly suck with shaders and dynamic light in Direct 
 3d games try DEus Ex 2 with that card and tell me how it runs (a game from 2003 no less) this should 
 of been expected and on any forums it would of been mentioned that they won't give you good visuals 
 or performannce. Stop whinning and upgrade allready.... It's been part of PC gaming for years its 
 part of pc gamings charm. Pc gamers are allways on the forfront of technollogy and it's been that 
 way since it started years ago. I remember trying to play Quake3 with a voodoo 3 P2 clone and getting 
 choppiness on low, it was nearlly unplayble, so I did soome reasearch and upgraded my crappy cyrix 
 cpu and v3 to a v5 and low and behold splendor and grandour the game rocked. You have to upgrade, 
 it's like you most all be naive 13 year old newbs who baught (or prob. was given) a $300 Dell and 
 expect anygame to play write on it. It doesn't work that way I'm sorry but just stop whinning you 
 are starting to show your age!! And son't badmouth the gamebecause if you go out and get a new 
 grfx card maybe some new ram, I know for a fact that your reviews wqill be high scores!! And as 
 far as Beth listing FX's on the box, sure my v3 and cpu was listed on the box for quake 3 back 
 in the day too. It's minimum which means lowest grafics and barly playable. Face it you need to 
 upgrade, and if your too young to work and your parents won't give you the cash for it you should 
 probably stick to console and go play Mario bros. or Pkemon something more appropriate, for your 
 age. TES games are for avid imaganitive creative people who enjoy exploring and getting sucked 
 into the expeareince not trying to beat it as fast as they can or just killing stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OgreB
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  .. features are deep and fun to explore!
  Even with my aging 9800 Xt Pro 256 ,I am playing at 6xAA with almost all options on and set to 
 max.
  And it plays as smooth as glass! 
  I'm taking the time to write this review before I re-enter the world of Oblivion.
  Since I will 
 not see the light of day for awhile ( maybe weeks) I thought I would write this review and tell 
 the world of what I thought of this totally amamzingly looking game.
  
  One word... Wow!
  
  
  Sorry it keeps saying I got to type a hundred words..
  
  Wow! Wow!
  
  Buy it and 
 jump into a fantastic fantasy world filled with magic, swordplay, stealth and endless hours of 
 just exploring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kplaya872
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  The story and the side stories/quest are simply amazing. The quest and the series of quest that 
 have done, namely the Thieves Guild and Dark Brotherhood to date and some Fighters Guild have been 
 very good and seem like they themselves could be their own game due to the level of involvement. 
 I have experienced no crashes of the game and very low wait times with the exception of entering 
 a new place which usually takes 10 seconds at the most. 
  The Graphics in the game are extraordinary and bring a new level to what is available in this type 
 of game. Being an avid Morrowind fan, I was glad to see that the music in this game is also very 
 good and fits the game perfectly in all situations.
  There were a few things that annoyed me such as not being able to find out when you get an attribute 
 stat or a spell is degrading your attribute how much that spell or disease is affecting you (note: 
 it might be possible however I have not found a convenient way) . Also I do not like having to wait 
 along time when i have to rest for extended periods of time. I think that waiting should go by 
 quicker like it did in Morrowind.
  Overall this game is superb and has a ton of replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBrookfield
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is certainly a great game, although I can't help but feel disappointed with the constant 
 crashing and multitude of problems. At the moment I would say I prefer Morrowind and would love 
 to see a version of that done with the new construction set. 
  
  I play the game on a slightly better than average but not top of the range PC, and experience frequent 
 crashes and below-par performance. I hear the cries of get a better machine just around the corner! 
 Well I'll use the age old argument - it runs all my other new games just fine. Hopefully when a 
 patch gets released as soon as possible my score will go up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  
  If you liked Morrowind, Oblivion is Morrowind improved in virtually every way. Where it is not 
 improved, it's not hurt, at least. So bottom line, if you love that open-ended, "I'm going to explore 
 this world for the next six months" experience, go straight to Oblivion. Consider upgrading your 
 computer, even, for this killer app.
  
  What tempers my review slightly is the game's basic flaws. I'm so excited about this game's stengths, 
 the flaws are not THAT bad, but I notice not enough user reviewers warning or commenting on some 
 obvious issues.
  
  Technically, you may have to tweak your system considerably to handle this PC version. The game 
 is stil glitchy, and the minimum requirements are NOT worth playing the game with. The program's 
 "Auto Detect" on my system was fairly awful, so I spent a good two hours adjusting various graphics 
 sliders, such as draw distance, until I found the right combination of fluidity and detail I could 
 live with. Even then, I look forward to a patch to stabilize the game in general.
  
  Gamewise, this is still a basic role playing game. I don't think those of you who are iffy about 
 the genre will suddenly be blown away and converted. If you have a high-end PC, the GRAPHICS will 
 blow you away -- but you are fighting rats in the first five minutes, let's be clear. This doesn't 
 redefine the genre of good versus evil, fantasy role playing, in other words.
  
  All in all, it's still an amazing game. I put off the main quest for hours, toodling around the 
 realm, stumbling into vampires and goblins -- for someone like me, this is blissful. When I finally 
 did get to the main quest, I was fairly impressed right away (the first time you encounter a gate 
 of oblivion, it's pretty awesome) . Just know what you're getting -- a fantastic, but glitchy, standard 
 role-playing game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I've done enough blabbering and hairsplitting. Is the Elder Scrolls IV worth a purchase? Definitely. 
 If you checked the Xbox 360 page, you'll notice it got the same score as this version. If you're 
 an RPG fan, it's an incredible experience. If you regularly beat RPG fans with hockey sticks, you 
 should still try this one out. It's got combat issues, the hotkey system could have been implemented 
 better and some may be ticked off by the environmental loading stutters. Also, keep in mind your 
 loading times aren't going to be seamlessly smooth unless you're playing on a high-end rig. For 
 most gamers with mid-range PCs, you're going to experience hitches. PC gamers get the benefit of 
 the Elder Scrolls IV Construction Set, a big asset for modders looking to expand their Oblivion 
 experience beyond the scope of what Bethesda envisioned. Let it be said, the PC version has advantages. 
 However, because of the PC market's RPG competition, the score remains what the same as Oblivion 
 on the Xbox 360. Despite any criticisms, Oblivion remains a thoroughly enjoyable, user-friendly, 
 gorgeous experience with enough content to keep you returning time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossy02
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game is beautiful and lush and has really really good gameplay makes you feel like your there!
 
  At first i thought this game looked to good to be true and thought it was not going to live up 
 to the hype but it does. You realy can do anything in this game.
  
  The graphics are the best i have seen for a long time since like HL2 and i realy enjoy playing 
 it!
  
  Problems involved having to have a monster spec PC to play it like you would have seen it in the 
 vids, this is its downside and is where the X360 version may prevail but all in all if you can 
 play this buy it on PC this is what it is ment for and i do not like the Gamespot review of 9.2 
 and the xbox 360 9.6 because this game is most definatly ment for PC.
  
  Thanx for such a great game we can all enjoy for years to come!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exon17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  I am disappointed. The game is awesome but I'm disappointed. How?
  
  Well,
  
  No need in elaborating about the good things this game has to offer - Great graphics and sound, 
 huge interactive world, lots of quests and active npcs.
  
  The bad things, however, should be elaborated. Let's begin by mentioning the console-compatible 
 interface. The x-box has done it again. First Deus Ex 2, now this.
  It's a shame.
  
  Now, the lamest thing about this game is the leveling system and the extremely easy-short main 
 quest. I actually completed the main quest at level 4! Also at this level I was the grand master 
 of all the guilds.
  
  Another lame thing is the money and weapons/armor sets. If you find a unique weapon don't be too 
 happy. Unlike morrowind where some weapons and armors' values were up to thousands of bucks, here 
 the best weapon can be sold for a mere 500-1000 max.
  I particularly hate that each city has its own guard's uniform. The most brilliant thing in Morrowind 
 was the Imperial Legion that acted all across vvanderfell and all the guards shared the same uniform 
 - sort of a police if you will. Here, each city's guards have their own ugly uniform with gay colors 
 and gay illustrations (Trees, moons) .
  
  But the thing that I miss the most here is the lack of quests in the Imperial Legion. In morrowind, 
 those were the best quests IMHO. Better even than the main quest. But here you can't join the Imperial 
 Legion and get cool quest and advance in ranks and receive new armors. It's gone.
  
  And speaking of armor, there is a lame selection of armors and weapons (especially unique ones) . 
 Also there aren't enough clothes. No "exquisite" ones either.
  
  All in all a good game but kinda lost it's magic once you end the main quest so quickly and managed 
 to do it on a low level like lvl 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyber04
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Ok guys, where to start? 
  
  Lets see
  
  Difficulty-
  The difficulty is challanging, it takes time to learn what your doing and what you need to do, 
 but with so much choice it doesnt really matter what way you go, maybe you finish the torutial 
 and than you wonder the world aimlessly just for the beauty. the difficulty is Just right
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay of this game is straight forward, its like taking a fps shooter and 
 handing you a sword, sheild and 1000miles of land to cover. the controls arnt to difficult they 
 come easy, and are pretty much all reachable with one hand on the mouse, and one on the keyboard, 
 some cool things i love is the jump attack, while your running towards the enemie and you attack 
 with a 1 handed blade wep, you will do a slight jump attack and cause more damage, or you could 
 just go into sneak and sneak up behind someon and cause 6x regular damage and drop him.
  
  Graphics- 
  Omfg, these graphics look beatuiful, i am running it on a Athelon 2200+,
  768mb 
 ram, nvidia 6800xt 128mb. and it runs great on medium 2x aa looks beautiful, and i wish i could 
 see it at its best, but sadly i cant but i know it would ROCK. trees moving, moutains miles away, 
 smooth textures perfect lighting and shadows are realistic, mouths move to what the npcs say, and 
 guys this is just unbelivible, you need to experiance this game on a stable PC you will love it 
 i know. I have not been able to see the game at its best so i will give it a nine!
  
  Sound-
  Masterpiece musical soundtrack the music is so beautiful and perfect. also ----------EVERY 
 character talks with a voice!!!!! ---------- no more reading everything like most rpgs!!! just sit 
 and listen! its so perfect this game is practialy flawless
  
  Value- 
  i would pay up to 80 dollars for this game, its well worth the 5x you WILL spend on tommrow, when 
 you buy this game, because it is the best ever.
  
  Time Spent Playing, to Date-
  I have spend like 12 hours on the game, and im toatly drawn into the plot, and also making money 
 in the assasians guild "dark brotherhood"
  i love killing for no reason whaha. ya its true you can be a contract killer in this game!!!
 
  
  Learning Curve-
  To get a hold of all the controls and the spell and alchymy stuff it probly taks 3 hours, but for 
 the basics it takes like an hour 
  
  This game is a must have!
  i am toatly honest about this it is a must have,
  If you have any questions about Oblivion add 
 me on MSNM
  
  Xyber04@hotmail. com add me for questions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  First off the graphics in this game are that which i have never seen. The customazation to your 
 charcters is awsome as well. All though i am not that far in the game i already think it is better 
 then morrowinds. Also the fact that they but in voice acting for all charcters was a really nice 
 touch. Now lets me comment on the combat, WOW it feels so much more refined from what morrowind 
 had going for it. I cant help sometimes when i play this game that i am actually really in a sword 
 fight. Also to top it all of with mounts and god like AI you have a simply amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MystrDix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Morrowind was such a wonderfully massive game that I thought nothing could even come close to its 
 level of immersion. I guess I was proved wrong. Oblivion is one of the best RPGs I have ever played. 
 Here is a list of pros and cons...
  
  PROS-
  1. Chat system much easier to use
  2. Combat system GREATLY inproved
  3. Gold and items harder to find and thus more rewarding when 
 you earn them
  4. Of course, AMAZING graphics (even running it with all options off on a low end machine if you 
 must)
  5. Voice acting and Music also GREATLY improved
  6. Realistic movements in characters
  7. SO MANY QUESTS
  
  CONS-
  1. You need an extreme 
 gaming machine to play Oblivion to the fullest. Unless you want some lag, definitely go for a higher 
 graphics card such as ATI x800 or Nvidia geforce 6600. These can get expensive though and you can 
 run the game fine (though with a little lag) if you have something as simple as an ATI 9500 or 
 Nvidia geforce fx 5500. Also, make sure you have at least a celeron 2.6 ghz or higher, preferably 
 3 ghz or a pentium 4 with 3 ghz, preferable 4. The video card CAN be a 128 mb, but it is definitely 
 suggested that you use a 256 mb. If your computer doesnt have a PCI-express port in it, you may 
 have to search on EBAY, because they dont sell many normal PCI cards that will run this baby.
 
  2. Voices sometimes switch from an old voice to a young voice while the same person is talking. 
 Sorta ruins the atmosphere sometimes.
  
  Other than that, I really dont have complaints. I have absolutely LOVED my experience with Oblivion 
 so far, and look forward to the times ahead! You should definitely check this out!
  
  p. s. If you dont have a fairly good computer, or you just dont know how to put things together, 
 just buy an X360 and that version, its the same thing only it runs for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Pros
  + Combat is interactive enough to be fun
  + Lots of quests
  + Lots of items and spells
  + Decent AI for hostile and friendly NPCs 
  + Lots of room for 
 exploration
  + Skill system is solid, nice to have what skills you use decide what how much you can increase 
 attributes at level
  + Change difficulty whenever you want
  
  Cons
  - Combat while interactive does get a tad boring after awhile
  - Occansional AI screw ups
  
 - Change difficulty whenever you want
  
  Graphics
  
  Pros
  + Amazing quality at high settings
  
  Cons
  - Need a killer system to get the most out of 
 the visuals
  
  Sound
  
  Good sound overall, like all the voice acting. A lot of times the friendly NPCs sound uninspired. 
 The arrows and weapons swinging add to the immersion. 
  
  Value
  
  It'll keep you playing for a long time if you really like it. If you don't want to play for a long 
 time you can just go through the main story and it'll be worth the $50ish. Don't expect the game 
 to be something innovative, it improves on the other Elder Scrolls but that really is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonely_Soldier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that Morrowind didn't hold that much appeal for me. I considered buying it a few 
 months ago, as the hype for Oblivion was gearing up, but I chose against it on viewing the game 
 play videos supplied by Game-spot. To be frank, it looked clunky and sterile. 
  
  Oblivion suffers from no such problems. The combat is brutal, if not perfectly realistic, and never 
 fails to get the blood pumping. The conversations, while they could have benefited from a wider 
 repertoire of NPC gestures are much more engaging than in most other games, and considering the 
 sheer amount of spoken dialogue that is no mean achievement. 
  
  The graphics are excellent, but at the time of writing, an aggravating shadowing issue restricted 
 me from giving them a perfect score. I'm sure a patch will resolve this issue though, as it is 
 a widely acknowledged one on the official forums. Another, though minor issue is the amount of 
 pop-in on structures and trees. Suddenly, ruins will appear only fifty metres away, throwing off 
 the immersion momentarily.
  
  Design on weapons and armour is, by and large, acceptable, though not quite of the standard of 
 the simple elegance achieved in the recent series of Lord of the Rings films. The more basic items 
 are all very attractive, and the parallax mapping, coupled with HDR produce true artistic beauty 
 in many cases. Later weapons are more jarring, especially those made of glass (a questionable substance 
 to use in weapon making) , and those whose cutting edge is almost 3 inches thick - largely dwarven 
 weapons.
  
  I have encountered very few frustrating game play elements so far, and I have found the game difficult 
 to put down for that, a shame when you have university papers to be getting on with.
  
  The sound is also great in the majority of cases, but suffers from a lack of dynamic range and 
 menu options. Entering a room full of NPCs talking is the aural equivalent of a compost heap. There 
 are also, as I mentioned, too few menu options for the audio; you are unable to select the audio 
 provider, to designate the number of speakers, or to change the sound detail. 
  
  The score, which can be purchased on-line (or simply copied from the game's folder :P) is very 
 fine indeed, and the orchestrations are haunting, creepy and heroic as necessary. 
  
  All in all a fine game, and one which exceeded my expectations in all the areas of which I was 
 wary - namely combat and story, both of which are really rather good.
  
  That one word, again? Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gk88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Truly amazing graphics like which ive never seen before, can sometimes be bit choppy even on a 
 high end system, I have ati x1900xtx 3ghz dual core and 2gb ram and still sometimes it gets choppy. 
 One thing I dislike is that even when you steal something in a totaly closed room with no one watching 
 all the guards somehow know you did it. Other then that everything is pretty much perfect, everything 
 is very detailed, especially the forests which ive never seen better in my life... the amount of 
 thought and work put into this game must be gigantic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to say I have never really played a modern RPG since the ones I tried years ago were 
 so boring - walking round for ages, getting lost and no action. I just happened to be in a shop 
 the other day and saw people queueing up to buy this game and I thought "What the heck". I usually 
 only ever play FPS war games.
  
  Anyway - wow !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Brilliant, Brilliant, Brilliant.
  
  I have never seen anything 
 like it. This game is revolutionary. The graphics are unbelievable. Expansive go anywhere worlds, 
 Physics to match Half Life 2, the gameplay is excellent and never a dull moment.
  
  Even for a novice RPG gamer like me I found everything easy to use and picked the game up in about 
 an hour.
  
  This game needs a high end rig and if you need an upgrade it's worth the investment (I'm running 
 2gig of ddr3200, Athlon 3500 64 & Geforce78000GTX) .
  
  I could be lost for hours in this thing.
  
  That said it does have a few bugs and I have had 
 a few crashes and sticking. The most annoying things I have found have been the inability to crouch 
 or take screen shots. Futher the biggest disappointment is the lack of multipler - This game should 
 have been destined to be a MMO.
  
  Loading is unbelievable - it is seemelss on my rig and If it wasnt for a message at the bottom 
 of the screen I wouldn't even know I was changing levels or entering a new area of a map.
  
  The voice acting is superb (Patrick Stewart no less !!) but I feel the music could be a little 
 better. Unfortunately the mouth animations of the characters don't match up to the quality of Half 
 Life 2.
  
  The game menus are incredibly easy to use as are the controls/key mapping.
  
  As you go through the early stages of the game there are quick and easy tutorials, unlike some 
 games which make you go through tutorials before you start playing. 
  
  Clearly the developer has put an enormous amount of thought into this title and it deserves all 
 the success it can get.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurisocks
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of my favorite games ever. My PC is 512 RAM Nvidia 6200. Even though my computer 
 is well kind of crappy this game still runs amazingly well on it. I have though experienced rare 
 game crashes while playing (The same happened to me while playing morrowind) . But the gameplay 
 is amazing, graphics (even on my crappy system) look tremendous. The new stealth and combat systems 
 were much needed upgrades. I have enjoyed playing the game, and I sure I will enjoy playing the 
 game for many more months. Everyone who is a RPG fan should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgdl
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant is a word I would use to describe Morrowind, not a word I would use in the same sentence 
 as Oblivion however.
  
  Ill move straight to the meat, water, if you can actually call it that was appauling, more graphically 
 impressive in morrowind, the rest of the graphics I have no problem with, they are stunning, it 
 is a pity the gameplay lets it down.
  
  Everything feels simplified compared with morrowind and other RPG's, 21 different skills, for all 
 combat, magic and stealth, 21!!!! No where near enough compared with the original. This was the 
 first disappoinement I felt, especially as I very much enjoyed the initial sewer levels. However 
 this brings me onto the point of the lag, the terrible lag, I am running this game with a 6600 
 and 2gb of RAM and although it is playable it just becomes annoying.
  
  Apart from what has been mentioned it is the little things that I also find annoying, the fact 
 that when you enter a room (fighters guild) there a three couples all talking at once, dam what 
 a noise. Then there is the inventory in game and the wayin which items are purchased and sold. 
 Selling items is painfully slow having to move the mouse to the ok button each time with each sale 
 through the lag, whereas an "enter" key function would have been so much easier.
  
  The charcter creation in terms of the fatial features is very in depth and I loved it, spending 
 half an hour simply with this screen. The stealth feature in this game also also very impressive 
 and it works unlike in morrowind, it feels almost like thief when in dungeon areas. The new quest 
 system is also unique and more useful than a book full of names and dates.
  
  It is a shame this game had great potential to the very best, however the pursuit of innovative 
 graphics and AI have lead to a downfall in the gameplay. It has been simplified and I normally 
 would hate to say this but it felt like... well a console game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Picosaurus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Thi game is awesome even though there are some small running issues but the system requirements 
 are not so big that you have to take out a seconded mortgage on ur house to get a new pc. This 
 game would probably be best without a few of the NPC conversations were they have three different 
 conversations with the first one being the same as the last or greeting each other in the exact 
 same cheerful 'hello!' to fellow NPC's. One thing though is it's amazing gameplay which is to die 
 for since i'm here in britain u lucky americans had ur greedy paws on it 4 days before I. Well 
 i think this game is wonderful and is future proof for at least 2 years!!!!
  
  Picosaurus
  
  
  
  
  Picosaurus strikes again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought this game I had previous experiance with Morrowind, but I never really got into 
 it. The combat wasn't that great at all in my opinion. As for Oblivion, it is a different story. 
 I didn't really expect Oblivion to be as good as it is, it was just more approachable for me. It 
 looks amazing and has great physics. The combat system is a big improvement over Morrowind. Character 
 creation is very customizable letting you edit features of the face including size of nose, jaw 
 size, lips, skin tone, and a whole bunch of other stuff. If you are not sure to buy this or not, 
 I highly recommend it. I was iffy on this purchase but now that I've played it I am very happy. 
 Just make sure you have a very good computer to get the most out of the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxZenon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  First, let's get a few things strait...
  
  1. The Elder Scrolls games have always had the edge on role-playing games ever since 'Arena'. Which 
 gives them knowledge on what a gamer seeks in an RPG.
  
  2. Even if you are new to the Elder Scrolls, this game will immerse you in a world with unlimited 
 possibilities. Unlike 'Morrowind', this game actually gives you a mini-tutorial that fits well 
 into the story line instead of just leaving you oblivious to what happens next.
  
  Now that thats covered, we'll move on.
  
  First off the new menu style
  The new menu style 
 takes a little time getting used to from the traditional-morrowind-style. But, nevertheless, it 
 is easy to use and mapped out perfectly.
  
  Secondly, the Compass
  The Compass, in my opinion, is a great improvement over the old box-map in the corner of your screen, 
 the compass designates places you must go, and also places that you may be interested in like ruins, 
 settlements, and caves. The Compass also gives you help in quests because it marks the location 
 you have to go with an inverted red arrow, which comes quite in handy.
  
  The GUI
  The GUI is set up so everything can be quickly accessed by hot-keys. This is a great improvement 
 over the cycling of weapons and spells.
  
  The AI
  The AI is the most prominent feature in this game, with voices taking up almost half the game, 
 you can tell Bethesda spent their time with this game making it very realistic. Kudos to Bethesda 
 with that.
  
  The physics
  Now, unlike previous Elder Scrolls, it has physics which respond accordingly to weight and size. 
 This also adds more realism to the game.
  
  Well, thats all I have for now, I'm starting Oblivion back up!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightarce
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is so brilliant it blows your mind away. even on the lowest settings it makes morrowind 
 look rubbish. The game is much better thought out. Better quests easier to start the game because 
 every one knows how boring it was to start a new game in morrowind. Its got all new menus which 
 just make the game that little bit better. I have a reasonable pc which just goes over the min 
 spec for the game. I can play it reasonably well and when you play the game for awhile your'll 
 wonder how you ever did without it . and whatever that guy says about bugs and his great computer 
 don't listen to him i have a ok one and it works ok.
  In one word Thgis game is 
  
  Legendary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tavyhome
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I think the game per overall is awsome.... but after you play it a bit you surely will see some 
 bugs... frame rate droping and such... Not to talk about the system requirments.. that are a bit 
 too high for maximum detail.
  The Video aspect of the game is breath taking (if u afford a high video card.) The sound part is 
 good... but haven't seen any EAX support, wich is bad.
  The leveling system is a bit confussing , the classes as well...
  In my oppinion is a game that 
 you dont know many things about it, when you hit START NEW GAME.... and is very confussing.
  If you like the more structured RPG's try World Of Warcraft (if you haven't allready) , if you don't 
 afford it try Neverwinter Nights...
  So my opinion is that, IT ISN'T a game that will get you in front of the PC many hours.. (a bit 
 boring..)
  Surely this will be the BEST RPG of 2006... that is if Blizzard will not lunch World of Warcraft: 
 The Burning Crusade... which will take the 1st prize:) )
  Until then good luck in killing the demons of Oblivion.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlepooper5
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought this game I had previous experiance with Morrowind, but I never really got into 
 it. The combat wasn't that great at all in my opinion. As for Oblivion, it is a different story. 
 I didn't really expect Oblivion to be as good as it is, it was just more approachable for me. It 
 looks amazing and has great physics. The combat system is a big improvement over Morrowind. Character 
 creation is very customizable letting you edit features of the face including size of nose, jaw 
 size, lips, skin tone, and a whole bunch of other stuff. If you are not sure to buy this or not, 
 I highly recommend it. I was iffy on this purchase but now that I've played it I am very happy. 
 Just make sure you have a very good computer to get the most out of the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolhand1977
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the most bug ridden game I've ever played. It's just so frustrating because 
 the game is great, best game I've played in years. The bugs which I speak of are performance issues, 
 I have a decent rig AMD 64 4000+ (OC to 2800!) Nforce3 Chipset MSI mother board with a Gig of Corsair 
 XMS3200 RAM, 7800 GS BFG OC Video card. The FPS Ration on this game is 180 FPS to 2 FPS. There 
 are places in this game that destroy the game, once you walk into them you have to save and reload 
 to get your FPS back. This is just my current issue I spent 2 days fixing a problem where the game 
 would Crash to my desktop, ultimately I had to reinstall my OS. It appears to me that Bethesda 
 is Blind with glory right now... I've seen not a single post from them saying they are aware of 
 these issue and we are working on a patch nothing. Take moment and go to their forums, there are 
 over 350 pages of complaints in regards to how problematic this game is.
  
  My suggestion is WAIT do not get this game yet because these is at least another 6 months of development 
 needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief_118
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow. It is a rare opportunity when a game does this to you. It somehow -magically- takes you away 
 into another immersive, exciting and livable world. Oblivion does this.
  
  There are very few negative things I can say about Oblivion. In fact, most of them would just be 
 hardware or niggly issues. 
  
  Combat is original, but when you're toe-to-toe hacking and slashing, it does get a little repetitive, 
 but the Marksmanship takes the repeating feeling away. I don't know, there's something about shooting 
 an enemy 100m away and seeing him drop in one shot that is so satisfying...
  
  As you many know, there are quite a few people claiming the Radiant AI is not all it's cracked 
 up to be. Well, stuff them, the AI is fantastic. The amount of things you can do to get the AI 
 to respond in so many different ways... It's mind-boggling. Although, hearing the same voice actors 
 over and over kind of takes away the immersion for a bit.
  
  The music is superb. Sublime. Astounding, the composition is unmatched. Hell, I even listen to 
 it OUTSIDE the game! The sound is amazing, too... Birds chirping... Wolves howling... Arrows piercing 
 flesh, it's all there.
  
  Overall, this game is one to never collect dust. A must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWC_Scuzzlebutt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the last Elder Scrolls game was great and that only online would make it better 
 (still do) . After playing ES IV I have found that it gets much better. 
  As far as gameplay goes, the system has been completely overhauled since the last installment. 
 Combat is great and has a sense of strategy to it (blocking at just the right time will throw the 
 opponent off balance leaving him vulnerable) . The AI is superb; if you hold a block hoping to throw 
 the enemy off balance, you will be sadly disappointed when he/she stands waiting for you to let 
 your guard down. The interface is beautiful and only takes about an hour to get used to. Magic 
 is as simple as pressing a single key instead of switching this and that.
  Graphically the game outshines all other competitors; unfortunately this is also one of it's few 
 downsides. I thought my machine was top tier, unfortunately I found that the game set itself at 
 the lowest setting graphically. The minimum RAM is 2 gig, anything less; don't bother. If you really 
 want to enjoy the scenery and actually be able to play without any graphical glitches, you need 
 3. Until those glitches kick in and the memory starts to run low... even the low setting is absolutely 
 gorgeous.
  One of the other things I've noticed is that after the tutorial, it seems to rush you into the 
 story. I felt a little overwhelmed, although I haven't gotten that in depth yet. There are plenty 
 of dungeons to run through right off the bat... which is good considering you start with 0 gold 
 and everything you WANT costs an arm and a leg. It seems a bit large to begin with, but that comes 
 with the ability to do ANYTHING you want to do.
  I can easily recommend this and honestly call it the prettiest and largest RPG around... if your 
 system can handle it. It's not as much fun when your memory bottoms out and the screen goes nuts 
 (my system crashed after a while) . But I can't deduct any points on my system, which I plan on 
 upgrading even more and my personal experience THUS far. So do yourself a favor, if you are even 
 close to the minimum requirements for the game, spend the extra cash to upgrade your system and 
 get this game; after all that eliminates one of the two faults the game MAY have. This game sets 
 the new bar and the standards have been set very high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Hippo_5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! I ve not got very far into it yet, as I have been doing lots of side quests, 
 but that is just the thing! There is so much to do! You can make potions, join guilds, and do tons 
 of quests. The dungeons are amazing too! The tutorial dungeon is fairly lengthy, but that is just 
 the start of things! The minute I got out of the sewers and into the big world, I swam across the 
 lake right next two me, killed a couple of bandits and investigated some ruins. I went in about 
 9.30pm and got out at 12 midnight! And this was after exploring everything. The graphics are amazing. 
 My computer runs it on medium quality, but nonetheless they are still top notch. All of the tiny 
 details in things like butterflies and water effects... Ah! Pure bliss! The sound effects and music 
 are all great too (I like the music played when you are wandering about Cyrodiil) , and are a real 
 treat to the ears. The gameplay is great. You can play in 1st or 3rd person view, which is helpful 
 at some bits, and allows to look at the world in a different way, especially when riding a horse. 
 Battles are fast and furious, and you have to time your attacks and blocks carefully, otherwise 
 you've had it! Casting magic is no problem, and there are hot keys so you can quickly access your 
 favourite items and spells. It has a very easy to use menu interface, as well. Not to mention their 
 is a custom editor for this game, you are sure to be playing this game for a LONG time. I know 
 I will! I would recommend this game to ALL avid RPG fans with a PC! Trust me - buying this game 
 is a purchase you won't regret! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdavis11487
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  if you liked morrowind, youll like this better. 
  
  CONS:
  1. I really found the face generator cumbersome and annoying. I could never make a character that 
 i thought was cool looking. there were too many options and often some cancelled out the others. 
 there were no options for facial tatoos or scars or anything like that and some premade faces would 
 have been nice. 
  
  2. the menu. the menu was obviosly taliored for the xbox 360 and felt awkward on the pc. i would 
 have never figured out how to drop items or switch panels if there had been no manual. 
  
  3. Radiant AI. many times, the npcs would get stuck trying to walk someplace, and end up talking 
 to the same other npc 3 or 4 times in a row, saying the same thing! sometimes thier conversations 
 or a little wonky, they ask about rumors and they end up just saying goodbye. to sum it up, it 
 just seems random, not an organic conversation. 
  
  4 guards appear out of nowhere, and arrest you, and force you to go to the castle. which is annoying, 
 because then you have to either fast travel or walk back to where you just where. 
  
  5. the speechcraft minigame was difficult to figure out, and sometimes, if the npc is wearing a 
 helmet, you cant really see thier facial expressions.
  
  6. sometimes if your talking to someone, they will change voices once you talk about a certain 
 subject...
  
  PROS:
  basically everything else...
  
  1. graphics are amazing,
  2. massive amount of gameplay
  3. the quick travel option is a big help if you dont want to walk 
 all the way back to a town
  4. the world really feels like its filled with locations. morrowind could feel a bit empty at times, 
 but in oblivion, you cant really walk for more than 5 minutes without coming up on a dungeon,
 
  5. lockpicking, persuasion, and marksmanship have all been greatly improved, much more fun, and 
 interactive.
  6. the combat. if you hit something, you do damage. in morrowind you could miss even if you were 
 right on top of the enemy.
  7. voice acting is great, patrick stewart and sean bean, in addition to character voices from morrowind 
 (redguard and imperials sound the same, perhaps the same voice actor?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  FINAL WORD:
  
  A borderline great game that could be perfect with a better interface and leveling system. Far 
 and away the best of the series.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Graphics: If you have a system that allows you to turn up all the graphics to maximum, this is 
 a beautiful if not stunning game. I can't remember playing a game I've enjoyed looking at more 
 than this one recently, and certainly not a CRPG.
  
  Sound: Fantastic voices and lots of them with top quality voices like Patrick Stewart doing key 
 characters. Other sounds and music are also top notch. 
  
  NPCs and Towns: This time they really made the NPCs and towns come alive with fantastic, dynamic 
 scripting and personalities, and interesting subplots and gossip. They've been threatening to do 
 this since Arena, but this time they really did it. Bravo!
  
  Main plot: What I've seen of it so far is excellent. It flows well is interesting and has a palpable 
 sense of suspense and forboding. 
  
  Quests: Also well done. Lots of intrigue and many quests have multiple ways that can be completed 
 and complex interaction between tasks and characters that provide lots of opportunity for choices 
 by the player and lots of interesting dialogue and circumstance.
  
  Length of Play and Replayability (aka Value) : Both superb. This game is huge and you could easily 
 play one game for 100+ hours and with all the character options, you could easily play the game 
 through multiple times using different characters.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  The interface: The look and feel of the interface is fine. What's bad about it is that the interface 
 was designed for the Xbox and it shows. You have to move through lots of menu layers to get anything 
 done (because it was designed to work with a controller / mouse and not take advantage of the keyboard) . 
 Because of the Xbox design, hotkeys are extremely limited and will frustrate magic using characters 
 in particular as you can only have one spell available as a quick cast at a time and the hot keys 
 won't actually cast the spell, but instead will just put that spell in the quick cast spell slot. 
 Had this interface been designed for the mouse / keyboard combination of the PC, it could have 
 been much easier and quicker to use. It's usable but much more cumbersome that it needed to be 
 - thanks Xbox (not) !
  
  The leveling system: Ever since Arena Bethesda has chosen to stay with a character leveling system 
 based on using and leveling skills (adding the "major" skills idea in the last two games) . This 
 sounds wonderful on paper, but in practice it leads to silliness like jump 6000 times for no reason 
 just to level the acrobat skill or casting 6000 minor life detects to level Mysticism. To me a 
 leveling system is only fun and only works well when it rewards you for playing the game. This 
 leveling system does that some of the time, but much if the time it forces you to sit there for 
 many hours of game play (over the course of a complete game) doing these silly leveling excercises. 
 For the wise guys who will say, well just don't do the extra leveling, it's not an option. If you 
 don't do the stand it one spot and do a thing 6000 times leveling you get less stat increases and 
 your character over all will get weaker over time rather than stronger vs. the games antogonists 
 who change to higher level creatures as you level. So if you don't play the time wasting level 
 game you fall further and further behind the opposition. This by far is my biggest problem with 
 all the Bethesda games from Arena to Oblivion, and something I certainly hope the eliminate if 
 they do another in the series.
  
  Missiles and Targeted Magic: Be prepared to miss a lot unless you're at point blank range as your 
 opponents will move around and often will dodge your arrows or spells. Sure it's realistic to some 
 extent, but it's frustrating too.
  
  And finally... A special Bronx cheer for the morons who posted dozens of worthless messages before 
 the game was released just to make fools of themselves, waste people's time, and apply non-sense 
 ratings to the game. The moderators should delete the reviews and ratings of every one of those 
 morons, and delete their accounts if they continue to waste our time and skew review ratings with 
 their foolishness.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampira506
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  I hate writting texts, so I'll keep this relatively short, Oblivion is simply fantastic.
  State of the art graphics, superb audio, great voice over work by the likes of Patrick Stewart 
 of Star Trek and X-Men fame and of course, everybody's favorite human with temptation, Boromir 
 (Sean Bean to the non-LOTR fans, yes all 6 of you) .
  
  The greatest achievement in Oblivion is not the fancy new AI or the huge landscape or unimaginable 
 amount of side quests, its the fact that they fixed the combat system that shyed away people from 
 truly enjoying Morrowind, I played Morrowind for well over 100 hours and I still hated the combat 
 system, it just didn't feel right unlike the fancy schmancy combat system in Oblivion, the quick 
 travel is also a nice feature, but there's still rewards for those who take the road less travelled 
 in the form of hidden ruins, shrines, creatures, quests, etc. etc.
  
  Since I'm already annoyed of typing, I'll simply state that Oblivion truly has something for fans 
 of numerous genres, even FPS freaks since the game IS in a first person perspective (Yes, I know 
 about the 3rd person view, but its barely useful) ... Just buy this game, lose your social life 
 for a month, then wait another month and repeat.
  
  Quick Note: To all those who've played Morrowind, you really won't have much of a learning curve, 
 many things are the same or similar when it comes down to the controls, and the changes are very 
 natural and easy to get used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I have been playing CRPG games since ZORK 1. Up until now I felt that nothing could compare to 
 the Ultima series, ( IV to VII) but now there is a new all time classic.
  The story seems to be deep and rich, you can choose between linear or wandering off and doing what 
 ever you want. The character generation is a hoot, you can play with that part for an hour. The 
 graphics are smooth and seamless. I am running with everything toped out and all is well. My rig 
 is near top end but certainly top bleeding edge anymore and it plays cinematic smooth.
  
  Bugs? Perhaps crawling around in the landscape but NOT in the game. I have not seen a single glitch. 
 BSW made a fine wine and only released it when it was ready. That is refreshing.
  
  Learning to play is a snap as the interface is clean and clear. That does not mean that mastering 
 the game will be easy. Because of the depth I am sure this game will be on my top drive for years.
 
  
  The only complaint I have is that your enemies seem to get stronger as you level up so why level 
 up? I think this was an error and I hope they modify this in a patch. Perhaps some level of gaining 
 on the opposition as you increase in levels. In fact this is the ONLY thing that keeps me from 
 giving this game a perfect 10.
  
  Well done, BRAVO!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdfireTrilogy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Wow after waiting for this game forever and having beat all of Morrowind i was expecting a mindblowing 
 stunning game to play when it came out. And they produced even better then I thought possible. 
 The graphics are amazing throughout, but for PC users it takes crazy power to run this baby, their 
 recommended hardware description definately needs to be looked at if you plan on buying it because 
 my 2.8 ghz and radeon 9800 with 1 gig of ram cant even play the game at half settings. While it 
 runs great some of the amazing particle effects cause major chug. This will mostlikely be fixed 
 in their first patch. The new fighting style works crazy good with the havok physics engine they 
 have utilized this time 'round. Combat is new and sleek and the traps in the dungeons cause you 
 to keep awake when u explore. Story line is good, cant say rediculously good since its open ended 
 and it is possible to kill the required main NPCs off which while a good idea can cause problems 
 if u dont know they are important and then u kill them and later you need to talk to them and well 
 u just played 20 hours to find u cant beat the main game. Replay of the game is incredible and 
 the character creation is almost too much, i got lost in it lol. The game sounds amazing and almost 
 no sound skips during the game whatsoever cause it to be emersive as ever. While the main mechanics 
 of the game are somewhat simple many of the menus have been changed from Morrowind and in my opinon 
 Morrowing definatly had an easier system to exquip and unequip equipment. The more indepth stuff 
 like alchemy and potion crafting take much more time and cause the games learning curve and difficulty 
 to bump up quite a bit. One option the Elderscrolls games have always had that helps alot is the 
 fact that there is a slider for difficulty level in the game, this will be your best friend as 
 you start playing, especially for those new to the elderscrolls games. Alls i gotta say is WOW 
 nice on Bethesda u pulled off another WONDER of a game and with a few techincal fixes in a patch 
 they with most definatly release eventually this game is all but perfect!!! When they release their 
 expansions which everone knows they will the game will be epic, just dont expect to see any other 
 real people in game :P its all singleplayer; multiplayer-mod anyone??? Oh ive also always liked 
 their sounds for the thunderstorms, :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tainar2001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I bought the game the first day it came out, popped it in my not so super PC, and pressed 
 play. Only one word can describe how amazing this game is, but there are still some.... odd problems. 
 First off, I had to turn the settings WAY down, so far that I felt like I was playing morrowind 
 again. Second, I found some weird "hovering" trees in some areas. And the worst gripe i have is 
 the fact that I LOST the main quest. Yes after 10 hours of side quests I have lost the ability 
 to "finish" Oblivion. Hmm I'm guessing that nobody caught that one at the Bethesda office. Other 
 than that this game is why video games should be called art. Every NPC has a voice and what seems 
 to have a life even. No longer can you just walk up to a store keepers room without him/her following 
 you in, asking you, "What do you think your doing?". I actually feel as if they have given me the 
 keys and told me to, "Go crazy". Half Life 2 raised the bar so high for the FPS genre that it can 
 hardly be touched. And I believe that Oblivion has done the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimeran
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  What can i say? this game rocks, it looks good, play alot better than morrowind in combat wise 
 and actually conversation with the locals, and the locals actually act like locals, they read sleep 
 all the things normal people would do. the game has crashed on me once but other than that it has 
 been fine. and like i said before if your computer can run it then get it, if you are a fan of 
 the elder scrolls series then this is must, and if you like rpgs this is a must. I mean this game 
 pulled me off of World of Warcraft, and that is a feat in any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d70cw6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Just received the PC game this morning - absolutely blown away.
  
  I found it very difficult to get into Bethesda's previous installment Morrowind, but have found 
 Oblivion to be much more accessible. From the opeining musical score to the intro movie, it's clear 
 that Bethesda have spent a long time getting the look and feel of their universe right - and the 
 introductory tutorial (~30 - 45 mins long) will have you hooked right from the get go.
  
  Graphics and physics engine are both superb - just wish I had a better card than my aging Geforec 
 6600GT.
  
  Ansyway - i'm off to delve more into this great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind was the only thing on my mind in the year of 2002. The huge game 
 world and detailed environments were enough to get my hyped up. The towns were rich in life, the 
 graphics were beautiful, and the gameplay value was monstorous.
  
  Morrowind did come with it's faults, however. I think most would agree that the fighting system 
 was a bit stale, with it mainly being a simple "mouse-button 1 mash". Also, at times the NPCs seemed 
 less like living people, and rather like complex encyclopedias. There were also countless "crash 
 to the desktop" bugs.
  
  Enter The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. The sequel noted nearly every single flaw that it's predecessor 
 was weighed down by, and modified them in some way. Infact, nearly everything has been added, modified, 
 and advanced in a smart and inventive way. The game is bigger, no doubt, the fighting is incredible, 
 and the characters are believable, smart, and have been brought to life.
  
  The last point is the result of a new AI system called Radiant AI. This implementation allows for 
 some of the most advanced NPCs the Role Playing Genre has ever seen. Each character has their own 
 24 hour schedule. They walk the town, talk to others, and hunt their own food. Gone are the days 
 where you can simply walk into a house, and murder a single victim. Now, if you attack a character, 
 he'll run out of his house into a new cell (that's right, they can do that now) , and consult a 
 guard. The guard will then approach you, and, well, your screwed.
  
  A new, amibitious, and lively new addition to gaming will never be without it's flaws, however, 
 and in Oblivion's case, it's no exception. There are a few bugs that come along for the ride. I 
 was walking the Imperial City in my journeys and came across a Breton who approached a Redguard. 
 The Breton announced "Hello", to the Redguard, and the Redguard replied with "Hello you filthy 
 Breton." The conversation then continued without the Breton every showing any signs of anger. These 
 bugs are, however, nothing to worry about, because it's both exciting to know it's happening anyway, 
 and the experiences are sometimes hilarious too.
  
  But walking towns and gazing at the AI is just a small part in the massive, enourmous, and damn 
 right fun game. I myself, have walked so little of the large world that I wonder if I should even 
 be reviewing this game at this early stage. At any rate, the game is simply monstorous. But isn't 
 just a desolate gameworld, it's detailed! There are dungeons, elven ruins, gateways to Oblivion, 
 bandit camps, small towns, mountains, fortresses, cities, blockades, wanderers, and forts all set 
 up throughout the game. There's enough there to keep you going for years. Enough to keep you going 
 for years without quests that is. Quests are another story.
  
  There are four main guilds to join throughout the game: The Fighters Guild, The Mages Guild, The 
 Thieves Guild, and The Dark Brotherhood. They are all far more interesting, detailed, and unique 
 than in Morrowind, and each look different, play different, and the characters within ARE different. 
 For example, to get inside The Arcane University, a library dedicated to the Mages Guild, you have 
 to gain recommendations from each Guild Master in each main city. Some are easy, some are more 
 difficult, but they're all unique.
  
  On the other hand, it's a different story to get into the Theives Guild and Dark Brotherhood. Since 
 they prefer to keep themselves hidden, it is harder join than simply approach they're base, and 
 sign up. In the case of the Thieves Guild, you are forced to go to jail first, for any reason. 
 Once you are out, you will be approached by someone offering you the chace to join the Guild.
 
  
  The main plot line, from what I've seen (I have hardly begun my adventures there) , is incredibly 
 detailed, and matches that of any other linear game, maybe even a movie. There is excellent voice 
 talent from our friend Patrick Stewart, and the exciting Sean Bean. They do an excellent job in 
 the game, even though Patrick Stewart's role is quite brief.
  
  The graphics are amazing. In the dungeons, they are dank, dark, and interesting. Outside, the world 
 is vast, huge, and the view distance is incredible. This comes at a price of course though. The 
 textures, looking at them from miles away, are pretty shocking. They are low, and crummy, but it 
 really doesn't matter with a view like that.
  
  The music is absolutely incredible. I have no doubt you will totally agree with me after seeing 
 the intro cinematic. Following the lines of "And the final hours, of my life..." suddenly richocet 
 into a bang, and the classic Elder Scrolls theme we know and love is suddenly travelling at full 
 pace when you read: Bethesda Softworks Presents. But it continues getting louder, and more dramatic, 
 and it feels better than a movie.
  
  There is so much more I'd like to talk about this game, but I just won't be able to fit it in, 
 like the expansive character creation to rival The Sims 2, the intuitive inventory system, and 
 the different and diverse environments. Let me just say, that this is one of the greatest games 
 of all time, and goes straight to the top as my favourite RPG to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asuka-Langley
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the first day it came out because I was eager to see what all the hype was about. 
 Judgeing from the preview videos it looked like it might be worth trying out and I was definitely 
 impressed with it when I finally got my hands on it, its far better then the previous marrowind 
 games I played the grathics, voices, features, classes and characters are stunning but after many 
 hours of playing you start to notice bugs you didnt notice at first like in certain quest characters 
 wont get back on their horse or will run up against a wall instead of climbing stairs. I also noticed 
 some serious bugs after restarting my character to a different race I had an Imperial hero when 
 i started playing and had no character issues but decided to try out the different races and it 
 seems that I get random character slowdowns (my character will be able to swing normally but will 
 run in place at slow motion) when running around as a Nord, Orc, and Redguard ... issues I didnt 
 have as an Imperial character. I went to the official forums to report these bugs I found so they 
 could be fixed and it seems other disgruntled people have experienced the same bugs I have and 
 some even worse bugs with high end pc's
  
  Maybe the developers should have done more testing before releasing this game to make sure it doesnt 
 have any bugs when it was scheduled for release but I guess its another case of rushing the game 
 out the door to meet deadlines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  I LOVE IT! The graphics are superb! Going up a mountain road I watched as storm clouds came in 
 and down came the rain. It was totally awesome. The sound is also great. Normally I turn off the 
 music in a game after the first hour or so. Not so with this game. The game play is excellent with 
 an advancement system that levels you based on the skills you used. The storyline is, as usual 
 with Bethesda, great. I really like how Bethesda did the character generation in this game and 
 the towns seem like they're alive with people going about their business. Only someminor comnplaints...
 
  
  1. I would like to see some pre-set faces to chose from. Sometimes having all that control isn't 
 as nice as it seems.
  2. The horses don't really seem to be worth having. I've had to dismount whan engaged in combat.
 
  3. Guard and escort missions! Why?!? The NPCs invariably just get in the way.
  
  All-in-all, this is an outstanding game! I recommend it highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreVayne
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for four days now and have not been disappointed yet. The game seems to have 
 improved on every aspect that I found Morrwind lacking. Here is a breakdown of the attributes.
 
  
  Gameplay: If you've played Morrwind, or any of the other Elder Scrolls, then getting started won't 
 take you long. The controls are almost the same with the exception of the Block button. Making 
 blocking manual really makes the battles much more exiting instead just standing there and swinging 
 your sword hoping the game will block for you. Stealth is also highly improved as it is more about 
 staying in the shadows. The quests and puzzels are also more involved than those in previous game, 
 require more than just going from one place to another.
  
  Graphics: If you've got a top of the line system, here's your chance to see what it can do! Start 
 this game up and max out all of the settings. If you're lucky enough to be able to do this (trust 
 me, it's worth the extra money for a top of the line graphics card to be able to) then you are 
 in for a treat. The forest and simply amazing and so real looking it's unbelievable. But if you 
 don't have a power-system don't fret, the game runs well on systems with less powerful cards but 
 you'll need to sacrifice some of the pretty effects if you want a reasonable frame-rate.
  
  Sound: The sound is another spectacular aspect of this game. Your footsteps and your horses' change 
 depending on the terrain and even echo if you're in a cave or dungeon. The ambiance fits perfectly 
 even down to the subtle touches of drips, running water, and even the sound of the leaves blowing 
 in the wind. All of the dialog in the game is recorded and every line is done very well and just 
 feels natural.
  
  Overall: By far the best game I have ever played. Bethesda really knows what they are doing. The 
 game is immersive, convincing and most importantly fun! Anyone who's into RPG's, action, adventure, 
 or FPS's would do well to check the game out, as it has the high points of all of these genres. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo2607
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  This game is great havent beat it yet but im working on it. First thing you will notice is how 
 great it looks. The charcter creation was tough for me because I had trouble making a person that 
 didnt look retarded. The game takes right off after that with an awesome main quest and a whole 
 bunch of little side missions and great interactions. Did i mention how great this game looked? 
 Fighting is really fun and he spells look very nice. Morrowind fans will see many of the weapons, 
 monsters, etc. from the other games and will absolutely love the fact that you can ride a horse! 
 Horses can get you really far really fast which definately beats walking at about 2 miles per hour 
 or running just slightly faster. Did i mention how great this game looks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleb_Tokhtuev
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Let me first of all say that I am a realist and a skeptic and I do not usually give 10s (this is 
 actually my first one) . It is not that I believe that there is nothing in this game which can not 
 be improved, but there was not a single category where I thought I could give it less. 
  Graphics wise the game is stunning beyond words. The level of detail is amazing. Be forewarned 
 though that you need a mighty powerful machine to run this game in all its glory. I am very happy 
 I upgraded my computer recently. I have always enjoyed Jeremy Soules work especially since he 
 has composed music to some of my favorite games but he has indeed outdone himself in Oblivion. 
 On top of that all of the in game dialogue is completely voiced and the sound effects are very 
 crisp. The game play is very addictive, I can not remember the last time I have had this much fun. 
 A few of the battles where rather challenging but it only made the victory all the sweeter. My 
 only regret is that I did not swing for the collectors edition. This should tell you something 
 of what I think of the value of the game. 
  As for those things which I think could be improved about Oblivion (no crossbows for example) , 
 I have no doubts that the modding community or an expansion will fix all of them. So if your computer 
 can handle it  buy the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: olcaytug
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best games in the world.
  
  Excellent Graphics!!!
  
  Excellent Sounds!!!
  
  Very big World!!!
  
  Good Prices
  
  Look at game's world: Horses, 
 Lakes, Mountains..... You can see all of things from our real life.
  
  xxxxxx xxxxxx x x x x x xxxxxx xxx x
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
  x x xxx xx x x x x x x x 
 x x x
  xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx x x x x xxx x x xxx
  
  It is a game you can't refuse! :)
  
  Play immediately!!!
  
  What a impressive game is it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  So I've spent a few days playing oblivion and to be honest I find the world to big to enjoy. As 
 much as I like rpg's I just can't get use to this game, I guess I prefer the usual D&D rules where 
 it's turn based and damage is determined by maths and not by how well I can manouvere a mouse and 
 keyboard. I just find it cumbersome playing in a FPS type of view, or even a 3rd person view and 
 constantly trying to target something like a running dodging rat.
  
  I spend alot of time walking around aimlessly killing wolves, doing the odd quest for people but 
 it seems so lonely, there's no henchmen to chat to out in the fields, no band of adventurers to 
 join my quest like D&D. You can walk for hours without seeing anyone to talk to, it feels like 
 a mmorpg and i'm the only subscriber.
  
  The graphics are great, sound is great, I can see it has alot of replay value but I guess I just 
 prefer the more linear rpg's like fable/kotor etc. Where there was still a great story but you 
 were more directed in where you were going and not just thrown out into the world to amuse yourself.
 
  
  not a bad game but I just don't think it's worth all these 10 reviews people are slapping it with. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabidmonkeyman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  ive played this game for about 25 hours now, and let me tell you this, im level 6 and i havent 
 even touched the main story, it started out as me going to the first story objective, and i got 
 side tracked by a dungeon, and another dungeon, and then i stole a horse and took it for a spin 
 until i got caught, and sent to jail where i got an invitation to join the thieves guild and ive 
 been doing missions for that and the rest of the random town folk. what i find interesting is that 
 every different quest you get is completly different from every other quest in the game. they all 
 add awesome plot twists which make them unique and extreemly fun to figure out, just to see the 
 conclusion. it seems as though everything is so thaught out, like you can only sell stolen good 
 to "fencers" and the minigames too, if people didnt know how a lock works or how to pick a lock 
 before this, this will show them the general idea of what happens. im not gonna go too far into 
 this, but i will say that on the pc the graphics are amazing (i have an x1800) and the music and 
 sound effects are frightingly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzarathAngel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  So after throwing away nearly a day of my life (consecutively) , I finally got around to writing 
 this review. Ill break it into graphics, gameplay, and sound.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Oblivion holds true to the Elder Scrolls trademark of vastly open gameplay. Sure there 
 is a main quest that you can follow, but why take the paved road? This is truly a game where if 
 you can think it, you can do it. Never have I had so much fun pestering drunken bar patrons, or 
 stealing Imperial guard's horses while they have their backs turned. Anyway... the game is not perfect. 
 For one, the list of abilities in Oblivion has been watered down from its predecessor. Certain 
 abilities such as "short blade" and "long blade", have been smashed together into one new ability. 
 While the magic in Oblivion is pretty, its essentially the same system as from Morrowind, which 
 in my opinion was too simplistic.
  
  GRAPHICS - On its highest settings, Oblivion is gorgeous. Every little detail from the kinks in 
 your sword to the movement of grass in the wind have been played out perfectly. Unfortunately, 
 if your computer is more than a month old, good luck trying to run it that high. My computer (new 
 graphics card just installed) , experienced multiple crashes trying to play the game with maxed 
 out settings. I eventually had to settle for 1024x768 with the settings on medium. However, Oblivion 
 does offer some unique accommodations to help with the graphical problems. The landscape is very 
 unique, in that only the area in which you are standing is rendered in full detail. If you look 
 off to the mountains, you will notice that it is just a flat surface splotched with greens and 
 browns to make it look realistic. While this does reduce lag in the game, it is quite noticeable 
 at times. 
  
  SOUND - The sound in Oblivion is a huge step from Morrowind, in many ways. The musical score very 
 subtle, but at times will jump out at you, such as when you engage in battle. The dialogue in the 
 game is well done, and the voices are quite realistic, but after spending a few hours in a town, 
 you begin to notice the repetition of the same dialogue. Also, different NPC's will use the same 
 scripted dialogue, just in their own respective voices.
  
  OVERALL - 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarman55
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin.. I have been following Oblivion ever since it was announced. I was, and still am, 
 an avid fan of Morrowind and Daggerfall, so the anouncement of Oblivion put me in a frenzy. The 
 thought of another Elder Scrolls game made me giddy like a school girl. After finaly playing it, 
 it is everything I hoped for and more. Oblivion shatters the thought of what an RPG should be.
 
  
  On first look, the graphics are amazing. Even on my computer (Athlon 64 3700+, GeForce 6600, and 
 1gig RAM) , the framerate is decent on high settings. This was my biggest concern going in, that 
 the amazing graphics would only slow down any computer that isnt worth $3000. With graphics set 
 on high and framerate at a steady 20, i set in. Every day I find some new scenery to just stare 
 at due to its sheer beauty. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, one of the best i have ever seen. It could have been a tad better, but not 
 much. The only gripe of gameplay i have is the lockpicking. For some reason, and it could jsut 
 be that im not good at it, but i can never get the locks. The system might be flawed, or i might 
 be flawed, but it is hard to get it to work because it is very touchy. Everything else is steller. 
 The new battle system is something that will be hailed and copied for years to come. 
  
  The AI was something I had followed for a long time since the demo of it at E3 2005. Being able 
 to seem NPC's actually have schedules and do stuff other than sit in their shops was amazing. Shops 
 actually clsoe at night, and their doors lock. They sleep at night, wake up, and open up their 
 shops again. The system works very well. The speech is great too, npc's dont just say the same 
 thing over and over and over again to me. Again, i only have one gripe, and that is they are sometimes 
 stupid. I pickpocketed a guy in broad daylight right infront of him and he never noticed. A walked 
 into a house, sucked his blood, then woke him up to talk. He was not angry.
  
  So overall, i would say this game rocks. A few framerate issues in heavy forest areas due to the 
 amazing looking trees and plants, and a few gameplay/AI issues, but other than that, AMAZING. This 
 is a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legacy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing... i have spent many hours on it already and i can; t get off of it. The only 
 thing that i am not a fan of is that most of the spells look the same for example... a snowball 
 spell and another cold spell look the same... there is no difference. I would say this game is 
 going to take up much of my time for a long time to come. I think that people of past elderscroles 
 will love this game just as much as they did the first. Just do not do the main quests. Try out 
 lots of the side quests and see what the whole game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMARMOL6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and general game play is great. I would have given this game a ten but the control scheme 
 is too limited... I am not sure why the developers did not allow the players to use the num keys 
 on the right side of the keyboard to assign various weapons and spells... Holy smokes... Besides 
 this,,, The game is so good that I am still addicted. However, I still find myself going through 
 the journal to change castings and weapons in the middle of a confrontation which would effects 
 the action in a good margin... Regardless, buy this game regardless... Who cares... lol.. If they 
 release a patch so players could customize the controls... I would instantly change it to a ten.. 
 I never give high scores for games... 9.4 is overboard for me.,.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoonlitKnight66
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  As you began this game you can tell it is different than most. You the hero are imprisoned for 
 some unknown crime but that is not important. From the moment you descend into the depths of the 
 imperial palace you are entirely immersed in this world with its stunning and breath taking visuals 
 you soon realize the amazing world you have just entered. After even the first hour of game play 
 you just dont want to stop. Whether you are increasing your Breton sorcerers destruction skill 
 or you Orc's proficiency with blunt weapons you have control of how your avatar will live out his 
 life. Savior or destructor its your decision one things for sure your going to have hours of fun 
 all the way throughout this games world if it where any better I dont think I could play any other 
 game ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonks32
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The difference I found with this is the graphics, NPC interaction and the navigation system, otherwise 
 is very similar to Morrowind, which is a good thing.
  My only gripe with the game is the minimum system requirements, a lot of people are going to be 
 disappointed, unless you have a high performance machine you will not see what has been advertised.
 
  My system is a 3.0GHz P4, 1024MB DDR 400, FX5700 256MB Video Card, 160GB SATA, Intel Motherboard, 
 the game auto detected my system and set the level to LOW, and even at this level the game is a 
 slideshow, infact I even had to turn of grass and it was still slow.
  Unless you have a Very high performance PC forget it.
  This is a good way to force people to 
 buy an XBOX 360. 
  
  My low graphics score is based on the level I have to play it at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutated_Nantuko
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought this the 3rd day it came out and I am loving it. Everything I have touched, every place 
 I've been to, every interaction I have experienced has been enjoyable. The story is out of this 
 world epic. The graphics, aside from the mountain textures which don't even matter, are unbelievable. 
 The sound is amazing. If you loved the score of Morrowind then you will certainly love Oblivion's. 
 Value... value?! This game NEVER ENDS?! 50 dollars is barely anything compared to how many hours 
 you will play this game. I love it, I love everything about it. It is a fantastic game and certainly 
 the best thing Bethesda Softworks has made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazypete81
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It is like they took Morrowind. Made all the crummy parts better, and improved the graphics by 
 leaps and bounds. My only quirks with the game are (and these very are minor) : the inventory is 
 a little too dumbed down to my tastes, and the there's a bit of a lack of NPCs in the cities (there's 
 only adults and old farts) .
  
  Now that's out of the way... 
  
  The graphics are amazing especially in the great out doors, and how light plays off surfaces in 
 the dank dungeons. Please play this game on 360 with a killer-tv or a pimped out PC that you spent 
 way too much on (but are glad you did now) .
  
  The magic system is so much fun!!!! (I've been playing a pure spellcaster what can I say)
  
 
  Um, that's all I can write now... I NEED MORE OBLIVION!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwishr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Yep I got the Collectors Edition of Oblivion and I got to say I can't put it down! Most people 
 who are writing reviews with low scores seems to be having hardware problems. I play Oblivion on 
 my "Lab Top"!! It a duo Core Centrio 2.0 Ghz with 1 gig of ram and a Nvidia Go 7800 256ram. I run 
 it on 1920x1200 wide screen on full graphic settings and the only thing that lags me is the grass 
 shadows. Once that setting is off it runs Great! Its all in how you tweak the settings and as for 
 the memory leaks and other problems I have not ran into any. 
  The game play feels just like a rpg should be. When riding the horse, you can hear the leather 
 saddle move with you like your riding a real horse. The blocking of arrows and blows to your shield 
 you feeling it like your there. Also not to forget when you fire an arrow and the sound of it logging 
 into a plank of wood behind your target its all good. The magic system is a light show of eye candy 
 effects from summoning a zombie to launching a fire bolt at your enemy. Housing, horses, the Npcs 
 talking to one another. I have never seen such a sight and display of a great rpg. 
  There is so much more to put into words I could spend all day but I been playing games for a very 
 long time... since the 1983.. I have played all the classics, Legends of Kesmai, UO, EQ, EQII, WOW, Guild 
 Wars, and more. I find that The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one to put at the top of the list 
 of great games that I have played. I would recommend you go out and get a copy to find out everything 
 for yourself and make up your own mind. I read the reviews here and thought a 10 is a bit much 
 but after I bought the game it is perfect as a 10. GL HF GG
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhallo123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  When I installed this game in my computer a Voodoo Omen al21 and start to play I found out the 
 perfection of the graphics of this game using a high tech computer, it was amazing to look trough 
 the eyes of the character , and live the quest and the adventure, I may say that this game's graphics 
 and sound are PRETTY perfect because there are other games which have a similar or a bit better 
 graphic and sound development, the fact which disappoint me a bit was the learning curve, I found 
 it a bit long for a game of this nature.
  
  In conclusion I might say that this game is an spectacular show of effort and dedication from the 
 creators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crestfallen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a review for the PC version. I have not yet (nor will I in the future) played the 360 version. 
 I enjoy mouse/keyboard interfaces too much for RPGs. I don't write reviews very often. I have too 
 much to be doing to take the time. This game deserves special attention though. It stands above 
 the refuse pile of modern RPGs that are as shallow as kiddie pools in mid-winter.
  
  OK, now I must warn you that I love this game. It's not the love of a deranged fan-boy (maybe it 
 is, I really do love it. I don't usually throw reason to the wind though and $60 US is not something 
 I part with easily.) but the love of someone who sees a finely crafted peice of art and sincerely 
 admires the loving craftsmanship that has been placed in it.
  
  With the warning out of the way, let me attempt to bring you the good news and the bad news about 
 this game.
  
  Bad News:
  
  1. The hardware requirements are a "minimum" please make sure you treat them as such. You'll have 
 alot of trouble fighting in some places if you're at the low end even with minimal settings. Sorry 
 if you fit this description, but you definitely want to upgrade. I've played at both extremes because 
 I have multiple machines and it's just not worth it at on low end systems.
  
  2. If you really look at the art closely each individual peice is pretty stale. Proportions are 
 off, the construction of the human body isn't to correct scale, many of the animations are a little 
 off for the emotions they represents, around the mouths a couple of vertices are placed incorrectly, 
 etc. The good news (see below) is that the sum is MUCH greater than the parts and things go together 
 in a way that (unless you're an animator or do alot of critical analysis of artwork) you'll probably 
 barely notice.
  
  3. It says RPG. If you want sit on my butt and make a decision every 10 seconds RPG (boring to 
 me but this is the last bad thing I could think of potentially cropping up) then this is simply 
 not your game. This is RPG, as in Role-Playing... like Role-Playing the guy getting chased by 3 
 ogres and seriously not ready to fight 3 ogres RPG. Kick them in the jewels and run the heck away 
 and try to find some way to outsmart them because you are super outmatched RPG. Fall out of your 
 chair because you're butt's been clinched for 20 minutes while you used every trick and peice of 
 terrain in half a mile to survive the last battle and finally you moved it off the last inch of 
 chair RPG. It's insanely fun, but maybe too mcuh for the stale, I there's no dice RPGer. (I'm 32 
 years old from the age of Ultima, Zork, and P&P D&D... I should be in this category if anyone is, 
 but compared to this, I just can't see the fun in I rolled a 12, did I hit? )
  
  The Good news:
  
  1. If you're machine is able to run this game and you have ever watched a 
 movie like Lord of the Rings and thought "I'd like to live another life. I'd like to run like Legolas. 
 I'd like to swing a sword like Aragorn. I'd like to complain like Gimli..." Your heart beats for 
 this game. I plead with you, try it. If your machine can handle the specs please buy this game. 
 And please don't play it like a "RPG" in combat please run, fly, fight... across the barren wastes, 
 across the frozen plains, across the wild forests, if you aren't trying new things made possible 
 by this amazing physics engine you are missing out.
  
  2. If you have a brain and are playing this game, you can actually use your brain to win! It's 
 amazing! I've used traps to crush enemies, I've used drawbridges to drop them into pits, I've trapped 
 them behind gates and decimated them with, I've pushed them off cliffs onto the rocks below. I 
 hard been chased across frozen wastes while destroying a group of ogres from range (and felt helpess 
 when one of the hulking brutes caught me with a blow and sent me reeling for a few moments unable 
 to move) .
  
  3. If you can see the Forest and not just the individual leaves on each tree, the art in this game 
 is the most beautiful compilation ever placed together anywhere. Each element may be imperfect, 
 but honestly that is the beauty of art. It is the mistakes of men placed together on display. If 
 I saw any of the peices alone I'd just shake my head, but together they work together and produce 
 such an incredibly detailed and beautiful world that I have never been so moved. 
  
  I can not fairly give this game anything less than a ten. Despite its weaknesses, there is simply 
 nothing else that attempts what Oblivion does. I fear it may be years before anything comes this 
 close to perfection in RPGing again.
  
  We should all thank Bethesda for creating such an incredible convergence of art, literature and 
 entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Tiger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I was completely addicted to Morrowind... after 2 days of playing Oblivion I am stunned, shocked... 
 and amazed 
  
  The graphics are beyond imagination... especially with all the eye candy turned up (I have a high-end 
 custom rig which helps) . To be fair I loaded it on another PC that has roughly the recommended 
 hardware... and it still looks amazing.
  
  The inventory/questing/map interface was a little confusing at first... but now seems completely 
 normal... (I would have liked to have placeable windows and whatnot... instead of the consolidated 
 dialog box and all the tabs... but that is nitpicking) . 
  
  Movement/Combat is superb... and if anything makes you "feel" like you are in the characters eyes... 
 meaning everything seems a little too close... which makes corridor crawls in the dark VERY creepy. 
 Never know when rat... or creature will pop out. The horse is a super addition... it can even jump!
 
  
  Spells are also much improved... Love blasting them rats with a fireball... etc.
  There is MUCH more to spells and potions, but I have only just started... so I only have the basics 
 so far.
  
  As far as the story goes... I am very early into things... been mainly exploring the shops... and 
 trying to sell enough stuff to get gold... etc. That part hasn't changed much.
  
  I am VERY eager for the community to start creating Mods... especially houses I can store stuff 
 in... (can buy a shack in the early part of the game I think... once you are trusted enough and 
 have enough gold) ... but nothing is better than user created custom houses and other buildings.
 
  
  I'm hooked... going to but a big dent in my "Call of Duty 2" and "Day of Defeat: source" play... 
 but oh well.
  
  Can't give it a better out of the box review... !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savant
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Look, If you have a great PC buy this game for your PC, if not go buy it on X-BOX360 (if its an 
 option) - Anyone that likes roleplaying games needs to own this game. Anyone that does like RPGs 
 and doesn't like this game either has a under Par PC or they have A. D. D. 
  
  I have seen people say "I have REQ to play this game" yeah.. Thats all they are. If you want to 
 play it in all its glory im affraid you will have to spend more money. Thats just the way it is, 
 don't get mad at the game because your crap can't run it right. It runs just fine on my PC.
  
  I have seen people say there is nothing special about this game. Honestly I can't believe how 
 spoiled people have become to a point where they can't appricaite all the hard work that went into 
 every detail of this game. This is exactly what I was hope'n for when they said there was going 
 to be a new Elderscrolls game. Im sure the people that don't respect this are the idoits that are 
 going to the store asking "Hey, you got Morrowind 2?" 
  
  This is a huge jump for Games in general - If you have an imagination (unfortunetly most people 
 nowa days don't) and you love adventure. Then you can Creat your own way of life with this.. So 
 go buy it, and enjoy the other world that you can buy in a box! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game two days ago for a birthday present. Loaded it onto the system (which met 
 all specified requirements) and found the lag on the mouse and character were especially bad, and 
 would not load onto another PC. I finally loaded it onto my laptop and got it to actually work, 
 after returning and getting another disk. I found 20 minutes into the game, looking around was 
 very awkward using the mouse. You have to keep your fingers off of the left/right click and another 
 problem was-you can only pick up items in the 1st person. I know I like to play in 3rd person, 
 so in order to get items to your pack, you have to change into 1st person view. This, too, can 
 be very awkward, especially if you are in a battle. I am really wondering if Bethasda Gaming Corp 
 beta tested this game in the PC version. The graphics are very good and I am sure the storyline 
 is also very good. I play RPG's all the time and played the orginal Morrowind as did my husband, 
 but I am very disappointed in the controls of this game. I think Bethesda would have been better 
 off making a regular XBox version instead of a PC version. I am sure the controls for the XBox 
 360 are more adaptable for playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  If any of you play (ed) Morrowind, which i expect many did, then you maybe like me in thinking it 
 was a great game with a few nagging buts. Oblivion has seemingly shook off many of those buts while 
 keeping all that was great about the Elder Scrolls III. 
  The graphics are beautiful. Even on the low spec that it suggested my computer run on it looks 
 great. Of course hands still go through bodies & the like but complaining about things like that 
 are petty so i wont. The lip syncing with the speech is good if not perfect, though i have some 
 buts about speect in genereal. When you go to speak to someone, everything around you friezes (its 
 meant to) & you start talking (you dont, you just select topics & they talk) . While i like this 
 innovation of the Morrowind text speech, the drifting eyes & general unemotiveness of the characters 
 (shouting while standing calmly & the like) is just something that bugs me, if only a little.
 
  Like speech the fighting mechanics have been simplified & made more arcadelike then before. Now 
 left click means attack, right means defend. While block & other skills are still useful, this 
 change means that you have more control over the fight; & this is my second nag. The fighting has 
 sped up but button bashing left & right doesnt work as your weapons cant keep up with your franctic 
 bashing (yes you can use tactics, but trust me when surrounded by scamps tactics fly out the window) . 
 Of course the new graphics make the fights look far nicer then they did in morrowind, but just 
 be weary that the new system of fighting isnt all that great, though luckily it isnt broken.
  Travel has also had a shakeup. The thing that stopped me completing the main quest of the game 
 was the tediously long lengths of time I had to walk when trying to get named "the one" by all 
 the different tribes & guilds (there was alot of walking) . Thankfully, now all the main towns start 
 marked on your map & you can jump too them, the time it would take to walk being added onto the 
 clock. This means you can do alot more travel in alot less time, very handy. Of course that doesnt 
 mean the forests arnt worth exploring. With the new graphics im sure some would be happy just going 
 into the woods & spending all their gametime there. Also, with the addition of horses, the developers 
 have taken all possible flaws with travel from Morrowind & dealt with them to perfection.
  Oblivion is clearly a great game. It has a fantastic story, beautiful graphics, great voice acting 
 (with real actors unlike in most games) , & is generally a great game. It has its problems, like 
 the rather confusing new log/inventory/map/magicbook. It isnt perfect, its not the best game ever 
 in the world. But its the best Elder Scrolls game & probably the best FPRPG out there: & that is 
 all it had to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mchristie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I'll start with my system= AMD 64 3.5+ processor, 2 gig of DDR RAM, an ATI X1300 Graphic card. 
 Well it looks pretty good but not like all them movies on the www. They must be running on some 
 kick ass Alianwhere system, im not saying that it looks bad on my system but i would say im running 
 the game at about 85% of its full glory. If you are going to play with the minimum spec you will 
 still have a good time it just won't be Bethesda's vision of Oblivion it will look a little crude 
 and rough around the edges. Every now and then a game comes along that warrants an upgrade the 
 last one being Half Life 2, well Oblivion is the worth upgrading for now!! Im off to bye a ATI 
 X1800 to max out on all the graphics i suggest you all do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppedAtBirth
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I picked up the elder scroll series with Morrowind and played Morrowind until WOW came out, I have 
 over 100 hours investing in playing wow and Oblivion may put wow to rest (for me) . Oblivion to me 
 was highly anticipated and I had very high hopes for it. 
  
  After having multiple issues with the install, having to reinstalled DX9 and then reinstall Oblivion, 
 I finally got to play. At first this seemed to be very aggravating but Bethesda tech supports site 
 had both issues identified and there solutions worked. Turned an unpleasant experience into a good 
 experience. 
  
  I initially turned all the graphs to max at max resolution to see what would happen. Amazingly 
 my machine seems to handle the majority of the graphics without issue although when fight multiple 
 creatures/mobs there was a sever drop in fps, so I had to turn some shadows down. Although I didn't 
 notice a ton of different, it played smoother. My machine isn't the latest greatest with 3G P4, 
 2G Ram, 6800 GT 256mb NVIDIA but it looked spectacular and played extremely well after the graphic 
 tweaks. 
  
  Now for the True Review. 
  
  I loved the start of the game, going thru the tunnels to start the main story line and the game 
 watches how you play and guesses a class for you, which was very interesting and even guessed the 
 class I ended up picking. The only issue I found right from the start was a music issue which may 
 or may not be an issue with my pc. During fighting the music that starts playing seems to be messed 
 up 1/2 the time, sounds funny, but at all other time the music and sounds are great. 
  
  I am very please to see the organized interface that helps keep things organized and make having 
 100 items in inventory easy to work with. Although it does take some getting use to. The Controls 
 have changed much since Morrowind but I was always happy with the controls. 
  
  If you can stand playing an open ended, never ending, RPG that is not MMO (which can be a good 
 thing, no lag, no ninjas, no queues) , then give this game a shot. Not sure this will end my WOW 
 days but it definitely is a possibility.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grovler
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I put down DDO, EQ2, Empire at War and Galactic Civ to play this game non-stop (except for the 
 occasional CIV 4 game that is) . I have been gaming since 1988, Bards Tale 3, and this is the best 
 game yet to date. I am only 14 hours into it but I already like this game better than Elder Scrolls 
 3. The story line is more like Elder Scrolls 2 Arena which is a game that I personally loved. All 
 the massive on-line games need to look at this game and learn some lessons. This is how to "game" 
 fantasy right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtombak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  Geez worth the wait. Definitely good graphics but u got to have a killer computer to appreciate 
 the real deal. The menu's of the game is not as good as it was, there are not enough info about 
 the inventory u have but what the heck it still rocks. 
  
  U got a high-end pc? Buy the game and see what real gaming is!!! U are gonna be shocked what this 
 game offers to the real game freaks. Good development makes the game really enjoyable. Bethesda 
 game studios has the experience , the knowledge and they are interested in mythic role playing 
 games than any other studio. I bet that the team members play FRP games alot because what u see 
 in the game is the true ambiance you wish and fantasized during your FRP gaming nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Data463
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Like many, I have been an Elder Scrolls fan for years, with Daggerfall being my first. I've since 
 played Arena and of course, Morrowind GOTY. When Game Informer broke the story of Oblivion in October 
 2004, I salivated at the screenshots, and the description of the gameplay features made me even 
 more eager to play.
  
  As the last year and a half has gone by, there have been some issues revealed, including soft shadow 
 removal (seemed to be the biggest one people complained about) . Now that I am playing, I can't 
 really say I miss them. Graphics for me are secondary to gameplay, but it's worth mentioning that 
 there are times when Oblivion is absolutely gorgeous. Landscape vistas are breathtaking, and it's 
 only when you purposely set out to scrutinize every dot and tittle that you find problems. Most 
 of these are attributable to how powerful your system is, to be sure. Thankfully, PC users got 
 the upper hand in that the ini files are already being sorted out by folks at Bethesda's official 
 forums. Tweaks are being done to prove that the PC is still mightier than the console.
  
  HOWEVER, and this is where things get dicey, PC users are definitely paying the console price. 
 In a "what in the heck were they thinking!?" nod to ION Stom's botched up PC version of Deus Ex: 
 Invisible War, we're stuck with a user interface that reeks of console streamlining. It should 
 be understood that streamlining on a console is done for a reason, namely a limited ability to 
 interact and input information using a controller. A PC user has at least 101 keys, plus a mouse 
 with which to interact with his game, yet Bethesda totally disregarded that. What exactly is wrong? 
 Well, gone is the ability to customize the way your inventory/skills/spells/map screen looks. The 
 UI is a convoluted tabbed affair filled with scrollbars and icons with no tooltips of any kind. 
 It does not scale accordingly with your game resolution. If you're running at 1600 x 1200, the 
 Menus will still fill your screen, while only showing you 6-8 items at a time. Morrowind's inventory 
 wasn't elegant by any means, but compared to Oblivion's, it was sheer brilliance. 
  
  I could go on and on about this "consolization", but a look at any major gaming community will 
 see that this is a common problem with PC users. Even the worst RPG in the history of man (Fable) 
 had a decent PC port. Here's hoping for a patch.
  
  In conclusion, I can't say that this is the "best gmae evar", but it is pretty good in places. 
 I know I didn't touch the subject of quests or combat, but I'll just say I pretty much agree with 
 the consensus on those. Better than Morrowind, to put it in a nutshell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vokail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  This is the long anticipated sequel to Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind and it was worth the wait. 
 It brings a stunning world that's as beautiful as it is massive, bringing many things to do in 
 the world. Along with the graphics, the sound, and overall game play is very good and has only 
 minor issues. This is Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion.
  
  The game starts with your character in a dungeon, where you get to choose what race, class, and 
 sign you are. There's a ton of customization for your character in this game, with many classes 
 to choose from or the ability to create your own class and with the ability to change just about 
 everything on your character's head, it brings a nice sense of uniqueness to your hero. As you 
 leave the beginning area, you are given one last chance to make changes if you'd like, which can 
 be good if you decided you didn't like the choice you made or if you made a mistake. 
  
  This brings you into the world of Oblivion and the first thing you see is an amazing view of the 
 landscape. It is obvious how much detail they put into the world and everything in it. The game 
 runs suprisingly well with a Pentium D 820 with 1gb of ram along with a Gforce 7800 GT OC with 
 pretty much everything up with the exception of anti asailing. 
  
  The one thing that it has going against it is the character voices. Many of the voices are recycled 
 people for many different characters, whether it be a main character or a person on the side of 
 the street. Although it's noticeable, it is a very minor detail. The overall sound of the game 
 is great, on the other hand. The music is very well composed and the combat sounds are well done.
 
  
  The combat in the game is a lot like Morrowind, but is still better. You can be in the normal first 
 person view like in morrowind, where you can block, attack, or cast spells while moving around 
 in the surrounding area. The thing that really makes a difference is the fact you can switch between 
 first person view and third person, which for some may make the combat just a little more exciting.
 
  
  The biggest problem the game has is an issue I found while playing as a vampire. There is a point 
 where you collect 4 texts and must bring it to a certain person in the imperial city. The only 
 problem is that she won't talk to you because you are a vampire. Unfortunately there was no real 
 way to get around it that I saw and had to start over. That is the truly bad thing about the gameplay 
 that I have found.
  
  But with that said, the massiveness of the game makes up for the minor problems it has with the 
 sound and the gameplay. The core plot is said to take up to 30 hours on its own without side quests. 
 In the many towns and villages in the world, there are side quests for you to do; along with the 
 guilds that you can join to entertain yourself with various tasks. Even with all the different 
 quests in town, there are also many dungeons littering the country side that hold treasure within.
 
  
  This is a truly great game for those who enjoy engrossing RPGs. With the amazing graphics, good 
 sound, and the sheer massiveness in itself, it will entertain for hours and hours on end. Even 
 though it has one or two problems, it is overall a truly amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilross
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  I started this game with hopes so high I was sure that they could not be met. As a player of TES2 
 Daggerfall, and TES3 Morrowind, I have a concept of the world and the series and so much was promised 
 with this new installment of the elder scrolls I was sure that this game would be the first "let-down" 
 bethesda made.
  
  My god, was I wrong....
  
  This game is the ultimate RPG experiance, you can do, be and act anything you can thing of, as 
 long as you are willing to deal with the outcome you create, the graphics are godlike, the sound 
 engrossing, and the gamplay is easy to pickup, fun to do, and its a constant joy to lv your character 
 and get better...
  
  Im not being a "fanboy"... trust me ... even the most jaded RPG'er will be stunned by this game... 
 the AI and personality of the NPC's makes this game FEEL like a MMO, and you playing alone.... 
 I dont know what else to say.
  
  this is a groundbreaking game in the history of gaming... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWl7CHY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  TES IV: Oblivion is a revolutionary RPG with next gen graphics and possibly the best orchestrated 
 music my Jeremy Soule (also made music for Guild Wars.) 
  
  Gameplay
  The best it's ever been. From the main quests to the optional yet fun quests and the never-ending 
 environments add to the excitement and diverse discoveries of Oblivion. The game includes several 
 hundreds of hours of gameplay. To relate it to GTA is an understatement. No, really, it's much 
 better than that.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  Possibly the best graphics I have ever seen in a game! If you have the "ultimate 3.5k rig" under 
 your desk, you'll be able to run this baby exceptionally. Although not as good as the Xbox 360, 
 the quality is still acceptional. In order to have the best performance, consider it like a pie: 
 Take out all the fruity filling and leave the crust along with the cherry on top. That's what you'll 
 need to do before you can play this game at a rate of 30+ frames per second. Yes, it doesn't seem 
 unreasonable which is one of my complaints. Does Bethesda really expect us to spend $4,000 just 
 to play this beautiful game? Yes! In fact, it's worth it. Now, on to sound. The sound of clashing 
 swords against steel, wood, iron, rock, and flesh add the sense of immersion to the game. All character 
 dialogue is in full MP3 format for you to listen to! This could add to more than 60 hours of total 
 character dialogue. Don't expect silent text coming from an NPC's mouth. Jeremy Soule's compilations 
 of great orchestrated music just add even more realism. To describe how good it is, just listen 
 to his music and take out the imagery. Create the image in your mind and what do you get? Winter-white 
 mountains? Yes! If you want the full aspect of the sounds of Oblivion, I recommend Creative's line 
 of X-Fi cards.
  
  Issues and Bugs
  Not many to find.
  - There were some item images that were corrupted but were very rare. I do not expect anyone to 
 experience this problem.
  - If an item were to be set in a corner, preferably, an item that could be picked up and moved 
 around, stepping on it would allow it to pass through the ground, in to the level. This is an example 
 of object collision. Easy to do but you may not notice it!
  - When having an enemy on your back and fleeing from the dungeon, the game will think that the 
 enemy is still targetted on to you, causing you not to be able to travel to places using your map.
 
  
  Overall
  To the hardware, to the issues, to the beautiful graphics and gameplay, let not the dark side consider 
 this game a pitiful one. Pick it up... today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitecoconut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, the graphics are unbeliavble, the audio is also very well done. The characters are 
 well designed and the fact that you can ride horses its pretty cool. One big improvement from Morrowind 
 is the loading times. It loads really fast. As far as computer required specs, i have no problems 
 at all with it and my computer isn't all that great. I do get some lag when there is multiple enemies 
 but its only for a split second and it happens with other games like Battlefield 2. Other than 
 that I would reccomend you get the guide because the world is huge and there is a lot of exploring 
 and tons of quests for you to do! One other thing that is different from Morrowind is that you 
 can fast travel and that means it can make you take the easy way to a town isntead of exploring 
 it and discovering the dungeons along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1nnful1ne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Shut close the gates of Oblivion in this wonderfully and truly adequate sequal to the award winning 
 franchise of the Elderscrolls.
  
  Graphics: The overwhelming compexity that is donned over every monster or hill cap is absolutely 
 adored. This system hog IS the reason for upgrading your video card or any other crucial parts 
 in your PC. The lush and flowing trees adorned by the truly uncapped by the swirling grass or the 
 horizon beyond.
  
  Sound: The sound, from the clash of the swords to the dropping of glasses is refined well. Although, 
 some hiccups in the developement have produced the ability to "clang" your sword on the ground 
 with the equal sound of hitting hard steel. The music is captivating but forgetable in some way. 
 In reason it fits perfectly into the game with great ease to the ears.
  
  Gameplay: There is nothing like flipping a dead body down a hill and watching it tumble its way 
 down. Using almost exactly the same setup for movement and etc. from morrowind, Oblivion is easy 
 to handle and very seamless. I won't gon on explaining the story, mainly because it is said many 
 times on other articles.
  
  Bethesda really dug down to the roots to make this amazing game full of charm and as easy on computers 
 as humanly possible. I applaud them in making every sequal another trip to one of the best designs 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plainelmo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  In the first hour of play, this game shines as being simply incredible~ perfect detail, great expanding 
 story~ substantially immersive gameplay~ I'd have to say this game exceeds all my expectations. 
 However, seeing as I have not yet finished the game, I will say no more, other than get this game 
 NOW! 
  
  I Looking extremely forward to rewrite a review for the RADIANT AI system, once I get further on 
 into the game.
  
  Furthermore, if you appreciated morrowind, or have not ever heard of the predecessors in this series 
 but are a vivid RPG enthusiast. Lo and Behold~ we have found the MOTHERLOAD!
  
  SIMPLY INCREDIBLE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slammo22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  "How do I love thee, let me count the ways...."
  
  Damn guys, you really hit the nail on the head with this game. The only problem with this game 
 is you need a smoking video card, other than that this is exactly what I was looking for in a new 
 RPG game. The attention to detail in everything is amazing, from the facial features, to the sunrise 
 in the morning, which is spectacular. 
  
  I guess i'am gonna have to break up with my girlfriend, cause I now have zero time to spend on 
 her.
  
  Buy the frikken game guys, cause it's worth every penny.
  
  sincerely,
  John the addict
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have for any RPG lover. I spent hours on release on this game. I loved morrwind. 
 This game takes me back in a good way. I love seeing the upgraded graphics. Huge outside and world 
 to explore. The dungeons are awsome. 
  
  Only on problem is the poorly rendered background. Its awful to see in such a great looking game. 
 Its like you spent all this time on everything else but overlooked this spot. Its like selling 
 a person a new car and there is a nail in the tire. See what iam talking about. You don't want 
 it. Not shooting the game down it sticks out like a sore thumb. I run this game on ultra settings 
 even adjusted everything to max. Max fade ect.. Its still there. 
  
  Great game though. It was deffentily worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zackattack784
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  Gameplay is both fun and immersive. The main quest has a very exciting story line. Some players 
 may simply play through the entire game without even partaking in any of the faction quests. The 
 combat system is fun, archery is also very well done, and magic animations look top notch. The 
 game world is HUGE. It is very easy to spend hours wandering the forest admiring the landscape.
 
  9/10 - Some slow down issues, read graphics section below
  
  GRAPHICS:
  One word, breathtaking. These are some of the best graphics I've ever seen in a video game. Every 
 bush blows in the wind. Every single leaf is textured. Character models are top notch. Everything 
 looks gorgeous. All of this eye candy doesn't come at a price though. The game does suffer from 
 some slowdowns. Most of these occur due to the game loading or autosaving. For the most part, the 
 slow downs do not occur during pivotal moments in the game.
  10/10 - Graphics are flawless
  
  SOUND:
  Sound effects are very well done. Whether it be the clash of swords or the drawing 
 of a bow, both sound exceptionally good. Also, the game is made much more exciting due to the fact 
 that everything is spoken, no more reading long dialogues on paper. Music however, isn't anything 
 exciting. There is music playing in the background and there is always the tell tale sound of trouble, 
 but the sound isn't going to blow you away.
  9/10 - Very well done, but nothing revolutionary.
  
  VALUE:
  Easily 100+ hours of gameplay. 
 Whether it is the main quest, faction quests, miscellaneous quests, or just exploring the game 
 world, you will always find things to do.
  10/10
  
  TILT/FINAL WORD:
  From what I have played thus far, this game has blown me away. Quests are very well thought out 
 and very fun to complete. The loading times are very much improved over Morrowind. Also, the slow 
 monotonous pace of Morrowind has also been fixed. Oblivion includes a fast travel system that allows 
 you to instantly teleport to any place that you have already been. Also, Oblivion includes horses 
 for a quick means of transportation from town to town. Whether you're an FPS fan or Sports game 
 fan, there is something in this game to please all gamers everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrispyLlama
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This'll be a brief review, as i've only played for about 12-15 hours and it's 2 in the morning 
 here  .  
  My specs for reference:
  Intel Pentium 4 3.0 GHz (2 CPU's) w/ Hyperthreading Technology @ 3000MHz
  1024MB (2x512) PC3200 
 DDR 400 RAM
  Radeon x850 pro W/ 16 pipelines unlocked, OC'd to 520/590, External VGA cooling fan
  150 GB HDD 
 7200 RPM
  Antec Sonata II 450W Air Duct 120MM
  (I have all the latest drivers installed and such)
  
  Graphics:
  Although graphics aren't 
 really that important to me at all, Oblivion suprisingly kick my computers butt.. I have it on 
 1024x768 with everything on high with bloom (Can't have HDR unfortunately.. sad. gif ) and at times 
 I can get some pretty bad framerate issues. Occasionally (Only happened 4-5 times) the game will 
 drop to around 7fps in a city for me.. But when I fast travel to another part of the city and head 
 back there, the framerate will smooth out. Now.. On to the pausitive side of the graphics - THE 
 GAME IS BEAUTIFUL! Just seeing the trees and bushes swaying in the wind while gazing at the skyscraper 
 tower from outside of the Imperial city is absolutely BREATHTAKING. I won't get too into them as 
 it might ruin the game for you guys smile. gif
  Overall i'll give the graphics a 9.5/10 because of some minor graphical blemishes and the fact 
 that it requires a pretty expensive computer to run.
  Gameplay: Fantastic. Very reminiscent of Morrowind, although the battle system is extremely fun 
 now. Also, unlike morrowind, mages and stealth characters don't suck anymore tongue. gif
  
  Radiant AI:
  This is the feature I was most unimpressed by. I guess it was because it was too 
 hyped. Its a major improvement on game AI, but not revolutionary.
  
  Sound: Great! Kudos to Jeremy Soule for once again doing an excellent musical composition. The 
 50+ hours of voice-acting really brings life to the game as well.
  
  Replayability value: It's Elder Scrolls! What do you think? Ever since yesterday I havent even 
 left my computer because this game is so intruiging.
  
  Pros:
  +Amazing Graphics
  +Radiant AI (Although not as impressive as sought to be)
  +extremely well revised combat system
 
  +hundreds of hours of replayability
  +it gives you that feeling that all RPG's try so hard to do; make you feel as if you really are 
 the character you're playing
  +deep storyline
  +great character customization
  +huge world to explore
  
  Cons:
  -requires a supercomputer to run
  -you only get to choose 
 one of these two choices; Oblivion or your social life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrX600531
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion has to be one of the most amazing games that I have played this year. 
 I was at work when I say that little white box that said Oblivion on it. I then gleefully picked 
 it up and bought it on my lunch hour. I have been waiting for Oblivion to come out for a few years 
 now and I just couldn't wait a moment longer. When I got home I was pleased to find that it was 
 only on one DVD. This makes installing much easier since I don't have to do all kinds of disk swapping. 
 So I got myself a soda and sat at my desk. Oblivion installed without a hitch. I started up the 
 Oblivion game and then my web Webroot Spy Sweeper said that Oblivion. exe was a trojan! Well I knew 
 that it was safe and put it in the ignore list.
  
  Well with all that out of the way I start up the game. The opening was amazing showing the imperial 
 city. The menu loaded quickly and was clean and sleek. So far I'm quite impressed with Oblivion.
 
  
  I made my Wood elf character and start the game. I then go through the normal opening prison sequance 
 where you defind your character through your game play. I ended up going with Lady as my stars, 
 you choose the stars that you where born under for extra stat or skill bonuses. I then chose to 
 be an agent a little ways after that. Agent fits me quite well I think since I grew to like the 
 bow and arrow from Morrowind.
  
  Now with all my beginning stuff done I hit Esc and then Save. I get a message on top saying that 
 my game was saved. Well out of an old habit of mine I like to save twice just in case. This is 
 where my main problem started. I noticed that all I had under saves was an auto save. Well that 
 would not do at all. So I then save again... and again... and again. Nothing happens! No save files 
 are created even though the game says it saved. Well I pull out my manual and find out that F5 
 was quick save. I hit that and finally I have two saves. Auto save and quick save, nothing else 
 though. This is a really annoying bug because if I do something dumb I could lose hours and hours 
 of game play. 
  
  I then go to Elder Scrolls tech forum and find that I'm not only one having problems. There are 
 well over 4,000 posts with people needing help with bugs. In all my years of playing games I have 
 never seen anything this bad. The game has only been out for two days at this post and already 
 over 4,000 posts with bugs!? Needless to say this game really needs a patch. I would say they need 
 to fix saving first. Also the crashes are a big problem. I got about three window based crashes, 
 with the boxes telling you to end the program now, and one with a full on system rebooting blue 
 screen of death.
  
  Oblivion is still a great game and with a few patches it would have gotten a higher score. I'm 
 just happy I was smart and bought the PC version of Oblivion and not the 360 version. At least 
 on PCs you can patch buggy software. So buy it now but don't be to surprised if you lose a save 
 file or crash a dozen times. If you are willing to wait Bethesda should have a patch out of no 
 time (hopefully) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locke_Digitulus
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The good points of this game have been covered by everyone else. Graphics, sound, presentation; 
 all stellar. The music is deep, emotional and epic, just like you need to have in any CRPG. The 
 voices are top notch for the most part, with the likes of Sean Bean and Patrick Stewert making 
 the listening experience nothing short of brilliant.
  
  My focus is going to be on immersion more than anything else. A good CRPG should have great immersion 
 in order to really succeed, but Oblivion makes me feel like I'm playing a game. It also feels a 
 little too much like an XBox 360 title (which of course it is) due to the console-centric interface. 
 Not even being able to name my saved games without using the console is a little shameful.
  
  The game was overhyped. Let me clarify this point a little -- I was looking forward to the 
 Radiant AI system that would allow the NPCs to interact in a much more human manner, starting conversations 
 among themselves, going hunting, eating, sleeping, all using a Sims-like schedule-and-desire system. 
 If an NPC has extra money, he might buy food at a shop. If not, he might have to steal it from 
 someone else. Bar brawls, NPCs getting arrested... it sounded too good to be true.
  
  It was. While many of the above examples do rarely take place (other than conversations, which 
 happen a ton) , there are some general AI things that make the game less immersive. While talking 
 to an old lady NPC, for example, she sounds like an old woman -- until I keep talking to her, then 
 she switches to a young girls voice. This sort of thing happens continually.
  
  Omnipotent guards are a problem as well. Steal something and no one saw you? Great! The gaurds 
 will know, however, even if they can't possibly have seen you. Want to steal a top-of-the-line 
 weapon? Good luck. Any that you see in shops are "replicas" and can't be used. Since the game constantly 
 adjusts to your level, all of the loot and NPC merchant vendor is also adjusted to your level. 
 Sure, that can be a good thing for balance... but what about freedom? What if I want to pull of 
 the heist of the decade? Can't be done.
  
  Another point that really feels unrewarding is leveling. Did you level? Congrats! Oh, but so did 
 everything else in the game. If you get stuck at a certain point and can't beat the monsters, you 
 would think that getting some more experience and coming back at a higher level would work. In 
 this game, it doesn't. You come back 5 levels higher, and everything else is 5 levels higher (or 
 different creatures that are your new level) . Either way, you don't get any stronger than your 
 opponents. Leveling feels unrewarding. In fact, leveling can make the game harder rather than easier.
 
  
  The combat is visceral and generally satisfying, much better than Morrowind. But the lack of true 
 freedom and a feeling of "getting nowhere" when leveling sort of ruins the immersive experience. 
 Guards that always seem to know what you've done when they shouldn't be able to know grate on my 
 nerves.
  
  There is a lot to love in this game, but the freedom experienced in Morrowind seems to have lessened. 
 I certainly enjoy myself playing it, but I don't forget it's a game for very long due to the repeated 
 (and often stupid) NPC conversations. With a few changes and tweaks to the Radiant AI I think a 
 lot could be improved for CRPG lovers that want maximum freedom and immersion.
  
  Despite these negatives, I give it a 7.9. It has great potential for the modding community -- and 
 a few good mods can make this game a 10 in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thref2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is an extremely well done game. The graphics are amazing, especially the lighting. Some 
 animations aren't very good though, and that degrades the experience. The game play is fantastic, 
 you can actually block when you choose, unlike in Morrowind where it blocks automatically depending 
 on your block skill. The new menu system is great, everything is available via a push of a button, 
 unlike in Morrowind, where there's tons of windows to filter through.
  
  The arena mini quests in Oblivion are extremely fun, pitting you gladiator style against an opponent 
 or two (sometimes three!) . There are plenty of other side quests to do, and you'll likely get side-tracked 
 from the main quests very quickly.
  
  In Oblivion you can own a house, there is one available in almost every major city. You can also 
 own a horse, witch is great for exploring (although you can instant travel via the map to places 
 you have already been to) .
  
  All in all, Oblivion is a ground breaking game. It doesn't have the many bugs and glitches (although 
 it has some graphical glitches in 3rd person view) that plagued Morrowind. Some animations are 
 still a bit weak, and some sound affects just don't sound good (ex: when you un-sheath a sword 
 it plays that same horrible sound from Morrowind) . But what it losses in those fields, it makes 
 up in gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wookiez
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, Oblivion doesnt run as well as id hoped on my amd64 3000+, 1 gig ram, and geforce n6800gt256 
 video card. i had to scale it down somewhat to get reasonable framerates. Biggest of all, is the 
 HDR, which looks absolutely stunning, but at a pretty big performance hit. Even with the graphics 
 tuned downa bit, this game runs well, and looks absolutely fantastic.
  
  As far as the game goes, i havent played too much of it yet, but what i have seen impresses me. 
 Chains dangle with lifelike physics as you push em around. I was automatically greeted as i stepped 
 into a building. Shadows dance around fires and magic effects fill the air. This is just what i 
 remembered when i first played Morrowind, and back then I said to myself "wow, wow wow oh my God. 
 Im gonna have to call in sick to work tomorrow." i can seriously see myself becoming so lost in 
 this game just like i did in Morrowind, that time will seem to fly by faster than the speed of 
 light. This game is, in essence, Morrowind 2. And i wouldnt have it any other way. Even after ive 
 finished the game and done all the subquests, ill make mods and play other people's mods, and i 
 will easily get over 400 hours of fun out of this one. If you're considering buying it, if you 
 played Morrowind, if youre a fledgling rpg fan looking for a game that wont run dry quickly, i 
 only have 4 words for you:
  
  Buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about a game where it has a second title of Oblivion? Besides the fact that it 
 is one of the best games of all time. I was a little bit skeptical when buying the game for one 
 reason; I had played Morrowind at a friends house and never did get into it. Another note was 
 I met almost all the recommended settings. The only thing I didnt hit was the processor speed 
 it suggested 3 GHz I have a 2.8 Dual Core. Then as I saw previews for it I decided I would buy 
 it. Here is my official review of this game.
  
  One thing I have to say is that installing the game went off without a single glitch, and it had 
 one of the fastest install times I had seen even compared to the Call of Duty series. After installation 
 the first thing I do is I of course boot the game up. The software told me I could run it on high 
 settings. As I get into the game I notice some lag, so I toned down the settings a little, took 
 off shadows, lighting except for bloom, and turn the textures to medium and that was it. As I do 
 this I am thinking its going to look horrible now but no, not only does it not lag now it is still 
 a gorgeous game. Also a note to some people I would turn all view distances as far as possible 
 because that will get rid of lag. 
  
  Ok now to actually talk about graphics for this behemoth. This game will pull you into a beautiful 
 age where trees are huge, deer run around, and water is crystal clear. I am serious about this. 
 Lighting effects and shadows on the game looks even better, with the glistening of your sword, 
 to the reflection of your hours on the pavement in the form of a dark shadow. All of it is surreal, 
 and yes I shall beautiful. With lighting effects and shadows off everything still looks great. 
 Secondly I would like to point out the musical score in this game is phenomenal and changes when 
 you are in battle. Also weather changes in this game drastically, which adds some very nice atmospheres.
 
  
  I would love to say more, but Im sure you all would get it, I would of raved on how good the AI 
 is, the combat, the Inventory as a panel, the worthiness of $50 as a price tag for the pc. The 
 map of Cyrodil that comes with the collectors edition and the regular edition. These entirely 
 aside this game is great. If you have a decent pc go out and buy even if you cant run it on all 
 high settings. My only two complaints are that yes it does require a rather beastly machine and 
 when the software tells you what settings you can run on, you may want to tone it down a little. 
 Otherwise it gets a nice high score of 10.
  
  Game Review on:
  2.8ghz Dual Core Intel Processor
  1gb of Ram
  Radeon X800 256MB GDDR3 RAM
  250gb Hard Drive
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Now, I am going to be hard with Oblivion, just because I love the game so much. I really like The 
 Elder Scrolls Oblivion, don't get me wrong, it's scope huge, it's landscapes gorgeous, etc etc 
 
  
  BUT:
  
  1.- The spanish translation is remarkably bad, the text doesn't fit in the menus and there are 
 many issues: poorly translated location, item and people's names, etc. Its really annoying, I'd 
 rather play it in english, but there is no option to do so, my copy seems to include localized 
 text only. It's a real shame, and I will have to send my copy back and buy an import version. Why 
 not include the english language texts at least as an option in a 60 euro product? Ehem...
  
  2.- The game is far from being optimized, my rig is far beyond the minimum specs and the game 
 is still not smooth enough. Maybe a patch will improve performance. I have tweaked the game to 
 make it playable, and I am used to 1280+ resolutions with all the details and filters to the max 
 in every other modern game, so I guess it could be better optimized.
  
  3.- Now, the Menu system. The game looks obviously developed for the XBOX 360, so the PC version 
 "smells" like a port. That is something I am really against, where are the good old PC-friendly 
 menus? Gone with the console frenzy. I guess a lot of the optimization problems and the bad quality 
 of some graphics and textures comes from that. I am sorry, maybe I am being harsh, but I can perceive 
 the "console" thingy everywhere in the game.
  
  4. -As an idea, a project, an ideal, the game is as good as it could be, but it's a real shame 
 that XBOX 360 has been the development platform. Had it been designed and made for the PC first, 
 and the console second, it would have been a far better game, and now we can only hope for patches.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  * Astounding graphics
  * Great sound
  * Terrific combat
  
  Cons:
  * Weak story
  * Level scaling
  * Repetitive gameplay
  
  No, not another obivion gate! I 
 consider Oblivion a technical achievement, but in truth, I became bored after about 50 hours of 
 play. What - I didn't get my money's worth? Well, I did, but I thought I was missing something, 
 and but for fun I reinstalled the game that originally sucked me into the TES world, Morrowind, 
 and was hooked once again.
  
  In playing Morrowind, I got that feeling of "Adventure" again (which was lacking for me in Oblivion) 
 - here I was exploring a very strange and exotic world and romping through an epic storly line 
 that took me back several thousand years and through dozens of cultures all wandering this place 
 called "Morrowind".
  
  In comparisom, Oblivion was more of a generic castles and dragons romp and the story was a lot 
 slimmer. After reading the forums, it became apparent that Bethesda has slimmed the main storyline 
 down in response to complaints from users that the Morrowind main story was too long. Additionally, 
 I think they used a more traditional European medieval setting to make the game more approachable 
 to the masses.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Oblivion is definitely an achievement, but I actually feel that it's predecessor, 
 Morrowind, is the better game.
  
  So, for $50 and 50 hours, yea, I got my money's worth, but I played Morrowind for hundreds of hours 
 and was just hooked....
  
  Also, I just can't stand Oblivon gates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZianGama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I bought this game the day it came out and yes the graphics can be a little bit chuggy and 
 I am running 1 gig of ram P4 1.7 (slow i know) and a ATI X800GTO overclocked on medium quality 
 but hey just let the bugs work themselves out like the grass just appearing like one person said 
 about an hour in that goes away just let the game warm up and you only get chuggy frame rates if 
 you are in a crowded area but just like before let the game warm up and it goes away this is and 
 excellent game very well polished and more self explanatory that morrowind sound isn't great but 
 it works just pick it up and play it you will not be disapointed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drluv
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is honestly and unbiasedly the best game I've ever played. I wasn't planning on getting it- 
 but gave in within 24 hours of the release.
  I've played daggerfall and morrowind, lve the series and this takes all the good points and fixes 
 all the annoying things. The auto travel function is awesome. The journal/quest orginization is 
 perfect (instead of the useless clutter we used to get) It is divided into completed quests/ current 
 quests/ and your focused quest- which gives all the details of the selected current quest. Also- 
 you have an arrow pointing you exactly where you need to go. The combat it fun and very skill based 
 for harder enemies (I murdered a mounted soldier when I was on level 2 through running shooting 
 fireballs summoning and healing) There aren't quite enough monsters in the overworld- but all the 
 dungeons make up for that.  is all perfect- all the little details 
 are taken care of in this game. I have never gotten board in all my playing no matter what I was 
 doing.
  Obviously the graphics are amazing- but I gave a nine because of how good a machine you have to 
 have to run it well- and how it is a little buggy on my NVidia/AMD system (which is pretty maxed 
 out) I did have a little problem with it freezing at the end of the install- then not starting- 
 but I Updated my direct x (Their directx updater was buggy on my compy) and it worked fine.
  All in all I don't see myself getting bored with this game EVER let alone in the next few months. 
 Other than having a consol style interface (not making full use of the keyboard) and some issues 
 that will be taken car of with patching I can't find one problem with this game- and I'm a perfectionist.
 
  BUY IT NOW THE PRICE WON'T GO DOWN FOR A FEW YEARS!!!!!!
  BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaflarexx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot better then its previous title of morrowind series and it has vastly improved 
 in many different areas. 
  
  However, it doesn't really need a powerful machine to run this game because it's a direct port 
 from XBOX 360. You just need a decent graphic card to run this game flawlessly.
  
  Although I have to admit that the AI system is just plain hilarious. If I could recall correctly, 
 I was asking NPC if I could speak with the prisoner, granted the NPC allows me to do so but he 
 constantly keep saying "Prisoner shall not accept gifts" over and over; which makes it very annoying. 
 In other situation, the enemy NPC would be stuck in one area and constantly in vain trying to attack 
 you. In this case, it gives you an easy advantage to kill that NPC by casting destructive ranged 
 spells, giving you an easy kill. And also, even enemies who have armors are very difficult to kill, 
 even if I tried to slash my sword on the enemy head, it still doesn't degrade the damage and it 
 makes it harder for you to kill him/her.
  
  in short, this game is great! Like RPG or not, I would recommend anyone to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrite
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the only game that has ever left me speechless, sitting there in awe of the images 
 I saw in front of me. Aside from stunning visuals and an amazing musical score, this game features 
 an astoundingly in-depth character customization process that easily trumps any RPG to date. Add 
 to that the voice talents of Patrick Stewart and well written dialogues, and you've got one knockout 
 game. As an added bonus, you can choose to play in an open ended fashion or follow the plot as 
 closely as you'd like. If you only buy one game this year, Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion needs to 
 be it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymyte1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I've been a gamer since I was a kid, and in recent years I haven't found a game (beyond the Civilization 
 series) that completely sucked me in and consumed me for hours if not days on end. Well, I've finally 
 found one in Oblivion. Graphics, presentation, sound, gameplay...... everything. It's hard to imagine 
 a better game. I enjoyed Morrowing, but there were a few setbacks (combat, for one) that kept me 
 from total obsession. Oblivion is better in every aspect. And trust me, I don't hand out praise 
 for every game that comes along. I'm a tough sell. Oblivion is the best game I've seen in a long, 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2048
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This is an absolutely AMAZING game! I've only played it for about 3 hours but it is so amazing 
 i can't stop. The music is not as good as i imagined, but the speech is very well thought through. 
 The graphics are so picturesque i don't have any other words to describe them! Elder Scrolls III: 
 Morrowind is a dump compared to this. I LOVE THIS GAME! Thank you Bethesda and 2K Games. Although 
 I must say the game was expensive, but it was totally worth it!!
  You just have to buy this game, no matter if you played the previous games or you don't like RPGs, 
 IT DOES NOT MATTER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbuhler
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Only a few times in your life can you expect to see a game that so completely blows away every 
 other game to date that it becomes the new benchmark for everything. Oblivion is one of those games, 
 and if you are a game developer you should take this as a serious wakeup call.
  
  I'm so impressed after only a few hours with this game I don't know where to start. The first thing 
 that really blew me away was the character generation screen. Not only was I dumbfounded by the 
 sheer number of character customization options, I was also amazed at how realistic my custom-designed 
 character looked. He actually looked like a digitized actor standing there on my screen... he could 
 have reached out and smacked me in the head.
  
  Once I spent an hour or so tweaking my look, the game shot me directly into the story, much of 
 which has been leaked out in various gameplay trailers. I engaged in a fairly quick rat-and-goblin-slaying 
 sequence which serves as a tutorial for the game's main features and then finally emerged into 
 the beautiful outdoors.
  
  This is where the game truly shines... the mountain vistas that surrounded me were so picturesque 
 I spent at least an hour frolicking in the fields of grass like a scene from Gone with the Wind.
 
  
  After strolling into town I started interacting with NPCs and was very happy to find that both 
 Speechcraft and Lockpicking are implemented as interesting little mini-games which add a little 
 more fun and realism to these normally dull tasks.
  
  To wrap things up, I can't think of any reason not to give this game a perfect 10. I hope you enjoy 
 it as much as I have, and believe me if you haven't bought it already then drop what you are doing 
 and get on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneschool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Fantastic, incredible, amazing. The depth of this game, combined with a true action-orientation, 
 make for a truly incredible experience. "Immersion" has become nothing more than buzz, but this 
 game creates something real, visceral, and compelling. You will care about your characters as you 
 dedicate hours to this incredible piece of art.
  
  It is true, the game does require a hefty computer. I am using a 6800 Ultra on an AMD 4000 processor 
 and it is delivering 1280 X 1024 with 4x AA and Bloom. Looks amazing. One thing to note is that 
 the game cannot pull off HDR effects with AA. I have tried HDR with AA off, and I prefer the look 
 of the AA so I have opted for that route.
  
  In any case, this is a game worth upgrading for. It is spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenhourtox
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  If you have been wating for the game of the year to hit the shelves don't look past this amazing 
 piece of art.
  
  As the Elder Scrolls series get more in depth so does ever other aspect of this game. The fighting 
 is fresher than its succeeder, graphics and sound as well, though if anything is lacking it has 
 to be the sound which only gives you are dissmal amount of attack and damage sounds, hurting the 
 hearing after a while. the music is a little lacking too, not with the scores for they are completely 
 amazing, the problem is the amount of songs which only includes a awesome but sad few.
  
  When i look for a game my initial impression is completely relying on the graphics in which case 
 I was bought on sight. This gane is a showcase of nextgen. HDR lighting, textures, everything really 
 makes this game feel ALIVE. The grass and trees sway with the wind, the free roaming wildlife gives 
 the outdoors a sense of reallism that has never been tapped before the days of Oblivion. I could 
 go on for ever about this games beauty until I hit the HDR which drops the ability to use anti-aliasing 
 taking away the fresh and crisp feel.
  
  Sound. All I can really say about the sound is awesome songs, though there are only about 3. As 
 for combat, this is nothing but pain and anguish which is thankfully made up for with the wilderness 
 and cave sounds.
  
  Want open ended gameplay and NO loading screens will adventuring? (only loading screens in the 
 game are for entering buildings) . Being able to run anywhere and enter any building, steal, kill, 
 or attack anyone really opens up evey part of the game, making you feel like you are acualy living 
 in a world with choice and not just following your boring destiny on one path. With hundreds of 
 dungeons, or so it seems, you never run out of cave crawling action and with the vast size of the 
 land you never run out of forests and plains to treck either. Towns in the game are so easy to 
 navigate you don't even need maps which is a major plus.
  
  This is just a small part of my opinion, I wish I have the patience to share more. All in all I 
 give this game a presonal rating of 10, negating the rating system here on gamespot even though 
 the combat, sound and story are a little lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codeman3D
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  As an avid RPG gamer, I have been waiting, somewhat impatiently, for this game. I do not enjoy 
 MMORPG and it seems there are less and less titles for the lone gamer. (See DDO)
  
  Personally, I thought Morrowind III should have been called 'Bore"O-wind. So much reading and walking 
 with only a smattering of monsters to kill. The combat system in the original version was terrible. 
 The Game of the Year version was a little better, but Gothic II was a superior game (even with 
 its bugs)
  
  This game is a different beast - for the most part, the graphics are better, but the tendency to 
 have brush pop up as you are walking is awful. It totally destroys the illusion. I run it on a 
 3.2 P4 with 4GB - ATI 850, so it is not a machine issue. Just poor graphic engine design.
  
  I really find the huge EMPTY areas a bit boring, but the new instant travel is great. The dungeons 
 are fun and I have to admit the combat system is light years ahead of the last game. It feels good. 
 I hope the game gets better, but it isn't bad.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfurax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  To be honest and with a bit of background story, I have been playing the TES series for longer 
 than most. I still remember when PC was king in the games arena by a huge margin, and the hype 
 and fulfillment of TES 2 - Daggerfall in the mid 90's. Doesn't seem like over a decade, wow 26 
 feel's old all of a sudden. 
  
  This review as the intro suggest will be an in-depth look at what Bethesda has done an excellent 
 job at in this new title and where it falls short, from the amazing graphics at times to the lackluster 
 ones to the horrible support RIGHT NOW for NVIDIA / AMD users, right now being three days after 
 launch. 
  
  The good, this game believe it or not has a huge factor most people overlook for me, the load times. 
 A bit of cover story on that, I'm running a SLI system (NVIDIA based, 2 graphics cards) and have 
 had it for 6 months now with 2 7800GTX cards and top end AMD and ASUS hardware. That said, I have 
 NEVER had any issue with any other games to date the way that I, and from the forums worldwide, 
 countless other users with NVIDIA cards do as well. But back to load times, I started playing Monday 
 night, fresh install on a clean system and HD. 3 minuets into the game, during charater creation, 
 the textures in the dungeon walls started to drop (meaning that they flash white for less than 
 a second) but when they do it, it is annoy at best and gives you a BSOD (Blue screen of death) 
 on XP for those who don't know at worst. This went on, and being the fact that the load times are 
 AMAZING for a new high-end title (say sub 25 sec times from start to game) I was determined to 
 fix this issue before playing. After switching up my drivers FIVE times back and forth from new 
 to old, WHQL to beta I finally tried turning on the V-Sync option in the startup screen. That did 
 the trick and killed 90% of the flicker, but I lost some performance due to the v-sync. So Ill 
 say it again, due to the horrible bugginess in the game, the quick loads are amazing. 
  
  NVIDIA users, you may have a problem with this game, that said I'm running the newest 84.25 beta 
 drivers released last night and STILL The same issues. If this review seems in depth, it's because 
 Im copying it to Take2 and Bethesda for them to see what's going on for most of us. I narrowed 
 it down to the drivers, they keep hanging in the application kernel / pipeline and causing BSOD 
 every 2 hours or so with a few exit to windows issues in between, mind you that is with V-sync 
 on, with it off, I may get 5 min at MAX at a time. 
  
  Ok back to the game, the graphics are great up close if you can run them. That said the distance 
 graphics are HORRIBLE. In fact why the dev team has you exit a sewer pipe to overlook a small river 
 and dock is beyond me. I say this because looking over the river the other bank (say 100 - 150 
 ft) there is SO LITTLE DETAIL it's sick. The texture on the far bank looks to be the res of 256 
 x 256 placed on a square 20 times that size. What that means is that it's like you took a picture 
 the size of your mouse cursor in front of you and blew it up, just the cursor to the size of your 
 screen. Obviously the details would be lost by a factor that makes the distance rendering in the 
 game look nasty. 
  
  Charater play is well done, but there is not enough help in the game as compared to the last game, 
 Morrowind. For example, I wandered into some city sewer to get exp points and explore. I did run 
 into a vampire and while I was killed a few dozen rats I contracted SOMETHING. How do I know?? 
 My skin on my dark elf has gone from a dark brown/grey to a horrible "Incredible Hulk" green and 
 for no reason. I cannot find a cleric to heal me, the cure disease potion I have drunk and then 
 slept off for 48 hours did nothing, and to top it all of, NO ONE has said anything to me in the 
 game about it. I mean if youre a NPC in the game, someone walks up to you with green skin, and 
 isn't an Orc you would hope they would be like "Dude you need to find a cleric to fix XYZ soon"... 
 Which is something that used to happen in this series. I'm left on my own without a thing to do 
 in fixing it. 
  
  With the same thought of what's lacking here, you used to be able to rest in the world, that option 
 is gone. There is now a "Loading area" message at the bottom when the game is doing just that. 
 Well I used to be studying on being a designer, and that KILLS the willful suspense of disbelief 
 for me. I mean what's more aggravating than getting into a cave or city to see a bright yellow 
 message pop up at the bottom.
  
  Gameplay thus far is stop on with the others in the series, NPC's seem to be more lifelike, but 
 you NEVER see them eating and I have yet to find an out house or bathroom. I am interesting to 
 see if user mods will fix the fact that EVERYONE seems ugly in the game and the issues with distance 
 and NVIDIA compatibility. Aside from that negative attitude, this game is going to be one that 
 has people entranced for 10 weeks at the least. You can do anything you want, and the game has 
 limitless sources of adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garko
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I have played where I actually stopped what I was doing and watched the 
 sun set . Over a river. Spectacular!
  As soon as the starting credits roll you just know that you are in for something good. The music 
 is also very fitting and definitely gives the game a more epic feel than Morrowind.
  Speaking of Morrowind - this game is no-where near depressing! There is green grass! Trees with 
 actual leafs on them! People SMILE!
  The way you flesh out your character by playing the first dungeon was a nifty surprise. I actually 
 made an imperial that resembles myself pretty darn well!
  This is not a game - it is an experience! I have already made up another character to see the game 
 from a different perspective.
  I actually felt a little bad, ignoring the main quest and all. Hey, I am out of prison and loose 
 in the world! The gates of Oblivion can wait! I got stuff to do and people to  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorandor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  TES4-Oblivion has been one of the most hyped RPG-games in 2005 and 2006. And now, finally, it is 
 in stores. 
  
  You awake in jail, you do not know who you are or why you are in prison, and all you can see are 
 the bones of someone who died here as well as a dark elf in another cell mocking you. Then they 
 come! The Blades and your king (voiced by Patrik Steward himself!) , who tells you about your fate. 
 Oblivion begins...
  
  The gameplay is very easy to learn and get used to, the whole first hour is practially a big tutorial 
 that teaches you how to fight, equip, sneak, cats spells etc etc. At no point however is the tutorial 
 annoying or trying to hold your hand on the way, which is good. The storyline is - like Morrowind 
 - very long and you are free to do whatever you want, you may take on the main story, or you may 
 take on any quest you like or even just wander along, in Oblivion you are "free".
  
  The graphics of Oblivion are once more a milestone, just like Morrowind... and like Morrowind the 
 game is prone to looking "good but slow". Graphics and textures are lovely, but overall the game 
 feels "slow" in the sense that it looks like it was capped at 25fps all the time, which is a shame, 
 as many players complained about the same problem with Morrowind. Having said that, you will not 
 find a more beautiful game than Oblivion for now... and probably for a long time.
  
  Sound and music is very good, the background music (composed by Jeremy Soule) is very good and 
 close to Morrowind, and like the music back then it changes according to what is happening on screen, 
 at times too drastic, but most of the times slowly and subtely, which helps the player immersing 
 into the game. All voice-acting is of a very high quality, all voice-actors seemed to have enjoyed 
 themselves during production, at no point the voices get static or monotonous.
  
  I got hold of the Collectors Edition, which contained an extra DVD with lots of Making-Of videos 
 as well as a gold coin, a map and a nice 122-page booklet about The story of Oblivion and its lands. 
 The packaging is well designed and sturdy.
  
  Overall, the game is great, however it lacks the "speed" of the graphics like other games nowadays, 
 but I am sure Bethesday is working on a patch/fix to improve the speeds. A must-buy this year, 
 if you don't then you need help.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CmdrMcNeil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Well it's finally here, the RPG many of us have read about, looked at, and dreamt about for so 
 many months. Following Morrowind we all had a taste of what could be, massive worlds where you 
 could do anything and go anywhere. It worked for GTA didn't it? Why not RPGs? However as many noted 
 Morrowind while ambitious fell flat in a few area of making the world believable. This stemmed 
 primarily from the cookiecutter NPCs who were only different in name. Still Morrowind definetely 
 laid the foundation for what now is argueably the greatest RPG of all time. 
  
  Gameplay: The gamespolay was top notch for me. I never felt bored and the action flowed nicel as 
 the story progressed. I especially enjoyed killing the enemy agent in the wine cellar after my 
 fellow Blade lured him down. The control setup and interface are all very intuitive and it doesn't 
 take much to get into the game and just go. The opening "quest" if you will is a great opener; 
 far better than that of Morrowind; and does a solid job of training you for the rest of the game. 
 Everything from sword swinging to spell slinging is easy anf fun. The enhanced mode of combat where 
 you can control the direction of you blade is excellent and made for some awesome brawls. The quest 
 system is well executed and far more easily managed than Morrowind. All in all I give it a 9 simply 
 due to that while amazing there are times where I wondered about the logic of some things. For 
 example I tried killing all the thieves guild reps at the secret meeting in Imperial City with 
 no one but them around. Yet every guard in the city seemed to know, even though no one had witnessed 
 it. It was somewhat of a jarring letdown. Also the NPCs should be set as to not freak out and yell 
 "THIEF!" when you pick up an object; just manipulate it, not add it to your inventory. The physics 
 engine was made for this, why not use it. So despite this, gamneplay is still great. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Amazing and dissapointing. The environment; the cities, forestsd, villages, mountains, 
 all of it are spectacular. To a certain distance, while I realize that it's neccessarry in order 
 to allow the game to function even when set to the max the grass and other amazing looking objects 
 in the world cease, it's strange to see the grass go on and on only to just stop and become a bland 
 textured piece of ground. Still that said, the world is an incredible place to explore. You can 
 spend hours just going everywhere and there are a huge number of places to go. And while the interiors 
 of most structures are similar they have worked very hard to vary them a bit and give them their 
 own feel, I never felt bored or like I'd "been there done that" as far as the environs are concerned. 
 I'll be honest I was on the fence as far as the graphics were concerened until I was up in the 
 northern mountains when suddenly at small turn in the road I could look out over the empire and 
 see everything, including the Imperial City right in the middle of Cryodil. It was awe inspiring 
 and kicked me off the fence. The graphics are wow... simply wow. 9/10
  
  Sound: Perfect, everything fromt he excelent voice acting to the epic score to the little sounds 
 of crickets are all perfect. Never did anything sound off. Witht the exception of horse hooves 
 on stone... sounded the same as if they were on grass... oh well. But that being the only thing 
 I noticed is a credit to the sound of this game. I can't stop humming the main theme to Oblivion, 
 the music is superb. There was only one other problem aside from the hooves and that was surround 
 sound, or lack thereof. As many of us probably have surround sound capable cards why this was not 
 supported baffles me a bit. Unless it's becuase the 360 version (which is identical) dragged it 
 down a bit in terms of technical standards. Regardless the sound is excellent. 10/10
  
  Value: This was a bit of a mixed bag for me. On the one hand the game feels like it's worth every 
 penny, but the lack of any sort of multiplayer kinda bothers me. On the one hand though it is an 
 excellent value you definetely get you r moneys worth in terms of single player content, those 
 who are MMO die hards on the other hand might feel a little left out. Still it sets new standards 
 in terms of AI and environment and that to me gives it a great value; it is definetely worth the 
 money spent. 9/10
  
  Tilt: I will go back to Tamriel over and over. That's all that needs to be said, there is so much 
 to do and see and while I've traveled a grerat deal I know I've only dented the surface. This is 
 truly the immersive world we wanted; and I know many of us will keep going back for more and more. 
 10/10
  
  There you have it. My review, take it with a grain of salt becuase in the end it only matters if 
 you like it. This is truly what all RPGs should be, huge, immersive and absolutly amazing. The 
 lack of some sort of Co-Op is dissapointing, but they were open from the start about how this was 
 a single player only title and I have to credit them for that. I am also glad the folks at Bethesda 
 didn't change their minds about it and try to tack on some afterthought of a multiplayer feature. 
 They did release the construction set and just like the Multi-Theft Auto mod I wouldn't be suprised 
 if someone does the same for this. Becuase this is truly a game I would get lost in and if I had 
 to pay a fee to do it; it would be worth every cent. See you in Tamriel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbarnard
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way; I am a big fan of The Elder Scrolls series, and I probably put 100 
 hours or more into Morrowind. I thought that game was immersive and a great blend of RPG and action, 
 but this game puts it to shame. Bethesda has perfected their Action RPG format by making the combat 
 much more deep (and hard!) , expanding the crafting and trading, and making it easier and more fun 
 to develop all of your skills in the game. This is the game that will make me drop everything and 
 play it exclusively for the foreseeable future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siledorf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  This is definately the game to get if you like RPGs or if you enjoyed The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. 
 The graphics are amazing and the AI is awesome. It's entertaining just to watch the AI live out 
 it's life. Another great thing is the replay value. Although the quests will be the same, the AI 
 will do different things and there will be different loot. You can play this game as many different 
 classes also, so your style or gameplay will change. 
  There are a few things that I do not like though. The menu is my biggest pet peeve. It is very 
 consoly and hard to navigate. I don't like how you can "quick travel" to cities that you have never 
 been to yet, I would rather pay a mages guild teleporter or something like that the first time. 
 I very much so don't like the quest markers too, half the fun of the game is figuring out quests 
 on your own, not following an arrow on your screen. 
  Overall, the game is very good. It is definately worth getting in my opinion. The main quest will 
 keep you busy for hours, not to mention the 100s of hours of sidequests available too. If you bought 
 the PC version (my preferance) then you also have the option of downloading hundreds of mods for 
 the game for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_EH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  You know how games developers usually hype up their games pre-release? They often feed us a good 
 portion of bull. Not this time. This game is all it's hyped to be. It is RPG at it's perfection.
 
  
  The gameplay is absolutely amazing. You don't gain attributes by clicking on a few numbers in a 
 list "Hmm, I want to be a rogue right? So I'll put a few points in agility..." You gain them by 
 you actions; you want to be a great archer? Alright, well go practice with your bow! You want to 
 be a thief or assassin? Alright, practice sneaking up on people. 
  
  At the beginning of the game, not long after you start, you're immediately put into the midst of 
 action; while not even have chosen your class. This might sound weird, but it's actually a good 
 thing. See, after a few minutes of dungeon crawling, you get a list of classes available for you 
 to chose from, and regarding the way you've been playing, it'll suggest a class for you; if you 
 don't want an archetype class you could always customize your character.
  
  The only weakness in the gameplay is definitely the AI. It's not as great as you might want, although 
 it is acceptable.
  
  Now for the graphics. The world itself looks great, also it's a bit choppy, and I have the same 
 system they have in "recommended". Some of you might say that it's a weak PC, but know that I can 
 run Half-Life 2 on max settings perfectly. (3.2ghz, 1g ram, x800 pro)
  
  The weakness in the graphics is definitely the animations. While all the characters move sort of 
 the same way a person would, there's just something not right with them.
  
  The sound is good, but I was expecting a little bit more in this department. Not much I can say 
 here.
  
  The game is definitely worth 49.99$ US. It's got enough features to make you want to play the game 
 for weeks (and in most cases months and years)
  
  Well there you go, a quick review. If there's one thing someone should know about this game, it's 
 that if you haven't tried it, you still haven't experienced a real RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthozzan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  The newest game in the Elder-Scrolls Series is a modern classic, and a masterpiece. I've played 
 the game for about 6-7 hours now and i feel i have barely even installed the game. My computer 
 is absolute **** atm (got a better one, will be on it soon :) ) but the graphics are still STUNNING! 
 It's very open and you can do whatever you want to do. I was at Weynon Priory and while i was looking 
 for the main character i stole some forks and **** :p This game is recommended for anyone!
  
  Easy to learn - Hard to master. I started playing it and i quite simply could not put it down, 
 i played until it was too bright to play it and i couldn't see the environments of Oblivon :) The 
 player models are also incredibly detailed and you feel you are in the world of Tamriel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdstyles
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  I purchased an nVidia GeForce 7800 GTX right around when they came out, mostly for Battlefield 
 2. I thought it ran the games I threw at it pretty well (especially F. E. A. R.) but I never felt 
 like the upgrade was that huge of a difference visually in anything other than an increased framerate. 
 Needless to say I was eagerly anticipating TES4 hoping that it would justify the purchase of such 
 an expesive computer (the card alone is more expensive than a 360) and bring me into the next generation. 
 In fact my anticipation was probably too much; surely these developers, like many devs before them, 
 must fall short of the lofty goals they set out to achive in this ambitious and globally desired 
 work. Well whatever, I tore open the game and shoved the disc into my DVD ROM and began to install 
 4.6 gigabytes of gaming freedom.
  
  To be quite honest, all I really wanted to get out of the graphics engine was the equivalent of 
 what the 360 version looked like. To my mild disappointment, the graphics did not seem to quite 
 live up to what I had hyped myself up for. I basically had to choose between HDR and no Anti-Aliasing, 
 or AA with Bloom lighting instead of HDR. Well it was a tough decision to make: AA made the lines 
 around characters and objects MUCH less jaggy and more clean and defined, everything was lit softly 
 and there was no difficulty in identifying threats from long range. HDR on the otherhand made the 
 game look quite a bit more colorful and expressive, but the jaggies were alomst unbearable unless 
 you upped the resolution, which in turn would make the game chug at a slower framerate. At that 
 stage, even with the jaggies and such, you could still tell that HDR was gonna be the dealbreaker 
 graphically for this game, and I was a little dismayed and almost beginning to plan to save up 
 for ANOTHER 7800 to run in SLI (pure madness) ... and then something wonderful happened. Nvidia 
 released a new driver on their beta download page that was catered to Oblivion.
  
  I installed driver 84.25 and started up Oblivion. I was not quite prepared for what I was about 
 to witness, which was easily the most dramatic effect a change to a beta driver has ever given 
 in a game... To say the patch was "optimized" for Oblivion would be a catastrophic understatement. 
 All the jagged edges: gone. Seams in characters/objects: gone. The 2D looking reflections on the 
 water were replaced with rippling natural masterpieces that look so beautiful under a starlit sky 
 that I took a screenshot, which is on my desktop right now. And it looks as good as any artist's 
 fantasy 3d render. Even the framerate had been somehow jacked up. Basically I can compare what 
 Bethesda Softworks has accomplished with Simulation Earth (a top supercomputer) : you have a living, 
 breathing, changing, growing world with surprises around every turn; every nook and cranny has 
 been masterfully crafted and with HDR (High Dynamic Range lighting) looks almost eerily real. All 
 of a sudden I became totally immersed to the point where quests, RAI, storyline, npcs... none of 
 that really concerned me. I was in the next generation of games, and it was time to take a look 
 around. I become more ADD than I ever have before in a game (which is fine because Oblivion nurtures 
 that type of player, Oblivion nurtures all types of players...) . Believe me when I say that it 
 doesn't matter what you like to do in video games, its here. I chose to become a shadowy assassin, 
 and on the second day of playing the game I'm already ranked in the secret Assassins guild. In 
 fact, probably the most impressive draw of this game is that it manages to make even the most mundane 
 of tasks a fresh and engaging experience every time.
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the game that early-adopters like me were dreaming of when we 
 got our hardware before anyone even knew what the new Microsoft console would be called (neXtboX?) 
 It is the definitive "next-generation" game for the PC that, when coupled with a GeForce 7 series 
 and the new driver from nVidia, will (pardon the pun) do 360's around the console version. That 
 being said, the game WILL run on less expensive hardware. However you simply must see what this 
 game looks like on full settings, it may actually bring a tear to your eye. If you do not have 
 a card that is able to display the HDR effects then you will probably be a little disappointed 
 in comparing it to the Xbox 360, but it will still likely be more impressive than anything you've 
 seen on your system. Of course the option is always there to just buy a 360 for the game, they 
 are actually cheap systems and won't have any compatibilty problems or other nonsense. Plus you 
 don't ever have to fool with graphical sliders (which can be daunting in this game as there are 
 a TON of them!) . Bottom line, one way or another if you are a fan of gaming in any shape or form 
 you simply must experience this masterpiece in all its souped-up glory. I seriously recommend a 
 GeForce 7 series card, and would advise very strongly against anything lower than a 6 series (do 
 not fear as on my roommates 6600 the game makes WoW look like a web based game) . Stay far away 
 from the FX series at all costs as they are essentially GeForce 2's pretending to be 4's. I can't 
 recommend ATI cards because I don't know if they have a driver that will compete with the stunning 
 nVidia driver, but I would check some other reviews or maybe some hardware forums.
  
  If you got the dough but are on the fence, TES4 IS what you've been waiting for! If you can't afford 
 the PC gear, a 360 core system + TES4 = less than $400 total for a gaming experience that will 
 forever change the way you look at games. Either way you simply cannot miss out on this wonderful 
 adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breesjammer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This has already won game of the year with no doubt. it living up to the hype. ive played it for 
 about an hour and a half i haven't gotten out into the world yet and still in that cave in the 
 beginning. but i had enough its got alot new stuff that it shows you how to use from the start 
 and for "borrowind" familars out there they know excactly what they're doing or atleast should 
 have a better feel for it. this is the first time i got it for the Pc, i don't have a 360 and its 
 cheaper on the Pc! who would have thought that! but the only bad thing that sticks out alot is 
 just the specs you have to have for the game. i have 3200+Amd Athlon 2.2ghz processor with 512 
 ram and 128mb vid card from nvidia or whatever company it is. but as you can imagine it kind of 
 sucked playing it it wasn't all laggy but it was just slow and hopefully with some upgrades it 
 will be better. 
  
  this game demands alot from you pc and you wallet. ill try and get 2gb first and then we'll see 
 about the vid card but for now. even though ive played alittle bit and played on low setting its 
 great! oh and the character creation its just what EVERY RPG SHOULD HAVE. wow and when you make 
 yourself younger guess what it actually looks like you younger which amazed me! oh! make sure you 
 scan your disk and defragment before you install it, you don't need to but it helps :)
  
  and shooting stuff in the head and seeing the arrow there is awsome haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dx10d65
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  "Oblivion" is just about everything I've ever wanted in a video game, ever. A giant living world 
 where you take control of every aspect of your character and go on a massive quest taking incredible 
 amounts of time and filling it with entertainment. With only a few days of playing this game, I've 
 found that the only time I've ever been this excited about a video game is when I first played 
 Final Fantasy 7 (which will never be eclipsed for personal reasons) .
  
  I have personally waited with great anticipation for the latest installment in the Elder Scrolls 
 series, mainly based on my experience with the previous game, "Morrowind". As much as I loved the 
 story, the free form gameplay, and the seemily unlimited options, the action aspect of the game 
 was severely behind the rest of the package. Not so with "Oblivion". The action is quite fast paced, 
 and requires actual dexterity based on your need to block, dodge, and attack at holes in your enemies 
 defence. No longer will you simply mash the attack button and hope that your skill is high enough 
 to hit and kill your enemy before it does the same to you. Spells are now assigned to a key that 
 can be used during combat, ridding the need to switch to a "spellcasting" mode. Fatigue no longer 
 drops while running, so that when you get into combat you don't have to worry about how far you 
 traveled. The combat feels nice, like you're really feeling impact, and always makes you feel like 
 you have a fighting chance. There is also a nice addition of the enemy's lifebar over the crosshair 
 so that you can keep track of how much damage you've done/need to do.
  
  The graphics are superb considering the huge world you're living in. Models look very detailed, 
 and environments (especially indoors) are quite nice up close. Things like vegetation can range 
 from very good to standard, and while rendering does not occur until you are in a certain range, 
 the graphics easily deliver when you put into account the low loading times and massive amount 
 of environments available. While not quite at HL2 level, the sheer amount of data in this game 
 makes you marvel at the detail they managed to fit into this already lifelike world. I would easily 
 put this alongside FEAR, as FEAR was able to skimp some details due to little lighting and has 
 relatively the same loading times.
  
  Every line is voice acted, and acted well. Patrick Stewart does well, not fantastic, but well enough 
 to make you glad he's in it. You'll find a fair amount of lines repeat amongst the townspeople, 
 but I really liked the fact that they would be repeated by different species, thereby warranting 
 different actors. The combat noises are quite realistic (as realistic as a fireball can be) , and 
 the crashes and clunks feel very meaty and lifelike. The music hasn't inspired me at all, unfortunately, 
 which is something I love in games, but it isn't intrusive either. While I would love to have some 
 music that will stick with me for the rest of my life (like the FF series) , it's better to lack 
 that than have a poor attempt at it grate into my ears.
  
  In terms of value, $50 for a game that will last literally hundreds of hours? Um, sure! With a 
 market saturated with overpriced games offering little gameplay and some official licences, "Oblivion" 
 should have been priced at around $200 if you wanted to sell games based on playing time. But it's 
 not, because the makers of this game love us and love their games. The only thing that might not 
 be of value is for PC gamers to have to upgrade their rigs for this game, but it's about time you 
 did that anyway, considering the amount of high-level games coming out with high-level requirements. 
 No disrespect to those who just can't afford it (try to find someone to build you a computer, it 
 saved me thousands) .
  
  This game is so big, so immersive, so intricate, and yet so easy to pick up. It is everything I 
 dreamed of it being after playing "Morrowind", and the sheer amount of detail in this game shows 
 the level of effort put into it by the developers. One of my favorite aspects of the series was 
 the fact that the makers seemed to want to really create a living world, down to the massive amounts 
 of literature that line the shelves of "Oblivion". To have the feeling that they put everything 
 they could into making this the best experience possible makes you really appreciate what video 
 games can accomplish. I can honestly see this as a large step foward in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has fantastic graphics, and you can practically feel your weapon smack against an object 
 or opponent. The environment is rich and the quests are an improvment over ES III: Morrowind.
 
  
  Go for a longshot, sneak your way by, cut a deal, cut and run, run and stun ...
  
  Oblivion offers some interesting variations and gamestyles, but plan on spending some time on this 
 game if you really want to explore it all.
  
  Oblivion will definitely let you know where your PC stands when it comes to hardware requirements. 
 If you see a message about video cards not being recognized ... you have a problem or two to deal 
 with before this game will run any better than a slide show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k2riderguy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this the 22nd when it came out, lol i got the last copy, and i have played it for like 5 
 hours now. So far i have been greatly impressed. I have played morrowind and Oblivion just takes 
 it to the next step. I cant really say how great the graphics because i only have a crappy card 
 and my setting are on low, but they still seem really good for low settings. I will eventually 
 get a better card and im sure i will enjoy it alot more. But bottom line, this game is great, from 
 the story to the combat system, this is a must buy for all rpg fans!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowneware
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the elder scrolls games, and frankly haven't found too many RPG's (PC) 
 that I could get into. Actually the only one I've liked (unitl now) was Fable and that was a xbox 
 game ported to PC. I've been looking for a more console type game for the PC and this seems to 
 be it. I've only been in the game for a few hours, but I'm hooked... I have to talk myself out 
 of playing because I know I'll get lost for hours, I was supposed to be sleeping, but I couldn't 
 stop playing, maybe it's the slower pace of the game, but I just find myself playing for sooooo 
 long, but I really don't mind. It's easy to get lost in the atmosphere of the game. What's even 
 more strange is that I don't have all the eye candy turned up, but it's still a very impressive 
 looking game, Think: Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher's Bay, in your choice of third 
 person or first person. All with very little stutter, smooth frame rates throughout. And for ppl 
 wondering what system specs I'm using to tell you the truth they are rather modest:
  
  AMD X2 3800+ (stock)
  Asrock dual 939 mobo
  6600gt agp (stock)
  1 gig rosewill ram (the cheap 
 stuff)
  80gb 7200 rpm SATA
  
  So even with those "modest" specs I'm still running the game and it's looking really good, but 
 I'd love to see it on a higher end system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphawolf6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game from direct2drive, got through the first dungeon and did some exploring of 
 the capital city. I must say i'm very impressed.
  
  my computer is far from high-end (pentium 2.4, nvidia 5900, 1 gig of ram and such) and it looked 
 good even on the lowest settings, and was quite playable despite some complaints. 
  
  I personally found the interface decent, nothing ground breaking, but nothing to complain about 
 once you get used to it.... and read the manual, though that can be difficult i know.
  
  Combat seems to be fairly simple and enjoyable and the spell system, as well as inventory management, 
 looting and such are easier than they were in morrowind. Also, either my reflexes have gotten better 
 since i last played morrowind, or archery has dramatically improved, the arrows sticking out of 
 an enemy and them tumbling down the hill is a very nice touch.
  
  Finally one of the few things i found startling was the relative ugliness of the npcs, although 
 perhaps i was spoiled by better bodies and vampire: bloodlines which i've been playing recently 
 where most faces seem to be sculpted for perfection. While this may be sound like a bit of a lame 
 explination I think Bethesda were trying to make the chracters reflect the harshness of the historical 
 period.
  
  all in all the game gets a 9.6 from me, while the system requirements are demanding the game's 
 graphics are extremely scaleable and still manages to look very good. The combat and spellcasting 
 are enjoyable, the npcs are interesting if nothing else, the voice acting is phenomenal, and the 
 few books i've read are at or above morrowind standards.
  
  Bethesda has given us an excellent rpg all in all. It was well worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambizkit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Truly this is one of the great games in computer game history. Bethesda has once again given us 
 a classic RPG. Everyone of their RPG's has collected best RPG of the year and this one I am sure 
 will be no different. I am only 10 or so hours into the game and haven't even begun to see what 
 Oblivion has to offer. I believe that someone mentioned the world being smaller than Morrowind. 
 I don't know how much smaller they made it because it's still huge, very huge. So for those of 
 you looking for lots of quest and beautiful scenery then step right up. This is the only game you 
 will need to buy this year.
  
  To all of those who gave this game a 5 because they couldn't play it are morons. You haven't even 
 played the game and yet you give it a 5? Play it first then give us your rating. And to the guy 
 who said the graphics on this sucked.. well you're delusional, check em again. No other game out 
 there looks this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Storm76211
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I'd forgotten that Oblivion was even coming out for so long. I'd really gotten into MMO's, and 
 played WoW for a bit only to be bored by it. I quit WoW for DnDO, which was a much more fun RPG, 
 and I thought that that would be the next came to eat up several months of my life.
  Until I played Oblivion.
  Oblivion really can't get any better. The graphics are the first graphics 
 of a game to really feel next-gen. The detail of the world and the characters is superb, and the 
 instant you leave the starting area of the sewers and lay your eyes upon the mountains and plains 
 surrounding a grand city, you will see what a vast, realistic world you have indulged in. You can 
 see every tree, every hill, every ripple in the water from so far away.
  The gameplay perfectly combines elements of an FPS and an RPG, something that DnDO came close to 
 but did not achieve as well as Oblivion. There are many ways to play, and different classes not 
 only excel differently but play differently.
  Character customization is highly detailed. A perfectionist can spend hours just creating his or 
 her character, and it is unlikely that no two characters on different games of Oblivion will look 
 the same.
  All dialog is voice-acted except your character's own dialog. The music, for the most part, is 
 just ambient, but it fits the mood of the game very well.
  Like Morrowind, Oblivion will last for many, many hours, whether you follow the non-linear story 
 or just explore the world.
  The story feels more integrated than in Morrowind, and you feel more encouraged to follow it. The 
 voice-acting helps this, because you listen to what the story-advancing NPCs say rather than click 
 your way through text.
  The system requirements are perhaps the only downside. The game requires a very up-to-date video 
 card, 2GHz of proccessing, and 512MB of RAM, meaning that only the most recent system-owners will 
 be able to really enjoy this game.
  Though I hate to call anything really perfect, Oblivion is much more close to that than any other 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwdevore
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Morrowind. It was a game that was so incredibly enormous that it kept the feint 
 of heart at arms distance. Only hardcore gamers could appreciate a masterpiece like that. I would 
 say that this game, Oblivion, will probably fall into the same category. Although it does improve 
 upon Morrowind in many ways. For example, instead of reading a bunch of dialogue any time there 
 is any kind of interaction with npc's, the npc's actually speak, which a massive improvement. And, 
 to make the dialogue even more enjoyable, the game utilizes a camera that zooms in on the very 
 realistic faces of the characters. This whole process makes it much easier to believe that you're 
 actually in the game, which is what rpg's are all about. Another improvement Oblivion has made 
 over Morrowind is the graphics. I always thouht that the graphics of Morrowind were kind of so-so, 
 but that's not the case with Oblivion. This game definitely has some nice graphics, probably on 
 par with FEAR. Considering that this is a massive rpg, that is quite an accomplishment. The combat 
 has also been improved upon, most notably due to the addition of the block move. It's nice to be 
 able to throw up a shield to block an oncoming sword slash. And, of course, all of the great free 
 form gameplay is back. This is not a Final Fantasy type of game, where you're directly down a certain 
 path at all times. This is the GTA of rpg's, in which you can go anywhere and do anything. Again, 
 this makes the believability of the game world much more credible. And I personally love the fact 
 that this game is designed to be played from the first person perspective. However, if you're more 
 into the third person thing, you can do that, too. The bottom line is that if you have the gaming 
 fortitude to attack a game this large, you're going to fall in love with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proteron
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Look, there's not much left to be said that the other players have not already said, so I just 
 want to add a further positive vote for this game. I've played a total of about 10.5 hours so far, 
 done some very interesting things, seen some beautiful sights, and barely even touched the main 
 storyline quests.
  
  Key points:
  
  Huge and varied landscape... If you see something odd off the path, chances are you can visit it 
 and probably find a door.
  
  Very well-made NPCs... Everybody's talking, no dependence on subtitles. The voice-acting is better 
 than usual. Admittedly some voices seem a little strange coming out of some faces/genders.
  
  An incredible amount of non-storyarc related questing and exploring available...
  
  ...
 
  
  I've been gaming for a long time, probably since about 1981. If it means anything to anybody, my 
 first 10 hours of experience with this game hearken back to memories of Dungeon Master and The 
 Bard's Tale (as in the original, not the recent 3D game) . This is not to say that ES4: O is either 
 a pure dungeon crawl (Dungeon Master) , which is is obviously not, nor is it a reasonably linear 
 but excellent game (The Bard's Tale) . What it is to say is that it has already established itself 
 as an instant classic in my personal gaming history.
  
  Some might take a few minutes to get used to the control mechanism, which clearly is simplified 
 to provide both console compatibility as well as quick action. I never thought I'd say it, but 
 I actually enjoy this type of combat vs. pure dicerolls. Sneaking around, taking pot-shots with 
 arrows from across the room, coming up behind someone for critical damage with a shocking battle-axe 
 that you just found in a chest, very fun stuff.
  
  I'm very hard on games, and I'm dissatisfied with many. I have rarely felt, lately, that my gaming 
 dollar was well-spent, and usually wait a year or two until games are in GOTY or reduced-price 
 releases to avoid paying $50+ for something that I know will likely disappoint. With that said, 
 I firmly stand behind the score that I'm giving this game. I'm very hot or cold, it's usually 0, 
 5 or 10 with me.
  
  Now go play something.
  
  (Furthermore, few games these days start reducing their per-hour cost as fast as this is destined 
 to do. Anybody want a dramatically reduced rate Civilization 4 ? ;/ ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Ill be honest with you, i didnt even know what elder scrolls was, i had never heard of morrowwin, 
 my friends jsut grabbed and took me to come with them to get this game. We went to my friends house 
 to load it up, which surprisingly took little time, (5gb game) . 
  
  We were immediatly put into this dungeon, after the rediculas character creation ( which is awesome) , 
 and let me tell you, i have been playing video games my whole life, and this, this game is by far 
 the greatest RPG i have ever played. 
  
  The Graphics are **** amazing, you have to literally see it to believe it, the combat is so good, 
 the physics are like nothing i have ever seen before, this isnt jsut a game, this is a fucking 
 adventure, you feel like your character is you in another world, i cannot begin to desribe the 
 feeling you get form playing this game
  
  You do need a awesome comp to play it, but hey if u dont have one, pick up an xbox 360
  
  Well 
 this is by far the greatest game i have ever played, everyone in the world has to play this game, 
 its a benchmark for all other 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_On_Impact
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a mix of ingenuity, advanced computing, and the love a designer places into his titles. 
 Oblivion is without a doubt, a stupendous thrill ride that should not be missed. The exceptional 
 graphics will awe most any gamer with a great enough PC to run it at its full potential. The sound 
 design and voices sound top-notch, bringing Hollywood into game designing. The game play will immerse 
 the player for hundreds among hundreds of hours of pure enjoyment, something that cannot be achieved 
 by a simple RPG.
  
  Moving further on in greater detail, Oblivion carries a hefty load of gaming's finest elements, 
 providing a truly memorable experience unlike anything before in my life. The Graphics are, jaw-dropping. 
 When on a system powerful enough to show the games true face, Oblivion is miraculously detailed. 
 The textures, lighting, character models are near picture perfect, carrying a true sense of the 
 term, Next-Generation. The load times are short; the game is massive, set in an area of 16 square 
 miles, at the province of Cyrodill. The game area packs a variety of landscapes, from snowy mountains, 
 to populated cities, to lush forests filled with organisms detailed beyond any simple gamer's comprehension. 
 The lighting and the set HDR makes the experience quite more life-like and fulfilling. The character 
 models are much improved from TES III, Morrowind. The water details, reflections/refractions are 
 wonderful, though just hardly missing the same level of Valve's Half-Life 2's astonishing and realistic 
 water effects. 
  
  The sound is also quite exceptional, though it sometimes feels a bit repetitive. The composed orchestral 
 score is mystifying, suiting the game very well. The sound effects also feel dynamic and realistic, 
 tweaked to perfection. The voice-overs truly show what it means to bring Hollywood talent into 
 the mix. Patrick Stewart, Sean Bean, and many other actors are brought into Oblivion, offering 
 full-voice acting throughout the whole experience. There is no more Wikipedia type responses like 
 in Morrowind, the game uses full voiced dialogue, with the also included asset of Subtitles. The 
 game feels this way more dynamic, real, and engaging, truly setting it aside from its predecessors.
 
  
  The game play is where Oblivion truly shines. This new addition to the Elder Scrolls franchise 
 truly brings out the meaning of "innovation at its best." The game features a very engaging and 
 dynamic campaign reaching across the whole province of Cyrodill, featuring about 40 of play. But, 
 the main story is only the tip of the iceberg. Oblivion offers many side quests, mini-games, exploration, 
 Easter-eggs, people, places, and things to see which enhances the experience and brings the total 
 game play to over 200 hours. This, is of course, not including user-made modifications for the 
 game, which will be out (and maybe already are) and will enhance the game by varying degrees. Also, 
 Bethesda will be providing Official Mods for a small fee, as well as Expansion packs in the near 
 future.
  
  Oblivion houses The Havok Physics engine known from Half-Life 2. Every item in the game is controlled 
 by this system, as well as the enemies and NPC's, which are dynamically controlled by Rag-Doll 
 physics. Radiant AI is also shown off in Oblivion, and is one of the Trade Mark features Oblivion 
 is showing off. NPC's no longer have meaningless existences; they fully engage in non-scripted 
 conversations with other NPC's, with you, have a special list of "goals and needs" which they fulfill 
 with their own creativity and knowledge. They also have varying personalities which determine how 
 they accomplish their goals, talk to you and other NPC's, and affect the environment around them.
 
  
  This review only expresses the deep gratitude I have for Bethesda. For years in the making, and 
 will forever be known as the RPG to change all RPG's. Oblivion is a masterpiece, fully establishing 
 it's spot in the greatest games of all time list, and truly showing developers and gamers alike 
 what a game truly can be if the developer places enough time, energy, devotion, and creativity, 
 pushing themselves to the limit in the goal of pleasing gamers around the world, and for their 
 obsessing love in video game design. Once you play Oblivion, you can never go back to anything 
 previous to it. This game is the empitimy of what an RPG should be. Well, the best compliment I 
 could personally give this game is that, years from now, gamers will look back upon this huge, 
 revolutionary and ambitious game and say that it was a classic.
  
  -Death On Impact 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koulit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  "I crept slowly forward, carefully sliding along the cave wall where shadows shrouded me in protective 
 secrecy. Slowly, I made my way to a closed wooden gate separating me from a dark and dreary room. 
 As I peered through an open slit between panes of wood in the gate, I spied two thugs speaking 
 almost inaudibly about some of the local gossip. I opened the gate.
  A thug spoke out in bewilderment, 'What was that?' She turned, stared into the darkness, but saw 
 nothing.
  'I must have had too much ale,' she spoke in a dismissing fashion, and resumed her previous activities. 
 This mistake would be her last. Carefully and silently I drew an arrow and pulled back the bowstring, 
 aimed, and released. The arrow pierced the back of her neck and the thug fell lifeless on the stone 
 floor. Her companion, filled with rage and a longing for revenge rushed at me. I drew my sword 
 and fended off a ravaging blow from his long sword. He staggered back, and I lunged forward. Within 
 moments, he was dead. I reached down, pulled the arrow from the dead thug's body and placed it 
 in my quiver. Slowly, I crept back into the shadows."
  
  The detail of this brief description is not an exaggeration of the actual gameplay in Bethesdas 
 newest release, Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. The games designers have taken care to create a feeling 
 of realistic immersion in a completely undiscovered fantasy world. Oblivion brings truly new meaning 
 to the term Open Ended. Whether you choose the path of a deceitful assassin, a cunning yet ruthless 
 sorcerer, or a heroic and burly warrior, you are guaranteed a fulfilling and enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Oblivion does feel much like its award-winning sequel, Elder Scrolls III: Morowind. Much of Oblivions 
 game play will be familiar to those who played and loved its predecessor. You will still be stumbling 
 upon, and exploring vast caves and dungeons filled with bandits, monsters, and other perilous creatures. 
 The races of Tamriel are the same as those on the province of Morrowind. Even the classes and skills 
 are very similar. However, the designers of Oblivion have built so much on Morrowinds solid framework 
 that the graphical improvements seem insignificant compared to the improvements in game play.
 
  
  As a fan of games such as Splinter Cell and Thief: Deadly Assassins, I delight in the deceitful 
 and secretive tactics of a stealthy assassin. In Morrowind, my character was a member of the local 
 Assassins guild, the Morag Tong, as well as the Thieves Guild. However, I always felt like something 
 was missing. Your success at sneaking around in Morrowind was contingent only on the numerical 
 value of your stealth skill, and not your actual talent as a player. In Oblivion, this is completely 
 revamped. You must hide in the shadows and walk across surfaces where your footsteps will remain 
 quiet. After attacking an enemy from a ranged position, they will appear confused for a moment, 
 and search the area for their hidden assailant likely discovering your location within a few moments.
 
  
  Perhaps the greatest change in gameplay is a revamped battle system. When you swing your weapon 
 in Morrowind, the computer basically rolls a die behind the scenes to determine whether your attack 
 will connect, and then calculates the damage done based on your skill ratings. The software, rather 
 than the player, was in control of whether your character would dodge or block an attack. This 
 resulted in a play style that looked more like a first person Final Fantasy than a realistic RPG. 
 Oblivion shatters this pitfall. When you play Oblivion, you are in almost complete control of your 
 characters ability to block attacks and strike with a melee weapon. You must use your sword or 
 shield to block (right-click) your enemys attacks while looking for windows of opportunity where 
 you can attack their exposed body. There is nothing random about this, and your skill completely 
 determines whether you will land a blow. Of course, your skill in a particular weapon will determine 
 the amount of damage you do, and your skill in block will determine how effective your blocks are 
 at reducing damage, but the burden of responsibility ultimately falls on the player to fight strategically 
 and effectively. Oblivion plays much more like a first person shooter (or first person slasher?) 
 than your standard RPG.
  
  To the delight of thousands, gone are the days of walking 80 miles from Molag Maar to Balmora so 
 that you can catch a Stilt Strider to Vivec. These daunting strolls through the countryside of 
 Morrowind were enough to turn many players away from the game simply because of the tedium inherent 
 in a game where you must walk from place to place to complete quests. In Oblivion, if youve been 
 somewhere you can simply bring up your map and click on a location to be taken there instantly. 
 For those of us like myself who still seem to take masochistic pleasure in walking long distances 
 through the countryside, you can now buy a mount to carry you swiftly along on your journey. This 
 is yet another testament to Bethesdas desire to make this game appealing to the casual player 
 as well as self-loathing serious RPG gamers like me who are giddy for realism even if it means 
 walking from point A to point B.
  
  For me, 99% of my enjoyment for a game is based on gameplay. Great graphics are simply an added 
 bonus as long as the underlying game is solid. HAH! Yeah right. Although we all want to be above 
 such superficial concerns, we all know that graphics are just as important as gameplay in creating 
 a world that is believable, unique, and just damn entertaining. In this respect, Oblivion is just 
 astounding. Dungeons look dark and murky, forests are lush and fertile, townsfolk move realistically 
 and their faces are almost photo-realistic with intricate expressions that change based on your 
 interactions with them. Put simply, wonderful graphics plus solid gameplay equals a realistic RPG 
 experience.
  
  It would be impossible to discuss the graphical aspect of a PC game without also mentioning the 
 dreaded system requirements. Oblivion is a next generation game with graphical features that will 
 test even the most expensive gaming rig. Bethesda recommends a 3 Ghz Pentium 4 or higher, 1 GB 
 of RAM, and an ATI X800 or GeForce 6800 or higher. That system will definitely run Oblivion just 
 fine at medium settings, but to really get the full experience with a resolution of 1600x1200 and 
 maxed graphics settings, you will need a beastly machine. I ran Oblivion on an AMD 64 3200+ Venice 
 with 1 GB of RAM and a GeForce 6600GT OC manufactured by BFG. I get poor frame rates (15-20fps) 
 while outside (and unfortunately this is where much of the game takes place) , but it runs very 
 smooth in buildings or dungeons. If I upgraded to a GeForce 7600 or 7800 and added a stick of RAM, 
 I would be good to go. Unfortunately, Oblivions graphics exceed the pocketbooks of many budget 
 gamers. However, you shouldnt panic yet. Gamers less concerned about graphics and more concerned 
 about Oblivions gameplay can enjoy a wonderful experience with more midrange systems as long as 
 the graphics settings are turned down.
  
  I hate to bring down an otherwise praiseful review of a splendid game, but the time has come for 
 a few criticisms. I would not be doing this title justice by omitting its problems. First, I get 
 a feeling that the retail release of Oblivion may still have some kinks to be worked out in future 
 patches. I must admit, my evidence for this is lacking, but I have noticed some rather odd graphical 
 malfunctions and one or two lock-ups. Most notable was a very strange graphical flickering that 
 occurred when I exited the prison at the start of the game. My sword would disappear even though 
 I had it raised, and the backdrop would begin to flicker in an array of pixelated colors that made 
 it impossible to see whatever was in front of me. While I am completely aware this could be an 
 unknown problem with my system, I did manage to find a few forum posts by fellow players who experienced 
 the same problem. I did not see anybody post a solution. Luckily for me, the problem eventually 
 went away, although I had to create a new character and start the game from the beginning.
  
  One of the most annoying parts of Oblivion is the organization of menus. Morrowind used an 
 extremely simple and effective method of accessing inventory, spellbooks, maps, and other features, 
 and I wish that a similar setup would have been implemented with Oblivion. The menus in this title 
 are bulky and difficult to navigate. Most difficult is Bethesdas choice of using icons for certain 
 tabs rather than spelling out what they are. This would be fine if it was possible to roll over 
 a tab with the cursor to see a description of what its function was, but nothing like that exists. 
 I found myself looking through the manual to find certain menus even though I am a veteran of Morrowind 
 and should know what many of these menus are. I would also love to have an on screen map that could 
 be enabled and disabled during gameplay, and as yet I have not been able to find such a function. 
 It is likely this is possible in Oblivion, but the user interface is so ambiguous that I have not 
 yet discovered how to do this.
  
  With the designers estimating over 100 hours of actual gameplay, my experience is in its infancy. 
 However, my first impressions of Oblivion lead me to believe that it is truly a work of programming 
 art. Bethesda took a solid series and launched RPG gaming to a much higher level with Morrowind. 
 With Oblivion, they climbed atop the highest standards of its predecessor and raised the bar even 
 higher. This is a game that will be a benchmark for RPG gaming for years, likely until another 
 Elder Scrolls title is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeromora
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Well let me just say that I love PC games and especially enjoy PC RPGs using keyboard and mouse 
 and what will have the XBOX360 owners whinnig and PC gamers playing uncountable hours, of course 
 the PC modding community. So its clear that getting an XBOX360 for me never even crossed my mind 
 especially if it was only for just one game which I can also get in PC. On the downside I knew 
 what I was getting into since OBLIVION is a MONSTER at chugging resources and my PC can be best 
 called mid-range. I have the following:
  
  Athon XP 2600 ocd at just under 2.1 GHz (1.9 stock)
  1 GB PC2700 RAM 
  Gigabyte 6600GT OC 
 (factory oced)
  
  WARNING: This is my personal opinion and we all know that no 2 computers perform alike even if 
 they do have the same hardware so take this as friendly advice and not TECH Support.
  
  After installing and all the game decides to give me Med Quality video settings, I think that aint 
 that bad. First few minutes of the game after intro I nearly screamed in horror, the graphics were 
 terrible (and I mean terrible as in Wizardry 8 old) , true framerate was solid but I couldnt play 
 the game this way it would be a crime againts gaming and an insult to my PC. 
  
  So I said screw the reccomended setting and headed to the video options. Turns out medium to some 
 sick joker is a resolution of 614 X 460. Give me a break! Not even 600x800?! So I turned it up 
 to 800x600 and it still ran well but didnt look nice enough for me, so I turned it up to 1280x1024 
 and bam! there was the nice screenshots Id seen. I set off happily enjoying the eye candy in the 
 tutorial mission following guards and emperor and soon enough they get attacked my framerates take 
 a huge dive. Everytime we were attacked my system would chug until the enemies were dead. 
  
  Already hooked on the eye candy I couldnt go back to jagged characters and objects, so I hit 
 the Video options once more. Reluctant to ease up on the resolution I hit the other optios. First 
 I changed textures size from HIGH to MEDIUM  hell if the XBOX360 runs them on medium why is it 
 set to high on my PC. Then I turned down a couple of particle and shadow effects not completely 
 off but in the  region (they were half way originally) , next turned down the Blood and the Draw 
 Distance for foliage (If youve read reviews youd know that the grass and foliage fades in as you 
 walk around at a certain radius and Oblivions graphics have gotten picked on because of that) , 
 so hell whats a few feet closer to me if Im gonna see them fade in anyways. 
  
  After careful tunning of all the above Oblivion now runs for me at 1280x1024 at a nice framerate 
 and still looks amazing. Sure its not all shiny and shadowy but still beats out most RPGs and MMOs 
 for that matter in the visuals. So in conclusion what started out as an ugly duckling and a nightmare 
 to me, ended up beautiful (mind you not screenshot nice, but nice none the less)
  
  I hope this helps you tweak your settings if you already have the game and are running it on the 
 recommended settings. And if you dont have it and dont wanna dish out for a new XBOX360 but are 
 un sure of your system, this is an amazing game that you can still enjoy with Mid-range hardware. 
 Honestly Ive only put on like 5 hours into the game but if this is anything like Morrowind Ill 
 still be playing this game by the time I can cough up for a new CPU and Video Card. DONT MISS 
 OUT! .... I'm off to waste more endless hours in this awesome world!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggyluv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  
  It's hard to write an honest review after playing for an hour-OMG!- make that 5 hours! I was worried 
 about buying this game after reading some negative feedback all thru the nitebut let me assure 
 you, if you liked Morrowind your gonna love this. 
  
  As you've already heard, the world is beautiful, combat satisfying and the character creation very 
 cool!
  
  From the first time you get into a fight, you know this game is gonna be good. I liked Morrowind, 
 but lost interest about halfway thru and it's too early to tell if that happens here but I doubt 
 it.
  
  Just got my horse, gotta go... Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Papercut13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow, words can't describe the feeling you get from Oblivion. If your a long time fan or a inquisitive 
 person looking for a great game; give you and your PC a treat, BUY THIS GAME. It will not let you 
 down. I my not be a hard core PC gamer, but this game has set the standered for all RPG's to come. 
 There is one let down however, you will need a PC with pretty high tech to run this game smoothly. 
 Otherwise, this game was well worth the wait and is a true bar setter in the world of PC gameing 
 and RPG's alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhawk42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  First off I don't have a killer rig, so I was a little skeptical on how this was going to run on 
 my pc. I have the recomended 1 gig ram, 3.0 gig AMD, but only a $100 6600 video card. So I load 
 the game up and I started to suspect that the opening movie wasn't a movie but a real-time fly 
 by of the city. I ignored this and figured I was crazy. Then I'm in jail and find that the player 
 creation is pretty complex, but still a little lacking. There's like 50 ways to change your nose, 
 but a really dissapointing "beard" editor so I was unable to give my Nord a proper beard. 
  I had a rough start with learning how to use the menus, and where they hid everything this time 
 round, alot of things are different from morrowind, and seem a bit difficult for a newb so thats 
 why I scored the difficulty as hard, and only gave gameplay a 9. The sneak attacks work much better 
 than morrowind, but the fighting system is hard to get used to (but alot better than morrowind) .
 
  
  Graphically this game is awesome, and doesn't absolutly need a top of the line rig (still keep 
 close to recomened setting) . I was dissapointed in the facial animations, but compared to how awesome 
 everything else is, it's a little mute. Enemies use the havoc engine, and you can drag around dead 
 bodies. The outside lanscapes are astonishing, and I'm amazed my machine can even run these graphics. 
 The draw distances are a little short for me, but still not bad enough for me to take away any 
 points from graphics.
  
  Sound was good, but nothing really astounding. I have come up with some problems with dialog volume 
 in which sometimes a person far away sound right next to you.
  
  The value of this game is great since is is so large if you like it you'll probably play for at 
 least a couple months if not years considering all the add-ons that are possible.
  
  This game is so complex, and allows so much freedom. Also there's alot more Elder Scrolls mythology 
 involved.
  
  There are very few people that won't recomend this game to though. First if you need non-stop action 
 you probably won't like this game since there's alot of dialog, and downtime. If you don't like 
 complex games since you need to figure out a nitch for you character and find equpment, and use 
 strategy for your advantage. There's no find the one weapon, and overpower your enemy. Gamers who 
 need their hand held, though Oblivion gives you good directions you still need to figure out alot 
 of stuff on your own, and you can still get really off track if you're not carefull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabbamonkey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of this series' previous game, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, I was really looking 
 forward to Oblivion. I was curious to see how successful Bethesda would be at creating a game that 
 was better than Morrowind ... In short, they were widely successful.
  
  As all other reviews begin, you start the game in the Dungeon and have an encounter with the emperor, 
 who explains that you have been in his dreams (that's a little creepy) . You are are led into a 
 secret passage and on your way to escaping the dungeon, and fullfilling your role in the epic quest. 
 During your escape, through dark caverns and dank sewers, the game runs through some tutorial popups, 
 that help familiarize yourself with the controls. As you make your way through the underground 
 passages, you get a real feel for all the fine details that went into the game. The lighting is 
 amazing (you see sun rays peeking in front holes in the ceiling, and reflects on almost everything) , 
 the smoke and mist effects add a foreboding sense to the atmosphere, and the textures are extremely 
 life-like. Amazing look and feel. 
  
  On a minor note, regarding the controls ... the tutorial was confusing at times. It never went 
 over how to drop items from your inventory ... it told me I was over encumbered, but not how to 
 un-emcumber myself (I had to go through the manual to find out, and I HATE doing that) . Also, the 
 lockpicking wasn't detailed enough. The tumblers wouldn't stick, and I wasn't EVER quick enough 
 (I thought I was doing something wrong, but it was just because my skill was too low) . However, 
 these were two minor concerns with the beginning of the game.
  
  After making my way through the introductory/tutorial mission (escaping the dungeon and getting 
 the main quest from the emporeror) , I had my first chance of experiencing how really BIG the land 
 is. Over 16 square miles of running (and horse riding) , all so you can explore and experience the 
 world of Oblivion. The landscape is lush and amazingly detailed. The grass and trees sway in the 
 wind, and the various floral and fauna scattering the land is diverse and colorful. Ruins, mines, 
 towns and cities are spread all over, so you are constantly stumbling on new places. For the first 
 3 hours, I was in a state of awe. The beauty was capivating, and the size of the land is almost 
 unbelieveably enormous. Plus, the fact that you can pickup almost anything, and the physics are 
 so dynamic, make this game an amazing achievement.
  
  The combat is pretty good. Unlike morrowind, where you could only attack, and your hits were based 
 strictly on stats, Oblivion got more intense. When you attack, and your sword hits, it causes damage 
 (how much depends on your stats) . Also added, is the ability to block. At low levels, you still 
 get some damage when blocking, but it's certainly less. Overall, the new system works well. I also 
 love the fact that if you hit something, it reacts (hit a chain, and it sways ... hit a dead body 
 and it reacts)
  
  As for difficulty - there is a difficulty setting which you can adjust in the options. However, 
 because the game is so open-ended, you could end up stumbling on a cave of really mean monsters 
 ... but, in my opionion, this adds some realism (and causes you to be careful with your encounters) .
 
  
  Visually, magic has taken some great jumps forward. However, on the back-end, it appears to be 
 much the same (but it was good to begin with) . Alchemy and Enchanting are similar to Morrowind, 
 but you have to be in the Mage's Guild and attain a certain level to do either. 
  
  On a bad note, I have a really good system (not GREAT, but good) , and I still have to run the game 
 on lower setting. The game has never crashed on me while playing the game (yet) , however, everytime 
 I quit the game the program I get a "this program has quit unexpectedly" error (which doesnt both 
 me at that point, since I'm quitting anyway!) .
  
  I'd write more about the game, but it's time I started playing again ... Morrowind was a game a 
 really enjoyed and spend days playing. Oblivion I truly love and will probably cause my girlfriend 
 to break up with me! This game is amazing. I cant say enough good things about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustintv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I knew it would be. I have known it since it was announced that it would be everything I have wanted 
 in an RPG.
  
  I waited like what 2-3 year years for it, finally a game that was worth the wait.
  
  I have 
 a pretty nice system
  
  AMD 3500
  1 gig ram
  7800GT
  
  It set my setting to ultra high and I was worried about the performance on such a level. To my 
 surprise the game plays perfectly. I have not had so much as a slight hiccup with everything turned 
 up.
  
  The game is almost unexplainable. When I first got out into the forest I think stood in my room 
 with my mouth open for 5 minutes. It is that breathtaking on a high-end and im sure Xbox 360 version.
 
  
  I was a huge Morrowind fan, Morrowind is honestly crap compared to Oblivion. It took everything 
 that was awesome and made it 100x more awesome.
  
  I played for 8 and half hours straight last night. I was hungry and cold but I could not stop. 
 I could have played all night if I didnt have work today.
  
  I cant think of another game past or present that has impressed me this much.
  
  Just to put 
 it in perspective, I played for over 8 hours, how many quests did I do? One, Yeah one quest. I 
 walked into a random dungeon and got some loot but I only completed one quest, in 8 hours! And 
 I had a blast!
  
  Watching the guards change shifts, People you see in town actually go to there house at night and 
 walk around. Its amazing.
  
  The level of detail is simply unheard of, the imperial city is HUGE. I walked around for ever. 
 I love it. If you liked Morrowind you will LOVE oblivion.
  
  *I did crash a couple of time, but nothing that made me even slightly dislikes the game. If you 
 dont have a high end system, I would recommend getting an Xbox 360 I have seen it played on one 
 and it was just as good as my computer ran it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: profetaxxi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I've been a RPG lover for many years now, but as a family guy you know it can be hard to manage 
 your time between playing games/family time. Anyways I've been playing Guild Wars for the last 
 couple of months and recently F. E. A. R. After reading a lot about this game and it's previous versions 
 I knew that this was the game that I was missing. When teenager I remember my good Old days playing 
 D&D through the night w/ my old friends (now most of them married and all) , and a couple of years 
 a go Vampire: the Masquerade, now going straight to the point, ES4 has brought me back to those 
 days. Yesterday night I lost sense of time when I started playing this game, all of a sudden 3 
 1/2 hours had passed by without notice, I know that this game will keep me going for a LONNNNNGGGG 
 long time, and so far I'd give it a 9.5. I'm running this game in Widescreen at 1680X1050 w/ Geforce 
 6800 GS SLI, great graphics. 2 thumbs up! A Must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirDrums
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Ok here it goes:
  
  I am a very picky person when it comes to video games, they need to have an immersive story, great 
 visuals and be open ended enough to have great replay value. So far Oblivion is on track to deliver 
 that in spades. There have been very few games that have immersed me into the world as this one 
 has. 
  
  Story:
  The story grabs you by the stones the moment you jump into the game. What I didn't like about morrowwind 
 was that I wasn't given much direction after getting off the ship. I liked the idea of going where 
 ever I wanted but it seemed almost pointless to me. Oblivion makes sure you understand what the 
 main storyline is about before thrusting you out into the world, I really liked that. Having said 
 that, there are still a million questions that can only be answered by asking around and paying 
 attention. There is no hand holding here. 
  
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning. I ran the first 2 hours of the game with 6xAA on and was blown away by how pretty things 
 were. Water is much like the water in HL2. Grass and trees sway in the breeze. Rain and lightning 
 are believable. The textures are very well done with a great use of bump mapping. Most characters 
 look great with the exception of a few looking like the hard plastic models you see a lot in Doom3. 
 I had to turn the AA down to 2x after thing started to get busy and I immediately noticed the difference, 
 The leaves on tress and the edges of grass became more jagged but I got used to it after a few 
 moments.
  
  The one 'bad' thing about the graphics I noticed right away (and its more bc of the limits of current 
 hardware) was that even though objects up close looked great, distant objects were flat and lacked 
 much detail at all, as you travel you can see the engine rendering objects, grass and things just 
 pop up right out of the ground! amazing!
  
  Sound:
  Very well done. The music does a great job in setting the mood and drawing you into the game. The 
 difference you feel between walking through a peaceful country path and it suddenly become a battle 
 ground are well pronounced. 
  
  The voice acting seems good (I have never been to picky about this) Kudos on getting Patrick Stewart 
 (Star trek Next gen Captain Juan-Luc Pricard) to voice the emperor, he did a great job. My only 
 gripe with the voices would be when I ran into a beggar in one of the cities, his voice seemed 
 to change when answering different questions. It changed more than just in pitch, it sounded like 
 two different people.
  
  The sound effects are very well done, I enjoy the little details companies put into their games, 
 like walking over a wooden bridge sounds different than walking over a stone path (you would be 
 surprised how many games cut corners here) , the whistle of your arrows flying through the air, 
 the thud of enemy weapons on your shield. I have no complaints here yet. The game sounds great.
 
  
  Combat:
  The combat system seems simple yet I feel It will be some time before I master it. I love the right 
 mouse-shield, left mouse-Strike combo. Its great putting your shield up to you face waiting for 
 the enemy to strike and the countering after it does. I love how when you shoot an enemy with arrows 
 that you can see the arrows stuck in them, these aren't little cheesy 2d looking arrows, they are 
 more like the thick and mean arrows you saw in the LOTR movies. As a bonus, once you layout the 
 monster with 12 arrows in him, you can walk over and pull the arrows out of him and use them again. 
 That's what I call econo-combat. Another nice feature is that the models are Rag doll models. The 
 enemy corpse with properly slump and fall over the terrain like you see in most modern FPS games. 
 
  
  Magic seems well done also, I am mainly a warrior so I don't cast much but the spells I do cast 
 seem to work well with nice particle and lighting effects.
  
  Conclusion:
  I was starting to get burned out on games here recently, maybe that would have been a good thing? 
 I'll never know now bc this little gem promises to keep me coming back for more and more. I am 
 even already think about playing again after I beat it as another character and I NEVER play single 
 player games more than once. Great job!!!! 
  
  If you haven't picked up this game yet, you are doing yourself a great injustice. Just be prepared 
 to lose a lot of sleep and deal with jealous females!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zielarzcs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  I cant belive its finally here and I can play as much as i want. I've waited for years and now 
 i am sinking into the world of oblivion. I ll c u few years from now 
  hopefully i ll be half way through this game :) Graphics are unbelivable, sound is amazing, gameplay 
 is just sick, i cant stop playing it for like 12 hours now. Everything just fells so real. I love 
 the distance you can see its much farther then morrowind and makes the geam fell much more real. 
 All i can say is go and get this game now and dont plan anything for next few years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game, one of the better one's that I've come across. First game I've found 
 that did NOT require me to twike my video card to work with
  
  The graphics are RICH, I mean VERY rich, just the introduction alone made me feel like I was in 
 a whole new world, like I was no longer in this world (Oh I really wish that was possible sometimes 
 =P)
  
  This game is very good, but it's also very picky on the video card and sound set up. Unless you 
 have what is recommend, you can't run it, EVEN if it's on the box it'll sometimes still yell at 
 you 
  
  But other than that, it's the only real problem. The sound is rich, the graphics are rich, and 
 the plot line seems far better than that of Morrowind (which I found to be a little... cut up here 
 and there)
  
  The NPC's in this game are very rich in chatter, I spent one hour in the imperial city just listening 
 to these two couples chat and chat and chat and CHAT. I think by the time they actually got done 
 it was late at night (and raining.. oooh I love rain) 
  
  The introductory alone is very good and serves to tell how good the company is. While it might 
 take awhile to install the game, it's far worth it in the long run =)
  
  One word of warning: VERY VERY ADDICTIVE
  
  Now I've only played for ten hours straight, so 
 my review isn't much right now, but I assure you, once I play this game a little longer you'll 
 have a proper review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct133nu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  The game starts off and gets you right into the heat of the story and battle. This is a great game. 
 I'm a FPS player and I love this game. It is the most fun I've had playing a game in a long time. 
 I'm sitting in the library @ college right now, wishing I was home playing Oblivion. The fighting 
 in this game is like Whoa!, especially in comparison to Morrowind, they've thrown in a big raise 
 with the fighting. It still has all the things that made Morrowind great, with the guilds, main/side 
 quests, messing around. I was telling myself I was going to play the game straight up, but I jacked 
 a horse!! hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauddib1537
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  after buying the game, and getting up to speed to install and run it, wow! As with the rst of the 
 folks on here who love it, it seems like it's going to be one of those marathon games, like the 
 last one. The one thing that I am dissapointed in is that I don't have a good enough system to 
 enjoy all the capabilities of this game. It does play and run fine with what I have, but it seems 
 as though I really should get a better grx card so that I can fully enjoy it. I'm just not sure 
 I want to invest the time and money into another right now, with other things in my budget. Anyway.. 
 Great game, if you loved the last one, and meet the general requirements for the game (read them 
 first) then pick it up and begin to have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libtech2718
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  I bought the collectors edition of Morrowind before I even knew what I was getting myself into. 
 I had no idea the history of the Elder Scrolls series, or the magnitude of Morrowind itself  I 
 just picked up the box one day out of boredom.
  So, upon hearing of a sequel on the horizon, namely Oblivion, I, like many people, began to collect 
 all the information I could, absorbing every sliver of detail, every facet of a rumor, every half-hearted 
 speculation. Yet, I wanted more. I wanted to play Oblivion as soon as I heard about it. It needed 
 to be in my hands.
  So yesterday, after waiting not-so-patiently, I entered my local Best Buy, picked up my copy, and 
 ran home to install the sucker. Installation was a breeze, no problems in recognizing the DVD, 
 and happily the installation finished quickly.
  In my 4 odd hours of playing Oblivion, though, I quickly realized that the sequel to the randomly 
 purchased Morrowind, while superb in visual quality, lacked something.
  At first, I thought that my wait had jaded my wonder for the game. Maybe in all my internet quests 
 for information, I had lost the spark that made Morrowind so great  mystery. I knew what I was 
 getting. I knew that Oblivion was a huge and ever changing world. I knew the graphics would be 
 like getting an HDTV for the first time. But what I didnt realize was the loss of knew and interesting 
 game play.
  Dont get me wrong, Oblivion is a great game (and Ill get to that in a sec) but it seems like 
 Ive played it before. That problem wouldnt matter as much if it felt like everything else with 
 the game was perfect. But I dont feel that it is.
  My greatest dislike is the interface. I love how they included fast travel in the game, and while 
 I have only used it about 4 times, I can see how later in the game its will become a great tool 
 to used, yet the interface to use it, while imaginative, is conceded. Why should a PC gamer (yes 
 I have forgotten to mention Im playing Oblivion on the PC) have to press TAB, then click on the 
 compass icon, and then (if your lucky) click on the map to fast travel? Why isnt the map screen 
 mapped to, like, the m key? Why cant I just press m to have the entire map show up on the 
 screen, zoom in and out at my leisure, find the name of places, and be able to fast travel on 
 one screen? I understand that the game was released on two separate mediums but it feels like the 
 PC interface is the same interface they used on the 360  AND IN FACT IT IS!!! Why? Every single 
 time I talk to someone, sell or buy stuff from a character, or even need to mess with my inventory 
 (which is a lot since those interactions happen quite a bit) , I have to click on the screen to 
 do everything. I cant hit y or n or even ENTER to have those yes-no boxes disappear.
  I know that some people have argued that comparing Oblivion to Morrowind is a mute point, that 
 they are two separate games, two separate experiences. Yet, Oblivion is a sequel, and as such, 
 deserves the scrutiny of being a sequel. I loved Morrowinds inventory interface, and its map. 
 I liked being able to see the hills, the valleys, and the pools of hot, bubbling lava on the 
 map; Oblivions, while an interesting take on the canvas adventuring map, left me wanting more. 
 I liked being able to see my entire inventory, and with an easy flick of the wrist, hovering my 
 mouse pointer over an object to get more information. Yet, Oblivions inventory seems more 360 
 user friendly, listing the value, damage, armor, and weight along the side of a vertical list of 
 all your inventory pieces. While this interface helps 360 owners, its a chore to use for PC users. 
 I guess my main gripe with Bethesda is  why did you forsake us (PC gamers) , why?
  Couldnt you have spent time editing the interface to better fit a gamer that uses a keyboard and 
 a mouse?
  Yet, for all my hatred of the interface (and hopping someone will fix it, either Bethesda themselves 
 or a gamer) , I must say that Oblivion does live up to its hype. It is a beautiful and visually 
 stunning game, the dialogue is wonderfully produced (while the lip-syncing is not perfect, kudos 
 for the near miss) , and the new active fighting  its just something I have to get used to. Creating 
 a character is an experience of its own. I just want to go back and try to make my character look 
 like a famous celebrity or politician, or see if I can get my own persona into the game, or even 
 one of my friends. I even speculate that a new type of download will start, saved games at the 
 exit to the sewers in which people have created characters faces of real people  that would be 
 interesting.
  So to those that have Oblivion  good luck on your adventures. And to those that dont  hope you 
 can find a copy, because you dont want to miss this experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcloper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Same problem as Morrowind. Fun as hell IF you have a kickass video card. If you don't then how 
 can you enjoy the scenery, the flash, the game itself? 
  
  I would like a game from Bethesda that I did not need a $3K+ system to run out of the box. No other 
 new games I've bought have this problem. It ain't worth playing if you have to play VGA, large 
 texture, short fading distances, and no anit-aliasing. What give Bethesda???
  
  On plus side. What few frames a scecond I could see were beautiful, and the fighting was FAST action. 
 Finally a game where the action seems real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolgard
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Absolutely breathtaking - a game which redefines the single-player role-playing experience. From 
 the graphics, to the quests, to the depth of the environment, to the audio - everything is done 
 just right. All the small touches are there - the economy is balanced, the game is a challenge 
 for the player while not being overwhelming at the same time. You have that sense of freedom that 
 you did in previous Elder Scrolls games, with an incredible amount of quests to partake in, or, 
 alternatively, you can just wander about the world and be your own man (or woman) . The hand-holding 
 option is there, but you can let go at anytime. This is a big win of a game - and, to be quite 
 honest, the best single-player game I've ever played. I'm far from a Bethesda fanboy, by the way... 
 I didn't like Morrowind at all, and I vaguely remember Daggerfall, but that was almost before my 
 time. This game, however, gives new life to the Elder Scrolls series, and if Bethesda can keep 
 cranking out masterpieces like this, they might well have a new fanboy on their side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaniel420
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was expecting a lot when I bought this game and was going to be thoroughly 
 disappointed if it didn't meet any of my expectations. This is normally the case with high-profile 
 games that don't meet the original deadline. I would find myself reading and re-reading the previews 
 on all the websites and impatiently waiting for news of a release date. Then I would buy it and 
 the game would leave much to be desired. Not this one.
  
  Everything is fun about this game. I chose a character that dabbles in fighting, magic, and stealth. 
 I can't believe how flawlessly the game allows for such openness. Even the mini-games such as lockpicking 
 are pretty engrossing. I found myself going to every person I came across and played the speechcraft 
 mini-game (I think I'm getting good at it too!!) . 
  
  I'm not even running this game on a powerful PC (2.4 gHz, 1.2 Gig RAM, ATI Radeon 9800 128MB) and 
 I can put the draw distance to maximum. The video options allow for a happy medium of video quality 
 and framerate success. 
  
  The bottom line is if you have any interest in RPGs at all or if you've never played them and think 
 this might be even remotely entertaining, I would recommend this game for you. It's beautiful to 
 look at, the gameplay is top-notch, the story is interesting, and the possibilities are endless. 
 
  
  Get up, go to the store, buy the game, come home, install it, and kiss your boredom goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iDEVIL_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Yesterday i took these game, i played about 12 hours and i can tell that is the first game of these 
 series that show the meaning of the real rpg and how worth they are! Have all most ,every think 
 even horse to ride. Just buy and have fun! About the bugs that they tell! I dont find know one (some 
 times the bugs that we tell, isn't bugs always, i will say first to look in our machine carefully 
 and after talk about bugs) , But the truth is that the most needed ,to run properly these game is 
 RAM (1.5GB) . Any way just enjoy these game because i don't think that will be exist such a game 
 for a long time...... Have Fun!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaladon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I have only played for about 10 hours. But so far, this is the best single player roleplaying game 
 I have ever played. This game simply emerses you into a world of fantasy, and you will literally 
 forget you live in a normal world. This is the first time i can say, that this is a game where 
 it surpases the imagination I have. From the first moment of the game till about 10 hours in ( 
 and i may be at a different point in the game then others) till i had to force myself to stop playing 
 to sleep. I have been searching different dungeons, and every nook and cranny. 
  Its not really fair to give an accurate review of the whole game just yet (given the amount of 
 play time) . But i will say this is my vote for Game of the year. Easy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthurdeac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for about 5 hours, I must say that I am completely amazed so far. The graphics 
 on the PC are amazing when HDR lighting is enabled (Keep in mind; you will need a graphics card 
 higher than a Radeon X850 to support HDR) . The story gets interesting really fast and you will 
 be addicted from the moment you start the game. Playing around with the game's physics engine is 
 a game on its own. This game really sucks you into it's world and makes you lose sense of time. 
 This game should keep me busy until Fallout3 comes out.
  
  After all the E3 trailers, countdown teasers, and hype, this game definitely delivers everything 
 it promised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of this series, and who isn't, I am ecstatic with this game. I have a lower end 
 system and card, which caused me some concern, but the game runs pretty well. I can't use all the 
 bells and whistles on this game, but it still looks great. The combat system, which IMO was pretty 
 substandard in the last game, is amazing now. If you don't yet have it, go get it. The Collector's 
 Edition is well worth the price, trust me. I have only been playing for about 11 hours and I have 
 already found a way to contract vampirism! You can buy a home in any town, and now you can even 
 buy your own shop to sell stuff in. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  In keeping with the Elder Scrolls tradition, players will have the option to experience the main 
 quest at their own pace, and there will be plenty of opportunities to explore the vast world and 
 make your own way. Numerous factions can be joined, such as the thieves or mages guilds, and each 
 contains its own complete storyline and the chance to rise to the head of the faction and reap 
 further rewards. Oblivion features a groundbreaking new AI system, called Radiant AI, which gives 
 non-player characters the ability to make their own choices based on the world around them. They'll 
 decide where to eat or who to talk to and what they'll say. They'll sleep, go to church, and even 
 steal items, all based on their individual characteristics. Full facial animations and lip-synching, 
 combined with full speech for all dialog, allows NPCs to come to life like never before. 
  
  THUS THESE FEATURES MAKES THE GAME ROCK MA WORLD........
  
  THE ELDER SCROLLS IV: OBLIVION 
 SPECIAL FEATURES 
  
   Live Another Life in Another World. Create and play any character you can imagine, from the noble 
 warrior to the sinister assassin to the wizened sorcerer
   Next generation graphics. Pixel-shader effects and high definition televisions are fully supported 
 to create unprecedented visuals, including lifelike towns, dungeons, and the most realistic forests 
 ever created in a game
   First person melee and magic. An all-new combat and magic system brings first person role-playing 
 to a new level of intensity where you feel every blow
   Radiant ai. This groundbreaking ai system gives oblivion's characters full 24/7 schedules and 
 the ability to make their own choices based on the world around them. Non-player characters eat, 
 sleep, and complete goals all on their own
   Realistic characters. Oblivions features over 1,000 non-player characters who come to life like 
 never before with facial animations, lip-synching, and full speech. They even engage in unscripted 
 conversations with each other and you
   Open-ended game plays
   Short challenges. The enormous world of oblivion is open for you to explore at your own pace, 
 and shorter challenges such as fighting bandits, mixing potions, creating magic items and persuading 
 friends keep the challenges coming.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrainFlush
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  So far, I have yet to be disappointed. Even though my computer cant render anything beyond 40ft 
 in the distance. The game looks amazing with what I have. That being said. This is a game for anybody 
 with the will/desire to be completely engrossed by an epic RPG as Oblivion does from the first 
 moment. You dont need the latest and greatest hardware, yes it is nice, but this game gets its 
 real appreciation from the complexity of the main character, objectives, NPC, outdoors, underground, 
 and damn well anything under the fictional sun. Enjoy it. The mods scene for this is limitless. 
 After 3 days, I have only completed 2 objectives. How Sad I Am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreeRPGer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This is even better than I had imagined. I'm only about 10 hours into the game, but man o man.... 
 As soon as I started to create a character, I knew something more compelling was going on here. 
 It took me almost two hours just to get a character I felt comfortable with, tweaking the face 
 and so forth, but I could've went on even longer on character customization. All your skills level 
 up faster, and, well, everything is faster. No lag.... yet. The graphix are eye-popping, and the 
 sound ambient. The walls in the sewer were gleaming with moisture, and every object is interactive. 
 This is just beyond what I was expecting, and yes, I was expecting a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonelyjew
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I've only had the game for a few hours so I guess my review isn't way too fair, but I think I've 
 seen enough to get a good general impression of the game. The first thing that simply amazed me 
 was the character editor. No more choosing stock faces, you create your characters face and have 
 nearly limitless possibilities with all the editors. 
  
  The graphics themselves are very impressive, though honestly, not as good as I had expected. The 
 character models are possibly the best I've ever seen, and the HDR lighting adds very much atmosphere, 
 but the general textures are not nearly as good as I had thought they'de be. The draw distance 
 of basic terrain is very far (maybe even 1 mile) but don't expect the draw distance of details to 
 be even close. In fact, I would have rather given up some of the dense grass and bushes to increase 
 this a bit, it's way too short to be convincing. I hope I'm not making the graphics sound too bad 
 because they are great, just not quite as sublime as I had thought they would be. The draw distance 
 and the textures surely were made the way they were to improve performance as I have a oc'd 6800gt 
 and I do occasionally feel minor slowdowns.
  
  The Game play is also extremely good. Small, annoying, parts of morrowind that I remember, like 
 lockpicking, and persuading people have been fixed with little mini games that make them more than 
 a purely skill based activity that is pretty fun. 
  
  The AI is amazing, this wasn't a letdown at all. The npc's talk to eachother about different topics (major 
 news, business, etc.) , travel, and act in many senses like real people. No more static npc's that 
 let you steel anything and lockpick when you get out of their line of sight. They follow you around 
 and make sure to keep you in their sights all the time. The better parts of the combat AI are yet 
 to apear to me though as I am only a few hours into the game. Though, I did read a preview in PC 
 gamer where they went into a cave full of vampires. These vampires didn't just charge in, rather, 
 they cast invisibility on eachother, surrounded the hapless player, and then tore him to shreds.
 
  
  The sound isn't bad, but it isn't anything special. I did experiance a few bugs with the sound 
 actually, though I do think these are isolated, not really a bid deal.
  
  The game surely, with it's many races, classes, custom class system, and massive enviroment will 
 be extremely replayable, to the point where you will probably get bored before you beet it in even 
 5% of the ways possible.
  
  Awsome game, I think everyone should get it, even if you hate rpg's, it's worth a try. To anyone 
 who is even mildly interested in rpg's, this is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: failing2succeed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is like a re-enactment of the time those scientists picked up the "Oh-my-God" particle. 
 
  
  Everything about this game is great. Graphics are truly some of the best i've seen around. The 
 HDR (high dynamic range) that HL2: Lost Coast used has been implemented amazingly. The glare on 
 the walls of a dungeon or the sun on your amazingly detailed sword, to the guts hanging out of 
 an attacking zombie all make for a near real experience worthy of any fps rpg fan.
  
  The game auto-detects your computer hardware and applies settings accordingly, although you can 
 always change it yourself. Turn on the anti-alaising and prepare for amazement as the rough edges 
 smooth out; or turn up the shadows and watch the trees and grass sway in the wind while you bask 
 in the shade. 
  
  Controls are a tad weird at first, but you'll easily be killing rats, humans, whatever by the end 
 of the introduction area. Magic is now controlled while your weapons are out and changing between 
 weapons and magic is obsolete.
  
  It seems like a Morrowind spinoff, but intensely better. The story line is much more engaging as 
 i'm finding myself not being able to sway from the main path so far, as i always want to know whats 
 coming next! On top of that there is literally tens of factions you can join. 
  
  Steal a horse? Or pay for it? Horses make travel a ton faster but watch out for guards as they 
 also have horses. 
  
  All in all, the Elder Scrolls: Obl IV ion may very well be one of the best games out to date. To 
 any fan of morrowind or anyone who is interested in general, this game is for you. And i strongly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwms12345
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I am running thus game on medium settings and it still looks amazing. the gameplay is extremely 
 opened ended and, evn though I have only played for about 5 hours there have already been many 
 side quests open to me. Each of these quests is different and I have yet to come across one that 
 isnt fun. What I have seen of the main quest ( I have to distracted exploring) is good. There is 
 a strong story line and many many characters. 
  
  THere is an unbeliavable amount of options when creating your characters look and attributes. It 
 is easy to spend an hour simply customizing yourself. The world in the game is huge and very fun 
 to explore. It can get tiring walking every where or even riding horses ( I believe there are 5 
 breeds) . This problem is iliminated though by the fast travel option where you attomaticley trave 
 to a selected destination wile the game figures the time that has passed. 
  
  All in all this game is so amazing. I never played the Morrowind so I dont know if any af these 
 features are old and therefor you may not be as exited as I was to find then. I deffinatley recommend 
 this game. I give this game a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kool64
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooo much better looking and running than i had ever thought it could be. With a moderately 
 speced comp i get very little slowdown even when loading worlds. I have 2gigs of ram an Athlon 
 64 3200 and an X1600 and it runs 95% flawlessly. The combat is a hair clunky at first until you 
 can catch on to the auto lunge but it's not bad over all. The graphics are amazing i have never 
 seen better since HL2. The character faces look a bit strange though the noses are HUGE! (seriously) 
 but the other aspects of the faces look amazing they show even more emotions than HL2 chars do. 
 The magic system is 100% beter this time around as well even maps and finding places is better. 
 That's a huge help since the scope of the area is so large. The combat sounds could be a bit stronger 
 but the voice acting inplace of reading is 100% better it's so cool to hear the towns folk chat 
 it up with eachother. So far i have not done much other than mess around in some dungeons but so 
 far i think this game is going to keep me from buying a new game for a very very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theking52
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  AMAZING! one word that explains it the best. when you first see the outside you'll just be awestruck 
 ( i was so were my brothers) . a lot of games look good in screenshots but when they're released 
 you think "what happened"? not like that here... its same or even better (since ur actually playin' 
 it) . monsters and npcs look great, they have facial expressions depending on how they're feeling... 
 they're eye pupils move around, they have wrinkles on the skin. the world... wow. thats all i can 
 say... wow. your equipment and weapon reflects lighting... unfortunately you have to choose between 
 no aa if you want HDR or have bloom and aa but no HDR. so to sum it up with the npcs, monsters 
 and the rest of the game... wow^9999999
  
  Audio: 
  great music throughout. love how the battle music is different from the regular music so you know 
 when you hear it... better draw weapons and watch out. the audio from npcs is superb as their lips 
 move accordingly and it shows by their facial expressions... sword sheating and drawing sounds 
 cool
  
  Gameplay:
  so many many things to do, arenas, guilds, take part in small scale battles, just soo much to do.
 
  
  value:
  haven't finished the game (duh) but main quest is supposed to take about 25 hrs, then each guild's 
 are supposed to about that much and there's i believe 6+ guilds. then there's random npc quests 
 so thats a lot.
  and then when you spend hundreds there, you can play with different major skills which will be 
 playing it in a whole new way. so you've spend some hundreds of hours there... and here come the 
 mods.!!! this game can last forever (until TES V :D)
  
  Overall:
  an improvement over morrowind in jsut about everyway. and since morrowind is considered one of 
 the best rpgs (except for its combat :P) thats a very very hard thing to do but bethesda did it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: errordotocx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Since 2002 when the first screenshots were released of this game, I knew this puppy would be instantly 
 a game to remember. Here four years later as I sit absolutely astonished, I now know my first opinions 
 on this game were exactly right.
  
  As the loading screen finishes loading and the first video pops up onto the screen. I sit in awe 
 as the intro clip amazes me in all ways... hell I thought I was watching a movie or something... I 
 watch as it explains how things are in the world and how they came to be that way. The clip in 
 itself is amazing and from there you proceed on to the character creation screen which allows you 
 to choose from ten different races and an amazing array of ways to customize your character in 
 which you would be able to call your own. After spending 30 minutes creating my character, though 
 if you looked at all of the races and different things you could change then you could easily spend 
 several hours here, I then proceded to the jail scene in which was shown in one of the elder scrolls 
 demo movies from awhile back. I then proceeded to look around at the amazing detail of everything 
 around me. I was just so amazed that words can't even be put forth on how amazing this game looks. 
 After spending five to ten minutes gawking like an idiot at everything. I then decided to try out 
 the physics engine and pick up the wooden bucket and throw it about the room, quite fun I have 
 to say. After I wore the fun out of throwing the bucket around the room, but in which I would find 
 myself doing again later on as I was playing, I then headed towards the entrance of my cell in 
 which I sat and watched as another prisoner decided to try to tell me my fate and that I would 
 die. In which three guards came down the stairs following Uriel Septiem. This is where it all begins 
 as he tells me a few things about himself and tells me I am the one he has seen in his dreams. 
 The guards then open a secret passage in my cell and tell my that this is my lucky day and if I 
 stay out of their way then I may exit with them.
  
  Only a few moments after you exit the guards come into contact with some assassins in which are 
 trying to kill the emperor. As you look around you notice that one of the guards has fallen, after 
 a brief moment of mourning over their dead comrade, the two remaining guards and the emperor proceed 
 ahead in which you can loot a weapon and some armor from the fallen guard and foes. Then from this 
 point you are on your own for awhile in which the great tutorial will teach you how to use swords, 
 shields, bows, magic and just about everything else essential in the game as you proceed through 
 the dark gloomy cave you will come in contact with large rats, warrior like goblins and a mage 
 like goblin in which puts quite a hurt on you when hit by his fire, and theres even a part where 
 you get to push logs down a steep hill to kill a goblin... what fun. As you progrees through the 
 cave you will find money, armor, better weapons, food etc. You can also pick up things like skulls 
 and people and move then about the room as you please. You then meet up with the emperor again 
 in which you have a brief interaction with him and ends with him telling you what his stars are 
 and then you yourself get to pick what stars you are. You again follow the guards to a gate in 
 which becomes and ambush and you with the emperor are backed into a dead in and the two guards 
 give you the order to stay with the emperor in which you enter another brief interaction with him 
 where he tells you he knows is time grows near and to take his amulet and find a person within 
 the city and asked them about the unknown heir to the amulet. After, you hear the two guardsmen 
 in a frantic battle outside the room in which you turn to see what was going on, or I did anyways, 
 and an assassian leaps from a secret door and kills the emperor. After the bloody battle outside 
 the room the guard then comes into the room and finds the body of the emperor. As he mourns over 
 him being dead he tells you he has failed... etc... etc. He then questions you about the amulet and 
 askes you how you got it and why the emperor gave it to you. From here the guard tells you that 
 the emperor had a big trust in you and I suppose you could say the guard starts trusting you alot 
 more. He then tells you that you need to go to the sewers and get out of here before more assassins 
 come. He hands you the key to the sewer and tells you of the dangers here. You then get to pick 
 one of the many classes you wish to pursue, or even create your own class.
  
  After you enter the sewer you then fight more rats and goblins along the way until you come to 
 the exit of the sewer in which you are asked one last time if your characters race, class and several 
 other things are correct. If you are wanting to change, this would be the time because you won't 
 get another. Then after exiting the sewer you are dumped on the beautiful lake area with a dock 
 and allowed to go and explore as you please. This is where my adventure ended for the moment, but 
 I will hopefully write another review over the game once I am finished with the whole thing. Though 
 no telling when that could be. =P
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  For the few hours that I have played sofar. I can clearly say that the gameplay of this game is 
 amazing, everything from sword fighting to casting spells to interaction with guards is just absolutely 
 amazing. This game is all around fun and would be a great game for anyone to play, rpg fan or not. 
 I would also like to note that the AI in this game is just plain badass. Since each of the AI indivuduals 
 get to make up their own mind, this makes for unique battles nomatter where you are at... and don't 
 even get me started about the physics and animations. Words can't even descrbe how awesome these 
 are.
  
  -
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  What can I say, the graphics in this game totally kick every other games ass. Everything is so 
 so.... SO beautiful and just overall amazing. This was obviously a big huge part of the game and 
 it has been done to perfection. The only downside I have to say about the game is that you would 
 need a killer machine to completely be able to enjoy everything in the graphics section of the 
 game. Although I am not deducting any points because even when you have to set the graphics a little 
 bit lower it still looks insanely incredible.
  
  -
  
  Sound: 10
  
  The sound in oblivion is done to complete perfection. Everything from swords hitting armor to furious 
 fights and magic are just plain cool. Everything has a unique sound and when you go to hit something 
 it will make the sound that you would expect it to make. Oh, and the music... brilliant... just brilliant. 
 I fell like i'm watching some epic tale of a warrior in medevil times. The music is so awesome 
 that at time I crank my volume up just to listen to it. Bravo.
  
  -
  
  Value: 10
  
  This game has a never ending totally kickass feel to it and I would imagine that I will be replaying 
 this game over and over and over until my CD is so worn out I will have to go and buy another. 
 I myself was never really an elderscrolls fan until I bought this game. Hell I even owned Morrowind 
 and read the reviews, I had just never got into it. But now since oblivion has come out my views 
 of the game have been changed forever and I am now hooked on this game until the end of time.
 
  
  -
  
  I would just lastly like to say that this is such an amazing well done game. It's overall value 
 will mark this game as a classic to never be forgotten. If you have not yet to go pick this game 
 up from a local retailer for either PC or Xbox 360. I would Utmost urgre you to do so because you 
 have NO idea what you are missing out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOne5533
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I picked up a copy from one of my retailers late last evening. It popped it in and was instantly 
 satisfied. Loading for me was wonderful and easy; plus it took no time at all. 
  
  Starting the game with the music in the opening options screen was great and the icons and options 
 well labels and easy to navigate. I soon, set my option to ultra high since I am running two 7800GT 
 in Sli. Then, without any problems I started the game and begin the opening cinematic. I really 
 enjoyed the voice acting, music, and visuals in the cinematic really helps show how epic the game 
 is and the tutorial though a little confusing for a new to the series player it was a good way 
 to learn.
  
  Out of everything learning how the F# buttons works with the menus was the hardest part, but I 
 quickly learned it after 15 minutes of playing. Once, I left tutorial and went into the world around 
 the main city; I have to say the graphics are amazing, really, really, a treat. Loading is also 
 not to bad because most of it happens in the background while you are playing. Most of the loading 
 screens anyway entering dungeons are short.
  
  Everything about this game was what I was expecting and then some; but I do wish they allowed you 
 to buy a horse from the first city (I stole my horse) Anyway, really expands upon the series and 
 will sure be an instant hit. If, you like fantasy or any mmorpg games this game will be a great 
 single player break for you. It will for sure give you 500+ hours of playing fun.
  
  Don't Copy it, Please Go Purchase A Copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0adphr0g
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Run don't walk to your favourite game store and pick this up! Oblivion scores a PERFECT 10 with 
 me! This game has truly surpassed my expectations. I was lucky enough to grab the Collector's Edition. 
 Even as teh game loads new content, there is NO stop in the action. The lighting effects are all 
 here! The PC version does NOT disappoint! This is easily Game of the Year for 2006. So far, there 
 is nothing to complain about, this game is just simply awesome. This is what your PC was created 
 to play, just remember not to forget to eat, sleep, and yeah, go to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Marcos
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  blows morrowind out of trhe water the opening dungeon alone was great makes it more fun to start 
 a new character unlike morrowind where you had to wade through some non-violent stuff for awhile. 
 The combat system is great. The marksman skill is especially good this time using sneak and marksman 
 together can yield one shot kills if your skill is high enough. Also the bonus feats you gain for 
 gaining ranks in your skills liek the zoom ability with bows when you become a Journeyman in the 
 Marksman skill. Magic is much easier to use also no more changing stance just have a spell chosen 
 and press the cast key and your weapon is quickly sheathed the spell is cast then the weapon is 
 redrawn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monsooon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the ultimate game, perfection put into one CD I got it today 3/21/06 and it is so amazing. 
 IT SENT FROM HEAVEN FOR WE GAMERS TO PLAY UNTIL THE DAY OF RECKONING! The graphics amazing its 
 like looking out side a window with a sword strangly very closy to me, this is true perfection, 
 and is the people at gamespot dont give it a 10 i will throw up at the fact that they dont think 
 its the game of all games the crem dula crey this people is what you F**KEN CALL PERFECTION! That 
 is all i have to say and BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thethnktnk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely outstanding, and I would recommend it to anyone who is a fan of the series, 
 a fan of real-time-combat-based RPGs, or anyone looking for a new addiction. The game is visually 
 stunning and the environment is expansive and mesmerizing. You may find yourself just sitting in 
 the wilderness enjoying the beauty of the landscape, assuming you're not busy slaughtering monsters. 
 The music is spot-on too, and the voice acting is superb, although I find some of the characters 
 accents unusual. The new character interaction system is intriguing as well, and I look forward 
 to mastering it. One of my favorite improvements in gameplay is the ability to block manually, 
 which should hopefully allow the Block skill to be improved much more quickly, and make combat 
 a little more strategic.
  If your new to the Elder Scrolls leveling system, it may take you a little while to get used to, 
 but fans of the series will feel right at home. It looks like some of the notorious leveling exploits 
 have been fixed, so take that as you will. While I was never much of a thief in Morrowind, the 
 lockpicking interface has become a bit more skill-based, rather than a simple game of probability, 
 which should please many people hoping to level up that security a little faster. Overall, I look 
 forward to playing this game for many months, and recommend that you all go and get a copy of your 
 own as quickly as possible, so you can get started playing right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDannyG
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. freeroam really invites the player to live another life. Excellent presentation. 
 If you have the machine to run this game, u can truly bet that its one of the best graphic games 
 out there. With speedtree technology it really improves the dynamics of the trees. The water might 
 be lacking, but the foliage is unbelievable.
  
  The AI is spectacular, by far the best AI any rpg has ever seen, complex and an excellent step 
 forward in AI development.
  
  The physics engine is godly, if you kill a wolf on a hill, the wolf will actually "tumble" down 
 the hill, not "slide" like the TES3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seankh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  You people obviously dont understand how release dates work, they always put the SHIPPING date 
 for the release date except for some rare occasions. the ship date means when it gets mailed so 
 it doesnt actually come out in stores until the day after, so the majority of you are lying. the 
 only people who actually got it early had to have preordered it at a generous store.
  
  WARNING: this game is highly demanding, ppl with Geforce 6600s etc will not be able to run it very 
 well at all. its killing my machine right now so im upgrading to a 7900. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggydoo29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review ever here on Gamespot. I have played many games since being a member here, 
 but this is the first game I have felt worthy of writing a review. I have not made it that far 
 into the game (was finally able to pick the game up today, and had to practically beg the guy at 
 EB Games for it) . Thus, my review is certainly not a complete one, and for a more fuller, and richer 
 review, you should check the one that they will be doing here on Gamespot. 
  
  Anyhow, I am going to more or less summarize my limited experience with the game thus far. Graphically, 
 this game is incredible. I have an X800XL graphics card, a Pentium 630 CPU (3ghz) , 1GB of DDR2 
 (533mhz) ram, and a 80GB hard drive. The graphics are running at the highest they can possibly 
 run (minus HDR, as my card does not support it) , and they run fluidly. The programming in this 
 game is first rate! The opening scene in the game, where you are flying around the castle, is simply 
 mouth dropping. Sounds in this game are truly immersive. From the swelling music, to the great 
 speech and acting, to the truly mood setting themes, this has to be one of the better sounding 
 games I have played! The game is also very playable. You can do so much, from character development 
 (took over an hour just on this part) , to the awesomely free roaming and playing environment. This 
 is truly one of those games where you really have the world at your fingertips! 
  
  Bethesda has done something quite miraculous in creating Oblivion. I have been playing computer 
 games and RPG's now for over 20 years, and this has to be among the finest of the genre. If there 
 is one game you will buy in '06, this is one of those "must have" games. You won't be sorry!
  
  -shaggydoo29 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b2345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  brilliant, a true coming of age next gen rpg, and gauranteed game of the year potential. I have only 
 played around 6 hours of the game and I am already completely drawn in by the story line. The xbox 
 360 delivers stunning next gen graphics and solid gameplay. The controls do take a little getting 
 used to, after that its off to seal the gates of oblivion. Growing up I loved the classic rpgs such 
 as, FF, dragon warrior ,breath of fire, and secret of mana just to name a few. But as I grew older 
 I began to distance myself from the rpg world. Oblivion has proved to rekindle my rpg flames and 
 has me waking up wondering whats next.2k games has proved they are good for something other than 
 solid sports titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolokolus
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I've only been playing for a couple of hours now, but from what little I've seen I can say that 
 Bethsoft has a hat trick. I was a little bit skeptical at first about the "real time" combat system, 
 but in practice it feels pretty good. 
  
  I realize writing a review after only 3 hours of play is maybe premature and makes me a raging 
 fanboi, but condidering that I thought morrowind was merely "good" and my expectations were that 
 Oblivion would probably just be prettier and bigger, my expectations have been exceeded and then 
 some. 
  
  Is this the best game ever? Hard to say; still too early to tell. Let me get back to you in a two 
 weeks when I fianally unstick my butt from my chair and carpal tunnel has set in.
  
  Update:
  Been at it for awhile now - hygiene is questionable - hoping to send out a foraging 
 party, as supplies of chips and beer are getting low - feeling very weak.
  
  *ahem* so far the game seems to have fixed every major gripe I had with Morrowind and I'm really 
 digging it; my only complaint is. . . well I'm still trying to figure out what it is. . . I guess 
 it would be nice if the game had co-op multi-player, but that's all I can think of.
  
  Bar none, the best single player RPG I've ever had the pleasure to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armarest
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  The game is very stylish and was worth every delay that it has gone through in order to make it 
 the game it is. They have really improved on the Morrowind series quite a bit. The feel is a little 
 different, but also in many ways it is just like Morrowind and Im sure people will appreciate this 
 transition to next gen graphics. The sound and music is also very well done. Crisp sounds and an 
 excellent soundtrack of music. I recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of role playing fantasy 
 and first person shooters, because not only does the first person perspective give you that "Let's 
 kill stuff" feel, but the role playing also adds meaning in what you do, how you go about doing, 
 and why your doing the things that you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skibn21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Yesterday I received my collectors edition, and I have been impressed ever since. The game has 
 the best graphics I have seen on any PC game I own to date. For anybody with a monster PC rig can 
 turn all the details up and drool on your keyboard. The world seems 3 times larger than the previous 
 Morrowind, and the gameplay has really stepped up.
  
  The game starts out not by just dropping you into the world, but rather integrates a storyline 
 into the tutorial and makes you think the tutorial is actually the game off the bat. After playing 
 through the tutorial you are taken to a last gate where you can change your race, appearance, class, 
 and birthsign for a final time. This is an excellent point to save as you wont have to go through 
 the beginning all over again. After that you are given a push into what direction you need to go, 
 but as with the past elder scrolls you are given the freedom to do anything and everything you 
 want.
  
  The game is extremely graphics intensive and will take some serious power to run the higher end 
 settings. If you can run the game though at full view distance and high resolution then you will 
 be in love.
  
  The character creation offers tons of choices and would rival the character creator in Everquest 
 2. You can change everything from age, to bone structures, and hair + skin colors as well.
  
  As far as the classes go. There are a lot of upgrades that should be loved by all. The thief 
 classes now benefit from shadows when sneaking around. Mages will notice that all spells have gorgeous 
 effects and fun to use. Do not think they forgot about the warriors either. There is a all new 
 fighting system. Blocking is no longer done automatically but rather with holding down the right 
 mouse button. You can actually be staggered backwards by a direct blow from the enemy, and you 
 can be knocked around making the combat seem realistic. There is also rag doll physics added in 
 so a blast from a spell might send an enemy flying down a flight of stairs or knocking over a table.
 
  
  Dungeons now have booby traps and secret entrances. I almost cried the first time I stepped on 
 a pressure plate only to have a huge swinging spiked log swing and knock me down almost killing 
 me. This causes you to be more cautious in dungeons. (you can lure enemies into traps or set them 
 off with weapons)
  
  Npcs also have set schedules now and are no longer predicable and just always standing in the same 
 spot.
  
  There is also fast travel by using the map, or you can buy your own horse. Tired from Morrowind 
 of having to kill someone just to use their house. No worries, just purchase your own.
  
  Everything from the last game is in there too as far as professions go (armorsmith, alchemy, enchanting 
 etc.)
  
  There is so much more to this game that I cant even explain everything cause I am missing out on 
 play time right now.
  
  If you loved Morrowind, or even just love open ended rpg's than be sure to pick this one up.
 
  
  Ryan 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellmr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  what can i say :
  Neverwinter ...     KoTOr 2    guess what next ?
  this game i been waited for Long LONG long time a go
  Game play is very simple to pick up and 
 play. I did not play Morrowind, but I was able to swing into this game with no issue. The story 
 keeps you enthralled, and I was never lost (yet) . The world is huge and you can warp to any area 
 instantly, and this will save you LOTS of time, but you lose out on the wild living world full 
 of collectible flowers, weeds, and other things to create potions or poisons for weapons. Then 
 add the NPCs in the countryside and the occasional Inn, and this game is INSANE.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chorvath
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  My impressions are based on playing the game for about two hours after installing it, so I may 
 still be awestruck. Graphics, sound, and voice-overs are absolutely amazing. I have a mid-range 
 system (P4 2.8 GHz, 1.5 Gb RAM, NVidia 256 Mb 6600 graphics card) , and the game plays very well. 
 I don't have all the graphic features enabled, but the game still looks amazing. Loadtimes are 
 quite acceptable. So far I have no complaints about the game, other than it sucks that I'll wind 
 up dropping so much time into playing it. :)
  
  I hope to see more intriguing scripted sequences. There were a few as you're making your way thru 
 the sewers, so I fully expect to see more. I have to admit I was stunned by the scale of the game. 
 I played the original Elder Scrolls game about 12 years ago, and I played Morrowind. I must have 
 forgot how huge these games are, for I didn't appreciate how expansive the environment was while 
 looking at the map included with the game until after I was trying to figure out how far I'd traveled 
 on foot.
  
  Incredibly impressive. Bethesda, keep up the phenomenal work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  It is Monday night, March 20, and I have played TES: O (Collectors Edition) for about 5 hours now, 
 and I am loving it. The graphics everyone has seen are top notch, but what about the game ITSELF? 
 After taking over 45 min JUST TO CREATE my avatar, with a choice of 10 races! The top that off 
 with an insane amount of customizability to change hair style and color, facial features, and just 
 trying some random faces will make you laugh. Dont get me started on the classes and advanced 
 classes that you start with. Not to mention going good or evil... 500+ hours is no exaggeration 
 when it comes to replaying this game.
  
  Game play is very simple to pick up and play. I did not play Morrowind, but I was able to swing 
 into this game with no issue. The story keeps you enthralled, and I was never lost (yet) . The world 
 is huge and you can warp to any area instantly, and this will save you LOTS of time, but you lose 
 out on the wild living world full of collectible flowers, weeds, and other things to create potions 
 or poisons for weapons. Then add the NPCs in the countryside and the occasional Inn, and this game 
 is INSANE.
  
  I find fighting easier as magic is too cumbersome at the moment. You have to hit C to cast, and 
 it leaves you open to retaliation attacks if youre not fast enough. You can hit left CTRL to enter 
 sneak mode and get a damage bonus with Bows (which is the way I went, I became an assassin) . I 
 just got done going into the Oblivion plane and closing a gate near Kavash, now I am about to assault 
 the castle to retake the town man I cant wait until tomorrow. 
  
  I see this as one great game. If you play it and love it, then BUY IT, dont copy, support the 
 wonderful job these people did, to create a living breathing world.
  
  Oh.. and before you actually review a game.. PLAY IT. I saw nothing but reviews based on pictures 
 and videos. What good does that do?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelkimble2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I just played it for an hour and i'm really impressed by the overall gameplay and graphic. The graphics 
 where really very very impressive the best on PC i have seen. I have 6800ultra 256mb and i still 
 felt i needed a better one even thought the gameplay was smooth i wanted this game to run in all 
 the eye candys on.
  The sound is really awesome with my 5.1 speakers it was really really cool.
  the controls are 
 really great not had a problem with that.
  
  If u like RPG then u would love this game.
  This game is really really awesome u must play it.
  
  Ok i end it here cause i wanna play more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sSubZerOo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  I have to say this game is pretty bad.. After playing it for a long time I am come across to the 
 fact that everythign is always my level ALWAYS... Why level/devolp my character when I know I will 
 always have the exact same difficulty.. This makes matters worse when your able to beat the game 
 AT LVL 2.. Infact you can beat everything at lvl 1 or 2 except for the 8 or so Daedric shrine quests...
 
  This makes matters worse with the fact of the character creatiton is utterly lame.. No matter 
 what skills you pick you will still be able to max out all your stats if you do it right, max out 
 all your skills.. So in the end two characters will be the EXACT same.. Only thing that would seperate 
 those characters are the birth signs (which in teh most part won't be much difference) and race.. 
 
  This utter lack of uniqueness goes to GEAR... Light and heavey Armor in the end are THE EXACT same, 
 their are no cons or pros to either armor when you reach the end.. Its rediciulous.. Top that the 
 fact every gear advancement is linear to the end meaning you will always find better armor till 
 you reach glass/daedric... This makes matters worse that there is not a SHRED of hand placed loot 
 except one which is a vastly overpowered item at that.. 
  Oh and the fact that blunts and blades have almost to NO difference between the weapon.. You like 
 two handers? Too bad! Because chances are you will find a one hander to do just as much damage 
 and the ability to have a shield on as well.. 
  Oh this system is gimped as well.. The leveling system.. Sense everyhing lvls with you make sure 
 to lvl in combat or you will find out the guy who raised a few levels in alchemy will get has ass 
 handed to him.. 
  This game is a mockery at best with no replay value.. I was awe inspired for the first 15 hours 
 but then it just dwindled down to not caring whether my character progresses or not.. 
  THis game is NOT a rpg it is more of a action adventure.. With the fact your character can max 
 in everything meaning NO specilization what so ever, the fact that gear does not make a difference 
 because every guy has it, coupled with the fact leveling does not do anything for your character 
 what so ever...
  Thief characters will find there is NOTHING to steal.. Also the RAI Ai is horrible at that.. Telepathic 
 guards make stealing goods and killing people for the most part impossible to do even in the middle 
 of no where with no guards what so ever.. At lvl 1 if you do a impossible task like unlock a very 
 hard lock you are rewarded with a 20 gold pieces and a carrot.. 
  
  To sum it up.. Hardcore rpg players who loved Baldur's Gate series, Morrowind etc.. You will love 
 the game in teh beginning and hate it int he end.. With the lack of decision making, consquecnes, 
 specilization.. IT GIVES YOU NO replayability because you can complete the entire game with one 
 character I MEAN everything.. Who cares about spicialization because in teh end you can play that 
 character at any part you want sense in the end you can max out EVERY skill... 
  As a rpg fan this game is REDICIULOUS.. Sorely ment for shooter/action adventure fans.. Hell DIablo 
 2 has way more depth in character devolpment with unique items, skills etc that specilization actually 
 means something.. That it actually means somethign to level your character up..
  No this is merely a good looking poor combat system hack n slash with AI that is not at all Radiant.. 
 So in the end if you like Shooters/Action adventures you will ove the game.. If you like RPG's 
 steer your course this is not the game for you... Wait for either NWN2 or Gothic 3 both will most 
 likely be the way better RPG.. Because the only thing thats a RPG in this game is an illusionary 
 lvling system taht doesn't make your character special at all, because you are the exactly the 
 same at lvl 1 then at lvl 50 eveyrhting is to your lvl...
  
  Also would like to say one more thing.. I am for one will be boycotting the pay for content stuff.. 
 STUFF THEY SHOULD OF HAD relaeased int eh game at launch.. No amount of extra weapons/items (taht 
 should ahve been released at the date) should cost money.. Only quests/things at best.. Infact 
 I have heard some of this content will give you super powerful stuff such as the mages tower..
 
  Oh besides the technical issues there is also the fact that there is huge logical errors.. You 
 can become the biggest champion in the realm in the arena at lvl 1 yet you can be killed by a wolf.. 
 Its logical errors like that, that UTTERLy ruined my experience.. In close this game is a action 
 adventure game more then a RPG... For you RPG fans out there STEER clear, intill they either fix 
 it or some clever user made mods are out because this game is dumbed down to the very limit that 
 a 8 year old can play it and beat it easilly.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unsaidrogue0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing! Very big fan of marrowind and unlike previous games everything has been improved 
 upon. Ive been playing the game itself just under 10 hours. The graphics are incredible and the 
 music/sound is great. Its obvious that alot of effort that was put into the game. Right at the 
 start of the game you are faced with choices that define who you are going to be, its absolutely 
 incredible. The textures, lighting, facial exprssions right down to the massive world itself leaves 
 you in awe. Character creation is awesome. The free roaming is awesome. Good Job Bethesda and keep 
 up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superkoolstud
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game. I got it early and must say WOW. This game has everything the last game 
 had and more. Oblivion is much easier to figure out what to do as the compass always points you 
 where to go next. The graphics are the best yet and the sounds are amazing. Lets not forget the 
 AI, I love how everyone has a schedule and can be found in different places at diferent times depending 
 on what time it is. This game is a must buy for any RPG gamer. This game has over 16 square miles 
 to explore and many dungeons to clear.
  The enemys level with you so you never are too low to do anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sith-Apollyon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  The meaning of life has arrived for all you Gamers of True Caliber! Words Can't describe the glory 
 that is held in the CD's you shall soon recieve! If you are not a veteran gamer from the days of 
 old then here, my friends, is a grand place to begin your obsessions! This will be the one purchase 
 that will possibly last you years to come. The package that Bethelsda have delivered so graciously 
 to us holds all that you need. Want Gameplay? Want Graphics (HAH!) ? Want Open-Ended Diversity? 
 Want Customization? This is your stop. Even if you are the sort of person who says, "Medieval Fantasy 
 just isn't my style." I still highly recommend you pick up a copy. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibson404
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  After waiting over a year for this game i can say its worth it! Most of us know the storyline so 
 i'll start when you get out in the wild. WOW! one of the first things i noticed was the sound! 
 absouloutly immersive and incredible. The graphics are lyk no other game, but you need to be able 
 to run on full specs lyk me to enjoy in all its beauty. I was walking over a field (i didn't notice 
 any pop in's) and i went to the city of chorrol, the attention to deatail in every object is out 
 of this world! the whole game is full of surprises some nasty, for example i was walking through 
 a forest and suddenly i turnaround and i've got a minotour chasing me or some creature. I have 
 yet to venture into a dungeon but that is next on my oblivion to do list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlesRobinson
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Well the time has arrived once again to stop wasting precious time with those little pesky things 
 like personal hygiene because THE GAME OF GAMES HAS ARRIVED!!!!! The ai, graphics, game play, and 
 physics was worth the wait. The landscape will make you jaw drop as you tool arround exploring 
 the most open ended rpg ever concieved. The only possible thing that I would have done differn't 
 would be to add more races to the already staggering character options and more of the epic quests 
 with gigantic bosses with multiple way to solve the situation by using the enviroment and not just 
 sheer combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i've never played any of the previous games, so i decided to buy into the hype and try it 
 out..
  
  What is all the big fuss about? people are giving this game way to much credit, dont get me wrong, 
 its a really good game if you're into that kind of thing, slow gameplay, strange levelling etc 
 but to those of us who are more Diablo fans this doesnt really fit in.
  
  Anyways ill spend more time with the game and see if it grows on me, but at the moment its slow 
 gameplay and "no purpose" feel to it, doesnt have me very convinced, although i hope that changes 
 when i play more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  My wife works for a software distribution company, so I am one of the lucky ones that got an early 
 copy. As soon as you start playing, instanly you will be captivated an the sure vastness and grandness 
 of Oblivion. The graphics are phenomenal with the whole environment at motion. I don't know how 
 well this game will play on a lower end PC, but for those of you out there with a high end one, 
 you are in for a treat. The sound gives reality a whole new meaning, with crisp sound effects and 
 catchy music. This game alone will give you a reason to buy or upgrade your PC. I have played games 
 that don't live up to its hype and this is not one of them. You get into the hang of things right 
 off the get go, just be prepared to lose lots of sleep. The world of Oblivion has you captivated 
 by its sure beauty and vastness and 2K has payed attention to all details. I have to end this review 
 quickly cause I have to get back playing it. You guys should run out and buy it ASAP, because guaranteed 
 it will be sold out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4rk3d
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  The game that so many have been waiting for is here and it was worth the wait.
  From the off, the graphics are excellent. The textures are well detailed, the environments are 
 beautiful (walking through the forest with details maxed out is an experience not to be missed) . 
 The character models are a definite improvement over the previous titles, though some of the NPCs 
 are still a little blocky.
  Unlike Morrowind, you get a little more help in the beginning, so newcomers will be able to get 
 into the game a little more easily than before, rather than just being dumped into the world.
 
  So far combat is good and meaty, magic looks great and the sound is spot on.
  The world looks huge, gonna be a long time before I've seen everything this one has to offer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVEPS3FANBOY
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  I just bought it, Its superb, i've been playing it for three hours now and i see no faults, Its 
 a truly immense and diversive game, The sound is amazing wondering through the vast lands of Luscious 
 green forests, The weapons look nice and it flows, with such a huge variety of things to do this 
 game will last you for ages, you will have even fun messing around like teasing people, the Radiant 
 ai is superb, GET THIS GAME NOW!!
  P. S if your computer is not the best dont worry theres many graphical options, so you can tweak 
 your perfomance levels just right, takes time but it does the trick.. I say again Get this AMAZING 
 GAME 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
